 For this bracelet, you'll need four different colors of thread. Cut two strands of each color that measure about 65 inches each. This should leave you with eight strands.


Once you've cut all of the thread, fold the bundle of strands in half and cut at the center. This will leave you with 16 strands total.
 Tie a knot in one end of the string and secure it to a flat surface you can work on with some sturdy tape (like masking tape or duct tape).


Alternatively, you can safety pin it to your pants, tie it to a dresser drawer, or clip it on a clip board.
 Using the thread, make a mirror-image pattern that repeats twice so that there are two exact replicas of the same pattern right next to each other.


For example, your pattern may look like this: 1 2 3 4 4 3 2 1 1 2 3 4 4 3 2 1
Pretend there is an imaginary line in the middle and create the same color pattern with the string on both sides of the line. Then repeat this pattern again.
 Starting with the outer-right string, tie a right knot twice on the adjacent string (the second from the right).


To tie a right knot, make a ninety degree angle with the tying string over the top of the string you are tying it to. Then loop the tying string underneath the other string and pull tight.
Note: Remember to make two knots on each string.
Once you have knotted the outer right string to the one next to it, do the same to the next string closer to the middle. Continue this process until you've reached the middle.
Note: The string you began tying with (the outermost right string) should now be in the middle.
 Take the far left string from the middle and tie left knots with the outer-left strand until you reach the middle.


To tie a left knot, do the same as the right knot but reversed. Make a ninety degree angle with the tying string over the top of the string you are tying it to and loop the tying string under the other string and pull it tight.
This will complete one side of the double mirror image.
 Repeat Steps 4 and 5 for the left side of the double chevron pattern.
 Tie a left or right knot (doesn't matter) with the two middle strands to connect the two sides. Be sure to tie the middle knot twice.


Note: If you have done everything correctly up to this point, the strands you are tying together in the middle will be the same color and you will begin to see the double V-pattern emerge.
 Repeat steps 4, 5, and 6 until you reach the desired length, always starting with the middle-most strands and moving outward in each direction to complete the double mirror image pattern (1 2 3 4 4 3 2 1 1 2 3 4 4 3 2 1).
 Tie a knot at the end of the pattern and use the excess string to tie the bracelet onto your wrist or the wrist of a friend.


Alternatively, you can create a button-loop closure for the bracelet. Attach a button to one side by pulling any two strands through the holes in the button. Then, tie the strands together and cut off the excess of all strands (even the ones not used for the button). On the other end of the bracelet, there should already be a loop that exists between the knot at the end and the place where the knots begin. Pull the button through the loop once you have finished all the steps.

