 Clean your milk jug thoroughly with hot, soapy water. Rinse this thoroughly and then let it air dry. If labels are stuck to your milk jug, you may need to soak the jug in warm, soapy water before these come off easily.


For especially stubborn labels or glue, use a scrubbing pad or kitchen implement (like a spatula) to help with removal.
Gallon milk jugs tend to be the favorite choice for this upcycling project. However, feel free to use smaller sizes as well. Mixing gallon and half gallon sizes, for example, can add some nice variety.
 Depending on the size of your jug and the kind of plants you'll be planting, you may want to cut the jug right along the top to allow for more space for soil and the plant. However, this may be too large for some plants. In this case, cut your milk jug in half, or closer to its base.


In some cases, sharp edges in the jug may be created in the cutting process. If you're concerned about these, use a file to take the edge off.
Feel free to cut patterns, like waves or other designs, into the border of your milk jug to make it more artistic., If you don't poke holes in the bottom of your jug, the water won't drain away. This can cause root rot or decay to set in and can kill your plants. Use a pushpin to poke small holes in the bottom of the jug.


Depending on the amount of drainage the plants you'll be using need, the number of holes will vary. However, in most cases, four to six holes should be enough., Although this step isn't necessary, a plain milk jug might look unappealing. It's simple enough to use a plastic safe spray paint to cover your jugs in a base color that's more pleasing to the eye.


After the base layer is added to the jug and has dried, you might want to use some regular paint and a paintbrush to add more artistic designs.
Feel free to add things like sequins, paste jewelry, glitter, and other similar accents to your jug with glue.
 You may need to use a special soil for particular kinds of plants, but in most cases a general potting soil should be sufficient. After adding soil, add your plant to your planter and it's finished.