 Nothing is more important than a suit for business, and while it doesn't have to be costly, it should look smart.Opt for navy or grey colored suits, as black suits can be associated with funerals.
Always get your suit tailored by a professional tailor, as this will ensure the suit fits properly and conforms to your body, which in turn makes it look more professional. A proper fit is the most important aspect of purchasing a suit.;
, Although most people have cell phones, making sure your phone is professional looking is key.


Ensure your phone is in black or silver, and avoid any flashy or colorful cell phone cases.
Avoid cellphone tones that are loud or potentially annoying. Loud rock music might be great for Saturday night, bit not so good in your client's waiting room.
 The analog watch, while somewhat obsolete due to the prominence of cell-phones, is still an important accessory and status symbol.Watches with strong brand names like Rolex, Omega, and Cartier project an image of affluence, culture, sophistication, and refined taste.
If you cannot afford a watch in the price range of the above brands, shop around for more affordable watches that match your suit. Try brands like Timex, Seiko, and Hamilton for classic and well-built watches. Websites like overstock.com have a wide selection of affordable watches that look elegant and professional.
 A good pair of shoes compliments your suit, and wearing old or worn shoes can detract from your overall appearance.


Regularly polish your shoes and do not wear them in harsh outdoor conditions to ensure they maintain a professional look.
Make sure your shoes match your suit. Generally you can never go wrong with black shoes, but dark brown or walnut colored shoes can be an elegant combination with a navy suit.Make sure that your belt matches your shoes. The color doesn't have to be an exact match, but match them as closely as possible. Always wear black with black and brown with brown.
 A briefcase is a timeless accessory, and like a good analog watch, is a classic symbol of professionalism. Not only does it convey the right image, it is also highly functional, as it allows you to carry important documents without using a backpack, which damages clothing and can convey a juvenile impression.Unless security is a problem, go with a leather portfolio in lieu of a metal or graphite case.
 This includes shaving regularly — or having a very well maintained beard — and opting for a professional haircut. You should also make an effort to maintain clear skin and groom away any stray hairs, such as nose or ear hairs.
 Confidence is the absolute key to conveying a successful image in the business world. Acting confident involves your body language, facial expressions, tone of voice, and social skills., Standing tall expresses control, confidence, and competence. Although it can take time to correct your posture if you have bad habits, frequent practice can offset even years of poor posture.Avoid slouching and straighten your spine. Slouching does not convey energy and confidence, focus on keeping your spine straight.
Pull back your shoulder blades. Pulling back your shoulder blades gives the impression of opening yourself up, as well as pushing your chest out, which also conveys confidence.
Always keep your chin up. Looking down too often not only promotes bad posture, but it also gives the impression you are shy, or being evasive. This the opposite image of the open and direct impression that promotes positive business relations.
 Smiling makes you appear friendly, approachable, and likable, all of which are necessary for business. Looking sad, angry, or bored not only deters people from approaching you, but it can have the effect of generating a poor first impression, which makes forming key relationships difficult or impossible. Focus on being aware of yourself and your facial expressions. You may find yourself looking negative or nervous in social situations, or when meeting new people. Try replacing that expression with a smile, and you will find it not only improves your mood, but makes you more approachable to others.
Practice smiling while walking down the hall. You will find it will lead to others smiling at you. , Maintaining eye contact and nodding during conversation gives the person you are communicating with a clear signal you are listening, you care, and that you are entirely focused on him, which can help build rapport and make him more likely to disclose information, trust you, and want to continue communicating.To practice making eye contact, start with routine conversations. As soon as you get an impulse to look away, try continuing eye contact slightly longer. As long as you are smiling and nodding along, it will not seem like you are staring.
 Body language can have a large effect on how you are perceived. For one, practice sitting and standing with your arms and legs uncrossed. This shows that you are open and receptive to conversation. Showing the palms of your hands to the person you are talking to can also show that you are honest. In addition, always keep your back straight, shoulders relaxed, and your head straight both vertically and horizontally., Using professional language does not mean using complex and unnecessary or condescending language. It simply refers to using the appropriate language of the professional group you are with, and always avoiding slang or crassness. Never use curse words or make comments that ridicule or belittle anyone. Remember your mother's advice: "If you can't say something nice, don't say anything at all."


For example, if you are a mutual fund salesman at a formal business event to meet with mutual fund managers, make sure to know and learn all the terminology used in the industry, and avoid using the same language you would with a group of friends.
Having a firm command of the material you are working with goes a long way to giving an impression of confidence.
 While it is important to respect personal boundaries, there are many socially accepted and encourage ways to use physical contact that convey a confident image.


Always have a firm handshake. The handshake is an absolute key in the business world, and it is important to grip the other person's hand firmly and confidently. A loose grip conveys uncertainty and even weakness.Do not be hesitant to pat colleagues on the back to convey appreciation, or when greeting a colleague you know well. Observing seasoned businessmen interact with each other in a semi-formal or even formal environment, you will observe this is a common action. However, be sure to observe before touching anyone. There are some that do not like being touched and you should be careful not to invade a person's physical space., While many successful business people or introverted (prefer spending time alone and tend to be shy), it is possible to act extroverted and sociable for key business events or to meet clients.


Practice approaching strangers and introducing yourself, as this makes you appear interesting and eager.
Become genuinely interested in people, and lead conversations by asking questions.
Do not be afraid to use humor as long as you don't tell "dirty" jokes or stories that demean another race, gender, or sexual preference.
 A good way to show that you are a good person to do business with is to act responsibly and honestly. That is, always deliver on your promises by delivering results as promised and on time. Always be punctual for meetings and calls. On the other side, avoid gossiping about business associates to others., Ambition refers to an innate drive to succeed, and every successful businessman has it. Developing ambition will not only provide you with the passion and drive to work hard and become successful, but it will also make you appear more confident.


Think of an image of how you want your life to be in an ideal world. What does it look like? Are you a CEO? Are you giving presentations to hundreds of people? Are you driving a nice car? Having a clear image of what you want your life to look like can provide direction and motivation to create that image.
 A successful businessman is not simply a dreamer, but someone who can bring ideas to reality and ultimately make money. Being able to take an idea or a vision, and turn it into a series of specific goals is an essential business skill and key part of being a businessman.Make sure your goals are all SMART. That is to say Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic, and Timely. If your goal is to become a high-level manager, start with the attainable goal of becoming supervisor of your team within two years, for example.
 Business is all about relationships, and networking is the best way to find a new job, meet new customers, get to know supervisors, or form new business relationships that can enhance your career. Networking is an essential business skill.When networking, avoid "being false". People avoid those who are "on the make". Be a giver, not a taker.
With networking practice makes perfect. A good tip to initiate conversations is to simply to approach individuals or groups and ask simple opening questions such as "What bring you here?" or even a simple, "How are you?"
Listening is as important as talking. It not only allows you to get to know the person better, but can make the person feel important.
 Success in business involves hard work, and a packed schedule. Managing that schedule is a key aspect to prioritizing essential work and getting it done on time.Prioritizing is key. Since there are often more tasks than there is time to complete them, being able to say no to non-essential tasks is important. If you are working on a major project that takes up all of your time, and you are asked to assist on small project for someone else that interferes with the successful conclusion of your project, it is important to ask for additional resources, or simply turn down the request. Spreading oneself too thin leads to mediocre results and burn-out.When prioritizing, focus on the tasks that are most important to accomplishing your personal goals, and allocate the most them for them, with less critical goals getting less time.

