 The more prepared you are for the interview, the more confident you'll feel, and the lower the chance of a mishap. Find out as much as you can about the company online, or through your personal contacts if possible. Knowing the company's core values and mission statement is an excellent way to impress the interviewer.;
, Write a short statement, about 30–60 seconds long, that describes yourself and what you'll bring to the company. Memorize this and rehearse it until you can say it naturally and with confidence. Starting out with a well-prepared answer to "tell me about yourself" can be a great confidence booster.


Have a friend help you edit this if possible. Many people find it easier to praise other people than themselves.
 Reduce the likelihood of a question catching you off guard by preparing answers in advance. Here are several common job interview questions to consider:


Where do you see yourself in five years?
What are your biggest strengths and weaknesses?
What experience do you have that relates to this position?

, Look in the mirror and imagine a nervous situation, such as the job interview itself. Practice delivering some of your answers to the mirror, and pay attention to your facial expression. For some people, a smile can mask most of the nerves. Others may prefer a neutral face to an anxious grin.
 Decide how to dress for an interview in a way that will make you feel comfortable, but not under-dressed. Select your clothes at least 24 hours in advance when possible, to prevent last-minute anxieties. If you purchase or rent clothes for the occasion, try them on in advance to make sure they are well-fitting and comfortable.


Generally speaking, you should aim for a level of dress that's slightly more formal than you would wear to work if you got hired.
Get a fashionable friend to help you if you are having trouble, or read more here.
 Imagine yourself walking into the job interview and acing it. If you can't think about the interview itself without feeling nervous, imaging already being hired, and doing a fantastic job. Praise yourself out loud to reinforce this confidence booster: "I am the best candidate for this position. They will be lucky to have me on their team. I'm doing a great job." It may sound silly, but this can help keep your anxiety down even if you're not feeling the confidence you're projecting.
 Go to bed early enough to get a full night's sleep, then wake up with plenty of time to prepare for your job interview. If you are too nervous to sleep, use light exercise or a calming, screen-free activity to make yourself sleepy.
 Take your time in the morning for personal grooming, to make sure you look and feel professional and prepared. Shower, comb your hair, and apply deodorant.
 Stay away from foods that make you hyper, and plan around activities that frequently make you anxious or use up a lot of time. For example, hire a babysitter or ask a friend to take your children to school to free up time in the morning.


Caffeine often makes people jittery and anxious. However, if you drink coffee or tea daily, cutting it from your diet may cause headaches, fatigue, or other withdrawal symptoms. Try reducing your consumption of coffee to a lower level on the day of your interview instead.
 Make sure you have everything you need to bring, and know where everything is stored so you can retrieve papers easily. Besides your resume and other requested documents, bring along a notepad and a couple pens so you can jot down notes.
 Set aside some time to meditate, exercise, or perform some other calming activity. If you're pressed for time, just sit down, breathe in through your nose for five seconds, then breathe out through your mouth for ten seconds. Repeat several times to calm yourself down.
 Find an opportunity to perform a selfless act, such as driving a friend to work or giving money to a homeless person. Doing good for someone else can get you focused on other people's lives instead of your own problems, and boost your self-esteem and confidence as well.
 Plan to show up 10–15 minutes before your interview begins. If the journey is a long one, leave even earlier. Showing up with time to spare will make the next steps much easier, and minimize anxiety.
 Even if you don't need to use the bathroom, visit it once you get to the interview site, assuming you have time to spare. Give your appearance one last check in the mirror. Tell yourself that you'll ace this interview. And, silly though it may seem, consider spending a minute or two in a "power pose" with your hands on your hips and legs apart. A Harvard study found a significant increase in job interview performance following this pose., Smile and shake hands when you introduce yourself to the interviewer. He is there to help you and the company find out more about each other, not to be your nemesis. Remind yourself by looking for small, human details, such as a family portrait on a desk, a houseplant, or a patterned tie.
 Before the interview properly begins, try making a small comment on a universal topic. Briefly agreeing over the traffic or the weather can make the conversation seem more ordinary and relaxed.


A small compliment can also go over well, but don't overshoot if you're not confident. Complimenting the office space or a piece of artwork can be safer than complimenting someone's personal appearance.
 Keep your head pointed straight forward, making eye contact with the interviewer. Keep your shoulders back and even with each other, not slumped forward. As always when dealing with anxiety, presenting a confident appearance is key to "fake it 'til you make it."

, If you are sitting in front of a desk, and the interviewer can't see your hands, try tapping your fingers on your knee or twiddling your thumbs to calm yourself. If standing up, keep your hands behind you while you do this. If you have a lucky object such as a coin or small rock, discreetly rub it in your palm.
 Keep your voice steady and your body comfortable by bringing a bottle of water with you. Ask permission to take a drink of water before you do so for the first time. The interview will say yes, and this will further reinforce the feeling of an ordinary human interaction, rather than a high stress situation.
 Listen to what the interviewer has to say, and think before responding. Take a couple seconds to ponder the question and prepare a quality answer. Slow, deep breaths can help calm your nerves while you think.
 Nerves tend to make us talk too quickly. Make a conscious effort to slow down. If you stumble over your words, try pausing to breathe in deeply through your nose between sentences. Make your replies concise as well, aiming for about 30 seconds per question unless a more in-depth answer is requested.
 If you didn't hear or understand a question, don't hesitate to ask for a repetition. The interviewer won't mind, and the situation is much less nerve-wracking than trying to make up a response to a question you didn't catch.

