 Pay attention to and appreciate your surroundings and experiences. Stop what you’re doing, even if just for a few minutes or a few seconds, to enjoy a sensation or notice the beauty around you.Acknowledging the value and meaning of things will leave you feeling grateful, connected, and more positive about the goodness in the world.To practice appreciation today, you can:Avoid rushing. For example, eat mindfully by slowing your eating down. Focus on the taste, texture, and sensation of your food. Sit down to eat without any distractions, instead of eating in a rush or in your car. Savor each bite.
Avoid multi-tasking. For example, instead of talking on the phone while walking your dog, put your phone. As you walk, take time to feel each step your foot takes, to notice the temperature, and to enjoy being outside. Focus on the sights and sounds of your environment as you walk.
Avoid thinking about the future. For example, instead of worrying about or planning your day while you’re in the shower, focus only on taking the shower. Bring your attention back to your breathing every time your mind wanders. Concentrate on the temperature of the water or the feeling of the shampoo in your hair.
 If you practice meditation on a daily basis, you’ll experience a decrease in anxiety and depression. Meditation is another technique that can help you concentrate on and appreciate the present moment.If you’re a beginner at meditation, you can try listening to a guided meditation, going to a class, or these steps on your own:Sit comfortably in a chair or on the floor.
Focus on the sensations of your breath. Notice how your lungs, chest, nose, and stomach feel as you inhale and exhale.
Notice any outside sensations or thoughts that come up. Let them go without judging yourself.
Return your focus to your breathing.
 Getting enough sleep every night will help you feel happier, more energized, and stable throughout the day. Try to make sure you’re getting at least seven to nine hours of sleep every night. Sleep quality is important, too, so make sure you are:Avoiding watching TV or using electronic devices at night in bed — these emit a certain kind of light that is stimulating and can make it difficult for you to fall asleep
Avoiding alcohol, big meals, and exercise right before bed
Sleeping in a comfortable, cool room

, Take time to cultivate healthy, supportive relationships with other people. Avoid people who drain you, take advantage of you, or criticize you. Surround yourself with friends, family members, and partners who accept you, listen without judging, and challenge you to grow. These supportive people will reduce your stress, boost your mood, and help you reach your goals., Pay attention to what you put in your body on a daily basis. Cigarettes, alcohol, and drugs may give you a short-term mood boost, but in the long-run they’ll damage your mental and physical well-being.Having a healthy diet will help stabilize your mood and give you more energy. On a daily basis, focus on trying to:Cook your own meals.
Avoid packaged and processed foods.
Drink water.
Eat meals with others.
Eat smaller, healthier meals and snacks every few hours.

