 Los Angeles is an expensive city and moving is not cheap. Determine your monthly rental budget, as well as your budget for utilities. Most landlords require first and last month’s rent, as well as a small deposit. Once you know how much you can afford to spend, your search will become a lot more focused.Budget $200 for utilities in LA.
Factor in a $1000 buffer – this amount will cover unexpected expenses like buying a fridge (which is sometimes necessary), as well as covering renter’s insurance.
 If you’re having trouble finding a place, don’t panic. Look into subletting a place short-term, staying in a family or friend’s spare room, renting an apartment month-to-month or using Airbnb or a hotel to secure a room.If you can, check Craigslist multiple times a day. New listings pop up every minute and you don’t want to miss one.
Word of mouth is your best form of advertising. If your friends and family know you’re looking to rent, they can connect you to other people who might have openings. Tell everyone you know what you’re looking for – you never know who might be able to help you out.
 Learn everything you can about the neighborhoods you’re looking at. Google or Yelp potential landlords and realty companies to make sure they’re legit. The better informed you are during your search, the better chance you’ll have of successfully securing a new home that you’ll love.Use Google Street View to check out streets and neighborhoods from the comfort of your own home.
Use GoogleMaps to estimate commute times.Use CrimeMapping to check the safety of the neighborhoods you’re looking into.
 With an area as competitive as LA, it’s almost impossible to find everything you’re looking for in an apartment, especially if you’re on a budget. Be realistic about what you absolutely need and be willing to compromise on everything else.Ask your LA friends to weigh in on your options. They’ll be able to give you good feedback on whether or not your prospective place is a good buy or a waste of money.
Be flexible about things like space and size, but be rigid about your rights as a renter. If you feel that you are being taken advantage of, get out while you still can.

