 Tomatoes, like any type of plant, have ideal environmental conditions that they require for growing the strongest plants and tastiest fruits. Some species of tomatoes are better suited to certain areas and don’t grow as well in other places around the country and world. Research the best tomatoes for your specific environment and location by contacting your local agricultural extension office. There may be some unique hybrids that grow perfectly in your type of soil and weather that you’ve never heard of or thought of planting., There are many different breeds of tomato, each with a unique color, size and flavor. Tomatoes can range from small grape sized fruits to large fruits the size of a softball, and come in every color except for blue. The type of cooking you want to do, the flavor you are going for, and the growth style of the plant are all things to consider when choosing the types of tomato seeds to plant.


There are two different growth styles of tomato plants: determinate and indeterminate. Determinate plants grow upwards and produce fruit quickly, but for a short period. They also require less pruning, staking and maintenance. Indeterminate are more sprawling and vine-like, and produce fruit over a longer season. They also get very large and never stop growing, so they require staking or trellising.
Red globe or beefsteak tomatoes are the traditional style and often eaten whole or sliced for sandwiches. Plum or roma tomato varieties are used for cooking, canning, and making sauces. Small cherry or grape tomatoes are full of seeds and juice and used whole or halved in salads and pastas.
The color of your tomatoes can change the flavor they produce. For a classic taste, go with large, red tomatoes. Purple or brown tomatoes have a very rich, hearty flavor while yellow and orange tomatoes are on the sweeter side. Green tomatoes are great for cooking in savory dishes., Tomatoes can be grown from dried packaged seeds, fresh seeds preserved from a cut tomato, or seedlings that are available in local gardening centers. Dried and fresh seeds require the most work to grow, but can be the most fulfilling. Planting seedlings is the easiest way to grow tomatoes.
 Planting tomatoes must be done at a specific time of the year for the best results. Because tomatoes are sun loving plants, they grow the strongest in late spring and summer. Plant tomatoes at least two weeks after the most recent frost, or when nighttime temperatures do not drop below 50 °F (10 °C) and daytime temperatures stay below 90 °F (32 °C).


If you are starting your seeds indoors, plan to do this 6-8 weeks before your expected transplant date.
If you want, you can purchase a soil thermometer to check the soil of your garden for the ideal planting time. Soil that is about 50 °F (10 °C) is ideal for planting, but this may not happen in conjunction with better weather; test your garden to play it safe.
A farmer’s almanac is a handy tool for finding out the best planting time. You can look at the farmer’s almanac online or purchase a copy for your area.

