 Most condiments can be stored in a place such as a pantry or cupboard. Move them away from heat and water sources to a location where the temperature stays cool. Keep them away from direct sunlight., Butter can actually be stored at room temperature. Butter is not considered a Temperature Control for Safety food by the U.S. government. It has less lactose than other dairy products, so it doesn’t spoil. Cover it in a dish and it will stay spreadable and bacteria-free.Alternatively, store it in the refrigerator to ensure freshness and give butter a longer shelf life.
 Several oils don’t benefit much from refrigeration. Olive oil for example lasts as long in the pantry as it does in the refrigerator. However, it needs to be kept away from heat and direct sunlight. Make sure it has a cool, shady place in the back of the pantry and it will last about a year.Vegetable oils also aren’t affected by room temperatures.
Coconut oil also benefits outside the pantry, as it solidifies when cooled.
 The fermentation process used to make fish and soy sauce prevent them from degrading enough to spoil. When opened, these products can be kept on the shelf for a year without much loss in quality.


You can still store them in the refrigerator to maximize shelf life and freshness., Hot sauce is made with plenty of salt and vinegar, which serve as preservatives. An opened bottle of hot sauce will last you two months. If you know you won’t be able to use the sauce in that amount of time, put it in the refrigerator where it will last six months., Honey changes color over time as it begins to crystallize, but it does not spoil. It does not need to be refrigerated. Place the honey on a counter to minimize discoloration and use it as needed., Ordinary peanut butter survives fine outside the refrigerator. Natural peanut butter and other nut butters have oils that spoil the product. As long as the container is closed, the peanut butter will stay spreadable and fresh for three months.The exception to this is when someone sticks a dirty knife or finger in the jar. This introduces bacteria. If a child or someone else who will do this is around, keep the peanut butter in the refrigerator.

