 Some established and more traditional faiths require a degree in religious studies as well as some form of theological training. Instead of a formal degree, many denominations will require you to complete a series of courses based on their doctrine before you can be ordained. There are also churches and Christian organizations that do not have strict or specific requirements for becoming a pastor/minister in their organization. Choose the path that you wish to take and embark on your journey. You can gain many helpful contacts through fellowship and networking with fellow believers. Most biblical colleges have websites with enrollment information easily available. Take advantage of the resources out there and take that first step whenever you're ready.;
, People perform best in vocations that they are passionate about. Becoming a pastor means that you have absolute confidence in your faith and are ready to share it with the world. Becoming a pastor can be a lengthy and strenuous process. Seek spiritual guidance before making your decision. Always ask yourself the hard questions and never settle for complacency. Make sure that you have chosen the right path and dedicate yourself wholeheartedly:

, Be sure to answer every question with diligence and thought.

Why do I want to be a pastor?
Do I feel a strong passion for this work?
Do I strongly desire to share God’s word?
Do I feel love and compassion for all people?
Do I feel deep in my heart that God is asking me to enter this vocation?

, Discuss all of the requirements and make sure that you understand everything. Be sure to voice all questions or concerns that you may have.
 A pastor is expected to provide more than spiritual leadership; writing and giving sermons is but a small part of a pastor’s job. Find out what is involved. You may be expected to perform some or all of the following:

Oversee church committees, missions and missionaries






Perform baptisms, weddings and funerals






Provide marital, grief and psychological counseling






Plan community outreach activities






Conduct or arrange for Sunday school classes






Conduct or arrange for adult religious instruction






Seek out new members for the congregation






Be available evenings and weekends as needed

, Research colleges that have excellent religious studies programs.Select a concentration in theology that interests you most.
 Once you have completed all your formal studies, you will prepare to be ordained, usually by your home congregation. Preparation for your ordination usually involves:

Studying church doctrine






Understanding how doctrinal issues relate to the scriptures






Giving oral responses to an Ordination Council (this can take several hours)







, If the council recommends you for ordination, the church leaders of your congregation have to vote to ordain you. If you win the vote, you will be ordained during a special service in your church.,, Once you have been ordained, you can start looking for a job.


Look for openings posted by your seminary.






Ask your instructors for recommendations.






Contact your ministry headquarters to see if they have a list of job openings.






Search online, In some cases, you may be meeting with a church council or a board of directors. You may also be asked to give a sermon to the flock.
 Some congregations get very involved when choosing a new pastor; you may even be asked to have an open question and answer time with the congregation in addition to the church council. If you are approved, you will be “called” (hired) to become the pastor.
 Be sure to negotiate all the terms of your employment and living accommodations as well.

