 These services act similarly to cloud storage services, but they're designed more for sharing files as opposed to storing them. You simply upload the file that you want to transfer to someone, and then send them the link to the file. You typically don't need any accounts, and you can usually share the file with multiple people.Since you are uploading the file to a server that's not under your control, you should probably avoid using this method to transfer sensitive material.
File-sending services are great if you need a one-time transfer and don't want to deal with a cloud storage service.
 Most file-sending services only allow you to upload one file at a time, and typically don't support folders. If you need to transfer multiple files to someone, add them all to a ZIP archive so that you can send them as a single file. ZIP is a universally supported format, so you won't need to worry about your recipient being able to extract the files.



Click here for instructions on creating a ZIP file.
Compressing the files allows you to add a password to them if you're worried about the links falling into unknown hands.
 There are a huge number of file-sending and file-sharing services available, so picking the right one can be tough. Below are a few of the most popular services, as well as some of their specific benefits and uses:WeTransfer (wetransfer.com)- This is one of the most popular file-sending services, which means that it immediately generates and sends an email with the link to your file. You can also just generate a link to the file if you'd prefer. You can upload files up to 2 GB without creating an account.
MailBigFile (free.mailbigfile.com/)- This is a service that is very similar to WeTransfer. You can upload and share files up to 2 GB for free accounts, and files will last 20 downloads or 10 days.
Mega (mega.co.nz) - This is a popular file-sharing service based out of New Zealand. Free accounts come with 50 GB of space, and you can easily create links for your files. Mega also offers encryption for files.
DropSend (dropsend.com)- This is another file transfer service like WeTransfer or MailBigFile. DropSend supports files up to 4 GB in size for the free account and encrypts all files sent. Recipients have seven days to use the download link that is generated before the file is deleted.
 Most services allow you to simply drag the file into the browser window, though you may need to browse your computer for the file.


Depending on the service, you may or may not be able to upload a folder to share.
 Once the file has been uploaded, you will be provided with a link that you can distribute to the people you are sharing with. You may be able to set additional sharing options, such as specific users or password protection.
 You can email or message the link to whomever you would like to share the file with. The link will stay active for as long as the service you chose dictates in their account settings.

