 For the most exposure, unroll your carpet outside as long as it’s sunny and within 70 to 85 degrees Fahrenheit (21 to 29 degrees Celsius). If that isn’t possible, choose an area within your home that has adequate floor space and receives direct sunlight. Adjust your thermostat to keep the temperature between 70 and 85 degrees F. Let your carpet sit for at least four hours (or better yet, as long as daylight lasts).The absorption of heat and light will help reduce the carpet’s tension, which will make further steps more effective.;
, This is known as “back-rolling” or “reverse-rolling.” Roll the carpet back up after it has sat in the sun for a few hours. Only this time, roll it so that the side that originally faced outward (usually the carpet’s underside) is now on the inside of your roll. As you do:Work slowly. Keep an ear out for any cracking noises as you roll. If you hear any, quit right away. This indicates damage to the carpet’s skeleton.
Don’t roll it as tight as before. Keep your reverse roll fairly loose. This will reduce the chance of cracking and the creation of new creases and curls. If you heard any cracks during your first attempt, try again with a much looser roll.
 Give the carpet some time for its tension to relax. Then lay it out again and see how well it worked. If needed, redo your reverse roll and repeat., If you're not in a particular rush for a perfect looking carpet, just lay it out as is for the time being. Give it a few days or even weeks to relax itself on its own. You can also try laying it upside down or alternating between the two positions., Set a piece of furniture or any other suitably heavy object(s) on both corners of one end of your carpet. Then pull the carpet taut by its free end to stretch it out. Inspect the area in between for creases and curls. Smooth them out by hand and place weights on them, as well. Pull the carpet taut again by its free end before weighing down both of its corners, too.To make life easier, ask a partner for help. This way one person can keep the carpet pull and relax the carpet as needed while the other deals with creases and curls in the middle.
For small carpets, you can probably just use a few strategically placed piles of heavy objects like books, potted plants, or actual weights.
For larger carpets, use large furniture with a large surface area, like overturned coffee or end tables, to cover more area.
 Bring the carpet into a local rug store that offers steaming services, rather than hire a cleaner to do the job at your house. Though there might be exceptions, expect at-home cleaners to only be familiar with how to clean a carpet. So bring it to a store that specializes in rugs instead, where the staff should be able to assess and treat the problem with your particular carpet.For example, steaming should work just fine if the carpet was simply rolled up for an extended period. However, if the carpet won't lie flat for some other reason (like poor construction) that steaming won't fix, a rug specialist will be able to spot this and say so before you waste money on the service.

