 Whether it's a simple traffic violation like a speeding ticket or something more serious, acknowledge that it's possible that your idol could be guilty. Remember that police don’t investigate without something to investigate for. Occasionally police get it wrong, but this is rare. In any case, a police investigation can only have two outcomes, so prepare yourself for both of them in order to help yourself deal if it doesn't go as you hope.;
, You like him or her a lot, of course you want him or her to be innocent, and you can hope he or she is until the sun falls out of the sky, but you don’t know whether it’s true, and you probably never will. The only person that knows is your idol. Especially for the most popular celebrities, anything you read in the news will be speculation or hearsay, so it's hard to know what information you can trust. And when you publicly declare their innocence, you run the risk of being terribly wrong - and looking quite silly in the process. Letting go of your need to defend your idol to others will help you come to terms with their possible guilt.
 It may seem that the person currently under police investigation and the person acting in all your favorite movies can't possibly be the same. But we all have two sides -- it is entirely possible that your idol is both the person that inspired you, cheered you up, soothed your pain, and made you laugh, and the nasty piece of work they now appear to be. Accept that this is probably the case and stop idealizing your idol as a person. But this doesn't have to affect how you view their work: especially with actors, you can still enjoy their movies, books, or productions without endorsing them as a person.
 You should not support your idol unconditionally. Wait for the results of the police investigation before making up your mind as to how you now feel about your idol. If after the investigation has concluded you still idolize this person, then you can send them messages of support, but even then, think carefully before you do this.
 If your idol is found innocent, be happy and relieved. Celebrate their innocence, but don't claim that you "knew it all along" - this will make you look obsessive and delusional, and it won't be true. If it turns out your idol is guilty, incorporate this new information into your evaluation of their character. For serious crimes, it may help to think of it as their early retirement, if he/she can never work again.
 Especially if your idol is a singer or actor, you can still enjoy their work. Watch their films and get caught up in the character, rather than the actor. Divorce your idol's work from your idol himself, and learn to appreciate his work without needing to love or worship him.

