 Although sleep regressions are completely normal among babies and toddlers, you should still talk with your doctor or pediatrician. In some cases sleep regressions could be a result of an underlying medical issue, such as reflux, asthma, allergies, an ear infection, or sleep apnea., You can also talk with other parents or friends in your life. Ask them if they ever dealt with sleep regression in their children and how they coped with it. Knowing that your friends have experienced the same thing, and made it through, can be comforting., Talk with your partner about the sleep regression and make sure that you both share the responsibility. For example, come to an agreement about who will be responsible for checking on the child during the night. Perhaps you can split this 50/50. This way you will not feel like you are doing it alone.If you are a single parent you can ask members of your extended family to help out during tough times. If possible, ask one of your parents to stay with you while your baby is experiencing a sleep regression.
If that is not possible, keep in mind that sleep regressions are short lived and your baby will begin sleeping through the night again.
 Always remember that sleep regression is a normal part of child development and that it will pass. It can be very tiring and stressful at the time, but keep in mind this will not last forever and you are not a bad parent.Sleep regressions typically take place at 3-4 months, 8-10 months, 12 months, 18 months, and two years. This can vary depending on the individual child.
 Sleep regression is often a result of a major change to the daily routine, or a result of a new developmental stage. For instance, at around two years of age, children will begin experiencing bad dreams or they may become afraid of the dark. Once you have determined the cause of the regression, you can tackle that head on.For example, you could purchase a nightlight to make them feel comfortable at night.
Alternatively, you can talk with them about the life changes (i.e. new sibling, new daycare, etc) so that they become accustomed to the change.

