 It's hard to sit up all night when your eyes are droopy and it's easier to fall asleep.


Make sure you sleep for around two hours or more than you normally would on a night.;
, If you can, have snacks of fruit and vegetables in between. These will give you the energy needed.
 If you have electronics, put them in your room and charge them. If they don't have a charge, you will have nothing to do. If you have a game console that's not in your room, put it there. Get some food, water, and soda or pop in your room as well.
 If you can, "sleep" with the TV on, so you'll have a little something to do until your parents go to bed. If you can't, try to stay awake!

, Then, whip out a small game console. Such as a DS, DSi, 3DS, DS Lite, PSP, the Wii U Gamepad or any other small device you may have. If you don't have a small game console, watch TV. If you can't watch TV, try to stay awake!

, Wear headphones. If none are available, listen to it at a low volume. Be careful! Don't wake up your parent(s)!

, After a while, you're most likely be hungry! Eat some of those snacks, water, and soda mentioned in step 2. Don't be too loud while eating, though! You could wake up your parent(s)!

, Play some computer games. Play on game sites, or on a social networking site, if you have an account. If using social media, remember to follow the terms and conditions. If you are too young to have an account, don't make one as there are laws to protect children and their privacy rights.


If you can, play some video games. Such as a PlayStation 1, 2, 3, or 4, Wii, Xbox 360, Wii or Xbox 1. Or, a Wii U, and you don't even have to turn the TV on.
Remember––don't be too loud because your parents will still be awake.
 If you have headphones, listen to loud music. If none are available, then listen to it on a soft volume.
 Toys such as Barbies, cars, or Lego blocks.
 Exciting books, not boring ones.
 If you can, watch shows on demand or DVDs.
 No telling what kind, but play a couple of games.
 Move around for 5-20 minutes.
,,, By now, morning cartoons should be on. Watch away. Now, go on with a morning routine. If your parents wake and ask why you're up, say you just woke up early, or wanted to catch a certain morning cartoon.
 If you can get outside, then do so. It can be a beautiful sight.
 Brush your teeth and if you're going to have a shower, make it colder than usual, to help you to stay awake.

