 For this method, you'll be using the "sleeving" technique – where the pen magically disappears...into your sleeve. For this, you want a darker-colored shirt with open sleeves that aren't too tight around your wrists but also not hanging down like you're a wizard. Aim for somewhere in between.


You want to stay in the color realm of your pen. If you're using a white pen, a white shirt may be fine. The darker your pen, though, the darker your shirt should be.
 Take the pen the long way and hold one end with your pointer finger and thumb and the other with your pointer finger and thumb. At this point, your fingers should be facing your audience. With whatever hand is your dominant hand, apply pressure on the pen with your middle finger, as if it wants to push it back into your palm.


The pen should be held out in front of you as if on display. A foot in front of you is good – you want your elbows relaxed as if it is all effortless.
 Practice this part plenty before you do this trick in front of your friends. You want your middle finger to essentially snap the pen backward to your palm where you will hold in there for just a split second. Do this part as quickly as possible so it looks like it disappears.


Rotate your thumbs upward once the pen is snapped. This allows the pen to be concealed by your fingers. Your fingers should now be facing inward as if you're about to give someone the "thumbs up" sign.
With the snap, do a slight up and down movement. This isn't necessarily to do the trick per se, but it looks good to your audience and makes it look as if you're actually doing something to make the pen disappear and your body has been slightly effected by it, producing the little up and down motion.
 With the pen clasped against your wrist, quickly (very, very quickly) thrust it into your sleeve. Once it's in there, open up your hands, showing your flabbergasted audience that the pen is nowhere to be found.


Rotate your hands, palms up, to show there is no pen. Then turn them over and wave them around a bit, proving that it's not concealed at a specific angle that you're audience just happens to not be seeing.
 After you've waved your arms around a bit, pull up both your sleeves to be even more convincing. To make sure the pen comes with your sleeve, pinch it as you push it up. It will be resting at the bottom of your sleeve due to gravity and won't be noticed by your audience underneath your arm.


If you'd like, once you get really good at this trick, tug at your sleeves a bit even before the trick. Don't move them too much, though – just enough to give the illusion that you've moved them up a bit. If you move them too far, you can wiggle around a bit to lower them before you vanish the pen.
 There will be many times when the pen misses your sleeve and shoots up behind you, or when you snap the pen back at an awkward angle and it hangs down your hand. To make sure you're doing it correctly, practice in a mirror until you can do it several times over convincingly.


Add some flare to your show, too. Start with showing the pen, adjusting your hands as if you have to get it perfect, concentrating really hard, maybe even blinking the pen into thin air. The grander your show, the more distracted your audience will be.

