 Remember, you will be meeting with this person often and discussing important matters so always pick someone you trust and are comfortable talking with, don’t just base your decision on the number of houses the agency has sold. When you pick a Realtor, set a time to meet to discuss finances and see your property.;
, Based on their advice, take into consideration the work you will need to do in order to get your house into the best shape possible to be viewed.
 Put gardening tools up and out of sight, hoses away, kids toys out of the way, etc. Keep in mind, the front yard is what first attracts a buyer or their agent’s eye--if the first impression isn’t eye-catching, what will make them come inside?

, Paint walls white or an off-white color in order to give the sense of an open, airy house. Not only will it lighten up the house, it will make it seem larger than it is.
 You are going for the “hotel” look in that you want only the furniture necessary to be there. Take down wall hangings, posters, photos, books; take away about half the furniture in your house (if possible); make your rooms less crowded. Keep in mind, prospective buyers don’t want to see your possessions in the house, they want to see their belongings fitting in.
, Dirty rooms, kitchens, bathrooms, can be a major turn-off for people viewing your house. Little things lying around also give the impression of a cluttered environment.
,


Make sure your house doesn’t smell unpleasant and the heat is comfortable.
Double-check that every toilet lid is down, all the lights are on(including lamps), hide all electrical objects(like wires and remotes), turn off computers and televisions, and make sure no little objects are lying around.
Ensure the prospective buyers always come with an agent (if your Realtor tells you this) and make sure they know how to get into the house(your agent may leave a lock box with your key in it).
Hold an open house sometime to allow people in the neighborhood to see your house--word of mouth travels just as quickly as internet postings.

