 When you're picking out a donkey, it's important to take these factors into consideration. Male and female donkeys have different temperaments, and there are miniature, standard and giant-sized donkeys which are as big as standard horses. Figure out which type is the right fit for your needs before you decide which one to bring home.


If you plan to keep your donkey as a pet, choose a gelding (a castrated male) or a jenny (a female).
If you plan to breed your donkey, you'll need a jack (an intact male) and one or more jennies. Don't get a jack if you just want a pet, and don't keep a jack with other male donkeys, since they'll fight.
If you plan to ride your donkey, make sure its big enough to handle your weight. A donkey can safely carry 20% of its body weight. Also, just like mule, horse or camel, make sure they are not sick or injured, because this could make it worse
If you plan to use your donkey as a guard animal against predators, such as wolves or dogs, choose a standard or giant donkey, not a miniature. It's important that the donkey be larger than the predator.;
, If this is your first time handling a donkey, you'll want to choose one who already knows how to stand and walk on a lead without bolting. You may also want to make sure the donkey can handle being petted all over its body and will allow you to lift its feet without trouble. Donkeys can be a little tricky to train, so unless you're experienced with them, it's a good idea to choose one that is fairly well behaved or find a friend to help you.
 Donkeys are extremely social creatures, and they get sad when they're left all alone in the pasture. Your donkey will be a lot happier with a companion. Two jennies, two geldings, or a jenny and a gelding make good companions for each other. Donkeys will bond deeply with their companions for life, and they won't want to go anywhere without each other.


Donkeys can bond with horses, but if you ever plan to take the horse somewhere without the donkey, it's not advisable to allow them to create a deep bond. The donkey will become upset when you remove the horse from the pasture. It's better to keep them in separate enclosures.
Donkey have very specific dietary needs, and if kept with other species are likely to become overweight and unwell.
Donkeys and dogs don't make good companion animals, unless they're raised together from the time they are babies.
 Donkeys should not be harshly punished. Practice gentleness and patience when you're trying to lead them or teach them something new. They aren't stubborn, but they need time to process situations before deciding what to do, and they dislike being hurried or forced to act. Pet your donkey, speak in soothing tones, and don't raise your voice or be forceful.
 In order to stay fit and healthy, they need daily exercise. They'll exercise themselves if they have a large enough pasture to roam around. You can also take your donkey for a walk using a long rope lead. Remember that it's not a good idea to ride your donkey unless it's large enough to support your weight.


Let your donkey get extra exercise in winter. If you have to shut your donkey up during winter, you will need to let it out every few days for exercise. If you can allow the donkey to wander around the barn in between outdoor outings, this would be ideal. Don’t force a donkey that hates snow to go out into the elements; provide this animal with an alternative indoor exercise area. Keep a coat on the donkey if you’d like during winter outings to prevent chills; donkeys can get pneumonia or bronchitis if subjected to rain or very cold weather.

