 Measuring the current performance of the app absolutely vital. The performance of the app is a combination of following things.


Track the download numbers from iTunes Connect and note down the average download per day and average download per week number.
See the app’s ranking in the App Store. If the app is app is not ranked inside top 200 of the app’s category, then search for its ranking in Appannie.  If is currently unranked, note that down.
Calculate app’s average revenue per day and per week, include both In App Purchase (IAP) earnings and also earnings from Ad Network(s).;
, Many apps do not do well in the App Store because they are not named properly.


Choose a name that is unique and represents your app.
Use terms or words which represent the genre or type of the app. For instance, if the app is a music downloader app, use the words “music downloader” as part of the name. This helps the search ranking of the app.
Don’t stack keywords in the app name. App name should sound natural and not artificial. If the app name is “Music downloader App for all Pop, Jazz, Rock, Metal fans” then it would sound artificial and is very likely to be ranked low for these keywords.
 Most apps with poor downloads are due to poor icon. Change the app icon.


Research app icon of similar apps and others apps in the same category for inspiration. For instance, if the app is a music app, research on similar music app icons and get inspiration.
Make the icon unique and catchy. Users would click more on icon which is unique and attractive.
 Screenshots are the most powerful tool to demonstrate the app for users. So, make attractive screenshots.


Try to highlight the key features of the app in the screenshots. Don’t try to stack all features, users will get confused.
Use clear and catchy graphics that grasps the attention of users.
Use small words and sentences to explain the functions of the app. Don’t write really long sentences, the purpose of words and sentences are to compliment the graphics, NOT overpower them. For instance – “Music downloader customized specially for iPhone users who use iPhone 6 Plus” will dilute the attention from the app features. Instead, just write “Customized for iPhone 6+”.
 The app description explains what the app is all about. So, use the app description to explain to the users that this app is worth their time.


First 200-250 characters of the description should highlight the key feature or unique selling point of the app. Most users download app from their iPhone or iPad, and all they see in the App Store when they search for an app is the icon, screenshot and first couple of sentences of the App Description. So, the first couple of sentences are very crucial.
Write small sentences instead of long paragraphs.
Be precise and to the point. Users want to read about the app features, not an essay.
Avoid using spam marketing phrases(marketing phrases associated with spam), such as “Exclusively for you”, “Download Right Now”.
Write correct and simple English. Users get annoyed when there are grammatical errors in the app description.
 Most users discover apps by searching in App Store. So, the 100 characters of keywords section have to be properly used to increase search ranking of the app.


Research keyword which are relevant to the app. Try to figure out what words or phrases would an average user use if he/she was trying to find an app of this type.
Search for competitors keywords from Sensortower and Appannie. Get an idea on what keywords are used by similar apps.
Choose keywords with quality traffic and lower competition. Common keywords are very high competition and the app’s search rank shall be very low with those keywords.
Separate two keywords with a (,) comma, using spaces in between is unnecessary.
To rank for phrase searches such as “jazz music”, don’t use “jazz music”. Use “jazz,music” instead.
Don’t repeat the same keyword. For instance, don’t write “jazz,music,rock,music,salsa,music”. Instead of that, use “jazz,rock,salsa,music”. The App Store algorithm shall do the permutation and combination.
Don’t use plurals with an “s”. For instance, write “wallpaper”, NOT “wallpapers”. App Store algorithm can detect plurals with “s”. But, if the plural of a keyword is unique, such as “shelf” and “shelve”, include both if both are good keywords.
App Name, Company name and app category is automatically counted as keywords; don’t repeat them in the keyword section. For instance, if the app is a music app is released in Music category, no need to use “music” in the keywords section. But if it is released in Entertainment category, then “music” can be added in the keywords section.
 More localization leads to more visibility from users of different countries, which possibly may lead to more downloads.


Priority languages should be Simplified Chinese, Japanese and Spanish, followed by Thai, Filipino, Russian, Turkish etc.
For best results, localize everything. App description, keywords, app name, screenshot texts, texts inside the app, notifications etc.
If you have money, hire a professional service provider. There are many reliable providers, a simple Google search would suffice.
If there is no budget for localization, try to find a fellow indie developer who is proficient in that language.  Most indie developers are very helpful to the community. Usually developer forums such as iPhoneDevSDK are good places to find developers from different countries.
 ASO is not a one-time thing, one has to constantly measure the effects of every changes and its impact on app download and revenue. So, measure the performance on daily and weekly basis.

