 Because of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, every person is entitled to a free credit report once per year from each of the major credit bureaus: Experian, TransUnion and Equifax.You can also request these reports by calling 1-877-322-8228. Do not contact the bureaus directly for your free credit report. However, you will need to contact them for your credit score, which the bureaus do not provide for free.
You may also complete the Annual Credit Report Request form from the FTC website and mail it to the following address: Annual Credit Report Request Service, P.O. Box 105281, Atlanta, GA 30348-5281. Find the form at https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/pdf-0093-annual-report-request-form.pdf.
 This information will include information about your name, address, previous address, and social security number. To the best of your ability, be as accurate as possible.
 Because credit reports contain private information about your credit history, your identity is taken very seriously. Expect to answer questions about:


Any mortgages or loans taken out
Credit card information
Personal information, such as the number of bedrooms in your house

, A lot of the questions you'll be given are trick questions. You may be asked how many mortgages you've taken out over the past five years, when you haven't; you might be asked to name how many bedrooms are in your house, and not find the appropriate amount selected. Expect to come across trick questions like these.
 Because you are only allowed one free credit report per year, and you often can't go back and access credit reports at a later date, it's a good idea to print out each credit report. Your credit reports do not contain your credit score.


However, your credit report may contain errors that affect your credit score unfairly. Sometimes your credit report may contain someone else's transactions or negative actions (such as late payments), so reviewing your report can help you keep a good score.
 If you see a transaction or number that looks out of place or flat-out inaccurate, contact the credit bureau to dispute it. Disputing a wrong number can significantly increase your credit score.

