 It is important to get them on board from the start, and to allow them to contribute the workplace policy on how donations from employees will be matched.


Find out from your employees how they perceive the donation matching program
Ask them what special ideas they have for tailoring the program to their workplace
Find out anything else that your employees feel is important about having such a program in their workplace.;
, Major companies with the programs in place are probably worth checking out online to see how they run their programs. Some well-known examples include 3M, American Express, Boeing, Cingular, Citicorp, The GAP, Gates Foundation, General Mills, Google, Kimberly Clark, Levi Strauss, Macy's, Microsoft, Nintendo, Starbucks, and many others. Do an online search to find the companies with these programs, then check out their websites for specific information on how they implement the program. It's probably a good idea to select companies whose ethos and interests match with your own company's.
 As part of forming the policy for your corporation, consider the following issues:


Whether there are limits to the donation matching
Whether there are limits to the amount of employees who can participate, or whether there will be seasonal, etc., rotations
What forms of verification you will need in place from your employees
Will it form part of the payroll deduction, or what other method will work best
Whether or not you will limit the types of charities the employees can claim for
The need to meet statutory and regulatory requirements.
 You will need:


A policy with guidelines and/or rules as outlined in the prior step
A dedicated person or people to administer the program
Instructions on how to apply for the program within your company, including dates, deadlines, expectations of receipt proofs, etc.
Forms for employees to fill out.
 While this might feel a little constraining for your employees, it has a number of benefits:


You can certain that the charities are reputable
Your company can check the taxation deduction applicability of chosen charities
You can make the most of linkages with chosen charities in marketing products, such as your website. You will generally be able to use the charity's logo and explain who your company is supporting through the employee donation matching program. That's a big marketing coup, a socially conscious good choice, and something that employees can feel proud about.
 You might consider sponsoring staff to participate in special days, months, or events that seek to raise awareness and funds for specific issues such as cancer, environmental pollution, childhood welfare and safety, etc. Again, your company can make use of such events in marketing products as well as raising goodwill through participating.

