 Sometimes cavities can develop without causing any noticeable symptoms. It is important that you get regular dental care to prevent cavities from forming, and to catch cavities early on if they do develop., If you experience toothache, tooth discoloration or staining, notice any holes or cracks, or have new sensitivity to heat and cold, you might have a cavity. Schedule a dental appointment right away to make sure that the cavity does not worsen., If a cavity is caught very early, it is possible for it to be treated with fluoride. If a cavity has progressed terribly, it is possible that you will need a tooth extraction or a root canal. Most likely, however, your dentist will decide that you require a filling and will ask you to come back in the coming days or weeks to get a filling.
 As you prepare to schedule your filling, you will likely need to know how long the appointment is expected to last, whether or not you will have restrictions immediately following your appointment, whether you are permitted to take medications, whether you will need a ride home, any side effects you should know about, and how you should follow up.Having this information in hand well before your filling will allow you to make the necessary preparations at home. For example, you might need to:


Ask a friend or a taxi service to set up a ride home, depending on what anesthetic will be used.
Purchase soft, lukewarm foods that won't aggravate your filling in the days immediately following your appointment.
Arrange for time off of work to go to your appointment and recover. Note that it might be hard for you to talk normally for a few hours after you get your cavity filled. If your job requires that you speak publicly, you might want to take an extra few hours off.
Consult with your physician about whether your medications might interact with your dental anesthetic.
 Your dentist will have to know about any chronic health problems you have, your medical history, your current medications, allergies to medicines and metals, and whether or not you are pregnant. This information is essential for your dentist to make the right decisions about your dental care.Be sure to answer all questions honestly, and tell your dentist all the relevant details about your dental and physical health.
 Most people have the option of getting an amalgam filling or a composite filling. There are pros and cons to each kind of filling, and the most appropriate option might depend on which tooth requires a filling and how deep your cavity is.An amalgam filling is made up of metals, is silver in color, is usually the cheaper option, is strong and flexible, and sometimes requires the removal of healthy tooth material.Amalgam fillings are more common on the back teeth.A composite filling is made up of a hardened resin, is often tooth-colored, is usually the more expensive option, is not quite as strong or long-lasting as an amalgam filling, and is a bit fussier to do correctly.Composite fillings are more common on teeth that are in the front of the mouth and visible., You do not want your tooth to be injured or your pain to worsen. Try to get in for your filling as soon as you can after your diagnosis.
 Anxious patients do better when they don't have as much time during the day to fret about an upcoming appointment. Try to get it over with first thing in the morning if you have any dental fears or phobias., Costs can vary quite a bit. They depend on factors such as your location, the individual dentist, whether you are getting an amalgam or composite filling, and whether or not you have dental insurance.In general you can expect an amalgam filling to cost between $100-200 and a composite filling to cost between $135-240., Even if you have had previous fillings covered by your dental plan, always double-check what exactly your dental insurance will cover. Sometimes there are restrictions about what kind of filling you can get--some plans might cover an amalgam filling but not a composite filling, for example. Make extra sure that the dentist performing your filling is in-network so that you aren't surprised by out-of-network surcharges. Be prepared for possible co-pays, however.
 If you do not have dental insurance, you may have to pay out-of-pocket for dental care. If you qualify, consider looking for governmental assistance through Medicaid, CHIP, or other national health services.Other possibilities for lower-cost dental care include dental schools, and reduced-cost dental programs through your state or municipality., If you are scared of the dentist, you are not alone. At least 5% of people avoid the dentist because of fear, and many more than that experience anxiety about the dentist.While it is important to your health to see a dentist regularly, do not be embarrassed by your fear. Instead try to face it.
 Some people are embarrassed by how their teeth look; other people fear possible pain; others have a phobia of needles; others don't like the sound of a dental drill.Try to think about where your anxiety is coming from so that you can minimize it during your appointment. Many of these fears can be alleviated through the use of new technologies, good communication from your dentist, relaxation techniques, and alternative medications.
 Many dentists have training in how to treat patients with dental anxieties and fears. Don't hesitate to ask your dentist directly about whether he or she can handle fearful patients.It might take you a few tries to find a good fit, but you should call around or even find recommendations through friends or the internet. There will be a good dentist who can help you. Some ways that dentists can soothe an anxious patient include:Using water-based tools that minimize feelings of heat or vibration.
Using oral or rub-on anesthetics before to provide pain relief before you receive a numbing shot.
Having the option of nitrous oxide (laughing gas) available.
Creating a spa-like environment, with relaxing music, aromatherapy, and a calm space.
Providing noise-canceling headphones so that you do not have to hear the noise of the drill.
Knowing relaxation and hypnosis techniques to help guide your breathing to keep you calm.Telling the patient what will happen so that the patient feels in control and safe.
 If you have a crippling anxiety of the dentist, you might want to look into the possibility of having your cavity filled while you are sedated. There are some extra risks from this option, and not every dentist uses sedative dentistry. However, there are many who will use sedatives to calm down a fearful patient.Be sure that you arrange for a friend or a taxi driver to take you home after the procedure. It is not safe to drive after waking up from sedation., While it might be tempting for you to use calming substances such as anti-anxiety medication or alcohol, you do not want to ingest anything that might interact poorly with dental anesthetics.Always talk to your dentist first about appropriate steps you can take to minimize your anxiety during a filling.
 Some people have dental fears because of bad experiences long ago. However, dentistry is much more sophisticated now. Anesthetics are more effective, drills are quieter, and there is a lot of new technology that can help a patient remain more comfortable. Try to keep an open mind about the dentist, and talk to your dentist about the tools that he or she uses., Keeping yourself distracted is a great way to ensure that you remain calm during your filling.There are a variety of techniques that you can use and discuss with your dentist. For example, you could:


Prepare a soundtrack of your favorite relaxing music that you could listen to during the procedure.Memorize a poem or a mantra that you can recite mentally to keep yourself distracted.
Use deep breathing techniques to minimize anxiety.It might be hard to do these with your mouth open, but some relaxing breathing techniques are still possible, such as breathing in through your nose for five seconds, holding for five seconds, and releasing for five seconds.Ask if you could have your filling done in a room with a television or screen with distracting or relaxing images., Having a friend or family member present can help keep you calm if you have trouble in the dentist's chair.Ask your dentist if she is comfortable with you having a loved one in the room with you to keep you grounded and to make sure that you are all right during the filling procedure.
 Your child will look to you for guidance when she learns that she has cavities.Stay calm, positive, and upbeat in order to keep you child from becoming scared., If the cavity is in a baby tooth that will soon fall out, perhaps your child does not even require a filling. If the tooth is several years away from falling out, or if the filling is in an adult tooth, your child will likely need a filling., Some children do better when all their cavities are filled at once. Other children might do better with several appointments for fillings spaced out over time. Discuss with your dentist what the painkiller and sedative options are for these appointments in order to find the best option for your child.These options might involve laughing gas, an oral sedative, or the same kind of local anesthetic that you get for your own fillings., Be honest with your child about what a filling entails, but use simple and non-scary words to explain what will happen.For example, you could tell her:


"Your tooth has an owie, and a filling will make it feel good and strong. You might feel very sleepy while you are getting the filling, but you will feel a lot healthier afterwards."
"A filling means that your tooth will be fixed. Sometimes people get scared, but dentists do this all the time, and you'll get medicine so that you feel better."
Avoid words like "pain" or "hurt.", Some children feel anxious about the numb feelings of oral anesthetic. Sometimes they might engage in dangerous behaviors while numb, such as biting their lips, pinching their gums, or scratching at their mouths. Watch your child carefully to make sure that she is behaving safely, and tell her that what she is experiencing is normal and will be over soon., Having a loved one there in the room can be very helpful to someone who is nervous or scared of the dentist., Let your child choose what he or she will wear to the appointment. If your dentist will let your child hold a toy, let your child choose what toy to bring. This will help your child feel in control of the situation and will help reduce possible fears., Tell your child that you have a special treat in store once your child has recovered from the filling. Maybe you can go see a movie, or go out for ice cream, or go to the zoo. Tell your child in advance of the appointment so that he has something to look forward to for being brave., Depending on what kind of anesthetic was used, you might experience different odd sensations after your appointment. You might feel numb, tingly, and tender in the hours immediately following a filling.You might also have trouble eating, talking, or swallowing for a few hours.While these sensations might feel bizarre, they are totally normal.


Be especially careful about chewing or talking while you are still numb. You might accidentally bite your cheek or your tongue. Pay close attention to the health of your mouth, even if you cannot feel any pain at the moment.
 Some pain and sensitivity is normal for a few days. If you continue to experience sensitivity while biting or chewing, however, that is an indication that your filling was built a little too high and might need to be filed down for your comfort. Talk to your dentist about coming back again for a quick fix., Your dentist might want to check up on you in the days and weeks following your filling to make sure everything is progressing normally. Keep your appointments and follow your dentist's instructions about diet, medication, and hygiene.For example, your dentist might recommend that you stay away from extremely hot, extremely cold, or sugary foods and drinks as you heal. You might also be asked to brush your teeth more often or to use special mouthwashes to keep your mouth clean as your filling sets. Follow all instructions carefully to make sure you don't run into any complications., While complications from dental fillings are rare, they can occur. Pay attention to warning signs such as bleeding, wheezing, excessive pain, fever, infection, and swelling. Call your dentist immediately if you experience these symptoms., Your dentist will be able to monitor your filling to make sure that it remains intact and that it is still doing its job properly. Sometimes fillings need to be replaced, and you will want to catch any issues with your filling as early as possible. Keep up with your dental appointments so that you can keep an eye on any potential filling replacements.