 Symptoms begin almost immediately after you’ve contracted the virus. Signs of the common cold include runny nose, sore throat, cough, congestion, slight body ache, mild temperature, and mild fatigue.If you want to have a chance of curing your cold fast, you need to act fast. After the first 12 hours of your cold, it will have spread enough to last for days. You must fortify your body’s defenses.;
, Use a cough suppressant only if you have a dry cough. Cough suppressants include dextromethorphan and codeine. However, you may need a prescription for codeine. Side-effects can include drowsiness and constipation. Dextromethorphan is available as a tablet or syrup and can come in combination with an expectorant. If you have a 'chesty' cough and are coughing up any mucus, do not take a cough suppressant, as this could increase the chances of developing a chest infection. Instead, ask the pharmacist for an 'expectorant' cough syrup.
 Nasal decongestants — either liquid or pill form — help shrink blood vessels in the nasal membranes and allow the nasal passages to open up. Phenylephrine (like Sudafed PE) and pseudoephedrine (Sudafed) are two over-the-counter decongestants proven to help with colds.


You can also get decongestants as a nasal spray over-the-counter. All it takes is one or two quick squirts and you’ll start feeling some relief. Nasal sprays contain oxymetazoline, phenylephrine, xylometazoline, or naphazoline. Use only as directed. Using it more than 3-5 times a day can actually increase that stuffy feeling.Side effects of decongestants include insomnia (sleeping problems), dizziness, and increased blood pressure. Do not use oral decongestants if you have heart issues or hypertension. Use under a doctor’s direction if you have diabetes, thyroid problems, glaucoma, or prostate issues., An expectorant is a form of over-the-counter medication which clears the sinuses by thinning mucus and loosening phlegm that may have settled in your lungs. This will allow you to breathe easier and leave you more comfortable.


Expectorants are available over-the-counter at your local pharmacy. They are usually taken in liquid form, but they can also be found as tablets and powders. Currently, the only over-the-counter expectorant available is guaifenesin. Look for this active ingredient when searching for medications. Mucinex is the most common brand name guaifenesin-containing medicine sold in pharmacies.Be aware that expectorants, like all medications, may have side-effects. Those most commonly associated with this form of medication include nausea, vomiting and drowsiness. If you experience any of these symptoms, you should stop taking the expectorant immediately., Vitamin C has long been touted for its cold-preventing properties, but did you know it can also help to shorten the duration of a cold?Up your intake by drinking orange juice and eating foods like strawberries, kiwis and leafy green vegetables, which have a high vitamin C content.
You can also take a vitamin C supplement, available in tablet form in drug and health food stores. The recommended dosage is 90 mg a day for men and 75 mg a day for women, according to the National Institutes of Health., Your body has the capabilities to fight off most colds, but a doctor can provide prescription assistance to relieve symptoms. However, do not ask your doctor for antibiotics for a cold, they will not improve your symptoms or the duration of your cold.


If you are experiencing any of the following symptoms, then you should contact your doctor immediately:
Earache/loss of hearing
Fever above 103 degrees
Fever above 101 that lasts for more than 3 days
Shortness of breath/wheezing
Bloody mucus
General symptoms that last more than 7 to 10 daysSore throat with a fever, but no cough and no runny nose. This may indicate strep throat, which should immediately be treated with antibiotics to prevent heart complications.
Cough with a fever, but no runny nose and no sore throat. These symptoms may indicate pneumonia and should also be treated with antibiotics.

