 Decide where you will put the bruise and consider what would have caused a bruise in that particular area. This will help you decide where the bruise should be as well as it’s shape and size.


Put the bruise in a place which is easy to reach to make applying makeup simple.
The shape of the bruise should reflect whatever you think would have caused it.
Consider a bruise on your forearm as if it was hit by a blunt object like a bat, which would be an oval bruise. It would be a little longer than it is wide and have rounded edges.
Another option is giving yourself a black eye as if you were punched in the face.;
, Cover your bruise area with a base layer of red eye shadow. This should create a good size and shape for you to work with. The red will represent all of the area of irritation effected by the bruise.








For example, if you are creating the effect of a black eye, curve the red around the bottom of the eye, beginning in the corner and expanding out below the eye and to the side in a crescent shape. It should be about one inch wide at the largest section near the outer, bottom corner of the eye.
You can add some red on the edge of the top eye lid to show irritation.
 Purple should be used on the deepest sections of the bruise to make it really stand out.









In the black eye example, start at the bottom corner of the eye and draw along the edge of the bottom lid. Starting back at the corner, draw down along the edge of the eye socket. This will create sort of a “greater than” symbol or a “v” on it’s side., If you have yellow and green eye shadow and want your bruise to appear to be healing, you can blend some green out around the edges of the bruise, as well as a spot of it in the center. Dab yellow on the edges and in the center of these green sections as highlights.








Use green and yellow around the edges of the crescent in your black eye. Also put some in the corner of your eye, pushing it into the dip in the socket and dragging it slightly up the top lid and down the corner of the bottom., If your green and yellow stand out, are too bright, or make your bruise look unrealistic, you can dab little spots of black throughout these areas to dull them and break up the color a bit.








You can also use black to darken the purple areas if your shade was a little light, or you want more emphasis.
 Take a large makeup brush and apply some powder to the area. Powder the entire bruise with face powder to blend it into your skin tone and take out some of the shine from the eye shadow.
 Let them notice the bruise before you go around showing it off. They are more likely to believe it is real if you don’t say anything about it. Let them ask you what happened and be prepared with a fake story.


If they don’t ask about it, you can “accidentally” touch the bruise or hit it on something, then react as if it hurt.

