 Do your friends lie often to other friends, family, or teachers? Do they seem to manipulate others to get what they want on a regular basis? See if they really care about you, or if they’re focused only on themselves.The way your friends treat other people is a reflection on how they value others. If they are quick to judge other people and lie to get their own way, then they may end up doing the same to you.
Some people will ditch a friendship if they think something better is coming along.
 Have you told some friends a secret or some personal information? What happened after that? Did your other friends seem to know about it shortly thereafter?When you told a secret, did you ask your friends specifically, “Can you please keep this information confidential? I don’t want the information to get around.” If you didn’t word it carefully, consider your wording when asking for a secret to be kept.
But either way, think about how you would have handled the situation with the same information. Would you have kept the secret?
Consider only telling private information to those who are your best friends who you know that you already trust, or someone who’s not involved that you already trust.
 Ultimately, your friends are trustworthy if you feel that you trust them. If you feel comfortable with sharing personal information, and have no fears that they will use it against you or judge you, then that is what matters.


Do you feel like you can tell them about what's bothering you without feeling judged?
Do you feel comfortable with telling them about problems in your family or personal struggles you're facing?

, Do you feel like you're fake when you're around your friends? Do you feel yourself being honest, or just pretending to be happy? If you feel like you can't be your genuine self, you may not feel that your friends are trustworthy.


If they seem disingenuous about your interests, you may feel like you can open up to them about yourself.
Be true to yourself. Trust your instincts if you feel that you can’t trust your friends due to their past behaviors.

