 If children of various ages will be using your library, sort books by grade level and shelve all the books in each reading level in its own area of the library. This will make it easier for kids to find books that are appropriate for their age group.


Choose a particular color code for each reading level, and buy labels in that color.
For example, print yellow labels for all books for Grades K-2, blue labels for Grades 3-6, etc.
 Choose a specific color for non-fiction labels, that is different from any you are using in the fiction section. Come up with a system for sorting these books, and file them according to main topic.


A sample breakdown might be: Animals, Biography/People, Science, Languages, Travel/Places, History,
For example, Ancient Egypt by George Hart would have a green label reading “TRAVEL/PLACES.”

, Print labels with “FICTION” on the first line, and the first letter of the author's last name on the second line. Use the label color appropriate to the reading level or age group of the book in question.


For example, the book Oh, the Places You'll Go by Dr. Seuss would have a yellow label (indicating a reading level of K-2) that reads, “FICTION – S”

Bunnicula: A Rabbit-Tale of Mystery by James Howe would have a blue label (indicating a reading level of Ages 8-12) that reads, “FICTION – H”

, Print the individual codes onto labels. Label each shelf with a color-coded sticker that matches the labels on the books.


For example, a fiction shelf containing books for ages 8-12 that have authors with names starting with A through F would have a blue label reading, “FICTION, A-F”

, Buy bins in different colors, to match the labels on the books they contain. A yellow bin labeled “A – F” would hold books appropriate for ages K-2 written by authors with last names starting with A-F.
If you are using baskets, stick the labels on small pieces of cardboard and hang them on the basket using metal rings. (You can buy a box of metal book rings at an office or teachers' supply store.)

, Once your books are sorted into categories and assigned to a particular shelf or bin, you'll need to label them.Consider color-coding your labels to match color-coded labels on the bins – each category gets its own color.
Include any relevant information on the label that will help you shelve it more quickly. You could include the author, the category, and the basket or bin number it goes in.

