 Staying physically active can also help to sharpen your mind, especially if you start your day with some physical activity. This can prepare your brain to learn and function better all day.Try to incorporate some type of physical activity to help stimulate your brain every day.


For example, you might go for a walk every morning, ride your bike to work or to run errands, or swim at a community pool.
 Being well-rested is also essential for good mental functioning, so make sure that you get enough sleep every night.Try to aim for seven to eight hours of sleep every night.Some things you can do to sleep better at night include:


Cutting out afternoon and evening caffeine.
Engaging in relaxing activities before bed, such as listening to soothing music, taking a warm bath, or sitting quietly.
Going to bed at the same time every night and getting up at the same time every morning.
Avoiding using screens, such as your cell phone, TV, tablet, or computer.
 Staying socially active is also an important part of staying mentally sharp.Make sure that you socialize at least a few times per week. Some ways to be more social include:


Inviting a friend over for coffee, dinner, or a walk.
Joining a special interest club, such as a running group, community theater, or book club.
Attending community events, such as festivals, lectures, and fundraisers.
Laughing and having fun with people can also help to stimulate your brain. Spend time doing things that make you laugh and hang around with people who you find funny or entertaining.
 Having high stress levels can have a negative effect on your mental functioning. Try to keep your stress under control to keep your brain functioning at its best.You can use relaxation techniques to help manage your stress. Some good techniques include:



Meditation.

Yoga.

Deep breathing.

Progressive muscle relaxation.
 The foods that you eat can also affect how well your brain functions. Make sure that you eat healthy foods and avoid junk foods as much as possible. Some good foods to include in your diet for optimal brain functioning include:Fruits and vegetables.
Foods that contain omega-3 fatty acids, such as salmon, sardines, and walnuts.
Red wine (in moderation) or grape juice.
Green tea.
Probiotic foods, such as kefir and sauerkraut., There are some underlying health conditions that can have a negative effect on your mental functioning. Getting checked and treated for any underlying conditions may help to sharpen your mind as well. Some things you might want to get tested for or discuss with your doctor include:Hormone imbalances, such as low thyroid hormone.
Heart disease.
Diabetes.
Side effects from medications.
 Doing something new every day can also help to keep your mind active and build new pathways in your brain.Take a different route to work now and then, try out a new recipe for dinner, or visit a new café and order something you have never had before.