 The number of sofas or chairs will be decided according to the space vacant in the room. Settle for a 5 seater set or more depending on the space available. If the room is huge, go for love seat and couches too.;
, There are so many options that are available in the market. One can choose from a loveseat, lounge, tuxedo, camelback and knole, and sectional sofas. If the house has a traditional appeal to it, go for loveseat, camelback or lounge style sofas, while if your home has a modern outlook, choose tuxedo, knole, or sectional style sofas.
  Sofas can be crafted out of many fabrics. Some of them are silk, microfibers, textures fabric, leatherette, leather, canvas and more. Silk gives the sofa a delicate and rich look but requires heavy maintenance. Fiber sofa make the sofa look attractive and are easy to clean. Leather or leatherette sofas give a modern look to the room and are available in a wide variety of colors.
 The quality of a sofa depends on the quality of its frame. The wooden frame is considered the best, since it is sturdy and strong to last for a long period of time. Check the joints and corner of the frame. A sofa can also be crafted with a metal frame, which is sturdy and strong enough. Avoid buying frames that are crafted with particle board or plywood, since they are prone to cracking and wear and tear quickly.
 Always buy sofas that compliment the colors of the wall. Buying sofa will be an investment for a long time, so buy sofa in a neutral color. If you fancy prints, choose them wisely. It is always a good idea to settle for sofas that will not look boring and let you play with various colors and prints in the long run.
 The quality of the sofa depends on its frame, cushioning and padding of the sofa. The cushion should retain its shape, when somebody sits on and doesn’t curve. The springs have the capacity to bounce back when someone stands up from the sofas. The frame of the sofa should not be felt through the padding.
 A two seater, three seater or even four seater sofa with two matching or coordinating armchairs is a common choice in many homes. Look at this option if it appeals.

