 Store the cigar box on a shelf or inside a cabinet in the bathroom where you take your daily shower. The cigars will become a fixture in your bathroom for a week or two while they undergo the rehydration process.If you prefer, you can store the box of cigars out in the open. Many cigar boxes are of rich, ornate construction and will just look like eye-catching decorative pieces while they’re being salvaged.
 Every day before showering, take the cigars box out and open the lid. Place the box on the sink or toilet seat somewhere within a few feet of the shower. Once you’re done showering, close the lid of the box and return it to where it’s being stored. The humidity from the shower will be trapped inside the box and begin seeping into the cigars.Be extremely careful not to let the cigars get wet.
It may be best to keep especially hot showers down to 10-20 minutes, as the temperature of the water will produce a higher concentration of steam.
 Every other day when you bring the cigar box out before your shower, rotate the cigars. As you do, take note of the appearance and feel of the cigars. Shuffle them around in the box every 3-4 days so that any layer or section of the box doesn’t receive more or less moisture than another.As they soak up moisture, most cigars will feel supple and slightly sticky to the touch, and may darken in color somewhat.
 It’s important not to allow them to remain in the exceptionally humid bathroom environment for long than necessary, as an overhydrated cigar is an equally difficult and time-consuming fix. Inspect the cigars regularly to see how they’re coming along. If storing the cigars near your shower seems to be hydrating them too rapidly, employ an alternate method, like leaving them open in a damp cellar.


You should check on the cigars and their rehydration environment frequently to make sure that storage conditions haven’t changed unexpectedly.
Once cigars are rehydrated, they should be moved to humidity-controlled storage or smoked right away.

