 Turn off your heater and let your water cool. Then test your how much calcium exists in your water (i.e., calcium hardness). Too much calcium will cause calcium deposits on your hot tub's walls and heater. Too little and your water will literally pull the calcium from the tub's walls and components.Use water hardness test stripsto determine if your water is appropriately hard. These test strips work much the same as pH and total alkalinity test strips.
 You want your calcium level to be between 200 and 400ppm.This range will keep your hot tub's internal components protected from calcium corrosion and build up. This is particularly important if your hot tub includes tile and grout which may lose their integrity as a result of calcium corrosion.


Be careful with using calcium booster as calcium booster will affect your pH and total alkalinity balancing products. , Drain 6-12 inches of water from your hot tub or spa. This is a big change to your spa system as this could impact your total alkalinity and pH balances. Unfortunately, if you need to lower your calcium level, this is the only way to do so.


Don't be conservative. If your calcium levels are still too high after new water is added you will need to repeat this procedure.
 You want to add soft water with low calcium levels to balance the calcium level. Test the water you are going to put into the hot tub before doing so. Ensure that water has low calcium. If it does not have low calcium, find another source. Fill your hot tub to the original water level.
 After you have adjusted the calcium level in your system, wait 2-3 days,with the system running and warming up, before testing total alkalinity and pH. This allows the water to normalize following the increase or decrease of calcium levels. Follow the aforementioned instructions for adjusting total alkalinity and pH before testing the calcium levels.


This is particularly important if you drained water from the hot tub and replaced it with new water. That new water could have raised or lowered your total alkalinity or pH.
 After the total alkalinity and pH have been adjusted let your water cool down. Then measure the calcium in the water. If your water is still too hard, repeat the drain, refill, and readjusting of total alkalinity and pH. If it is too soft, add hardness booster.


Each time you adjust the calcium you need to wait 2-3 days before retestingso try to make each adjustment as accurately as possible.

