 You can install apps that will download YouTube videos for you, but these apps are not usually available in the Google Play Store. You'll need to adjust some of your device's security settings to install these apps.
 This will display your Android's security settings.
 Either check the box or toggle the slider on to allow the installation of apps from sources other than the Google Play Store. You'll be asked to confirm that you want to proceed., There are several apps available that you can use to download YouTube videos to your Android. These apps work very similarly to the downloader websites outlined in the previous section. Popular YouTube downloader apps include:TubeMate tubemate.net

YouTube Downloader for Android dentex.github.io/apps/youtubedownloader/


, Find the download link for the app you want to use on the website listed above. For TubeMate, you may be taken to a mirror site to find the download. The "APK" file is the Android app installer.
 You can tap the "Download Complete" notification in your notification panel, or you can find the APK in your Downloads folder. You'll be prompted to confirm that you want to load the APK file.
 Once installation is complete, you can launch the app just like you would any app. If prompted to allow access to your media files, allow it. This allows the YouTube downloader to save the video files.
 Depending on the app, you may be able to browse the YouTube interface, or you'll need to search for the video you want to download.
 After selecting the video, you'll be shown the size and format options. If you're unsure on the format, download one of the MP4 options, as these will play on virtually all Android devices. 720p and 1080p are HD resolutions, which will look a lot sharper but result in larger file sizes.


Not every video will have the same format and resolution options.
 The app will begin downloading your video after you select the format and size. The download time will vary depending on the size and length of the video, as well as your connection speed. Connect to a wireless network to help prevent data overages on your plan.


You can close the app after starting the download and it will continue in the background. You can monitor the progress in the notification panel.

