 You never want to lose a great, candid moment just because you lost a hard drive or dripped a camera. As soon as possible, transfer all of your audio and video to a spare hard drive that you do not move or edit off of. This small, inexpensive step can save your 100s of hours if something goes wrong., Non-linear editing is just a fancy way to describe a computer editing program. For longer movies, you will likely need an industry standard editing program, like Avid, Final Cut Pro X, or Adobe Premier Pro. For smaller documentaries, or those just starting out, a simple program like Windows Movie Maker or iMovie should have enough features to get you started.


If you don't know how to use editing software, there are thousands of free tutorials available online.
You can often hire editors online through Craigslist or EntertainmentJobs.com who will work with you to turn your footage into a film.
 Whenever you change locations, a small piece of text giving the location and year is crucial. If you cut to a new interview with someone you need to show their name and title somewhere on the screen, frequently on the bottom right or left corner.
 It is admirable to try and explore big topics and themes. But best way to illustrate something powerful is, paradoxically, though something small. A documentary is non-fiction, but that doesn't mean it shouldn't tell a story. You need to find a story that illuminates the bigger themes and ideas, not try and cram a bunch of ideas at the viewer and hope they stick. Individual stories are always more compelling:


The Academy Award-nominated doc The Square, though exploring the Egyptian Revolution, gains power because it is focused more narrowly on Tahrir Square.

Virunga, though it talks about all the struggles of The Congo, locates itself almost completely in the titular nature park, telling the story of the last mountain gorillas.

Hoop Dreams is a powerful meditation on hope and expectations in high school sports, but it only works because it examines just two basketball families.
 Narrators allow you to get large chunks of information to the audience quickly and efficiently. They can also distract from your subject, over-explain, and simplify your documentary to just one viewpoint. The decision to have a narrator or not is largely artistic. Yet there are definite pros and cons to each.



Narrator: Good narration illuminates subjects quickly and succinctly, still allowing the footage and interviews the majority of the screen time. If your subject has a lot of facts and figures that need explaining, it can be easier to narrate than convince an interviewee to explain everything.

No Narrator: The more common modern approach, this allows the interviews and clips to speak from themselves. The story is more organic, but it can be harder to get cohesive or complicated points across. The "meaning" is often more open-ended.
 What was the point, to them? Where was the movie clear, and where did it get confusing? Was it entertaining? Avoid trying to explain things and instead ask their opinions. It is easy to get lost in the movie as you work because you know it better than anyone else. You'll need trusted outside opinions to make sure your documentary tells the story you want it to.


If you hear the same complaints or criticisms over and over, you need to think of ways to address them. Is it an editing issue, or will you need another interview or two?

