 Instrumental genres like jazz and classical are daunting to novices. It is easy to feel lost without words to give you guidance. But the biggest mistake most people make is that they forget their own feelings when listening to instrumentals. Do you like the song, or get bored? How does it grow and change from beginning to end?If you're still struggling, close your eyes. What do you see? If this song was in a movie, what kind of scene would it be scored to? Visualization is a great tool for understanding, especially without lyrics.
 The title is your first opening into understanding. It should give you a quick clue to the mood of the song, as well as any image or idea to associate with it. For example:Duke Ellington is a great introduction to jazz because his titles so perfectly match the mood of the song. "Sophisticated Lady," "In a Sentimental Mood," "Take the A-Train," and more all capture a specific image, idea, or event with clarity and beauty.
Beethoven's "Moonlight Sonata" is dark, eerie, and gorgeous. In short, it would fit perfectly under a quiet, moonlit night.
George Winston's repetitive, quiet keystrokes on "Snow" gain a depth and softness when you realize they refer to the flurries out his window.
 Instrumental music tells its stories through a variety of instruments. Each piece needs to work together, while still staying distinct, to tell it's story. Try and track each main instrument throughout the song-- you'll be surprised how much nuance and detail you pick up.


Again, trust Duke Ellington to provide an accessible, swinging entry-point. Listen to how multiple instruments layer up to balance each other out and create complex melody lines. His famous suite "Diminuendo in Blue" is a good start.Mentally break up orchestras into sections. What are the strings (violins, cello, etc.) doing at one point? How are they balanced by the horns? When does percussion jump in to provided emphasis? Think in terms of groups, all working together to make the music sing.
 Does the volume rise and fall? Does the mood go from happy and light to dark and somber? Does the song end in a similar place to where it began, or does it change profoundly? The best music has movement. That means it takes you on a ride of some sort, holding your interest because you're not sure what comes next.
 When music sounds a little weird, off-the-wall, or grating, it is usually not because the musicians made a mistake. It is because they are trying to point out a complex, often negative emotion. Think of it like a gruesome or tragic scene in a movie -- not everything is a happy or easily portrayed idea. Ask yourself why dissonance helps tell the story of the song, and why a musician would intentionally play "bad" sounding music. With great musicians, there is always a reason.


Max Roach's Freedom Now Suite is very difficult to listen to at times, full of harsh noises and jarring changes. But the Civil Rights Movement was anything but smooth and easy.
Miles Davis's complex album Bitches Brew is the first major collision of rock and jazz, mashed up with African rhythms and influences. Music could no longer just be "one genre," and Davis is committed to exploring that idea, even when it gets weird.Doc Woods classical suite Symphonically Speaking contains the suite "Biota," whose messy, weird intro points to messy, weird origins of biology.
 A lot of instrumental music gains power when compared to the songs that came before it. This is not to say the song doesn't hold up on its own. Rather, you can get a deeper understanding by listening to the influences and growth of the music. Jazz, for example, seems intimidatingly complex these days. But it is built on a very accessible body of work -- music that has grown and evolved at pace with American society. If you're looking to start getting into a type of music, check out the earlier works first -- they are usually more accessible.


New jazz fans can find no better starting points than Louis Armstrong and Duke Ellington. They laid the foundation for many of the artists after them.
Classical fans should, in general, try and see something live. There is no better entry point than the rush and connection with live musicians in concert.Those getting into prog rock and instrumental rock might check out pioneers like Rush and Pink Floyd before moving on to complex modern bands
This is true of almost all music, lyric or instrumental. The Beatles began with simple rock and R&B songs. It is only later that their complex, worldly music grew out of them.
 If you simply want to talk and listen intelligently about music, you can trust your ear, mind, and feelings. But if you want to take it a step further you should move past listening and into creating. This doesn't mean you must become a maestro. Understanding the process of making music, however, will inevitably deepen your understanding of the music itself.