 You should always talk to your doctor before you begin a new exercise regimen. Qigong is a low impact practice, but if you have severe arthritis or joint pain, it may put some strain on your joints. If you have diabetes, circulation problems, or take any medications that make you feel dizzy, you should talk to your doctor.Your doctor may recommend that you only do the meditations while seated.
Qigong is a centuries old practice and has also been evaluated in clinical trials to determine its health benefits. Qigong can ease fibromyalgia pain, chronic neck pain, reduce your blood pressure and ease hypertension. However, Qigong should not be used in lieu of medical treatment, and you should continue receiving regular medical care in addition to doing Qigong.;
, In Qigong, you will learn to relax your mind and to cultivate your energy through meditation. While you are learning to practice, you should find a quiet area. Find an area that has little ambient noise, is a comfortable temperature, and where you are able to focus on your practice.You could go to a quiet park on a day with nice weather, or stay inside in a tranquil room.
 You will be moving through different postures while you are practicing, so you will need to be in a space that is relatively large. You should be able to stretch your arms and not touch any objects. You want to be able to move around freely in the space without bumping into anything or tripping over something.If you are outdoors, make sure there are no rocks, roots, or raised areas that you may trip over.
 Meditation has a lot of great benefits, but it can actually raise your anxiety or stress if you aren’t in the right state of mind.Before you begin meditating and practicing Qigong, take a few minutes to think about how you are feeling. Is there anything that is weighing heavily on your mind? Do you have a pressing task that you need to accomplish before you begin?


You should be in a neutral state of mind before you begin meditating. If there is something that you need to take care of before you begin practicing, take some time to do that before you begin., There are two primary types of Qigong practice. The first is Wai Dan (Eternal Elixir) and involves physical movement and concentration. The second is Nei Dan (Internal Elixir) which involves sitting meditation and guided imagery and visualization.Begin your practice by sitting, either on the ground or in a chair with your legs underneath you. This should be a comfortable sitting position, so make adjustments if needed. Your back should be straight, and your hands can rest comfortably at your sides.


You can sit on a padded cushion or mat if sitting directly on the floor is uncomfortable. If you have joint pain in your hips and knees, make sure you are in a comfortable position that doesn’t put pressure on these areas.
 Spend one to two minutes breathing normally. Close your eyes and think about your breaths and the energy that you are drawing into your body. Your eyes can be closed if you’d like, or they can be fixed on a focal point. Try to clear your mind of any thoughts that aren’t related to the breaths coming in and out of your body.


In Qigong, the Chinese concept of “qi” talks about the power of breath as a life force. Your breath connects your mind and body, and can both energize and relax you., As you move into the meditative part of your practice, your breaths will move from your natural breathing pattern into a deeper and more expansive breath pattern.Your breaths should be calm and measured; take your time breathing in deeply and breathing out through your nostrils. Each breath should feel energizing as you breathe in more “qi.”


If you have problems with breathing, either as a result of a medical condition like emphysema or a short term illness, be very careful during deep breathing exercises. Start with one or two exercises at the time and stop doing them if you feel any shortness of breath or tightness in your chest.
 Effective meditation involves both your mind and your body.Your focus should be on your practice, the breaths you take, and the way your body feels. Distracted thoughts will pull you away from your practice and you’ll lose focus. When you are not focused on the movements and postures in Qigong, you risk becoming hurt. Focus on eliminating any distractions around you so you can focus on your practice.


For example, you may close the door and let others know you are not to be disturbed. Or you may go into another area that is quiet and secluded so you are not distracted by noise or talking from others.
To help you block out distractions, you can also try playing music in the background that is soothing and calming.
 Qigong uses your entire body, and stretching will warm up your muscles. While Qigong is a very gentle practice, stretching before and after you practice can help to prevent soreness or tenderness. Even five minutes of stretching can loosen your muscles and get you ready to practice. You should stretch your arms, legs, and core muscles. You can find examples of stretching techniques here.


Stretching can also become part of your Qigong routine and can help you settle your mind and body before you begin.
Before start stretching, warm up your muscles by jogging in place for five minutes or by going for a quick run around the block. You can also do exercises like jumping jacks or push ups to warm up your muscles.
 Posture is a very important part of Qigong. Your spine should be straight, like there is a string pulling the top of your head down to the bottom of your feet. Throughout the moves, you should focus on maintaining good posture so you lower the risk of injuring yourself or overextending a muscle.Your back should be straight and your shoulders should be in line with your hips.
 There are two primary stances that beginners will use during Qigong. The first is the MaBu, or Horse Stance.In this stance, your feet should be shoulder-length apart. Your toes should be parallel and your knees should be slightly bent. Your spine should be straight, with your tailbone tucked in.In this position, you look like you’re just about to sit down on an imaginary chair, or that you’re riding a horse.


This stance uses your back and leg muscles. When you are just starting out with Qigong, your muscles may not be strong enough to hold this stance for very long. Do not overexert yourself; you can start by holding this pose for 10 seconds and increasing the length you hold it over time.
If you are struggling with this stance, you can start by practicing it while sitting on the edge of a chair. Only your buttocks should be on the seat, not your thighs, while you are holding the posture.
 This is the second stance that you will use in your Qigong practice. In the GongBu, or Bow Stance, you’ll hold a posture like an archer just before they draw their bows. Stand with your feet together with your right foot pointing forward and your left foot pointing out forty-five degrees away from the right. Slide your right foot forward so your heels are now shoulder-width apart. You’ll slide your right foot several inches to the right so you can maintain stability. Your shoulder should be squared forward in the direction that you are facing.If you are familiar with yoga poses, this looks like the Warrior pose.
Your spine will be straight with your tailbone tucked in. You can hold this stance for 10 seconds if do not feel strong or stable enough to hold it for longer.

