 In order for you to become a Sword Taker, you must be using the character Raven with a base level of 15; otherwise, the quest for the Taker path won't appear in your Quest Log.


Raven has the special ability to inflict great damage against enemies within a short period of time. Such skill becomes more powerful after you successfully finish the class advancement chain quest.
After reaching level 15, you will receive a special quest for the class change. Accept it and then head out to complete the task.;
, Enter the Suburbs of Wally's Castle to kill 9 Jangos.


You can enter any difficulty for this part of the quest, and this can be done with or without party members.
There is also no time limit.
If you're unable to kill 9 Jangos in one dungeon run, you can enter again to kill the rest.
 Go back to Elder Village after killing 9 Jangos and meet Echo the Alchemist. Echo is the white-haired girl found at the upper-right part of the map, standing a little to the left from the Blacksmith.


Echo will explain something to you regarding your next set of quests. Accept the quest and then head out to enter another dungeon for two more tasks.
 Under the Very Hard difficulty, you need to clear the Suburbs of Wally's Castle once again to obtain a Secret Letter from the boss and kill at least 18 Bomber Mong.


There is a chance that you won't be able to complete the quest in one dungeon run, so keep on entering the same dungeon under the same difficulty.
Keep in mind that you can complete this task while within a party, which is far more easier than doing solo.
Right after you have obtained the Secret Letter and killed 18 Bomber Mongs, return to the Elder Village and report to Echo; she will reward you and change Raven's class to Taker.
 Right after you have completed the Taker chain quest, you will be given three choices for your very first class advancement: Sword Taker, Over Taker, or Weapon Taker. Choose the Sword Taker.


If you make a mistake, you can cancel the quest by simply opening your Quest Log, clicking on the first class advancement quest, and then choosing “Withdraw/Cancel.”
The Sword Taker is one of the fastest class in the game. Even the Elsword, who has great speed and attack power, cannot match the Sword Taker's quick movements and speed.
Aside from fast movement, the Sword Taker has decent HP; this increases their ability to survive in every battle.
 After accepting the quest through your Quest Log or taking it from the Elder Village's announcement board, you will be asked to meet Lenphad in Elder Village. You can find him right next to Echo, working as the Blacksmith.


Lenphad will give you a set of tasks before he can change you to a Sword Taker. All the quests will be collecting quest items rather than killing monsters. All items can be obtained from one map.
 To complete this last leg of the quest, you have to enter Wally's Castle under Very Hard difficulty. You must kill Wally's Guardians, Soldiers, and the mini-boss Vergnert in order to obtain the quest items listed at the right-hand side of your screen.


You may enter the dungeon multiple times without losing your progress, and this quest can be done while in a party.
There's no time limit or required grade, so it's best to enter every floor for monsters, which may give you rare item drops as well.
After you have completed the quest, return to Lenphad and he will turn your character into Sword Taker.
 This is the most useful combo for the Sword Taker, especially in PvP. Players tend to spam this because of its quick movement as your character launches toward the enemy, but in a very small range. Compared to your first combo while being a Taker, this gives more hits and higher damage.


To execute this combo, press arrow key toward your enemy twice and then press Z three times to slash. (L, L or R, R. Z, Z, Z).
 This combo is mostly used against the Elsword class. Because of the Elsword's speed, PvP players tend to jump to avoid ground melee attacks. This uppercut will hit them by surprise.


The first part of the combo will bring your Sword Taker to hack and slash on the ground, forcing enemy characters to jump in order to avoid; however, at the last part of the combo, the Sword Taker will jump and hit your enemy down. They will be vulnerable to attacks at this point, so you can add more combo attacks.
To execute this combo, press Z three times to attack, followed by arrow Up pressed together with Z. (Z, Z, Z. Up + Z).
 This last combo gives 200% more physical damage during your first two attacks. This is where the real speed shows in combat. You need to press X twice followed by a Z. These first three will make multiple fast hits; right after that, you can smash the Z key to spam more combos until the finishing blow ends (X, X. Z. Z spam).


Keep in mind that during the “Z” spam, you should not use any skills or the combo will be completely canceled.
The damage of this combo will reach more than 200% physical damage if done correctly.
The Sword Taker has higher speed compared to Elsword, but lower attack damage; this combo will certainly compensate for that.

