 Here are a list of mistakes that break us and others:

Addiction to drugs & alcohol



 


Love affairs with opposite sex






Social networking






Bunking classes and exams






Obsession with porn and opposite sex






Stealing money or anything else






Bad behavior and vulgar language






Obsession with your image/outlook;
, Although you may have figured out your mistakes, are you simply going to not do those and eliminate them? And what about those whom you have hurt? It's time you go to your parents and apologize.
,


Now as you have decided on your mistakes then it’s about time we eliminate them. But these addictions can return, the only way of eliminating them is by replacing them with good ones.

Deal with Addiction to drugs & alcohol?

Replace the habit with adventure & juices respectively. Adventure will give you a pleasure of visiting the awesome nature outside and soon you will get addicted to it(Take your camera with you and archive your adventures with family and friends). Drinking juices will make you healthy and will give you the pleasure of drinking something sweet which everyone can accompany you with.


Deal with Love affairs with opposite sex?

Try to balance your relationships with opposite sex and replace the habit of having affairs with the thrill of getting to know people as complex persons. Do no use and discard people, if you don't value people you can't value yourself and you're just deluding yourself all the time. Have conversations with teachers and people you value about course subjects, stands in life, your present challenges and with elders about their past experiences to gain the pleasure of knowing the precious knowledge that is gained by your teachers and elders with a lot of hardship and you are lucky to get it , just by listening with interest and empathy.


Deal with social networking?

Well social networking is something that starts creating an illusionary world in your mind and constantly bugs you for more updates just like a virus eats away whole cell. Its recommended to delete your account immediately and replace the habit of social networking with any sports like basketball wherein you exercise both mentally and physically and your mind starts exploring real world by strategizing to win against or compete with opponents. More than that it gives you a real goal.


Deal with Bunking classes and exams?

Well bunking classes can only be replaced by going to classes.Going to classes makes sure that you don't have to study anything for first time especially when you are reading the concepts from the book.


Deal with obsession with porn and opposite sex?

This obsession can be replaced with doing exercise and praying to god. Here the trick is whenever you have an urge for any of your obsession; you simply call the name of god in your mind or do exercise. The concept is the farther you go from a certain thing the more closer you get to some other thing. When your conscience tells you you're somehow in for trouble, try to do something different that makes you focus somewhere else.


Deal with Stealing money or anything else?

This bad habit can be replaced with saving money and creating new things so that your mind diverts towards constructive things which bring you fame.


Deal with Bad behavior and vulgar language?

This thing can only be changed by being friends with those soft spoken nerds. This will improve your language and also create a competitive spirit to compete with your friends. It’s all about the environment you choose to be in.


Deal with Obsession with your image/outlook?

Well this is not a bad habit it’s just teenage nature however with self-realization of the thing that it’s not what you wear defines you but it’s your work that defines you. So replace it with creative works like drawing, photography, mechanics, handicrafts.
 Keep no room for laziness. Instead of postponing exercises and diet try postponing laziness.
 Remember for our brain becomes moldy or difficult if we don't practice regularly and later it creates havoc by moving onto things which you have practiced that's distraction. To get your brain to its senses practice meditation daily to improve your mind stability. Solve puzzles, Sudoku, anagrams, etc. Do them daily for half an hour. Challenge your brain to think everything logically and not by mere intuition.
 Meet your teachers. Don’t keep a grudge on any of them and just say one thing to them: "I seek knowledge. Please guide me in this path, as I am ignorant." Say this in whatever way fits you best. This will make you attentive in the class and also loyal to the subjects. If your past deeds left a hole in your knowledge, then you can ask your friends to help you and even ask your teachers for help.
 Become busy. The busier you are the more time you will get for other activities which are important for an all-round development.
 Learn daily a new activity or concept in games or studies respectively.
 In turn you too will be motivated to inspire more people just by working even more hard.
 Always try to solve everything to the maximum extent possible way so that you have no regrets.
 Be like a lion and handle everything as if you are the king. Start speaking up if something is wrong or you have a doubt. Starting will be little heart pounding but that's nothing but an experience and as you proceed you would have become one of the successful students who knows even more.
, Make sure you study everything in advance so that in class it becomes bit easy and also becomes a revision class. Remember successful people prepare beforehand.
 Be an early-man! The early man here implies the one who does everything early like studying beforehand, waking up early, first one to ask a doubt or answer a question. Etc.
 Do not join any blogging type sites as you will be again making friends there and starting up that Facebook issue again, so be realistic and not virtualistic.
 These fruits will be: great sportsmanship with lots of medals and trophies, Great participation in various competitions, Great marks, great friends and the sky's the limit.

