 A boil, or abscess, is a collection of pus that forms under the skin, although not all boils are made the same. Boils exist in four main forms.


A furuncle or carbuncle. A furuncle is primarily caused by the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus, and refers to a boil that occurs inside a hair follicle.A carbuncle is usually bigger than a furuncle because it involves multiple hair follicles. Carbuncles may feel hard inside the skin.
An acne cyst. Cystic acne occurs when the oil ducts underneath the skin get clogged and infected, resulting in abscesses that are much bigger than common acne.A hidradenitis suppurativa. This condition involves multiple abscesses forming in the armpit or groin area, caused by infected sweat glands. Typically not treatable by antibiotics alone, hidradenitis suppurativa often requires surgery.A pilonidal cyst. This boil forms in the crease of buttocks, often after prolonged sitting. A hair follicle becomes infected and inflamed, soon resulting in a tender, firm boil.;
, If you're not totally sure that what you're dealing with is a boil, make an appointment to see your doctor. Self-diagnosing a cold can be dangerous; self-diagnosing a more serious medical condition can have adverse consequences.
 Applying heat to the boil will increase the circulation of blood and help activate the body's immune response, bringing antibodies and white blood cells to the infection.Use a hot pack. Purchase a hot pack that is microwavable or relies on a chemical reaction. Alternately, use a hot water bottle to apply heat to boil for intervals of 10 to 20 minutes every couple of hours.
Use a hot, moist compress (hot soak) to apply heat to the boil. Hot soaks are effective because they promote efficient drainage of the infected tissue if needed, as well as help send oxygen, nutrients, and white blood cells over to the infection., Most boils will drain on their own with the help of hot soaks. Draining and popping boils can lead to prolonged infection, inflammation, and scarring.
 Sometimes, however, popping is necessary when the boil has "formed a head," meaning that the pus at the top of the boil is visible., Often, larger boils contain multiple small pockets of pus that will need to be lanced by a licensed medical professional.


Your doctor will also be able to prescribe a course of oral antibiotics to be taken in combination with lancing. Antibiotics will treat the underlying infection, although antibiotics alone often do not completely treat boils.

