 Please note that during the hours of 5 am to 8 am and then 3 pm to 6 pm are the rush hour periods of the day.

H-1 West: takes you to Aiea (Aloha Stadium, Pearl Harbor, and Central Oahu)
H-1 East: takes you towards Waikiki and Hawaii Kai (direction towards Hanauma Bay);
, Both places are next to each other and extends between the streets of Nuuanu Avenue, South Nimitz Hwy, Bishop Street, and South Beretania Street. Fort Street Mall includes a Ross Dress, Longs Drugs, and a variety of eating places along the pedestrian street. Chinatown includes a variety of Asian cultured restaurants, farmer markets, and several "mom & pop" shops. If you want to take city buses around Honolulu, there is a list of buses that go on North Hotel Street (center street of the area)., Between Richards Street and Punchbowl Street, there are several sights to go to: Iolani Palace, State Capitol, State Library, and King Kamehameha statue. Every Christmas at the Honolulu Hale, they put up their famous "Mele Kalikimaka" (Merry Christmas) building blocks and the "Hawaiian Santa and Mrs. Santa" with their "shakas"., On this long road from the Fort Street Mall area to the start of Waikiki, there are Aloha Tower Marketplace, Ward Centre/Ward Warehouse, Restaurant Row and Ala Moana Shopping Center., If you cut through hotel beach accesses in Waikiki, you can actually walk from the start of Ala Moana Beach Park all the way to the edge of Waikiki Beach. It is a good sized walk, but it's well worth it. You can always take a bus in Waikiki to get back to Ala Moana Shopping Center.,

Pali Highway: Along the highway before you hit the mountains, you can go to Nuuanu area and Pali Lookout. Over the mountain will lead you to Kailua and the "south" part of Windward Oahu.
Likelike Highway: pronounced "Lee-kay-lee-kay", will lead you around Kalihi and then over the mountain, you'll come into Kaneohe and directions of the "north" part of Windward Oahu. These towns and cities include Laie and Kahuku.
H-3: If you stick on the H-1 West a little more after the Likelike Highway signs, before you get to the Aiea region, the H-3 is the fastest way to get into Kaneohe. It intertwines with the Likelike Highway on the Windward side, where there are many entrances to get onto the H-3 going Honolulu-bound.

