 One of the leading causes of aggression in rabbits is hormones. Rabbits that are not spayed or neutered are far more likely to become aggressive when they become mature, usually around 3-9 months of age. Getting your rabbit spayed or neutered could drastically improve its behavioral issues.Some rabbit owners might think that breeding their female rabbit will have the same effect on her behavior as having her spayed. This isn’t true. Breeding your female rabbit isn’t an alternative to having her spayed. Any change that might appear in her behavior while she’s pregnant is only temporary, and those aggressive traits will reappear after she has given birth.
 Aggression or viciousness might come about as a response to being in pain or being ill, so if your bunny shows this type of behavior—especially if it is sudden—make sure you get it to the vet to make sure it isn’t suffering from any kind of ailment or injury.At the vet, make sure you ask about your bunny’s overall health. Ask about ways you might work to correct the bad behavior, and see if your vet has any suggestions or advice pertaining to your particular rabbit. If the vet says anything you aren’t clear about, ask questions, and get the information you need.
You can do a quick check of your own at home before seeing a vet. Some signs of sickness might be runny eyes or nose, a spike in or lowering of body temperature (best felt through touching their ears), or even a loss of appetite. Any of these could be signs of a problem, so take your bunny to the vet if it displays any or some combination of them.
 Avoid trying to pull your rabbit out of his cage. Don’t take out its toys, food bowls, or anything else from its cage while it’s in it. Wait until it isn’t in its cage to clean it. If your rabbit bites you when you are reaching into its cage, it is likely being protective.The best thing to do when reaching into your rabbit’s cage is to reach in just to pet it. Give your rabbit a little affectionate rub each time you reach in. Then, your rabbit will eventually learn that the hand reaching into the cage isn’t a threat, but rather something positive.

