 Make sure that all of the data on your old phone is safely backed up before activating your new one. This includes photos, contacts, important text messages, and voicemails.


Sync your contacts to Google or iCloud (depending on your phone's manufacturer). This will allow you to easily retrieve them when you sign in with that account on your new device.
Copy important text messages into a new document and then save that document on your computer. Old text messages will generally not appear on your new device. Listen to your voicemails and write down details for important ones, as you won't be able to retrieve them on your new phone.
Connect your old phone to a computer to easily backup your photos and videos. Your computer should automatically prompt you to transfer media when you connect. See Send Pictures from Your Cell Phone to Your Computer for more details on transferring photos.
 You may need to enter your new device's serial or IMEI number during the activation process. You'll be able to find these printed on the new device's packaging.
 You'll be activating your phone using the My Sprint website. Visit sprint.com and log in with your My Sprint account. If you don't have an account, you can create one by entering your Sprint phone number and verifying your identity.
 This will display all of the phones and lines on your account.
 Make sure the line you select is the one that you want to activate for your new phone.
 This will begin the new phone activation process for that line.
 Depending on the device you're activating, you may need to enter the serial number or IMEI for your new device. You can find these on the new phone's packaging.
 This will activate your new phone and deactivate the old one on that line.
 Activation may take a few minutes to complete. Once the activation is successful, you can setup and start using your replacement device.
 If you can't get your new phone activated online, you'll need to contact Sprint. You can take your phone into a Sprint store and have a support technician activate it for you, or you can call 1-888-211-4727.