 Any decent-sized ziplock, or medium, clear plastic bag will do. Fill it halfway with water. Tie or zip the bag closed so that most, if not all, the air is removed. Hang the bag near your dog’s food and water bowls..The water in the plastic bag refracts light and, based on the way a fly’s eyes work, this refracted light causes confusion and the fly tends to leave the area.Hang as many of these around the house, and outside, as you’d like. They should stop the flies from hanging around almost immediately.
 Obtain a sponge or a small cloth. Dip the sponge or cloth into undiluted lavender oil - approximately ½-1 cup - and allow the sponge or cloth to soak up the oil. Then place the sponge or cloth into a tin can with a lid and set it aside for a day. After a day has gone by, remove the lid from the can and place the open can near your dog’s food and water bowls, out of their reach. You will need to replenish the lavender oil periodically as it looses its intensity.


Do not allow undiluted lavender oil to come into contact with bare skin.
Alternatively, you can use citronella, eucalyptus, pennyroyal, peppermint or lemongrass oil instead of lavender, but these oils must be diluted with water or alcohol at a ratio of 1:3.
 Cut 2 lemons into halves. Poke 6-12 cloves into each lemon section. Make sure the bud of the clove is facing up, out of the lemon. Place the lemon sections near your dog’s food and water bowls, out of their reach of course.


If you do not have lemons, or would prefer not to use them, you can place the cloves, by themselves, in a cheesecloth or muslin bag and place the bag near the dog’s bowls. This is just as effective, just not as pretty!

, Combine 10-12 drops of lemongrass oil with ¼ cup of hot water into a spray bottle. Shake, then spray the water around areas frequented by flies, such as doors and windows.You can spray around the area where you feed your dog, but don’t spray directly on their bowls, or any surface they might lick.


Lemongrass water can also be used like an instant fly spray, and sprayed directly at a fly when you see one.
If you don’t want to spend the money to buy lemongrass oil, which can be expensive, use plain dish soap instead. It won’t have the same nice smell, but it’s just as effective at repelling the flies.
 Basil, lavender, bay leaves, tansy, mint, rue, wormwood and marigolds are not favourites of flies. Plant these herbs and flowers outside your home, near to where your dog’s food and water bowls are, to help repel flies. You can also plant them in pots to keep indoors near your dog’s bowls., Place cucumber slices (inside or outside) near your dog’s food and water bowls.Since you don’t want to replace the cucumbers several times a day as your dog eats them, place the slices somewhere your dog can’t get to them!

