 It's a white icon with a multicolored musical note on its front. If you don't have iTunes installed on your computer, first download and install it before continuing.

If a window pops up that tells you to update iTunes, click Download Update and wait for iTunes to update. You'll need to restart your computer after iTunes finishes updating.
 You can do so by clicking and dragging any .mp3-type file into the iTunes window.

If iTunes is your computer's default audio program, simply double-click the song to open it.
If the song is already in your library, navigate to it.
 You'll need to make a note of the following things:

The time at which the section where you want your ringtone to start begins.
The time at which your ringtone needs to end. The maximum length for an iPhone ringtone is 30 seconds.
 Doing so will prompt a drop-down menu., It's toward the middle of the drop-down menu., You'll find this tab near the top of the "Get Info" window., Doing so will allow you to customize the song's starting point and stopping point., This should be the time in the song at which you want you ringtone to start.

You'll type in the following format: minute:second.tenth of a second. For a time stamp of one minute and thirty seconds, then, you'd type "01:30.0".
 This box is directly below the "Start" box., It's at the bottom of the "Get Info" window. Now that your song has been trimmed, you'll need to convert it to a supported ringtone file type., It will become highlighted in blue., It's either in the top-left corner of the screen (Mac) or in the top-left corner of the iTunes window (PC)., You'll see a window pop out with several different options., You'll hear a confirmation sound, and a second version of your selected song will appear below the original.Notice that the playtime for the AAC version of the song reflects the section you trimmed, not the original song's length.
 Make sure you double-check the length of the song before doing so, since you'll likely want the shorter of the two songs with the same name listed here., Doing so will open the AAC copy of your song in a separate window., The process for doing so will vary between Mac and Windows computers:


Mac - Click the file once to select it, then click it again to edit its name. Select the ".m4a" section of the file, then type in ".m4r" to replace it. Press ⏎ Return, then click Use .m4r when prompted.

PC - Make sure your computer is set up to view file extensions. Right-click the AAC file, click Rename, then replace ".m4a" with ".m4r". Press ↵ Enter, then click OK when prompted.
 Make sure you click Keep File when prompted, as choosing the Move to Trash (or Move to Recycle Bin) will delete the actual ringtone file., It'll open in iTunes, which adds it back to the iTunes library as a tone., This option is in the top-left corner of the iTunes window, just above the "Library" column., You should see your tone here. If you double-click it and it begins playing, it's ready to be uploaded to your iPhone.

You may be prompted to locate the ringtone file on your computer. If this is the case, click and drag the file into iTunes.

