 You'll need to treat an irregularly shaped package like a rectangular package when calculating CBM, but since there is no consistent length, width, and height, you must identify the longest, widest, and tallest portions of the package and measure those maximum distances with some type of measuring stick. Mark each of these three measurements down separately.


Even though CBM is a measurement of volume, there is no standard formula to use when calculating the volume of an irregularly shaped three-dimensional object. Instead of finding an exact volume, you can only calculate an estimated one.Example: Calculate the CBM of an irregularly shaped package with a maximum length of 5 feet, a maximum width of 3 feet, and a maximum height of 4 feet.
 If you inadvertently took the length, height, and width in centimeters, inches, or feet, you need to convert those measurements into meters before calculating the package's cubic meters.


Note that the conversion factor will vary based on the unit used when originally measuring the three sides of the package.

Example: The original measurements in this example were taken in feet. To convert feet into meters, divide the number of feet by a conversion factor of 3.2808.Repeat this process for all three measurements.

Length: 5 ft / 3.2808 = 1.52 m
Width: 3 feet / 3.2808 = 0.91 m
Height: 4 feet / 3.2808 = 1.22 m



, Treat the package as though it were a rectangular unit and multiply together the maximum length, width, and height of the unit.


If written in abbreviated form, the formula will look like: CBM = L * W * H

Where L = length, W = width, and H = height



Example: CBM = 1.52 m * 0.91 m * 1.22 m = 1.69 cubic meters

, After finding the product of the three maximum measurements, you should know the volume and CBM of this individual, irregularly shaped package.



Example: The estimated CBM of this package is 1.69. Even though it may not fill the entire space, the unit will require 1.69 cubic meters of space to pack and ship.

