 A pressurized water gun goes through water quickly, and using a large water bottle helps alleviate this issue. Choose a bottle that has a resealable cap so that you can refill the bottle when it has run out of water.


Other materials you'll need include a hand-held bike pump, a small drill or tack, and tape.
Bear in mind that you’ll be carrying the bottle while you use it as a water gun. A two liter bottle full of liquid can be somewhat heavy, roughly weighing 4 pounds., You will be inserting a bike pump needle into the opening you make, so make sure the hole is large enough. It may be roughly the same size, or a bit smaller, to fit the needle correctly.


A tight or snug fit for the needle is ideal, as this keeps the water gun from “falling apart” easily during use.
Using an hand drill or awl makes creating the hole easier, but be careful not to make the hole too large., Place the needle of the bike pump into the hole you created. You may use a bit of force if the hole is slightly smaller than the needle. This will help create a snug fit.


Apply some tape around the hilt of the needle, where it meets the bottle. This can help adhere the needle and pump to the bottle.
Use a hand pump for making this squirt gun. Hand pumps are easier to carry around than other types of pumps, and better facilitate actual water gun play., This is where the water will spray from. A small hole works well, as the water will be fired through pressure created by the bike pump. Choose a spot that allows you to easily aim the bottle while pumping.Puncturing multiple holes close to one another will create a wider “spray” effect. However, this will limit the distance the water gun fires, as the pressure will be divided between both holes.
A large hole will create a large stream of water, but will more quickly consume the water, and requires greater pressure to travel further.
 Holding the pump and bottle in position, start pumping the bike pump. As air is pumped into the bottle, pressure will build, forcing water out of the only opening available – the hole you created earlier.


Make sure the bottle is able to let out enough water to handle the pressure. You may have to adjust the size of the firing hole to get a smooth stream.
If the bottle feels like it is “inflating” and no water is coming out of the bottle, stop pumping and adjust the hole. You don’t want to risk any explosive events, such as the bike pump needle launching from the bottle.Fill the bottle full of ice to give your victims a chilling blast of ice cold water.

