 If your ear buds have a lot of grime caked on them, they'll likely need a deep cleaning. Fill a sink or basin with clean, lukewarm freshwater. Add a few drops of mild liquid detergent or hand soap. Don’t overdo it—you’ll only need a very small amount of soap. Stir the soap and water together until it forms a solution.The soap solution should only contain enough detergent to allow you to effectively clean your earbuds. In addition to the obvious risks to the electronic components of the earbuds, using too much soap can leave behind a slick residue.
 Take a clean washcloth and use it to soak up a little bit of the soap solution. Wring as much excess solution out of the washcloth as you can until it is just slightly damp. Cleaning electronic gadgets with with water can be tricky, and you don’t want to ruin your earbuds by getting them too wet.Make sure your hands are also mostly dry and clean before you start cleaning to prevent any accidental accidents.
 Use one corner of the washcloth to wipe down the earbuds. Pay particular attention to the contours on either side of the ear openings, where the buds rest in your ear canals. Stay away from the ear openings themselves as much as possible, as getting water into them can irreparably damage the earbuds.It may help to keep the input jack and cords covered with a towel while you work on the earbuds.
Hold the earbuds with the openings facing downward to prevent water and dislodged debris from running into them.
Wipe the earbuds lightly. Using too much force could force water out of the washcloth.
 Press the now clean earbuds into a clean, dry hand towel to absorb any moisture remaining on the outside. Then, take the earbuds to a drafty, well-ventilated space (somewhere near a fan or air conditioning unit usually works well) and leave them for at least an hour. Once the earbuds are completely dry, they’ll be ready for use.Just to be safe, consider letting the earbuds dry overnight.
Never attempt to dry your earbuds or any other electronics using a heat source such as a hair dryer. Headphones are made up of plastic, thin metal wires and other materials that can easily be melted or destroyed by direct application of heat.

