 In the Qur’an, Allah commands that women should only expose that which must ordinarily appear. Many interpret this to mean that only a woman’s hands, face, (and sometimes feet) may be displayed. Women honor this rule of modesty by wearing a hijab, a veil that wraps around their head, leaving the face uncovered while completely concealing their hair, neck, and chest. You may choose from several types of hijabs, or head coverings. Pick the one that is right for you:


Shayla: Wrap this rectangular scarf around your head and use a pin to secure it at your shoulders.
Khimar: Wear this cape-like scarf wrapped tightly around your head. It will hang loosely at your mid-back.
Chador: If you prefer more coverage, choose this floor-length scarf. It is a longer version of the Khimar.
Niqab: The niqab is a cloth face covering chosen by many Muslim women to provide additional protection.
Burqa: The burqa will cover you from head-to-toe—a small mesh panel over your eyes is the only opening.Traditionally, hijabs come in plain, non-attention grabbing colors, like black, white, blue, and brown. If you feel comfortable wearing colors and patterns, a fashionable scarf from your local department store may be substituted for a solid colored hijab.
 Under your hijab, wear loose, non-revealing tops and bottoms. Sheer and or figure hugging clothing should be avoided.


Remember, the type of clothing you wear under your hijab is completely dependent upon your comfort level and understanding of modesty. Ask your parents for a second opinion if you are unsure about a certain piece of clothing.
If you prefer full coverage, shop for maxi skirts, wide leg pants, long dresses and abayas.
Want to wear skinny jeans or leggings? Pair them under a long flowing top or dress.
If you want to wear a tighter outfit, cover it up with an abaya or jilbab.
 Like bright colors and patterns, make-up should be worn sparingly. If you choose to wear make-up on a daily-basis, go for a natural look. Apply minimal amounts of foundation, blush, mascara, and lip-gloss to enhance your natural beauty and features.


During holidays, such as Eid, it is acceptable to wear more dramatic make-up.
 Avoid chunky necklaces and statement earrings. Instead, select small, dainty pieces of jewelry that can easily be tucked under your hijab.


If you are open to accessorizing your look, try to chose adornments that are understated.
Avoid any ostentatious branded or designer hijabs.

