 You'll need pots that can fit in your shower caddy. If you have a caddy with multiple tiers, you can use each of these to hold plants. However, middle tiers may have less space and require especially small pots.Plain terra cotta pots might look out of place in your shower caddy garden. With a little bit of primer, paint, and a paintbrush, you can add neat designs.
You may want to verify that your pots fit in your caddy by arranging them in it while they're still empty.;
, Remove your plant from its original container. Loosen the root ball gently with your fingers to stimulate the roots so the plant is ready for its new pot. Fill the pot ¼ of the way with soil, add the plant, then fill the rest of the pot with soil.


The plants you have chosen for your shower caddy garden may have specific soil requirements. However, generally, regular potting soil should be sufficient.
Use your fingers to press down on the soil to ensure there are no air pockets. These can be harmful to the health of the plant.Some popular ideas for plants to use in your shower caddy garden include aloe vera, bamboo, begonias, ferns, cast iron plants, dracaena, ivies, philodendron, and more., Your plants likely came with a tag that has care instructions on it. On these instructions, you should find a description of the kind of light your plants need. Place the caddy garden where it receives enough light.If your plants didn't come with care information, look this up online with a keyword search for the plant name.
If you don't know the name of the plant(s) you've used, snap a picture with your cell phone and ask a master gardener or knowledgeable employee for help identifying it at your local nursery, florist, or home and garden center.
 Once your caddy is securely hung, arrange your potted plants in it. Taller plants should go on the highest shelf, which generally has the most space for vertical growth.For the most visually pleasing shower caddy garden, you may want to hide or disguise your pots with sphagnum moss or paper mulch. Line the sides of your caddy so the pots are hidden behind it.
You may want to use a heavy duty wall hanger or a specially designed, heavy weight suction cup to hang your caddy. Your potted plants may be too heavy for the fastener the caddy came with.

