 Regardless of the type of dog you get, it’s important to recognize that caring for a dog requires a significant commitment, particularly in terms of active time you'll need to spend together. Of course, different types of dogs will require different levels of attention and activity every day.For instance, a young American Husky will require large amounts of physical activity every day, while an aging Beagle may be content with one or two daily walks.;
, Before you choose a dog, evaluate how much time you have to spend with your dog. Ultimately, your availability will help you decide what type of dog will be the best for you. Note that different types of dogs will impact your social freedom too.For instance, if your chaps wish to go for a beverage after work, you may have to decline. If you have an active dog that is waiting for you to return after a full work day, you’ll need to get back to them to take them for a walk, etc.
Many of the most popular dog breeds - including Labs and Golden Retrievers - are not ideal for single people, as they require ample time commitments in terms of both attention and activity.
 As a single adult, it will likely be best to get an adult dog. Puppies require especially large time commitments, and cannot be left at home as readily. Older dogs will also require less training, and you may be able to learn more about their personality from those who have cared for them., One of the main challenges of raising a dog on your own is the unfortunate amount of time they will likely spend alone. If you will be regularly leave your dog at home alone, you need to make sure it will be safe to do so for the dog you choose. To help identify potential concerns, ask yourself the following questions:Can they explore your home? In order for a young dog to be happy at home alone, they will need to be able to explore safely.
Is there space to play? The more active the dog, the more stimulation they'll need.
Will your dog be stressed by what they can see and here from your home? If your dog is constantly in guard mode the whole time you’re gone, they will be stressed and unhappy.
 Before determining which breed you hope to get, go to a few local adoptions agencies to see if they have any dogs that would be appropriate for a single human household. The employees will likely be able to talk to you about what you’re hoping for and which available dogs will match your lifestyle.