 The perfect drink for a girl's night out (or in!), this vibrantly colored cocktail rose to prominence in the 90s when it was the poison of choice for Carrie Bradshaw and the rest of the Sex in the City crew.
 While the dirty martini we know today (gin or vodka, dry vermouth and olive juice) has been around since the early 1900s, this drink has become world famous thanks to one man--and his name is Bond--James Bond. The spy has ordered this drink (shaken, not stirred of course) throughout numerous books and movies. Get your 007 groove on shake up one of your own tonight.
 Tequila Sunrise gets its name from the beautiful layered effect created by the yellow juice and bright red grenadine. Tequila Sunrise is a very easy cocktail to make, but definitely makes a favorable impression at parties.
 The Long Island Iced Teas is a strong, liquor-heavy cocktail that dates back to the 1970s, when it was supposedly created by a bartender in Long Island, New York. Whatever its origins, the Long Island Tea is now one of the top five most ordered cocktails in the world.
 Sex on the Beach is a sweet, fruity drink with an intriguingly risqué name., The Old Fashioned is reputed to be the original American cocktail, served since the 1800s in one form or another. It's experienced something of a renaissance recently, thanks largely to its status as Don Draper's standard drink of choice. There are lots of variations on the Old Fashioned, many of them involving muddled fruits and other unnecessary extras, but the classic version stands out for its simplicity and style., The Mojito originated in Cuba, and is said to be one of Ernest Hemingway's favorite cocktails. They are pretty much the perfect summer drink, thanks to the zesty, refreshing combination of mint leaves and lime, ideal for daytime barbecues and late-night dance bars alike., The Margarita is a refreshing, tequila-based drink from Mexico, which has become popular worldwide. In fact, it is the number one tequila-based cocktail in the United States and no Mexican-themed dinner party is complete without a couple of pitchers of Margaritas doing the rounds., The White Russian is a creamy, coffee-flavored, vodka-based cocktail which is perfect as an after-dinner drink. If you leave out the cream, you have what's called a Black Russian which is a lighter alternative., Since its creation in 1915, the Singapore Sling has been shrouded in debate and mystery. The Raffles hotel in Singapore is credited with inventing this drink, but even they are uncertain about the original recipe other than the fact that it was like a gin sling with one addition--a mystery ingredient that has been lost to the sands of time. Today, this drink is made with plenty more ingredients and remains intriguingly delicious., Like the lemony liquid of this drink, its history is a bit murky. Some say that it gained popularity in San Francisco where it was marketed as that blooming creation--the “girly drink”. Whether considered “girly” or not, men and women alike can agree its pretty darn tasty., There are several stories surrounding the naming of this cocktail. One fact is actually true--the Tom Collins has its own poem about the man who inspired the drink. That little ditty goes something like this: “My name is John Collins, headwaiter at Limmer’s / Corner of Conduit Street, Hanover Square,/ My chief occupation is filling brimmers / For all the young gentlemen frequenters there." But wait, you might be saying, the drink is called a Tom Collins--not John! Well some time at the turn of the century, bartenders started using Old Tom gin to make the drink, and voila! the Tom Collins was born., The history of the Daiquiri is steeped in that place of cigars, dancing, and rum--Cuba. Apparently one night, a man named Jenning Cox ran out of gin while entertaining guests so he turned to that glowing island liquor known as rum. Let this drink transport you to the white sand beaches of Cuban paradise.