 Reduce your rate of blinking. Don’t close your eyes or you might fall asleep, but don’t focus your eyes on anything in particular. You can look at your desk, your book, or the floor. Imagine you’re staring through the object directly in front of you. If you wear glasses, remove them. Give your eyes a gentle rub before zoning out.
 Lean back against your chair. Plant both feet on the floor. If possible, remove your shoes. If you’re wearing a constricting tie or jacket, loosen or remove it. Breathe in slowly and evenly, inhaling through your nose.
 For instance, you might roll a marble back and forth between your thumb and index finger. Or you might wiggle a pen or pencil rapidly in your hand using the same fingers. Using an object in this way can help you concentrate on your personal daydreams or fantasy., Trying to fight a daydream or a zoned-out feeling by shaking your head, arching your eyebrows up and opening your eyes wider, or rubbing your face or eyes vigorously in an attempt to “snap out of it” will draw attention to your efforts. Instead, let yourself return from the period of zoning out naturally. Return from your zone-out session slowly.
 Thinking about things you’ll be doing later when you’re out of class, or things you did yesterday are some of the easiest things to daydream about.Alternately, you could imagine yourself in an exciting adventure with wizards, monsters, and/or space aliens. Don't smile or show any emotion to the imaginary visions you're seeing or you might get caught.
 It’s easy to become immersed in a good e-book, or a show. A simple classic like solitaire, pong, or chess is available on almost every laptop. Newer games with 3-D graphics and lots of exciting action are good choices too if you turn the volume off. Any entertaining distraction can help you zone out and ignore what’s going on around you.


Be careful not to let your teacher see you using these devices in class; you’re likely to have them taken away.
 Don’t write words or take notes, just move your pencil or pen up and down with its tip suspended just above the page. Stare at the page but do not focus on it. Unless your teacher is paying close attention to you, the movement of the pen up and down across the page is likely to fool them into believing you are actively engaged in note-taking. This is a good way to zone out without getting caught.
 It could be on the desk, on the floor, or on your book. Keep your eyes on that spot but relax your eyes. Looking at a nearby object in a natural way will prevent you from getting caught zoning out.


Pretend you’re reading the book. Stare intently at the book in front of you. Your teacher will think you’re reading or reviewing material relevant to the lecture, but you’re really just using the book as a zero point.
 Tell your friend “Hey, I’m going to zone out for a few minutes. Please let me know if I should be doing something or if I miss something important.” Begin your zone-out session. After you come back, thank your friend for his or her help. Copy the notes they took in the last few minutes while you were mentally checked out.
 If your teacher has words or phrases he or she frequently uses like "Got it?" or "Understand?", you can listen for them and mentally drop out until you hear them. When people are hypnotized, the hypnotist always plants a wake-up cue in their minds so they will not be hypnotized forever. Usually, they use a small bell to wake their subjects up. Think of your teacher’s catchphrase(s) as your little bell. Limiting your zone-out time and returning to attention in this way will ensure you don't get caught.
 If your teacher suspects you’re drifting off into your own private world, you might be called on to answer a question. Reply with answers that could plausibly be those of a fully engaged student. “Could you please repeat the question?” and “I’m not sure” are both acceptable, though your teacher might be upset at your inability to proffer the correct answer.


If your teacher asks if you’re listening to him or her, apologize but deny zoning out. Say instead that you were thinking about what had just been said. This can be risky, since your teacher may then follow up on your comment and ask you to relay what they just said, or your thoughts about it.
 Don’t zone out during the entirety of your class. Only zone out for as much time you need to feel refreshed and relaxed. If you zone out the entire time you’re in class, the odds that you’ll be caught by your teacher increase dramatically. Plus, you’re likely to miss something that you might need to know later.

