 If you have an Xbox, Wii, or other gaming system that connects to the internet, you can use this to locate a partner. Certain games or applications allow you to connect with workout partners via your gaming system. These games also grant you the convenience of working out from home.Try a game like Wii Sports or Kinect Sports.
Games are usually between $20 and $30, so using a gaming system to find a workout buddy is not too costly.;
, WellSquad is a phone application that allows you to seek out virtual partners. You can use the app to find workout buddies for free, although services like professional fitness trainers come with a fee.You can download WellSquad on your phone. You can message workout buddies you meet through the app for free. There is no limit to in-app messaging.
You will get one free phone consultation with a trainer, although subsequent professional training costs money.
 There are many websites dedicated to helping with weight loss. If you're posting frequently on a weight loss forum, you may eventually find a workout partner. Try writing a post for a forum in which you express interest in finding a virtual workout buddy.In addition to finding a workout buddy, you can use these forums to keep yourself on track. Try posting your slip ups and successes every day. This can help you stay motivated to succeed in your weight loss goals.
 Workout Buddies is another phone app you can use to find online workout buddies. You can browse the profiles of a variety of users and find a workout buddy who meets your needs.The app is free to download and you can use it to message potential workout buddies.
The app can also be used by gyms and trainers. If you ever want to get in touch with someone at a local gym, you can use the app for that as well. An online partner may not work for everyone.
 You want a partner who will motivate you to success. Therefore, a slightly more advanced partner is a good idea. When looking for a workout partner, ask people about their personal fitness level. Strive to find a partner who surpasses you in some ways.Do not strive for someone who is well ahead of you. This can be too intimidating and the two of you may not be a good match. You may not be able to keep up with someone whose fitness level greatly surpasses yours.
Strive instead for someone slightly ahead of you. If you're a runner, for example, look for a running partner who can run about 15 to 20% farther or better than you.
 If you have multiple workout routines, a single partner may not work for you. Look for different workout partners for different activities. You can, for example, have one virtual partner for jogging, another for cycling, and another for weight lifting. Multiple partners can keep you motivated throughout a variety of fitness platforms.Remember to strive for partners slightly ahead of you.
If you're lucky, you may be able to find one person who works out in a variety of fitness platforms as well.
 People get different things out of a workout. You want to find someone who has roughly the same needs as you. If you're just working out to manage stress, you're unlikely to pair well with a partner going for extreme weight loss. If you're training for a marathon, a partner who works out for fun may not be a good match.When messaging people in apps or posting in forums, make your workout goals clear. State the reasons you're working and what you hope to achieve.
Ask questions when messaging a potential partner. Ask something like, "What do you hope to gain from working out? What are your specific goals?"

, If you and your partner are not on the same schedule, you will not be able to workout together. When messaging partners, get a sense of when potential virtual buddies workout. This can help you figure out if their schedule works with yours.Take work schedules into account, as well as whether you workout before or after work.
You should also keep time zone in mind. If you're in a different time zone than your workout partner, the two of you may struggle to make your workouts sync.
 It's important to have someone spot you in the gym if you're lifting weights. In addition to an online partner, make sure you have someone nearby to spot you if you're doing weight lifting.At some gyms, there may be workers present to spot someone during weight lifting.
 Form is important to avoid strain during such activities. Although these classes have instructors there to check your form, your buddy may be able to help you out after a few classes as well.Also, if you want to practice one of the moves you learned in class outside of the classroom, then your buddy may be able to help.
 For the most part, an online buddy system will be free. However, make sure to check cost of apps. Some apps may come with a monthly fee, while others may charge for particular services. An online trainer, for example, will usually have a monthly fee., As it's best to choose a partner whose skills surpass yours, it's easy to find yourself intimidated by an online partner. However, intimidation can hurt your motivation. Keep in mind that everyone works at their own goals and, with some dedication, you can catch up to your partner.Remind yourself you chose your fitness partner to improve your overall fitness goals. This can help you see intimidation in a more positive light.

