 Ask your neighbors about any crimes they've experienced personally and about their interest in serving on a committee or being a block captain. Get them to sign a petition you can show your neighborhood board about neighbor interest in such a group. At a minimum, invite neighbors who have a fairly direct view of each other's houses or apartments. For a standard city block, this might include both sides of the street, corner houses that look down your block, and backyard neighbors. Remember the motto, "We Look Out For Each Other!".


Four weeks before the start up meeting, visit your neighbors and explain that you are starting a NW program for your neighborhood. Get an indication from them of the best time, date, and place for a meeting. Explain that this start-up meeting will have to be coordinated with the other neighbors and your local law enforcement agency. Ask about any crime concerns or other local issues they may have.;
, This kit includes 15 decals, two signs (one plastic and one aluminum), three copies of the three Neighborhood Watch handbooks, three each of five worksheets and one Emergency Preparedness Handbook. Several kits are available, depending on which signs your neighborhood wants: Boris the Burglar, masked bad guy or the blue Neighborhood Watch eye. Depending on your budget, you can order additional window decals, street signs, magnetic vehicle signs and other supplies from NNWI.
 Present them with the petitions your neighbors signed and ask for their support in starting such a group.
 If you are within city limits, work with your local police department, but if you live in a rural or unincorporated area, contact your county sheriff's office. Ask them for input and invite a law enforcement representative to come speak at your first organizational meeting.
 Describe in this piece the reason for wanting to start a neighborhood watch and an invitation to an informational meeting. If crime is an issue in your neighborhood, include details about recent break-ins, robberies and vandalism to make a strong case for the creation of a watch group.


Give participants a flyer with the day, date, and time of the Start-Up Meeting. A week in advance, give everyone a flyer with the day, date, and time of the start-up meeting as well as the location and the name of their neighbor who will host the start-up. Try to make personal contact with every potential member. Ask them to bring their completed NW Family Data sheet. Refreshments, chairs, etc should be figured out.
 Remind them refreshments will be available. On the day of the meeting, have several of your invited participants remind their neighbors of the meeting. Create excitement and enthusiasm for the meeting.
 Try to keep the first meeting limited to 90 minutes. Have refreshments before the announced start of the meeting, Keep the meeting focused on the establishment of the Neighborhood Watch, its benefits and its organization. Discuss fees, etc. Have name tags for each neighbor. Demonstrate how the NNWI telephone tree and block maps work. Get an administrative group together so all the work in organizing these materials is shared. get everyone involved.


Verbally explain each of them the benefits of having such a program and that you will welcome them to the start-up meeting. Also explain that the start-up meeting will probably be a few weeks away. For best results, hold the meeting in a home in the immediate neighborhood. If you don't have an area large enough, contact a nearby bank or community center about having your meeting there. If you aren't sure about places in your area that offer free meeting rooms, contact your local convention and visitor's bureau to see if they can direct you to a free or low-cost venue.
 Ask them to stay after this first meeting so you can schedule training and monthly meetings. Task your committee members with setting up a phone tree on each of their blocks.
 This national organization works closely with law enforcement agencies and provides support, information and other resources to neighborhood watch groups.



You can also hold an annual or even quarterly Neighborhood Watch block parties and take part in National Night Out, held each August. Taking part in regular events like these will solidify relationships among your neighbors and with local law enforcement. This type of solidarity also discourages criminals from breaking the law in your neighborhood.

