 The personal essay for the Rhodes Scholarship is no simple matter. This essay will need to be highly crafted in order to show how capable you are. Make certain that you have fully developed your essay by outlining and making many drafts of your work.


Brainstorm ideas before you outline. By using techniques like thought webs and diagrams, you can help yourself expand your ideas.
Make an outline. This will enable you to carefully structure your essay, before you sit down to write. It can help you to see the big picture in your personal essay.
Write many drafts. Don't be satisfied with just a rough draft, first draft, and final copy. That is not enough. You may need to write fifteen to twenty versions of your essay before you get it just right., In less than one thousand words,you must craft a personal statement which convinces the selection committee you're worth an interview. While there are many different ways to address the personal statement, there are some points each candidate should touch on. An applicant needs to:Discuss your academic interests and passions.
Show how your experiences have led you to apply, and where this experience at Oxford will take you.
Showcase your genuine voice; topics and styles vary widely among candidates.
 Avoid writing a resume-essay. Don't just list your achievements. Have an overarching theme or larger argument to center all your achievements and experiences together. This will give your essay shape and make it more engaging.


If your essay feels like all you're doing is saying “And then....and then....and then...”, your essay is probably not very engaging.
Make sure to touch on what makes you unique, why you deserve the scholarship, and the larger motivations that drive your study and work., The application committee wants to know about you, your plans, and why you would like to study at Oxford. This essay gives you the opportunity to weave a narrative for the selection committee, demonstrating why you are such a stellar candidate. It is important that you give a clear statement of what you wish to study at Oxford and why, and to connect it to this narrative.Make certain that you are specific in this portion. If your essay merely reads like you wish to study at Oxford because it would be "cool" or "fun," you are unlikely to succeed.Look through the websites of Oxford's various colleges. See if you can find a faculty member with whom you would be interested in working. Referencing specific programs, courses, and faculty members will show that you have done your research and are prepared for rigorous academic study.
 It must read: “I attest that this personal statement is my own work and is wholly truthful. Neither it nor any earlier draft has been edited by anyone other than me, nor has anyone else reviewed it to provide me with suggestions to improve it. I understand that any such editing or review would disqualify my application.”Follow this with your signature.

