 Write everything down, including any edits that will be made, as the revision history is important.
 It is important to justify why the device is being made as it will give the reader a little more background of the device., It is critical to have the client express what is needed in the device. This section is called the user needs. This will not only list what the user needs in their device, but also what the device intends to do., The design input is divided into two main parts, the design constraints and the design goals. These can be obtained by ranking what the client wants in the device (user needs) and what is necessary. The design constraints are what will be integrated into the device right away. The goals on the other hands are implemented if there is more time to make the device. The goals (user wants) are also called goals as they may not be needed to perform the primary function, but may serve as aesthetics or secondary features.  These will be listed and explained why they were chosen to be either goals or constraints., This shows different ideas and concepts of the device. This portion also weighs the different concepts made using Pugh matrix and morph matrix. This comparative tool allows the designer to pick the best concept. Explain why the concept was chosen., It is always great to get outside opinions about the design as it could help change what the device may look like or how it functions. Include it as it may show how it did change the device., The  design output lists all the features on the device that is intended to be made. An explanation of each is needed. Furthermore, this section will also include pictures of the design, whether it be sketches, CAD images, technical drawings or pictures of the prototype.,  The design verification is a comparison of the design inputs and outputs. This is also shown if the inputs were met by the outputs. Furthermore, it also catalogs what choices were made. An example would be - Input: Made of Aluminum Output: A specific type of Aluminum with dimensions and other information., The validation consists of records of physical tests that have been done. This shows that the device has met or will be meeting (depending if changes are made or not) its design outputs. It also shows that the device is working as intended., Every device that is made should include this. This states any precautions and how to avoid any dangers., This shows how the device has developed over time. It is always important to include this. This was also listed in step 1 as it is important to keep track of all the changes., Make sure the document is clean and has no unnecessary information on it. Include a summary page in the beginning of the document, that lists all the different parts of the document.