 The Hidden Valley Bunker can be found southeast of Sloan in the Mojave Wasteland. There are four different bunkers at this location. The bunker with the Brotherhood of Steel is directly west of the fast travel icon on your map once you have located the Hidden Valley. Elder McNamara will tell you that the Brotherhood doesn’t usually accept outsiders into this organization but can make an exception if you complete a heroic act in the name of the Brotherhood. He orders you to install a remote signal transmitter on top of Black Mountain. Black Mountain is controlled by dangerous super mutants under the rule of Tabitha.;
, During the day, Black Mountain is patrolled by super mutants, but during the night, cloaked Nightkin patrol the roads. Nightkin are a tougher opponent as they are invisible and can quickly sneak up behind you. Heading up the mountain during the day can be easier since you can see what you are up against.


Along the road leading up to the mountaintop you will come across Neil’s Shack and Neil himself. If you have a speech skill of 50, you can persuade Neil to help you in killing Tabitha and reaching the top of the mountain.
 The broadcast building can be easily identified by its large radio antenna (like a large dish) on the rooftop. Once you have entered the broadcast building, head to the opposite door from inside and exit to the fenced-off area outdoors. Under a false rock, which can be found under the staircase, is a key to enter the second floor of the broadcast building.
 Be prepared to face Tabitha when entering the second floor. She is a level 20 super mutant and can be a tricky foe if you are under this level. Bring along at least 5 Stimpacks to heal yourself from this fight. Once you have killed Tabitha, you will need to plant the transmitter.
 The control board can be found on the second floor of the broadcast building. Simply click the control board and the signal transmitter from your inventory will be attached to the board. After you have planted the transmitter, you will need to return to the Hidden Valley Bunker and speak with Elder McNamara.
 Speak with Elder McNamara and inform him on the completed quest. You will be immediately recruited as part of the Brotherhood of Steel and be given a T-45d Power Armor. A matching helmet will come along with the armor and the proper training to be able to wear it. The training is a special Power Armor Training perk, which is added to your character. Without this perk, you will be unable to wear any power armor.

