 These are some important elements to note when you purchase a suit:


Your suit jacket should fit well and give you a full range of motion, both buttoned and unbuttoned.
You should be able to fit one finger between the collar of your shirt and your neck, but no more than that.
The shirt cuffs should not slide up when you stretch your arms. If you are wearing a button-cuff shirt, the cuffs should break exactly at the wrist; if it's a French-cuff shirt, the cuffs should break about 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) further.
Your vest should button comfortably and hit just below the waistband of your pants.;
, If you're a shorter person, stick to single-breasted jackets. Double-breasted jackets can give you a "drowning-in-fabric" look and make you appear smaller. If you're bigger around the middle, wear a lower-buttoning jacket rather than one with a higher placket. It will give you a longer silhouette.
 Button all of the buttons on your dress shirt. If you are wearing a button-cuff shirt, remember to button those buttons — don't forget the small one on the placket!


For two-button jackets, button the top button only.
For three-button jackets, button the middle button, and the top button .
Or, don't button any of the buttons on your jacket at all; this is also acceptable. However, you should NEVER button the bottom-most button on any jacket unless at a funeral.
 With a black tuxedo, try a silver necktie, or one with a subtle stripe or weave. White ties are ultra-formal. Black ties are formal. Colored ties can fit a wide range of occasions — just make sure that it doesn't take away the focus from your overall suit. Wear a matching belt — black is usually a good color for everything, except for khaki-toned suits, which should be worn with brown belts. Your belt buckle should match any other accessories that you are wearing, such as a watch. If you are wearing a watch, and your sleeve is above it, consider that your sleeves are too short. Other accessories to consider are cuff-links and a stud set. Save your necklaces for when you are wearing a tee as they are inappropriate with a suit.
 The whole idea is to make sure they match the rest of the suit and don't cause any unwanted pain during the day (or night). Besides, you don't look good when you are wincing in pain or constantly adjusting your shoes. Your shoes should match the belt color.
 This is an obvious step, especially for important occasions. This ensures that you're clean-looking and not rumpled.
 Perform all the small hygiene tasks that are not usually done every day. Remove earwax, clip your nails, remove your unibrow, and take care of any nasal or ear hair. Since your face is the first thing people notice when they meet you, make sure it is in top shape. This does not mean you have to shave off all your facial hair. If you have a mustache or goatee, make sure it is well defined, and that you keep unwanted hairs shaven off. Take a shower, brush, floss, and use mouthwash, and apply your favorite deodorant and cologne to your wrists and neck. Remember, less is more.