 Get the blood flowing to your muscles to prevent injuries and loosen up. Do some stretching and/or some form of cardio as diving prep.Find a spot on the edge of the pool in the deep end to practice your dives. Do not dive into shallow water. If the water you’re diving in is nine feet deep or less, then the water is too shallow to dive in.


Make sure you have a coach there with you to act as your spotter during your dives.Start out diving as low as possible (from the side of the pool) and then work your way up to the diving board.;
, Stand at the edge of the pool with your back to the water. Raise your arms above your head so that your body is one straight line.Bend your legs.As soon as your knees bend, very quickly swing your arms backwards in a circular motion (or counter-clockwise). Your arms should make a full circle, coming back to stop beside your ears, hands together above your head in a dive position.
Jump back (at least a foot away from the deck) into the water. Enter the water feet-first.Before, during, and after the dive, your arms should remain straight above your head. Your head and body should be aligned.
Practice this a few times. Try to jump with your body held straight, but entering the water at an angle.
 Go to the edge of the pool or the edge of the diving board and turn your back to the water. Allow your heels to hang over the side. Balance on the balls of your feet, onto your tip toes.Mimic the movements you made with your arms when you practiced a back jump dive — they should be stretched above your head and your body should be in a straight line. If you are on the board, begin bouncing gently.
Bend your legs in preparation to use the pressure to set up the action of diving in the next step. As you bend your knees, quickly rotate your arms behind you in a full circle, bringing them back to the original position beside your ears, hands above your head.
 Arch your back slowly. Continue arching until you feel your body begin to fall — at that point, push yourself backward off the board. As with the jump dive, try to keep your body in a straight line — your arms should be straight, your toes pointed.You can attempt a back-bend first, which is the same thing without throwing yourself off the board or bouncing the board — you just let yourself fall into the water.
Keep your eyes open as you dive so that you can see the water. This will assist you in keeping your head neutral, your and arms and your body straight as you enter the water.Your hands should enter the water first, held in the diving position (or flat-hand position).
 As you get more comfortable, you'll want to speed up the movements. Instead of slowly arching your back until you begin to fall, you should eventually reach a point where you are no longer falling back off the board or side of the pool — you are just launching yourself off into the water.