 Once it's safe to go back in, you'll be able to start protecting your home and contents from further damage. Things to check before entering include:


If there is standing water next to the outside walls of your home, don’t go in. You won’t be able to tell if the building is safe or structurally sound.
Walk carefully around the outside of your home and check for loose power lines and gas leaks. If you find downed lines or leaks, call your utility company and don't enter until they've checked.
Check the foundation for cracks or other damage. Examine porch roofs and overhangs to be sure they still have all their supports. If any supports or portions of the foundation wall are missing or the ground has washed away, the floor is not safe.
If you have any doubts about safety, contact a contractor before going in. Proceed very carefully.
 Even if the power company has turned off electricity to the area, you must still make certain your home’s power supply is disconnected. You don’t want the power company to turn it on without warning while you’re working on it.
 Gas appliances and pipes may have moved or broken during the flood, creating a gas leak. If you suspect a leak or smell gas, leave your home immediately and call the gas company from a neighbor’s home or emergency shelter. Leave the door open and, if the gas meter is outside, turn off the gas.
 If the door sticks and has to be forced open, it has probably swollen. If it only sticks at the bottom, it can be forced open. If it sticks at the top, your ceiling may be ready to fall.


Once inside do not smoke or use candles, gas lanterns, or other open flames.
Air out your home completely—there may be explosive gas. This also ensures that moisture is given a chance to start drying out. Open doors and windows if the weather permits.
 Find and protect the irreplaceable valuables such as money, jewelry, insurance papers, photographs, and family heirlooms.


Wash the mud off, so the items can dry.
Resist the urge to stop and clean everything you pick up. You need to get to work on protecting your home, assessing all the damages, and planning your recovery.
 Your flood insurance policy may cover some of the cost of protecting your home from further damage or moving the contents to a safe place. Read your policy before you need it and ask your agent what expenses are covered by your policy.


Patch holes. Cover holes in the roof, walls, or windows with boards, tarps, or plastic sheeting. It may not look pretty, but you need to do this so further rain won’t cause any more water damage.
Repair sagging floors or roof sections. Use 4 x 4’s or other heavy lumber to brace weak areas. If you’re uncertain how to shore up floor or ceiling joists, call a contractor.
Remove debris. Tree limbs or other trash that may have landed on or floated into the home should be cleared away.
Check for broken or leaking water pipes. If you find any, cut off the water supply by turning off the valve at your water meter. If the water pipes aren't leaking, use your tap water for hosing and cleaning. But don't drink or cook with tap water until it has been declared safe!

, If your basement is flooded, don’t be in too big of a hurry to pump it out. The forces in the water soaked ground outside could make the basement walls buckle or even cave in.
 Most of the health hazards you'll face come from the mud, mold, and algae left behind by flood waters. It's very important to get rid of the mud as soon as possible. This is a lot easier if it's done before the mud dries out.

