 Making time to talk to each other every day is extremely important to maintaining a long-distance relationship. It helps you stay connected, be informed about what is happening in each other’s lives, and miss each other less. Commit to calling each other once a day (or as frequently as schedules will permit).Agree on how many times a day/week you will talk to each other. Try to have a standing date to talk (for example, before bedtime). Let your partner know ahead of time if you will need to cancel for another reason.
You could say, “Because we’re not able seeing each other every day, let’s try to talk as often as possible. Can we call each other every night before bed? It would be nice to hear your voice before I go to sleep.”;
, Just as you would likely have an idea of what your partner was doing each day when you were living in the same place, inform each other of your daily schedules. It helps you stay connected and figure out when you can get in touch with each other.You could keep a copy of your partner’s daily schedule in your phone or in your calendar.
It’s nice to think about what the other person is doing at that moment. It helps you feel connected to them. While you are eating your lunch, you could think, “Michael is probably driving to work right now.”

, Using a webcam is a great way of helping you feel better about the distance. Just seeing your loved one smiling and hearing their voice can make you feel better and more connected to them. Regular webcam calls can make the distance seem shorter.


Many new computers/monitors come with webcams and microphones already installed. If you do not have either, they are fairly inexpensive to purchase, and well worth the investment if you have a long distance relationship!
You can use your webcam in conjunction with a variety of programs, like Skype or social media applications (like Facebook).
You can also make video calls using your phone, using things like FaceTime or Google Hangouts.
 Send little messages to your significant other throughout the day to let them know you are thinking about them. Let them know how your day is going. You could check in them by:


Texting on the train on your way to work. (If your partner is abroad, consider using WhatsApp to cut down on text message costs.)
Emailing at work about your day.
Sharing news or a joke on a social media app.
 Getting a letter or card in the mail can brighten someone’s day. Whether you write a letter or clip out an article in your hometown paper you know your partner would appreciate, it’s nice for your partner to receive a tangible reminder of your relationship when you’re not there.


Pick out a thoughtful card that reminds you of your partner or your relationship.
Send a care package. They are fun to assemble and to receive!

