 You can easily build menus in several variations from a few key ingredients within your pantry. None of these ingredients will do you any good if they are all cluttered in your pantry.


Keep taller items in back with shorter ones in front for easy view.
Boxes should be grouped together as should packages that slant to the middle at the top.
Rotate canned goods so the freshest purchases are at the back.;
, Envision the key ingredients for your favorite dishes and buy them as your pantry staples.


Pick up a few different varieties of pasta and sauces. Canned meats and dried sausage go well with any of these.
Keep appropriate cheeses in the refrigerator to go with the canned mushrooms you keep on hand. Mozzarella, cheddar and even cream cheese are a boon to your spur-of-the-moment meal preparations and last a long time.
Cooking and salad oils and flavored vinegars make regular salads exotic.



Spaghetti and marinara sauce are easy and quick. Another version with similar ingredients gives you rigatoni and sauce.
Egg noodles, canned chicken and Alfredo sauce from a jar quickly rival eating out when you add a can of sliced mushrooms. A quickly thrown-together salad finishes the meal.
Lasagna noodles in your pasta purchase combine with spaghetti sauce, mozzarella cheese and cottage cheese for homemade lasagna. Pizza you created yourself is a fabulous treat.



The above ingredients have you almost all of the way there. You still need dough for the pizza crust, onions, olives and peppers for several dishes.
Seasoned breadcrumbs, canned onion rings and tortilla chips make great garnishes for casseroles.
You will use broth, spices, dehydrated onion, pepper sauce, mustards, relishes and sun-dried tomatoes more often than you can imagine.
 Much of the time you will be preparing a quick meal after a busy day.


An immediate choice when time is short would be freeze-dried meals. Just microwave a few minutes and you have dinner.
Canned soups go well with many ingredients for a casserole dish. Add meat and you have a one-dish meal.
 You don't need to keep fresh cookies around in case the urge hits you.

