 You can find sports offerings at your school, local community centers, and institutions dedicated to specific activities. There are lots of sports teams open to students with different levels of talent. You don’t need to be a star athlete to try out, and practicing with the team will develop your skills. These activities will not only allow you to enjoy some healthy competition, they’ll also keep you fit!While your coaches will want you to strive for excellence, try not to worry too much about winning. Instead, focus on the fun you can have being on a team with friends, and the health benefits you’re getting from the activity.
Consider trying one or several popular sports usually offered at schools, including football, soccer, baseball, softball, basketball, tennis, field hockey, or lacrosse.
For lesser-known alternatives that may or may not be offered at school, try sports such as dance, figure skating, rock climbing, horseback riding, golf, skateboarding, roller skating, fencing, and rowing.;
, If your school is especially passionate about having a winning team for a particular sport, they may be more selective with their players. It might be difficult to be chosen even for their freshmen and junior varsity teams. If you want to play this sport, however, don’t give up! Play on your own, and ask the coach if you can observe team practices.


Ask friends who are on the team to help you get better.
 You may not want to play a sport at your school. Maybe excessive school spirit isn’t your thing, or you don’t want to do tryouts. Many local community centers will have more informal team-sports offerings that could introduce you to a new set of friends while helping you stay active.


Community centers may offer sports that schools generally don’t provide, including kickball, wiffle ball, flag football, and ultimate frisbee.
 Some people don’t enjoy the kind of competition that comes from playing as a team. If you’re unenthusiastic about team-oriented sports, such as football, basketball, soccer, and other sports like them, consider options that allow you to focus on your individual talents.Consider track, swimming, cross-country running, skiing, or sailing.
If you play these sports for your school, be aware that you’ll still be on a team. You’ll complete practices and competitions as a group. There will also be events, known as relays, that require you to combine your talents with those of other team members to win races.

