 Group day care centers are state-licensed facilities that function like a school. Children of varying ages are cared for in groups in day care centers. Home care is childcare that is run out of a private home.Pros of day care centers are that they are accredited institutions, offer care for a variety of ages, are cost-effective, have longer hours (some are open for 12 hours), and have well-organized programs geared toward your infant’s development and growth. Cons of a day care center are your child’s exposure to illness increases, and they may be less flexible in terms of scheduling.Pros of home care are that there will be fewer children, so less susceptibility to illness, and more one-on-one time for your infant. Cons of home care are some providers are unlicensed and are not required to have childcare training. Therefore, home care providers are not regularly inspected for quality. Also, if the provider becomes ill, you will have to find a babysitter or take time off from work.;
, How much are you willing to pay? While you may not be able to afford the most expensive care for your infant, you do not want to pursue the cheap route, either. Choose an option where you are able to get the best care for your money.


Fees vary greatly depending on where you live. For example, the cost of childcare for an infant can range from $458 to $1,400 per month., Consider whether you would like the day care center to be close to your place of work or your home. Then, decide how far you would like the center to be from your work or home.


If you work long hours, and find yourself at work more than at home, then choose a facility that is close to your place of work. Also, try to choose a facility that is no more than 15 to 20 minutes away from your work.
If you have a flexible work schedule, and/or if you or your partner are at home often, choose a facility that is closer to home. Try to choose a facility that is no more than 10 to 15 minutes away from home.
 Some day care centers stay open for up to 12 hours, while others only stay open during regular business hours. If you work long or unconventional hours, or if you commute, choose a center that has longer hours, and one that is open during the holidays (if needed).
 When searching for the ideal center, start your search early. Try to start your search six months before you will need childcare. Some of the best centers fill up fast and have a waiting list. If you wait till the last minute, then you might be forced to make a hasty, uninformed decision.For example, if you know that you will be going right back to work once your maternity leave finishes, then start doing your research before your baby is born.
Make a list of the top five centers or home day cares.
 Contact friends, coworkers, or family members for day or home care recommendations. Personal references are some of the best, so make sure to ask them first.You can also ask your pediatrician if they recommend any facilities.
Also consider asking parents you meet at your pediatrician’s office, at the playground, or any classes you attend, like mommy-and-me classes., The Child Care Aware hotline (800-424-2246) can provide you with the phone number of your local childcare resource and referral agency. The referral agency can then refer you to licensed facilities and home day cares in your area.Also, ask for a list of accredited centers near you. Try to find centers that are approved by the NAEYC or the NAFCC., You can also visit the National Association for the Education of Young Children's (NAEYC) website at https://www.naeyc.org, or the National Association for Family Child Care's (NAFCC) website at https://www.nafcc.org for contact information and guidelines for day care centers. The NAEYC also has a database where you can search for accredited centers near you.Try searching for day care centers on Yelp. Yelp is helpful because you can read reviews written by parents who have sent their child to the center.
You can also try visiting your online Yellow Pages. It should have a list of day care centers and home care providers in your area. This is particularly helpful if you have just moved to the area.
 To avoid wasting time and energy, screen the day cares centers in your list by first calling to enquire about their costs and their hours. Enquire about their monthly cost, application fee, and if there is a waiting list. Also, ask about their weekday and weekend hours, and their hours during the holidays.If the day care center has inconvenient hours, is expensive, and the staff is not forthcoming, then cross that day care off of your list.
 Ask to see the center’s credentials and license. You can double-check the center’s accreditations by calling your local social services department. Also, see if the center is approved by the NAEYC; this is always a plus. The day care should be open about their credentials, policies, and procedures with all families, both current and prospective.Also enquire about the staff’s credentials. Ask, “What percentage of the teacher’s have an associate’s or bachelor’s degree, and have training in early childhood education (ECE)?” Also, ask what percentage of the teachers are certified by the state or have their CDA certification.Ask if the day care encourages staff development, like ongoing education, orientation for new teachers, and training for their teachers.Ask home day care providers, “Who else will be in the house while my child is cared for?” “What are the policies for personal emergencies?” “Does your insurance cover my child? “What kind of training do you have, and can I verify it?”, Ask how the center’s curriculum addresses all aspects of child development. The center should not focus on just one stage of development. Also, see if the children are given opportunities to learn and develop through exploration and play, and if teachers are able to give your child one-on-one time.


For example, ask, “Do the babies get to spend time outside?” “Is there a TV in the day care and how often is it used?” “What kind of activities will my baby engage in and are they age-appropriate?”

, The ratio the NAEYC recommends for infants is no more than eight children in a group, with two teaching staff. For toddlers, no more than 12 children in a group, with 2 teaching staff.Ask, “What is the staff-to-child ratio, and does it ever change?”
You can also ask, “Do toddlers and infants ever share a room?” If they do, ask how the teacher-to-child ratio changes, and what precautions are taken to prevent infants from playing with toys that are inappropriate for their age.
 Assess the center’s health policies by seeing if they have a clear plan for responding to sick children, i.e., how they decide whether a child needs to go home, and how you will be notified. Ask if they require their children and staff to be up-to-date with routine immunizations.Snacks and meals should be nutritious, and foods should be prepared and stored safely. You can ask, “What exactly are the children eating, and how is it prepared?”
Make sure all staff members have training in pediatric first aid.
Make sure infants are placed on their backs to sleep, and bottles are never propped.The center should have policies regarding regular hand washing and sanitization of the center’s facilities and rooms.
 Ask the center if you can have a list of former and current clients. Contact these clients to enquire about the day care’s quality and credentials. When you call you can ask, “How happy are you and your kids with the facility?” “Have you ever run into any problems with the facility, and what were they?” and “Would you recommend this facility?”


Also ask to see how the staff communicates with the parent. Do they provide weekly reports concerning the child’s progress and behavior? Are there teacher-parent meetings and conferences throughout the year?, After interviewing the center, drop by unexpectedly in order to see how the day care functions when the staff hasn’t been prepped. Observe the interactions between the staff and the children, the classroom set-up, and the children’s behavior. Ask yourself these questions as you peruse the facility:“Does the teacher-to-child ratio represent the NAEYC’s standards, and is it true to what they said?”
“Does the teaching staff engage in warm, friendly conversations with the children, and recognize children’s work and accomplishments?”
“Are the toys and activities age appropriate and well-designed?”
“Are children’s work and accomplishments proudly displayed on the walls?”

, If you are turned off by a center, even if it has high recommendations, do not feel like you have to choose that center. Remember that you have options. If you are having second thoughts about a center, schedule an interview with another center. Centers understand that you want the best care for your baby.Try to schedule a time for you and your partner to interview the center together. Consult your partner afterwards. When choosing a center, both you and your partner should feel comfortable and be in agreement about the chosen center.

