 Friends and family can help you cope if you explain what you are going through. Share how your symptoms affect your daily life and mood. Letting people know what is going on can relieve stress and help you focus on the tasks at hand. You may need to sit down and have a family talk. Give yourself ample time to explain what you're experiencing, and let your family members ask clarifying questions.
Try starting off the conversation by saying, “I want to talk to you about something I’ve been going through. I think you might be able to help me out. Let me know when would be a good time to chat.”

, It may help to tell acquaintances or coworkers about your symptoms. Like talking to a loved one, you may feel relieved once others know what's going on. Explain the effects that chemotherapy is having on your thinking processes, as well as the exhaustion it induces.You may not want to go into detail about your illness, but people will usually accommodate you if you give a short explanation. Try saying, “I’m feeling so fatigued, can we take a break and talk about this later?”

, If chemo brain is severely affecting your mood or daily functioning, talk to a cancer care specialist. Prepare to explain exactly when and how your chemo brain comes up in your day. Be specific about what makes your brain functioning better or worse.Be prepared to exchange information with the doctor. Bring list of questions that you would like him or her to answer. Have someone accompany you to the appointment so that you you do not miss any important details.Prepare to share additional medical information. Tell the doctor about medications or supplements that you take. Consider asking about seeing a speech pathologist if your symptoms are severe., The severity of symptoms varies from person to person. Sometimes the mere frustration that accompanies chemo brain can make it harder to get things done. Take note of how and when limitations arise. Ask a friend or family member to help you with tasks like completing legal forms or cooking a big meal.


Stay on familiar routes when driving. Some patients report getting lost or parking poorly.Take a friend with you on a long trip or use a GPS to help you along the way.

