 As with any challenging Candy Crush stage, your first few moves can make a huge difference in your prospects for victory. Because this is the case, you may want to experiment with exiting, then re-entering the stage until you see a good first move. For instance, if you see that you can't make any special candy or eliminate any chocolate on your first move, you may want to restart until you can. Doing this won't cost you any lives.


Note, however, that this trick only works on the mobile version of Candy Crush, not on the browser-based version. It also won't work if you've made any moves at all - you have to do it before your very first move, or you'll lose a life.;
, The chocolate squares in this level will spread by one space each turn that you don't eliminate at least one of them. Left unchecked, the chocolate will impede your jelly-clearing progress and restrict the moves you can make, so you'll want to completely eliminate it as soon as you can. Try to clear every square of chocolate from the board within your first few moves. Start with the chocolate on the bottom of the board, as moves at the bottom are more likely to form chain reactions than moves at the top. With luck, your chain reactions may form special candy pieces or clear other chocolate squares.


Try to make moves that clear multiple squares of chocolate at once. For instance, it's possible to clear two squares at the bottom of the board at once with a basic three-in-a-row move.






It's worth noting that, if you see a particularly good move, such as one that nets you multiple special candies, it can be worth it to ignore the chocolate for a turn or two. Your main objective should simply to clear it as quickly as possible.
 When you remove all the chocolate or if you cannot remove chocolate in your current move, try to free up the “caged” candy. Because these candies are somewhat difficult to reach, it's wise to jump at the chance to free them whenever you get it early on. Again, it is best to focus on the lower half of the board first as you can potentially create useful chain reactions by doing this.


As above, it can be worth it to skip freeing a caged candy if it means making another move that's particularly useful.
 Clearing the jelly in the center of the stage isn't an issue here - the sixteen jelly spaces along the board's "toothed" outside edge are what make this level so hard. You'll generally want to prioritize striped candies over wrapped ones because striped candies can hit the edges of the board with less need for careful positioning. However, as you'll see, there are exceptions to this strategy.
 Vertically striped candy can help remove the rightmost and leftmost columns of chocolate, cages, and jelly (depending on what’s left there). This is by far the easiest way to clear these columns. However, placing a vertically striped candy in the right or left-most column is quite difficult and requires tricky maneuvering.
 Vertically striped candy in the middle of the board can clear the tough-to-reach top row. Since these squares are where new candy entering the gameplay area first appears, you cannot predict the next candies to fall, making it basically impossible to set up combinations. Thus, the best way to remove these squares is by using striped candy.
 Horizontally striped candy can hit any square along the sides of the board, but are most useful in the bottom row. Unlike the side columns, it's relatively simple to position a striped candy in the bottom row by forming a vertical row of four candies that reaches into the bottom row or by forming a striped candy nearby and shifting into one of the bottom squares.
 Though striped candies are your best friends in this level, wrapped candies can sometimes be useful as well. If you can form a wrapped candy along one of the edges of the board, for instance, detonating it will hit one of the hard-to-reach edge squares twice and another once - all in all, not bad. However, if you see the chance to make a wrapped candy in the center of the board, make a striped candy instead. Clearing the center of the board isn't that difficult in this stage, so you're better off with a long-range striped candy.


If you're lucky enough to get two wrapped candies next to each other near one of the stage's edges, combine them! The resulting combination clears a large block of squares and detonates twice, which means you'll clear lots of edge squares.
 Your best bet for success in level 65 is to make as many color bomb + striped candy combos as possible. This combination packs a huge punch and will turn all candy of the same color as the striped candy into striped candy, then set them off one by one. This can help clear many edge spots in one move.


Though almost any color bomb + striped candy combo will be a big help, if you have the chance, combine your color bomb with a striped candy that's the same color as the most common candy in the outer edge of the board. This will increase the number of striped candies that form in the outer edge, giving you a better chance of clearing the outside edge entirely.
