 Talk to the teacher for a minute or so if possible. This shows that you aren't afraid to socialize and that you have confidence. Most teachers like a student with a lot of confidence. Try to find something you both have in common.Walk up to your teacher confidently, make eye contact, extend your hand, and say something like “It’s nice to meet you, Mr. Reed. I’m Jane Smith, and I’m really looking forward to Algebra class this year. Actually, I think you had my older brother in class — do you remember Joe Smith?”;
, Smile at every reasonable opportunity. Teachers love happy students. It is important to look like you’re enjoying yourself (even if you're not always!) during class.Some people recommend “dressing for success” as a student — that is, wearing slightly more refined, stylish clothes than comfy sweats, etc. — in order to make a good impression. This is an option, but a nice smile is the easiest (and cheapest) way to make a good visual impression.
 Things aren’t always going to go your way, in class or outside it. Don’t let temporary setbacks sour your mood and appearance, though. Do your best to avoid complaining, whining, or frowning. Teachers (like the rest of us) find it easier to get along with a positive person. Negativity spreads, but being positive spreads, too.If you get a “C” instead of the “B” you expected on a test, don’t gripe and groan about it for the whole class period. Use it as an opportunity and motivation for improvement, and let your determination and confidence show.
 Don’t be shy. If the teacher asks for a volunteer to hand out study sheets or clean the chalkboard, raise your hand. And do it with a smile. Show the teacher that you’re engaged in class and dependable.You can even offer to help out without the teacher asking for volunteers. It’s best to do this discretely, either before or after class. Otherwise, other students may become annoyed with you. Also, don’t insist upon helping out when the teacher says “Oh, that’s OK” — or you may begin to frustrate the person you’re trying to impress!

, Teachers are always outnumbered in the classroom, and therefore are almost always receptive to a helping hand with students who need a bit of assistance. If you have a knack for the topic being covered or the current activity, offer to help out another student who is having a more difficult time. Be considerate, though — don’t force your “help” upon a hesitant teacher or an unwilling student.For instance, if you’ve finished with your classroom lab project, go up and ask your teacher if you can give a bit of assistance to a classmate who seems to be struggling with the project. Or, offer to do some peer tutoring outside of class if you’ve really got a good handle on the material.

