 See if you can find a movie that's airing on television by flipping through the channel guide. You can also go online and see if you can find movies on sites like Netflix or rent a movie through an online rental service.


To best reduce boredom, pick a genre that's exciting. Watch something like an action or horror movie full of suspense, as this will be sure to engage your attention.;
, Do you have any hobbies you haven't done in a while? Think about what you've done in the past in your spare time. Maybe there's something like knitting or painting that you used to be into, but do not do much anymore. If you're bored at home, this is a good time to get back into a forgotten hobby.For example, if you used to knit quite a bit, dig out your old knitting supplies and start a project.
 Dig through your bookshelf and find a book. Pick something that will be engaging right away. A long, heavy work of fiction, for example, may take a bit to get into. Instead, go for a book of short stories that will get to the action quickly.If you can't find a book you like in your home, consult an electronic device like a Kindle or iPad. See if you can purchase a book online to read.
 Type "brainteasers" into a search engine and see if you can find anything to engage you. Things like riddles, crossword puzzles, sudoku puzzles, and optical illusions can be a fun way to pass the time.If you get the local newspaper, there may be a section that includes brainteasers.
 If you have a game console, use it. Playing video games can be a great way to pass the time if you're stuck inside alone. Pick a game with a lot of action you can get into quickly.If your game console allows you to hook up to the Internet, you may be able to meet other players online. This can relieve any boredom you're feeling at being stuck inside alone.
 Make a playlist for yourself using something like iTunes or Pandora. Title it something like "Boredom Playlist" and pick fun, engaging, and upbeat songs. This will make you feel energized and excited, possibly reducing your boredom.Do not be afraid to dance in your living room. After all, you're home alone. No one is there to see you get a little silly.
 Get on YouTube or a similar video sharing site. Type things like "funny videos" into the search engine. You can watch YouTube personalities known for their humor, clips from stand up comedians or prank videos. There are thousands of funny videos online that can keep you entertained if you're bored.Consult friends or text them asking for suggestions. Post something on a social media account like, "Bored home alone. Send me funny videos!"

