 Start out by drawing a short thin line, make a little circle at the end of it and that's a finger. From where you started the line, make one more the start of the first line.


Draw a line just like the first finger only just below the second finger, and make sure that you make a little slack on the line.;
, from the start of the first and second finger.


Draw a line coming out from each line used by the 1st and 2nd finger to make the arm, there should be space between the lines.
Draw a little muscle. From both sides of the arm, draw a muscle, small.



Repeat the last two steps only a little higher, finger number one(hand 1) should intercept with finger three(hand 2).



Below the arms: make a round dip and then go out, also make sure that both are round.






At the bottom of the of the last round bump, make the legs, start with a little a tiny tiny dip, then make a straight drop. from the drop, make a small line like the first, only make it a little round, at the end of the line make the toe by a little circle. Do the same step from the start of the first toe-line, only the second should be curved, slightly, as to be bending his toe. The 3rd toe is the same as the 2nd, although the bend is more of a drop.
What, another leg!?!?! No, just a curvy line just above the first leg.
For the back of the leg: just do the same as the front of the leg, go up a little, then make a little bump upside-down.



Make a tiny little curve from the end of the leg, then make a flat line about the size of the first finger line.
From the line, go up with a curve, and then make it a little flat, then do a curve in, then an other flat, then do a hook-like curve, you're done! With the back side of the tail......
Okay, going on the other side is easy, just do the exact same thing, like, if you did a bump in on the inner side(the side you jut did), you do a bump-out on the back side(the side you are doing now), but flat is always the same.
 Easy!

, Then at the end of that line, make a curve up, the head is short 'a shaped like a bean. Curve in, like a slope, then go up again, like a bean.
Connect with the other side and you are done with the head/body.







Make the eye, almost touching the top of his head, at the top of the bean part, draw a little eye, big enough so you can color it.
Next, the flames on his back, do a flame design on the top part of his body, going from the top of the bean to the hook of his tail.

Make a large flame design Around him, this must be one piece and make sure that there is nothing closing it, make the bottom open, then, like layers behind the flame, make an other flame but make it so just the points of the flame are showing, they should over look the first layer and should not be seen under the first layer of flames.(from here-on, will be called the active layer).
Make the next layer, make little flame layers on the active one, so there should be little flames atop the active and the same, no closing them.
So, the salamander should look like he is standing in a large flame.

Colored the salamander's main black, and make it very dark, and go over it with a light coat of white to make it look even cooler. Color the flame design on the body yellow and orange and go over that with white too.
Color the body with a light coat of grey, black and white.

