 If you are taking hormone therapy either for birth control (such as birth control pills) or for menopausal reasons (to help cope with the symptoms of menopause), speak to your doctor about the pros and cons of such treatment. The disadvantage is that hormone treatment, if continued for a number of years, can slightly increase your risk of breast cancer. It is not a huge risk, but it is present nonetheless, so hormone therapy should be used with caution.On the other hand, women who use continuous hormone pills for 10 years or more substantially decrease there lifetime risk of ovarian cancer, which you are much more likely to die from than breast cancer.
Speak to your doctor about your specific situation, and they can provide you with guidance as to how best to move forward.
 Radiation from medical imaging tests, such as CT scans, may increase your risk. Although it is sometimes needed to diagnose emergency medical conditions, or to treat certain conditions that require such imaging to be done, avoid it if at all possible in order to decrease your chance of developing cancer (either breast cancer or another form of cancer)., Screening is a key part of prevention, so if you are seeking to diminish your risk of breast cancer it is important to follow through with all the recommended screening tests at the frequencies suggested by your doctor. In general, women over the age of 50 are eligible for a mammogram every two years (which is a specialized type of x-ray for the breasts)., You can also ask your doctor about how to perform a breast self-exam if you are unsure of how to do so. The purpose of a breast self-exam is to notice any unusual lumps or bumps you feel in your breasts, so that you can have these examined by a doctor to rule out the possibility of breast cancer (or to detect it early if it is cancer)., You may be eligible for screening at a younger age. Some women even opt for prophylactic surgery, where they have their breasts removed (and then possibly reconstructed with plastic surgery), in order to ensure that they do not develop breast cancer.If you have a family history of breast cancer (especially in first-degree relatives) i, ask your doctor about screening for genetic mutations that may increase your risk.
If you have a genetic predisposition to breast cancer, your doctor can provide you with further information about your risk, as well as options for you to decrease your risk of developing breast cancer.
Keep in mind that women with no family history of breast cancer can still develop the disease, so all women need to take breast cancer screening seriously.

