 Doing an impression is when you act like somebody, either a person you know well or someone famous and recognizable.









For example, if you’re trying to do an impression of the actor Christopher Walken, focus on mimicking his voice as he is known for his striking, dry tone of voice. Doing impersonations of voices is a great way to cause laughter.
Practice by watching video or listening to recordings of Christopher Walken talking and moving around to get his accent, vocal inflections, and body language right, especially if the famous person is known for their jerky body movements and particular way of standing.
 Slapstick is physical comedy that usually involves absurd situations, aggressive or even seemingly violent action.From the Marx Brothers to the Three Stooges, slapstick is a way to turn low comedy into high, entertaining art.









While you don’t have to start throwing pies in everyone’s face or start slipping on banana peels, doing small slapstick movements like pretending to fall on a flipped rug at a party or appearing like you’re pouring your drink into a vase instead of a glass can be little ways of working in slapstick.
If you’d rather avoid hurting yourself or working up a sweat, suggest watching one of the many video examples of slapstick (aka people hurting themselves in funny situations) available online.
 Satire and parody are a type of “acted sarcasm.” They are used alongside irony to mock an absurd real-life situation.








For example, you might create a satirical cover of a popular song, changing the title and the chorus to something mundane or ridiculous, such as “Like A Surgeon” instead of “Like a Virgin” or “Smells Like Nirvana” instead of “Smells Like Teen Spirit”., Practical jokes, or pranks, are when you play a trick on someone to cause laughter. They are best done on close friends, as they may incite retaliation.









A classic practical joke is sticky-noting or saran-wrapping a car. While a friend is absent or otherwise busy, completely cover their car in saran-wrap or post-it notes. This is rather safe, easy to remove, and will cause laughter on all sides.
Unscrew the nozzle on a faucet and insert a dye-pill. When you put the nozzle back on and the water is turned on, it will begin to dissolve the pill, causing the water to run in colors. Again, this joke isn’t likely to cause much alarm and is less dangerous for you to attempt.