 Social cycling is taking off in many urban areas around the world. Different groups organize rides differently. For instance, many cities have weekly thematic rides that include other activities, such as visiting public art installations or stopping for yoga somewhere along the ride.


Some cities have monthly evening rides that last for hours, with multiple stops along the way. They are usually called something along the lines of “critical mass”. These events often feature folks pulling bike trailers with boomboxes, as well as ride themes that can inspire both bike decorations and costumes.
Check Facebook or other social media to check if there is a local social cycling website.;
, If your after work social activities usually start with the words “happy hour,” an adult sports league may be just the upgrade you’re looking for. Not only will joining a weekly dodge ball or softball league bring an active component to your social outings, you’ll likely find yourself getting a round after a fun, healthy competition.Consider the numbers. Just an hour of softball can burn a couple hundred calories. Further, you may find yourself drinking less than you would if you simply went to a bar - and enjoying yourself more, too!

, If you have the opportunity to socialize at lunch, consider making it active. For instance, ask around to see if anyone would be interested in going for a jog or playing a quick tennis match before eating.The opportunities are probably limited to whatever athletic facilities close by. Welcome co-workers to pitch their own ideas as well.
If nothing comes up, see if anyone would be up for a post-lunch walk. Not only will this work some physical activity into your day, it will give you the chance to socialize causally with a co-worker, get some fresh air, and clear your mind in preparation for the rest of the work day.
 True, it can be refreshing to catch up with a friend at your local coffee shop. That said, it can be even more refreshing to walk and talk with coffee in hand. Whenever meeting someone for coffee, ask if they would be willing to walk to the nearest park or other destination instead of sitting still together. You may find that you or those your meet with are also more comfortable in a more active, less formal context., Sure, rallying the crew for a grill and picnic is always worthwhile. Of course, these social opportunities will be even more fun - and more active - if you work a team sport into the invite.Volleyball is an especially good option, as many can play, specific numbers aren’t important, and teams can easily be adjusted to keep the spirit fun and competitive.
 You may even still have the gear sitting in your closet. If you played soccer or rugby when you were younger but dropped it when your parents quit registering you every season, consider trying it again.There is likely an organized league nearby of whatever sport you’re interested in, and there may even be leagues specific to your age or skill level.
Team sports are especially enjoyable, as the social component will be more vibrant, and you’ll likely wind up hanging with folks from the team off the field as well.
 Whatever your running experience, there are countless races organized mostly for fun and/or charity. Since they hope to recruit as many participants as possible, organizers often make these runs both social and exciting. You’ll certainly get some exercise in, and you’ll wind up meeting other people out to have fun while staying active too.For example, many cities have recurring events that feature colored powder sprayed across the race path, mud pits to crawl through, or mandatory costumes!
Further, different annual walks and runs benefit research for specific types of diseases, as well as many other causes. Look into whether there is a race event associated with a cause you'd like to contribute to.

