 For real money, play on the lowest limit. When using play money, remember that in a real game, a rake of about five percent is taken from each pot. # After playing the game, do simulations, to improve your game. There many ways to improve your game, simulations can be done for free online or with a deck of cards.
, The results of this simulation can be applied to other cards like kings or queens, because there are four kings and queens., Although this is a slow way to do simulations, many old-time players used this method., Cards are superior to poker software for this., There are many distributions of aces studies that can be done, so choose one that you think will be useful. For example, if you normally play in a game with about 8 players, choose 8 players as your first study. In this example, you have an ace and another card as your hole cards and the flop has an ace, tabulate what the other 7 players at the table have in term of aces., In this example the outcomes are:

No one has an ace,
One person has an ace,
Two people have an ace, and
On person has 2 aces.
 By doing this, not only will you have good use of your paper, but you will realize that the results will be different from what you thought they would be. From the results, you will have an advantage over players who only play and guess., Add the totals and assign percentages to the outcomes. Repeat this for 6 players, because very often the number of players in an eight player game fluctuates., For this simulation, a conclusion is that your kicker is important since there is a 52% chance that a player(s) has an ace(s). This is mostly true, since poker is a complex game, the outcome depends on other factors as position, how many players are left in the hand, split pot rules etc. A broader conclusion is that you should do many more simulations, The essence is that you are concerned with either aces or non-aces. In a deck of cards there are 4 aces and 48 non-aces., Assign the numbers from 1 and 4 as aces and 5 to 52 as non-aces. Already accounted for are: 2 aces and 3 non-aces. Set the random number generator to produce numbers, from 3 to 49, in separate groups of 14, since you want to see the 2 hole cards of the other seven players. The first and second numbers are the hole cards of player 1, the third and fourth numbers are the hole cards of player 2, the fifth and sixth cards are the hole cards or player 3, etc. This is faster than using cards. There are other creative ways to use a random number generator., Do simulations for other distributions like straights, flushes, pocket pairs, pre flop, fourth street etc., Buy a good poker software, one that you can create conditions like from Wilson Software. Learn how to write programs to do these simulations.,