 Get your dog vaccinated against rabies and talk to its vet about any other inoculations mandated by your local laws. Many pet owners are most concerned about potential injuries that can result from a fight or attack. However, the most dangerous threat a wild animal poses is disease.Take your dog to the vet at least once a year to make sure its vaccinations are up to date.;
, Try not to leave your dog out in the yard unattended for long periods of time. Be especially cautious if you live in a wooded area and have a smaller dog that might be an easier target for predators. In addition, pet experts generally recommend against leaving a dog chained in the yard for long periods of time.Leaving a dog unsupervised outside can lead to excessive barking, digging, potentially dangerous escape attempts, and other anxiety-related behavioral issues.
 Avoid leaving your dog’s food and water outside, since it can attract wild animals like raccoons, rats, and coyotes. Clean up after your dog when it goes to the bathroom, as excrement can attract stray dogs and other unwanted wild intruders.Clean up any debris in your yard that might offer wild animals hiding spots. If you have a small dog, take extra precautions if you live in an area populated by owls, large hawks, and other sizeable birds of prey. Avoid leaving your dog unsupervised and remove excessive plant matter and other potential nesting materials from your yard., Stray dogs and cats, as well as wild animals like raccoons, skunks, and foxes, can all spread rabies. Pay attention for signs of rabies in any stray animals you might come across, including aggressiveness, foaming at the mouth, and erratic movements. Call your local animal control officer if you notice stray animals, especially if they exhibit symptoms of rabies.If you see a coyote in your area, it’s important to keep them from becoming comfortable around people. Predators like coyotes and foxes are more dangerous when they’re not afraid of people and pets. Use coyote hazing techniques to scare them off: stand tall, stomp, shout, spray it with a garden hose, bang objects together, or throw rocks toward (not at) the coyote., Include gauze, tweezers, non-latex gloves, and saline solution in your kit. Keep a muzzle on hand, as an injured dog can be confused and dangerous for you and others nearby.In addition to these animal attack-specific items, keep copies of your dog’s medical records, including proof of rabies vaccination, and important contact info, like your vet’s number, a local emergency vet clinic, and the ASPCA poison control center: (800) 426‑4435.Keep the kit in a easily accessible place while at home, and take it with you if you go on trips with your dog.

