 Small cameras are easily hidden.


Purchase a micro digital camera from a spy shop or online.
There are many kinds of micro cameras available at a variety of prices, starting under $50.00.
If you are going to be filming at night, make sure to get a camera that works well in low light.;
, Record people without being seen.


Place the camera inside the front of a cap or hat.
Use tape to attach it to the hat.
Make a small hole in the front of the hat.
Aim the lens of the camera forward to capture your point of view., Small devices can be hidden easily.


Hide a tiny camera or recording device in a pot of flowers.
Attach a small camera to a pen and leave it out near a conversation you wish to overhear.
Hide a tiny camera in a bookshelf.
Remember to test the devices before you need them and make adjustments to pick up all the sound and video you need.
 If you know you won’t be seen you can use larger equipment to spy on someone.Purchase 2 small mirrors.
Alternate 2 3.5"x18" and 2 3"x15" cardboard to make a rectangle chamber.
Cut 3" openings at the top front and bottom back of the tube (the 3"x15" sides), to accommodate the mirrors.
Tape the one mirror inside the top opening and one inside the bottom opening.
Make sure the mirrors face each other.
Make sure the mirrors sit at 45 degree angles so that they reflect images to each other.Close off the ends of the tube with more cardboard.
Aim the top of the periscope at what you want to see.
View the scene in the lower mirror.
 You will be able to see if a room is empty or occupied without opening the door.Cut the thick black paper to size (approx. 8 times as long as the diameter of the marble, and 5 times as wide).
Put the marble in the middle of the paper, and roll the paper tightly around it.
Stick it with tape to make a tube.
Push the marble to one end until it's just sticking out. The half of the marble will still be inside, and half of it will be outside.
Stick the marble end through a keyhole.
Look through the non-marble end.
You will have a fish-eye (but upside down) view of the room.
 You will be able to follow someone without being detected.


Wear a hat to cover your hair.
Wear a wig or hat with a wig attached to change your hair color and style.
Put on a uniform to look like a maintenance worker.
Use clothing that makes you look like you belong. For example, wear a lab coat in a hospital setting or a hard hat at a construction site.
Wear clothing that suggests you are a different gender.
 Change the way your face looks to remain undetected.


Use make up to make yourself look older or younger.Buy colored contact lenses to change your eye color.
Use dark glasses to obscure your face.
 Not all disguises will work in all situations.


Make sure to choose a disguise that makes sense. Do not dress as a fisherman to spy on someone in an office setting, for example.
Simple disguises can work just as well as complicated ones.You don't need to have every single detail right but make sure you get the main things correct. A firefighter would not wear sneakers in uniform, for example.
 The federal government and local authorities have laws regarding recording people.


Federal law allows conversations to be recorded if at least one person knows of the recording. However, some states have laws that require all parties in the conversation to be aware of the recording.It is almost always illegal to record a conversation if you are not a part of it.Recording law enforcement is legal in some circumstances, as long you are not interfering with their ability to do their job.It is illegal to photograph someone without their permission where they have a reasonable expectation of privacy, such as in a doctor’s office or in their home.Privacy laws also protect children., Recent anti-stalking laws have made it a criminal offense to follow someone in some cases.If you repeatedly follow someone, you may be reported as a stalker.Every state has some version of an anti-stalking law.