 By this point in your life, you probably have an idea of which parent is more likely to give you a few bucks. On the other hand, if you need a substantial amount of money, approach both of them together. Let them talk it over before you even make your case.


You also might ask both parents together if they tend to be more indulgent as a couple than as individuals.

Don't: mention this to your friends, especially if they know your parents.Do: talk to your siblings if your parents end up giving you money. If you keep it secret and they find out, it could cause resentment.
 As much as you might like to think that your budget is no longer your parents’ business, asking them for money makes it their business. They probably won’t expect you to present them with a printed out spreadsheet of your projected and actual monthly expenses. However, giving them a rough estimate will go a long way in demonstrating that you have a mature relationship with money.Allowing your parents to see a basic breakdown of where your money goes may help them feel more confident in giving you money (as long as your expenditures aren't frivolous in their eyes).
Include a list of activities you participate in to earn money, whether it be a job, a freelance writing gig, classes to further your education, etc. Your parents will want to see that you’re making an effort, not just "mooching." Don't: lecture your parents about how to budget their money.Do: make sure they can afford what you're asking for without affecting their safety net.
 Show them how you are doing well in school. To make it even more enticing, show them how you even plan to improve. This makes your financial situation seem like a temporary problem, not permanent. It also makes you seem grateful for the support they have already shown you in your academic or early work career., Your parents may not deem it necessary for you to pay them back. They may instead see this as an investment on their part. However, telling them you are prepared to work hard to pay them back will further demonstrate your financial maturity. On the other hand, actually agreeing to pay them back for money will teach you valuable lessons in money management.


You and your parents can negotiate the repayment plan as necessary: they may want the money sooner; they may want to charge interest, etc. Be willing to work with them to set up a repayment plan you’re all comfortable with.

