 Research your choice. Perform an image search for the character or style that appeals to you the most. You can also peruse books with wizards in them for costume ideas.


For example, maybe you want to be like Harry Potter, or maybe like Merlin, Gandalf, or perhaps your very own kind of wizard.
To be like a young wizard, carry a “book of spells” to appear as if you’re still studying wizardry. To be a mysterious wizard, hide your face with a hood or mask. For a wise wizard, try spectacles and/or attach a fake owl to the shoulder of your costume.;
, To be pretend to be a wizard, you’ll want to look like a wizard! Dress in robes, or deep purple or blue nightgowns. A cape and pointed hat look great with a robe. Your local costume store can probably supply you with a generic wizard outfit, or specific ones from Harry Potter or The Lord of the Rings.


One way to make your own wizard costume is to sew stars and/or decorative ribbon details onto a graduation robe.Pretend to be a good wizard by wearing shades of white, and light or metallic colors. You may want to add a sheer cap or cape and a wand with a star on the top. Pretend to be a bad wizard by wearing dark colors and fake, angry-looking eyebrows. Add lightening bolt details to your costume.
 This could be a unique-looking stick you find on your own. Or, you can buy a staff online from websites that sell costumes or wizardry merchandise. On sites like Etsy, you can find cool and unique handmade wands.


Make your own small wand by painting and decorating chopsticks or wooden dowels.Make a large wand using a tree branch or an old cane.
 Guys: Find or make a long beard out of cotton. Girls: Wear make-up that makes you look more magical or mysterious. Put an emphasis on the eyes. Sparkly mascara works great for this.


Other examples of wizard accessories are a walking staff, big ornate rings such as mood rings, a smoking pipe, fake daggers, and pointy shoes.
Wizards are often depicted holding crystal balls. Purchase one online or from a local costume shop. Or, make your own using an empty snow globe ornament from a craft store., Try using clear vials or bottles with corked tops. You can find these at local craft stores. Fill your bottles with things like sparkly beads, fake moss, glitter, and fake worms. Add labels to your bottles, if desired. Use descriptions like “eye of newt” or “jellyfish stingers.”


Pinterest is a useful source for finding tutorials and examples for DIY potion bottles.
 Practice using words related to wizardry. For instance, cauldron, warlock, magic, enchanting and incantation. If you decide to be a wizard like those from Harry Potter, frequently call people "Muggles," which means non-magical folk.For example, find an item such as a rock. Pretend to examine it, then put it in your pocket. Try saying, “This has power. I must save this to use later in my magical cauldron.”

, Reference fantasy and folklore. Make comments about your “pet dragon.”Talk about things like candles, stars, chants and planets.Try asking, “Do you know of any stores that sell jeweled candles? My dragon very much enjoys lighting them with his fiery breath!”
Tell a tall tale. Then follow it up with, “This belief has been passed on from wizard to wizard for many generations.”

, Make up your own fake spells, or use pretend spells from a source of fiction. They could be coherent, or complete nonsense. You may want to use spells that rhyme, since they have a lyrical flow to them.


For example, look up spells used on the TV series Charmed, or the Marvel series Doctor Strange.Make up funny-sounding words to add to your spells. If anyone asks what the words mean, be elusive. Try saying, “I cannot tell you what that word means, or you will transform into a hill of beans.”

, When unexplainable things happen around you, tell people that you made them happen. Or say something like "Not again! I have to learn to control my powers."


For example, if an object falls down, or you hear an unidentified noise, try saying, “Now, that wasn’t supposed to happen. I asked for a toad to appear!”

, Make yourself appear shorter by slightly crouching. Occasionally wiggle your fingers as if you’re casting a silent spell. Wizards often act immune to criticism, so if someone is critical or questions your abilities, be aloof.Try saying in an unconcerned tone, “Yes, yes – it’s inborn for humans to doubt.”

, Learn some magic tricks, and practice them. Never reveal the secret to your tricks, to maintain an aura of mystery. For example, you may want to do some easy card tricks, or learn a trick using coins.Practice your tricks in a mirror so that you can watch how the trick will look to an audience.
Try searching Youtube for videos that show how to perform magic tricks.
 Mutter to yourself incoherently. Stop what you’re doing sometimes to stare at an inanimate object, spin in circles, or raise your hands to the sky. Pretend to drink an invisible beverage from an invisible container. Don’t explain what you’re doing or why.

