 Perhaps you had an argument or a falling-out; maybe you said something to offend the person without realizing it; or you may have been making him or her feel uncomfortable in some way. Think carefully about your behavior, and try to identify a reason.
 Examine the circumstances whenever you feel "avoided", and notice whether any common threads run between each instance. Maybe this person avoids you at certain times, or with certain people; maybe it has to do with you, or maybe it has to do with them. Put the pieces together and try to understand why.


Does this person seem to avoid you at certain times, or when you are doing certain things? For instance, maybe you've recently begun to experiment with drugs, and your friend doesn't like to see you in an altered state.
Does this person avoid you when you are with certain people? Perhaps you aren't the one they're avoiding – or maybe they don't like how you act around a particular group. Maybe your friend is shy or introverted: s/he is always down for a one-on-one conversation, but disappears quickly when you show up with a large group.
Does this person avoid you when he/she is trying to work or study? Maybe your friend loves to spend time with you in a relaxed social setting, but finds it hard to get any work done when you're around.
 If your friend or significant other is present and engaging in person, but never responds to your texts, he/she might just not like communicating over text. This may especially be the case if your friend leads a very busy or disciplined life – it can be hard to take the time for a deep, involved text conversation when you're constantly working, studying, or practicing.
 Gauge whether the person has changed since s/he started avoiding you – and if so, how much he has changed. Perhaps he's begun hanging out with a new group of friends; maybe he's gotten wrapped up in a new love interest; maybe he's busy with a new sport or hobby that isn't really your thing. It is a beautiful thing to be close to someone, but people change, and things fall apart. If you can tell that someone is moving on, it might be time for you to move on, too.


Also consider how you have changed. Maybe this person acts the same as he always has, but you have begun to act differently. Perhaps you've started running with a new crowd of friends, or you've picked up a habit that bothers your friend, or you simply haven't been as available.
Growing apart does not mean that you can't grow back together. If you can feel yourself growing away from someone, it's your choice whether you let them go or try to keep the relationship alive. Keep in mind, however, that this process must be mutual.

