 It is important to know exactly what type of current events assignment you are working with before beginning your hunt for an article. If you know whether you’ll be just writing or instead creating an oral presentation, for example, you can choose an article with a topic you would be comfortable discussing in each format. Your assignment might also include specific topics.


If you know you’re going to give an oral presentation on a news article, you might want to choose a news article that is more likely to capture the attention of your listeners.
Not all current events are written down in articles. Make sure your assignment doesn’t include internet video news reports as an option. If so, look on TV news channel websites for a news report video.;
, Sometimes teachers require that you look in a specific place for an article, or they may assign the articles themselves so that you don’t have to do any research.If you do have to find one on your own, decide if you are going to clip an article from the local paper or if you’re going to print one off the internet.


If you want to clip a printed article, find a local paper. You can ask your family members if they receive a newspaper, go to the local library and make a copy, or purchase a newspaper from a local grocery store.
The easiest location to find news articles is online. You can do an internet search to find the website for a newspaper and then print it out.
 Although you aren’t necessarily doing a research project for a current event, the same principles for finding a reliable source apply. For example, look at the URL of a web article you want to do. If it ends in “.org” or “.gov,” it is more reliable than “.com.”


The most reliable news websites are the websites that belong to printed newspapers, like thenewyorktimes.com or the website of your local paper. These website URLs end with “.com,” but if you know a website is rub by a reputable newspaper, it is reliable.
Try clicking on an author’s name to find their biography (often called a “bio”). If there is no author, you should consider not using this source. Most reliable newspaper articles have author names listed.Look below the article to see if there are any links to where the author got their information from. If there aren’t any, you might consider moving on.
 Because you are doing a current event, you want to make sure the information is actually current.A good rule of thumb is to ensure that your article is not more than one week old.


Look at the dateline of the article to find the date. A dateline is a line just beneath the title of an article that includes the article’s date. The author’s name is usually right above it., Make sure that your article is long enough to include details of the event. For example, an article that is only a few paragraphs long or with mostly pictures and only a few sentences of text is not enough information.Look for articles in newspapers that extend past the front page. Look for the phrase “continues on page…” at the bottom of an article.
On the internet, make sure that you have to scroll down the screen in order to read the whole article. This indicates that the article has some length.
If you are asked to find a video news report, make sure the report is several minutes long rather than just a few seconds.
 Even when an article is the correct length and comes from a reliable source, you have to make sure it is on the correct topic for your assignment. To determine this, read the headline, the first paragraph, and any subheadings.If the topic matches your assignment, you can proceed.
 You can turn in a current events report in more than one way. You can write a response to it, you can give an oral report, and you can give a presentation with visual aids. However your current event assignment is framed, it is important to do a thorough job.Look at your assignment to see what your teacher wants you to do.
If you can choose what kind of report to come up with, decide which one you would like to do. Keep in mind that with all three, there is some writing required.
 After deciding which type of report you are going to do, it is time to read the article for the first time. Do not scan the article this time. Instead, read every word. Try to picture each person or situation the article talks about in your mind. Such visualization can help you understand what you are reading.If an article has quotation marks, this means the writer is quoting someone. Try to imagine the person as they are saying the quote.
Look around the article for description words like “young” or “busy” to help you picture scenes described in an article.
 After reading the article, repeat it to yourself in your own words. Some call this paraphrase a summary, and it should be about one paragraph long, or one third as long as the original article.A paraphrase helps you understand what you have read so that you can create an accurate response.
For example, if the article says, "Construction on Interstate 65 will continue through next year," you could write, "This article said that construction on the local highway won't be over for a long time."

, But this time, look for an answer to the 5 Ws and H: who, what, when, where, why, and how. In order to accurately do this, make a list on a sheet of paper and write down each of these elements. Then ask yourself questions about each one, writing down the answer for each.Ask yourself, “Who is this article about?” and list each individual or group on your paper.
“What is this article about?”
“When does the event this article talks about take place?”
“Where does the event in this article take place?”
”Why does this event take place? What are the motivations of the people involved?”
”How did the event in the article happen?”

, Use your answers to the 5Ws and H to determine the tone of the article. Most reporters who write articles have an opinion about their subject. What does the writer of your article think about the event the article is about? Are they in favor of it? Angry about what happened?You should include the tone in your current events report.
To assist you in determining what the tone is, ask yourself how you feel when you read the article.
 Before you write your response to this article, ask yourself a few questions to help you come up with an educated opinion about the article. Consider what information has been left out by the writer.Why would the writer ignore this information? Do you think it was on purpose?


Also think about if the author trying to persuade you to agree with their perspective.
Write down your answers to these questions to help you decide what your opinion about the article is.
Take this time to answer any other questions your assignment directly asks you to address.
 After you have determined what the article is about and decided what your opinion about it is, it is time to write your response. If you are turning in a written response, you will need both a summary paragraph and a reflection section. Use the summary you wrote when you were paraphrasing the article, proofreading to make sure it is ready to turn in.


Make sure the summary paragraph is either one paragraph or one third the length of the article, whenever is longer.For example, you could begin your summary with, "This article covers the release of a new invention that will one day change the way we purify water."

, Your reflection on the article should come in a paragraph after the summary. This reflection is your opinion about the current event.It also expresses your thoughts about the event and things you want to know more about beyond the article.This reflection section should also include your feelings about it.
For example, did the article make you angry? Happy? Confused? Explain what parts of the article made you feel this way.
You could write, "This article made me feel happy because it reported something redeeming about people in another country."

, After writing your current events response, you need to revise it. Proofread it for errors in punctuation, grammar, and spelling. Then look through each paragraph to make sure it makes logical sense.


For example, the summary paragraph should list things from the article in the same order that the article listed them.
 Most assignments require that you submit a copy of the article you used along with your response. For a written current event assignment, staple it to the response or use a paperclip.
 If you are presenting your current event response in a presentation with visual aids, you should compile the presentation in the same order as a written response: a summary followed by a reflection. However, in a presentation, you should add in an introduction and conclusion.Use a program like PowerPoint or Prezi to organize your visual aids.
Introduce yourself and your article in a slide before showing a summary slide.
Use images that match the ideas on each slide.
Find out if you can use note cards so that you don’t forget your ideas during your presentation. If so, write down what you want to say in the presentation on note cards.
For example, you could open with, "Hello! My name is Susie Brown and today I want to share my response to a current event with you."
You could end with, "Thank you for listening to my presentation today."

, After building the presentation, you need to look at it closely for grammar, punctuation, and organization. You may also want to practice the presentation with a friend or family member, or by yourself in front of a mirror.


Make sure your presentation is not too short or too long. Look at your assignment for rules about how long the presentation should be.
 Sometimes current event assignments ask you to give an oral presentation without any visual aids. If this is the case, find out if you are allowed to use note cards. Fill enough out on the cards to help you get through the presentation. If you aren’t allowed to have note cards, you may want to try memorizing your presentation.


If you have an oral presentation, practicing it several times before you go to class will be the most helpful.
Be prepared to be asked questions about your article in case your teacher wants the class to have a discussion.
 When you turn in your current event assignment, be sure to include the article you used. You should see if your teacher wants you to hand in a paper version of your article.

