 You need casual clothes, pyjamas for hot nights and pyjamas for cold nights. Take both pyjamas with you. It's better to pack cute, cool, girly outfits if you want to look nice - it's much better to pack girly, cute, cool clothes. Here are some examples of cute, cool, girly outfits:


Casual clothes - a camisole, t-shirt or jumper, skinny jeans, bootcut jeans or leggings, socks, trainers, ballet flats or sandals and a cardigan or hoodie.
PJs for warm nights - a camisole, tank top or t-shirt, leggings, shorts or tracksuit bottoms.
PJs for cold nights - a long sleeved top or jumper, leggings or trackies and fluffy socks.;
, You need your toiletries - they're essentials to keep good and fresh. Keep them in a cute little toilet bag so your other things don't get splattered with toothpaste or marked with floss. Here are the toiletries you need:


A decent toothbrush, minty toothpaste and dental floss.
A face mitten, moisturizer and mini towel.
A hairbrush, comb and hair spray.
A mini bottle of perfume and deodorant.
 Makeup and accessories aren't essential, but useful. Keep them with your toiletries or have your own makeup bag. Don't bring a whole lot of makeup, just the essentials. Here's a list of all the makeup you need:


Lip balm and lip gloss.
Hand cream.
Nail polish.
Makeup for makeovers.
 What if you have to sleep on the floor after you all had to cram into the bed and couldn't fit? What if you have to do something? Here's what you also need to pack into your backpack.


A sleeping bag just in case you have to sleep on the floor.
A pillow just in case your friend's pillows aren't comfy.
A torch just in case you need the toilet at night or if you are dared to go out the room.
A packet of tissues just in case you have a nosebleed/noserun or you have your period.
Extra makeup just in case you lose your makeup bag.
£2 just in case you go to the store.
Your phone (optional) just in case you want to go home. This won't happen if you have fun though!

, You can also bring things for the fun games and ideas. There are lots of useful wikiHow articles - like Have Fun at a Sleepover (for Teen Girls) - that are good for sleepover parties. Take the list with you to the sleepover party.

