 Measure out 2 cups (358 g) of uncooked red rice and put it into a large saucepan. Add 4 cups (1 liter) of water and bring the water to a boil over high heat. Turn the heat to medium-low and put the lid on the pot. Let the rice simmer for 45 minutes. It should be completely soft and the water should be absorbed.You can also make the red rice in a rice cooker. Follow the manufacturer's instructions.
 Put 1 pound (460 g) of unsweetened frozen raspberries into a small food processor. Add 1/2 cup (100 g) of sugar and put the lid on the processor. Blitz the raspberries until they're smoother, but still have a little texture. Measure out 1/4 cup (63 g) of the puree and set it aside.If you can only find sweetened frozen raspberries, puree the raspberries, but don't add the sugar.
 Chill a metal mixing bowl and metal beaters or a whisk. Once they're frosty cold, insert the beaters into a hand mixer or you can begin using the whisk. Pour 1 cup (60 g) of heavy cream into the bowl along with 1 pinch of cloves and 1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon. Whisk the cream on high speed until the cream has stiff peaks.If you're whisking by hand, it will take several minutes to whip the cream. Try to keep the cream as cold as possible while you're whisking.
 Combine 3 cups (888 g) of unsweetened coconut cream with 1 1/2 cups (343 g) of vanilla pudding until the coconut cream is completely incorporated. Set aside 1/2 cup (150 g) of the mixture and set it aside. Place the coconut cream vanilla pudding in a bowl with 4 cups of cooked and cooled red rice. Add the whipped cream and raspberry puree. Fold the mixture together and chill it for a few hours.To fold the pudding, hold a spatula in your wrist and gently turn the mixture into itself several times. The pudding ingredients will combine as they're being folded together.
 To make a red rice raspberry pudding parfait, get out several individual serving dishes. Use tall serving dishes or glasses. Place a layer of rice pudding in the bottom of each dish. Spread a layer of raspberry puree and layer the remaining coconut cream over the puree.Garnish the parfaits with a little fresh mint before you serve them.
