 Before you can write your statement, you should ask yourself some important questions. Your statement is your chance to discuss your art process, your ideas, and how your art fits in the field. Be honest with yourself as you answer these questions:What are my influences (e.g. personal, historical, theoretical, cultural)?
What themes, ideas, and subjects are in my art?
What do I do?
How do I do it?
Why do I it?
What do I want other people to understand about my art?
Is there anything about my art that I do not want to discuss? Why?;
, Set a timer for 15 minutes and write down your responses to these questions. If your responses lead you down another path, write about those things as well. This exercise helps you move your ideas from your head to a piece of paper. You can incorporate drawings into this writing process as well.It may be helpful to target your writing to one specific question instead of trying to answer multiple questions. For example, you may choose to write about why you use oil to paint.
You can also write on multiple pieces of art paper instead of a notebook so that you can rearrange your ideas and make them more visual.
 A mind map is a visual diagram that lets you connect information to once central idea. Think of it as an idea tree.Write the answer to one of your questions in the middle of the page. The you can use arrows or dotted lines for all of the answers to your questions.All of the arrows and/or dotted lines do not have to connect to the center of the diagram. Some of them may connect to each other.
You can also use pictures or drawings to communicate your thoughts and answers.
 Reading examples of good and poorly written artist's statements can help you craft your statement. Pay special attention to artists whose work is similar to yours and artists that you admire.You may want to read examples after you have finished brainstorming. This will help you format your ideas without being influenced by others.


Check out books, exhibition catalogs, and periodicals to find examples. If you are in school, ask your teacher for examples or talk to a librarian.
Take note of the phrasing that people use to describe their work.
 It can be hard to write about your art. Display your art and invite some of your friends over. Video and/or audio record the conversation so you can listen to it later. You should also take notes during the discussion.Pay special attention to any questions and critiques about your work. These things are often what people really want to know about your work.
Consider discussing your work with both artists and non-artists. This will allow you to see your art from multiple perspectives.
Another option is to have a friend interview you about your work.