 Talking with your partner and expressing how you feel is the best way to let your partner know that you are not ready to have sex. A truly caring partner will listen to your concerns and respect your wishes and how you feel. If you are uncomfortable with having sex, the only way your partner is going to know about your discomfort is if you tell your partner that you are not ready or don't want to. If you feel uncomfortable expressing this to your partner, you can seek out counseling from your school counselor. You can also seek advice from your parents.A good partner will be open to hearing your feelings and thoughts regarding sex.
If your partner doesn't want to listen to your stance on sex, you may need to reevaluate your relationship.
 Your partner may try to convince you that having sex is the best option and it's something you should want. Avoid giving into anything she might say or do, standing firm in your choice to not have sex. When it comes to having sex, always listen to your own thoughts and feelings first. If you are not comfortable with having sex, then you need to honor your feelings.Although you may care for your partner's needs, never compromise your own to meet hers.
Being pressured into having sex can be a sign that your partner doesn't respect your own needs.
You don't need to prove your love to your partner by having sex with her. In fact, having sex won't likely prove anything at all., Setting clear boundaries with what you are and are not comfortable with can go a long way in avoiding future issues. Talk with your partner and let him know what is acceptable and what isn't. Making your boundaries clear can help you and your partner feel more comfortable and have a better relationship.Be aware, too, that it's okay if you're not entirely sure of your boundaries. Just communicate this to your partner and if your partner does something you aren't comfortable with, tell him to stop.
Be as clear as possible with your boundaries.
Never accept your partner pushing or trying to go beyond your boundaries.
It's okay to change your mind. If you are doing something and decide you're not comfortable with it or you don't want to do it anymore, you can tell your partner to stop.
 It may be the case that your partner isn't listening to you when you say that you aren't ready for sex. She may try to continue pressuring you into sex or continue bringing it up. A partner who isn't respecting your needs, feelings, and concerns might not be such a great partner after all. The relationship might have to end if your partner isn't listening when you say “no” to sex.Your relationship may be unhealthy if your partner won't respect your decision to not have sex.
Your own values and needs are more important than the relationship continuing.
You deserve someone who will respect your choice when it comes to not having sex.
 There are a few common ideas that your partner may use to try and convince you to have sex. These ideas can range from comparing your relationship to others all the way up to emotional blackmail. Knowing how to respond to these tactics can help you be prepared and stand strong in your decision to abstain from having sex. Take a look at the following sample dialogue to learn some of the more common persuasion tactics:”If you really loved me, you'd have sex with me.” This is emotional blackmail and is a serious sign of disrespect from your partner. You might reply by saying “If you really loved me, you'd respect my choice to not have sex.”
”If you don't have sex with me, someone else will.” A statement like this reveals that your partner cares more about sex than he does for you. You might say “I'm sorry you feel that way. I hope you find someone else then.”
”Everyone else is having sex.” Many teens are actually not having sex, choosing to wait until later in life.You might reply with “Well, our relationship isn't everyone else's. I'm going to do what's right for me.”

