 Find a person or style to inspire you. You don't want to be exactly like one certain model, but using a specific model (or models) is a great way to get inspiration and develop a style plate for your own wardrobe. Some models that you could draw inspiration from are Kate Moss, Ashley Graham, Iman, and Shaun Ross.Go to public runways. Around fashion week, there are sometimes a public runway, so everybody can see the newest trends. Fashion weeks for women are held in February and September/October. Fashion weeks for men are held in January and June/July.;
, Models often go for a simple and clean look. This is because model scouts and agents like the blank canvas look. A simple look usually means that there aren’t a lot of wild designs, colors, or accessories. Choose simple designs with muted colors. A classic basic outfit is an all black outfit.A simple black outfit may include a black blazer, black T-shirt (crew or V-neck), and black skinny jeans. Or, you could wear a black dress and leggings.
Another example of a basic outfit could be light denim skinny jeans with a basic white T-shirt and a pastel cardigan.
 A fitted jacket is a staple of a model’s wardrobe because it can be dressed up or down. You can wear it during warmer weather, or wear it during colder weather underneath a heavier jacket. Look for a jacket that is high-quality and fits you very well. The material you choose doesn’t matter, but a fitted leather jacket is common.If you can’t find a jacket that fits perfectly, consider taking it to a tailor.
 Skinny jeans show off your body shape and can be paired with a variety of outfits. For a casual outfit, look for a pair of light denim jeans. Black skinny jeans will go with almost anything. To make your legs look longer, wear a pair of cropped skinny jeans that show a bit of your ankle.Wear your skinny jeans with a pair of ankle boots.
You can wear skinny jeans with a very long dress-like shirt, sweater, or a crop top, depending on the occasion and weather.
 Layers are popular with models right now. You don’t have to wear thick layers that will make you look bulky. Instead, wear light layers. For example, wear a thin camisole with with a mesh top over it and a long, tasseled vest over the mesh top.You can also layer by wearing a camisole with a long shirt over it and a sweater over the long shirt.
Layers usually include items of clothing like shirts and sweaters, not jeans and leggings.
 If the basic style is not for you, then consider mixing prints. You don’t have to match perfectly to dress like a model. Fashion is all about experimentation, so mixing prints is encouraged. For instance, wear striped pants with a polka dot shirt and animal print sweater.Another example of mixing prints is wearing a shirt with pineapples, a plaid cardigan, and striped pants.
 Though they are not for everyone, high heels are a staple most commonly for female fashion models. High heels can make you appear taller, slimmer, and give you better posture. A pair of black stilettos can go with a variety of outfits, from skinny jeans to little black dresses. You can also wear heels like wedges and platforms, but stilettos give off the model vibe the most.High heels are hard on your body, especially if worn for long periods of time. Only wear them if they are not painful to you.
 You don’t have to exclusively wear high heels to be a model, especially if feminine fashion is not for you. You can also choose to wear loafers, ankle boots, or even tennis shoes. Doctor Martens are also especially popular right now. Boots are a great way to add edge to even the simplest outfits.Some other examples of flats are ballet flats, moccasins, Oxford shoes, and Mary Janes.
 Models are often seen wearing designer shades out in public. You don’t, however, have to purchase expensive designer sunglasses. Wear any type of sunglasses that make you feel confident. You can choose from styles, like cat-eye, aviators, and rounded glasses.Sunglasses are not only stylish, but they protect your eyes from the sun’s harsh rays.
 If you like to carry purses, bring a simple clutch or chain handbag. A chain handbag is ideal because it is small and stylish. If you prefer backpacks, look for a simple leather backpack.You can also carry a tote bag or a purse in a fun shape (like lips or a spaceship).
 To liven up a simple outfit, wear quirky socks. Quirky socks work best when they can be seen. For example, wear them with cropped skinny jeans or a skirt. You can wear socks with unexpected things on them, like breakfast foods, or choose a funky, bright pattern.The socks don’t have to have patterns, you can also wear socks with lace ruffles in a variety of colors.
You can also wear quirky socks with sandal heels.
 Good posture is not only good for your back, but it also makes you appear confident. Walk with your shoulders pressed down and back. When you sit, maintain good posture. Sit with your ankles crossed, or your feet parallel to each other on the ground., Maintaining good health is great for your body, and it will help add to your model appearance. However, remember, that you don't need to be a size zero to look beautiful. Simply take care of yourself. Hit the gym two or three times a week. Eat healthily. Take Care of Your skin, and drink plenty of water.Instead of going to the gym, you can follow videos on YouTube for yoga at home or take a jog outside.
Invest in a good cleanser, day and night moisturizer, and sunscreen. Ask a skincare consultant at your local beauty shop for advice for your specific type of skin.
 This is a crucial step when dressing like a model. It's important to know that you look and feel good in what you are wearing, whether it's high-end fashion or a bargain bin find. If you feel you look great in it, then you will look great., Being a model isn't always about following the trends, it's about showing off what you think looks good. Don’t be afraid to take a chance on wearing an outfit that you think is not trendy. Showing off what you enjoy wearing can inspire others to do the same.