 Briefly summarizing what the speaker has said can go a long way towards effective communication. Everyone wants to feel valued and heard, so reiterating a family member's point can convey you were listening. It can also give the family member in question a chance to hear your interpretation of your words, and clarify as necessary.Try to briefly paraphrase what you heard when the speaker finishes. For example, "So, it sounds to me like you're a little frustrated with mom right now because you feel like she's not treating you like an adult."
This can help you make sure you understood the speaker. It will really show you're listening and allow you and your family to communicate better.
 You want to help someone figure what they're feeling and why. After listening, try to help your family member summarize their experience.For example, start with something like, "Okay, let me make sure I'm clear on what you're saying."
Then, ask questions to help your family member frame their experience. For example, "You're upset that mom gives unsolicited advice on your car insurance. How would you say you feel about that? I'm sensing frustration." Helping a family member put a label on their feelings can help them better understand a situation.
 After allowing a family member to talk, reflect briefly on the subject. Try to figure out not just what's being said, but why it matters. For example, say things like "I feel like this is really important to you" or "I'm getting a sense this is something we should all talk about as a family.", Family situations can be complicated. You may sometimes disagree or take issue with what's being said. When disagreements arise, use "I"-statements. These minimize objective blame as they place the focus on your personal feelings over an objective assessment.An "I"-statement has three parts. It begins with "I feel..." after which you immediately state your feelings. Then, you state what led to those feelings. Finally, you explain why you feel the way you do.
If you disagree with a family member, avoid framing your feelings in a judgmental manner. For example, "Mom is just trying to help and you know you've had problems with money in the past. You're really frustrating me."
Instead, reframe that sentiment using an "I"-statement. For example, "I feel frustrated because you're angry at mom when she's just trying to help because I think her concerns are legitimate and she does care about you."

, With family, you're often inclined to help. However, you can't solve another person's problems. Oftentimes, a family member just wants someone listen and empathize. Allow the person to talk and resist the urge to jump in and provide your two cents on the issue.