 Even if you think you have nothing to hide, it is always a good idea to ensure that your own interests are protected. Especially if you are subpoenaed for a deposition, your testimony will be under oath and the lawyer asking you questions may lead you into saying things in ways that might make you vulnerable in a civil lawsuit or worse.
 If you have a reason not to produce specific documents or provide deposition testimony (for example, if the information sought is confidential), you can answer with a list of written objections or can file your own “Motion to Quash.” This motion is basically a request to the court to change or terminate the subpoena with an explanation of why you feel you shouldn’t have to comply. There can be several reasons to challenge a subpoena:Privileged or confidential information - Some information is entitled to a measure of protection under the law, including trade secrets; communications with a spouse, lawyer, accountant, or clergy person; and other categories.
Fifth Amendment privilege - If providing the documents could incriminate you, then the Fifth Amendment protects you from being forced to testify against yourself if such testimony could subject you to criminal liability.
Procedural flaws - The way in which you must be served the subpoena depends on the jurisdiction. Follow up with your attorney to determine if you were properly served the subpoena
Non-custody - If you can’t produce the material(s) the court has requested because they are no longer in your possession. Note that you’ll likely have to document proof that the material(s) are no longer in your custody.
Scope - A court may limit the amount of documents you must provide, grant you extra time to gather the materials, or even order the other party to pay for your copying costs.
 If one or more of the possible objections to the subpoena apply to your situation, then you should have you attorney submit a Motion to Quash the order.Note that just because you file the motion, the judge doesn’t necessarily have to grant it.


The motion may also be to simply modify the subpoena to narrow the scope of the documents, give you more time to collect the materials you have been ordered to produce, etc.