 A palmball differs from a fastball largely due to its placement in the hand which is why learning the correct form is so important.You want to begin by holding the ball with the horseshoe curve facing toward the plate.


If you are right-handed, grasp the ball with the middle finger on the top left part of the ball and with your ring finger on the top right.
If you are left-handed, grasp the ball with the middle finger on the top right part of the ball and with your ring finger on the top left.;
, You want to be sure that the ball is firmly gripped in the palm of your hand to create the maximum off-speed effect., You want to evenly distribute your fingers around the ball so that they are not touching any of the seams. Place your thumb directly on the bottom of the ball while still avoiding the seam.Apply pressure on the ball using your thumb to keep it firmly in your palm.
 Applying even pressure on the ball is a vital aspect of throwing a palmball correctly. If the pressure is evenly distributed and the ball remains tightly lodged into your palm, you will likely have more control of the speed and direction the ball goes in.
 Use the same rotation as you do for a fastball motion to increase the likelihood of fooling the batter. Though you will be using the same throwing motion as you do for a fastball, your grip will take a lot of velocity off of the pitch.When releasing the ball, be sure to open your hand as wide as possible. This will ensure that you don’t accidentally brush any of the seams, which could interfere with the trajectory of the ball.Be sure not to snap your wrist as you release the ball.
 Following through involves letting the natural momentum of your hand movement take its complete course. After pitching the ball, allow your arm to follow through until it comes back to your waist.


Though this step seems like a minor detail, failure to follow through on your pitch could interfere with the trajectory of your palmball., This is the most obvious way to perfect your palmball technique. Find a buddy who is willing to play catch with you and get out there and throw palmballs until the technique becomes second nature to you.


If you have any friends who play baseball or a coach, ask them to observe and give you feedback. If they have a lot of experience in throwing palmballs, they may also be able to demonstrate in person and you can follow along.
 Pitching drills are important for improving your accuracy. After all, throwing a palmball isn’t much use if you can’t get the ball to go towards the precise location you are aiming for.


There are a variety of pitching drills you can practice to improve your skills. For example, you can do kneeling partner pitches (if you have someone to practice with). For this drill, both players kneel on the ground with gloves but only one ball.
Start by standing about 10 feet apart from each other and simply pitch back and forth. The goal is to pitch with such accuracy that the catcher does not have to extend his arms out to his sides to catch the ball.You can also make this drill more challenging by standing further apart from each other.
 Recording and then watching you practice throwing palmballs will allow you to study and refine your technique. Oftentimes we don’t notice small mistakes in our posture, gripping, or pitching and all of these are crucial to throwing excellent palmballs.


Next time you practice, set up a recorder or have someone record you on their phone to study your own technique and modify accordingly.
 There are many famous pitchers who use the palmball technique during games, such as Trevor Hoffman, Steve Farr, and Roy Halladay. Try looking up videos online of professional baseball players who have used this technique and watch closely.


You can watch for specific details or styles that the different baseball players employ and then emulate them later in your own practice.

