 After you have taken the time to address emotional pain associated with betrayal or neglect, plan to have a conversation with your friend. Don’t drop such a loaded topic on them suddenly; let them know you need to talk ahead of time.


You might inform your friend, “Hey, when you have some time this week, I’d really like us to sit down and talk.”, It can be tricky to express how you feel about a friend’s negative behaviors. To ensure you get your point across while still being tactful and respectful, rehearse your side of the conversation.It might be a good idea to rehearse in front of a mirror or with another close friend or family member.
While you’re practicing, you might also briefly consider what you want from the discussion. Do you want an apology? For your friend to correct their behavior? To end the friendship?

, Because you’re hurt, it’s easy to come across as harsh when explaining your feelings; however, the conversation will work more smoothly if you can convey your message without making your friend defensive.


Make use of “I” statements to prevent defensiveness. These statements start with something along the lines of “I feel…” so you can take ownership of your thoughts and emotions.It may sound like “I feel betrayed. I told you a secret in confidence only to find out you shared it with Melissa, too.”

, Progress the conversation by moving into the resolution phase. Since you’ve already thought about the outcome you want to achieve with this confrontation, share it with your friend.You might say, “Can you explain why you did this?” or, “I expect an apology for you breaking my confidence.”

, Although you were hurt, how you handle this conversation can save or worsen your friendship. Practice active listening — that is, listening to understand rather than listening to respond. Don't cut your friend off with interjections or disputes. Try to really listen and see the situation from their point of view.


You can demonstrate listening by summarizing what they said. You might say, "From what I'm hearing it sounds like you let my secret slip out. You didn't really mean to share it. Is that right?"