 This area does not need to be perfectly square or rectangular unless you are planning on using sod instead of simply replanting your grass. Drive wooden or plastic stakes around the area to be leveled.;
, Attach strings to stretch between the stakes, a few inches above the ground. Attach a string level to the strings to determine the high point. This will usually be your starting point and the rest of the ground will be brought to here, but you can also lower some ground if that makes more sense for your project.
 Using a tape measure and your level, adjust the strings until you can see how much height needs to be added or taken away across the area you are adjusting.
 Keep in mind that you may want to adjust the grade of your land to help combat drainage problems. Your land should be graded 1" for every 4', leading away from your home.
 If you are leveling a small area and it is mostly level, you probably will not need to remove the grass. However, if you have a large area and a lot of leveling to do, removing the grass will be much easier. A simple shovel is all that's necessary for a reasonable amount of space.
 Depending on how much ground you have to cover and what will be going on the ground afterwards, you'll need to level your land with differing mixtures of soil, sand, and compost/manure fertilizer. If you want to grow grass in this area, the cover will need to be nutrient rich. If you are simply wanting to place a small shed or pool, soil and sand will do just fine.
 Use a garden rake to spread the material evenly, checking using your level and a measuring tape to make sure it's staying level. If you have a large area to cover, there are small versions of ground moving equipment that you can rent from your local hardware store. They will be able to advise you on what will work best for your property.
 If you are leveling a small area, you can tamp the soil using your foot and the bottom of your rake. If you are leveling a large area, or it is especially important to keep the ground level (such as if you are building a structure), get a tamper or plate compactor to compact the soil., Give the soil plenty of time to settle. It needs at least 48 hours, if not several days or weeks to settle properly. Mist the area with water if your area does not get rainfall during that time.
 If you are intending to reintroduce grass to that area, you will need to buy grass seed that is appropriate for your needs and the area in which you live. Get your seed, as well as a hand spreader or other tool to spread the seed evenly.
 Lightly cover the seeds with a sprinkling of topsoil and lightly tamp it down.
 Mist the area with water 4 times a day for at least 2 days to encourage the seeds to germinate.
 Give the grass time to grow in and then reseed areas where the grass does not grow in to your satisfaction.
 You can also buy sod if you are impatient or want a particularly uniform appearance.








