 You do not want to touch a cut with dirty hands. Before attempting to clean your cut, wash your hands with soap and water.Lather your hands in soap and wash them for about 20 seconds. Make sure to wash under your fingernails and on the backs of your hands.If you have disposable gloves, it's a good idea to put these on in addition to washing your hands. This can help prevent infection.;
, Usually, a cut should stop bleeding on its own. If it does not stop bleeding on its own, you can control the bleeding by applying direct pressure on the cut. Use a clean cloth or sterile gauze when doing this.Elevate the wound while applying pressure.
You do not need to press too hard. Gentle pressure should be enough.
 Clean the cut with antibacterial soap and water and remove as much dirt from the cut as possible. You should also clean around the wound with soap and a washcloth.If any dirt or debris are still in the cut after you wash it, use tweezers to carefully remove it.
Just use antibacterial soap. Things like hydrogen peroxide and iodine can irritate the wound.
 Use an antibiotic ointment (such as Neosporin and Polysporin) to prevent infection. It may burn slightly at first, but the burning will eventually subside.Keep in mind these products do not make the wound heal faster, so don't expect speedy results. They can act to prevent infection, so they are important to use.
For some people, antibiotic ointments can cause a mild rash. If a rash appears, stop using the ointment.
 Depending on the size of the cut, put on the appropriate sized Band-Aid or bandage over the cut. This can help shield your wound from harmful bacteria. While most cuts should be covered, very minor cuts and scrapes do not require covering., Change the bandage frequently to prevent infection and moisture from getting into the cut. If you find you're allergic to adhesives found in bandages, use sterile gauze or adhesive-free bandages. These can be secured in place with paper tape., When you're changing the bandage, gently wash the wound again. This can help prevent infection. You should use soap and water, and always avoid substances like hydrogen peroxide and iodine., Eventually, a scab will form. This means the wound is healing. Do not pick at the scab. This can prolong the healing process and leave you with a scar.If you have trouble resisting the temptation to pick, try clipping your nails short or wearing gloves.
 Normally, a cut is not a major medical concern; however, under certain circumstances, you should go to the nearest ER for evaluation.Go to the ER if the skin is separated enough that you can push it together.
A wound that won't stop bleeding requires immediate medical attention.
A wound made by a high impact object, like a bullet, should be evaluated by a doctor in an ER.
If your wound is caused by an animal or human bite, seek medical help. If a rusty object caused your wound, you also need medical attention.
A cut located on or across a joint requires medical attention.
 Look at your vaccination records and see if you're up to date on your tetanus vaccinations. This is particularly important if a wound is very deep or dirty. If you have not had a tetanus shout in the past five years, make an appointment to get one., Redness, increased pain, drainage (yellow or greenish-colored pus), swelling, and warmth all indicate an infection. If your cut shows signs of being infected during the healing process, see your doctor.