 You must check with the jurisdiction in which you will be using the firearm to find out the specific laws. Different cities or counties within North Carolina will have different laws governing gun use. Be aware of these before using a gun.;
, In 1995, the North Carolina General Assembly passed a concealed handgun law. In order to obtain this license, you must be 21 years of age, be a resident of the county in which you are applying, have a valid North Carolina driver's license, not suffer from any mental or physical disabilities that would hinder your ability to operate a handgun, and pass a firearms safety and training course, as well as a criminal background check.


Realize that if you are not qualified to carry a concealed weapon, you will have to carry your gun in plain sight at all times.
 Your city or county government website will provide information on which office handles gun permits.


Go to the correct office and request an application to purchase a handgun.






Provide the following information on the application: proof of citizenship, proof that you are at least 21 years old, proof of residency in the county in which you are applying, and a valid North Carolina driver's license.
Provide the necessary information in order for the office to conduct a background check. This will include your full name, recent addresses and a Social Security number. Background checks may take up to 90 days.






Pay the fee for the gun license application, which may vary by county.



Make an appointment at the office and indicate that you wish to obtain a concealed weapon permit.






Fill out the necessary information required to apply for the license and provide documentation. This will include your full name, a driver's license, proof of age and residency, your mental and physical condition, and information for a criminal background check, including recent addresses and your Social Security number.






Provide a verifiable training certificate to show you have completed gun safety and training. This will be a certificate from a licensed gun training center. You also may need the signature of the licensed firearm instructor.
Pay the non-refundable fee for the concealed weapon license. This fee will vary, but will be more than the fee for the application to purchase a gun.







