 Put a fitted sheet onto your mattress first, followed by a flat (top) sheet. Make sure both are pulled and tucked in neatly to avoid wrinkles and hanging edges.


If you have a mattress topper, put this on before your fitted sheet. They will typically have elastic bands or elastic corners like a fitted sheet to easily fit onto the mattress.
Tuck in alternate diagonal corners of a fitted sheet to avoid it popping up. Make sure the fitted sheet you have has enough depth to fit fully over and tuck under your mattress, and isn’t too tight or stretched out.
Lay down a top sheet with the wide hem toward the head of the bed and the colored or patterned side facing down so it shows when folded over. Create crisp and neat ”hospital corners” with the flat sheet by tucking under the end first, then the sides, of the excess material., Lay a blanket or comforter on top of your flat sheet, then fold the top of the sheet down over the blanket to display the pattern and leave room for your sleeping pillows. Fluff pillows and place them in between the folded-down bedding and headboard of your bed.


Try putting down a light blanket first, followed by a comforter and then a throw blanket. Layering like this makes it easy to adjust to your ideal warmth, while also creating a visual coziness.Layer pillows according to size, with the largest closest to the headboard of the bed. Square Euro size pillows are first, then King and Standard sizes, followed by Lumbar or roll-shaped pillows., Put the finishing cozy touches on your bed by adding on plenty of extra blankets and pillows. Use a variety of soft textures to create an even more plush and luxurious look and feel for the surface of your bed.


Place larger decorative pillows behind your sleeping pillows, against the headboard, while smaller decorative pillows should be placed in front of other pillows. Throw blankets can be spread across the bed or thrown casually at the foot.
Avoid using decorative pillows that aren’t comfortable to sit or lay against, such as ones that are overstuffed or are covered with coarse fabric or beading. Stick to the same soft cottons, knits, and faux furs that will be the most cozy.
 Avoid having your bed too neatly made by arranging some elements more casually. Imperfect bedding looks cozier and more inviting than a flawless bed that you don’t even want to mess up to get into.


Try keeping a corner of the bedding folded down, sheets and blankets untucked, and pillows strewn casually to make your bed more accessible and inviting.
If you like having your bedding super crisp and well-made, try keeping just one item more casually arranged, like a throw pillow at the foot of the bed.