 Do so from any browser, including computers running Windows or Chromebooks.;
,, It's on the right side of the password field.

If you have Two-Factor Authentication enabled, click on or tap Allow on another device and enter the 6-digit verification code you receive in the spaces in the browser window.
 The iCloud web apps allow you to access or work with any of the data you've stored or synced with iCloud.


Only data and files that you sync or store on iCloud will be available on iCloud.
iCloud backups of your iPhone, iPad, or desktop to iCloud are not accessible. Rather, they are only used to restore your settings and data to your device.
 Doing so allows you to view, download, or delete the photos shared across your iCloud devices.


Click on Albums to view your photos. It's near the top-left of the window.
Click on All Photos. It's one of the albums on the screen, likely in the upper-left corner. After your devices have synced with iCloud, the photos from your devices will appear in this folder.
To download a photo, click on the picture you'd like to download, then click on the download button. It's a cloud icon with a downward pointing arrow at the top of the window.
Select a location to save your photo(s) in the dialog box that appears.
 This opens your iCloud Drive interface, which is used to upload and download documents and files.


Click and drag any documents you wish to save onto the Drive screen. Now your documents will be available from any synced device, including an iPhone or iPad.
 These are the contacts that you've synced from your devices. Any additions or changes you make in the iCloud app will be reflected across your synced devices.
 Events and appointments that you add to your Calendar app on a synced device will appear here. If you add or edit an event on the iCloud app, the changes will be made across all your synced devices, as well.
 When you've turned on "Find My..." on an Apple device, the location of the given given is tracked via iCloud. This service and app can be used to locate your iPhone, iPad, Mac, and even AirPods.

