 If you've got the space and won't disturb your coworkers, you can do jumping jacks or march in place for 60 seconds to get your heart rate up and break up your work-day with a little activity.If you work in a cubicle, it may not be possible to do this without drawing undue attention to yourself. But you should be able to go out into a hall or use a conference room.
This is a way to get some exercise throughout your workday, not just at lunch – although you can easily do this at lunch as well.
For example, if you brought a microwaveable meal for lunch, you might do jumping jacks while your food is cooking.
 If your office is set up to do so, consider doing your work while standing rather than sitting at your desk. Even if your desk isn't high enough to type while standing, you can still stand while talking on the phone or reading paper documents.You also might consider alternative seating, such as an exercise ball chair, which engages your core while you're sitting.
Staying active throughout the day keeps your heart rate up and your muscles engaged. You may not notice a significant difference in terms of specific muscle tone or dramatic weight loss, but you probably will feel healthier and more energetic.
 Even if you don't have time to go to the gym, you can still do strength-training exercises right at your desk. these basic exercises will give you a decent workout without causing you to be out of breath or work up a sweat. To do desk pushups, stand behind your desk. Then lean over and put your palms flat on your desk. Walk backwards until you are at an angle, then do pushups to build strength in your chest, shoulders, arms, back, and core.
You can do one-legged squats behind your desk, or while waiting for copies or talking on the phone.
Another exercise you can do to build strength in your lower body are modified leg lifts, which you can do while seated at your desk.
Lift one leg off the seat and extend it straight out in front of you. Hold it out straight for a couple of breaths, then lower it, but stop just short of the seat of your chair. Repeat this 10 to 15 times with each leg.
 Avoiding the elevator and delivering messages in person is a classic way to fit a little exercise into your otherwise busy day. If you drive to work, you might also get a little more exercise by parking further away from the door of the building.If you need to send a message to a coworker, it's often easiest to simply pick up the phone or send them an email; however, walking over to their office or cubicle and conveying the news in person means you get a little exercise. It may even save you time, since the two of you can talk together and find a solution to the issue without a potentially lengthy back-and-forth over email.
Even if you don't want to go to a gym for a full lunchtime workout, you can still get in a quick 10 or 15 minutes of exercise by walking up and down the stairs.
You can also take a quick jog or brisk walk around the office building to get in a little cardio on your lunch break — and you don't even have to worry about changing out of your work clothes.
 There are a number of stretches that you can and should do if you spend the vast majority of your time at work sitting behind a desk.Sit up straight in your chair and reach both arms straight over your head as far as you can. Hold the stretch for about 10 seconds, then alternate reaching each arm higher.
Turn your head to the left and your torso to the right while seated. This is an augmented yoga pose. Breathe into the stretch, then do it in the other direction.
Sitting up straight and rolling your shoulders back as though you are trying to touch your shoulder blades together is a good stretch for your shoulders and chest.
Stand and stretch your legs as though you were about to go for a run. For example, you can kick one foot behind you, grab your foot with your hand, and pull your foot towards your buttocks. Do this with each leg to stretch your quads.

