 This way, you can change it up if you don't like the way it looks. Use graph paper, if you want to make your design look exact. Be sure to color your design in, too. But at the same time, make sure your design won't be overly crowded. This is important for two reasons. One, the DS has a relatively small screen space, so you won't be able to fit a whole bunch of things on, and two, simpler designs usually look better than complicated ones.;
, Now that you've planned out your design, and you are content with the way things look, gather your supplies. Remember, there is no wrong way to decorate your DS. You can use stickers, rhinestones, photos, paint, markers, drawings, or whatever your imagination comes up with to decorate your DS. Remember, it's your personal design!

, If you are planning to paint or use markers on your DS, make sure it does not damage the software inside of it. For example, cover any open holes in the system (such as the games slot or headphone plug) with tape. Once you finish using the markers or paint, make sure it dries thoroughly before you peel the tap away. Otherwise, this will damage your system!

, Now that you're all prepared, you can apply your design. Arrange the decorations in a way that looks attractive, and looks unique. If you are using a wet substance (such as paint), apply one coat, then wait for it to dry. If it looks like it needs another coat of paint, then you can add one on. Once you've applied your design, wait for it to settle/dry.
 This step is optional, but if you want your picture (photo, drawing, etc.) to look nicer or last longer, use Scotch, or clear packing tape, and apply it over the image. If it has air bubbles, push them out using a sturdy piece of cardboard or an old credit card. You could also use Mod Podge instead of tape if you are laminating an image that you painted onto your DS. Go back to step three if you are using Mod Podge to laminate your design instead of tape. This step will ensure that your picture will not fall off, and will last a lot longer.
 Once your design is finished, enjoy it! Send pictures of it to your friends and admire it. After all, your design is unique because you made it! Have fun with your new, personalized DS!

