 Common underlying conditions include thyroid disease and gynecological issues like polycystic ovary syndrome. The treatment for these conditions will be discussed in the following steps.
 The thyroid gland produces hormones that alter the metabolic process in your body. This can affect your menstrual cycle. If you have hyperthyroidism, treatment may include targeting the thyroid tissues by taking medication to slow down thyroid hormone production. If you have hypothyroidism, your periods may be longer and be heavier. Hypothyroidism is treated with thyroid hormone replacement. Your physician may request diagnostic work-ups to determine the drugs that will work best for you.


The most commonly available anti-thyroid drugs are methimazole and propylthiouracil (PTU). Methimazole is often the drug of choice for its low incidence of medical side effects and is generally prescribed at 15 to 30 mg a day.Hypothyroidism is treated with daily use of the synthetic thyroid hormone levothyroxine (Levothroid, Synthroid)., Common symptoms of PCOS include light, irregular periods or none at all due to the unbalanced production of reproductive hormones. Oftentimes, ovulation does not take place in PCOS patients. The treatment goal focuses on the restoration of hormonal balance by giving birth control pills or oral contraceptives to trigger menstruation.


If you are overweight and have PCOS, losing weight is an essential part of treatment.
The pill comes in a pack with 21 estrogen and progesterone hormone tablets and seven placebo pills.
 Extreme weight loss as a result of disease or improper diet and excessive exercise may upset the balance of hormones, thereby causing irregular periods. In the same manner, rapid weight gain and stress also alters the normal hormonal processes within the body. A low body mass index or any kind of nutritional deficiencies require nutrition counseling sessions.


Ideal weight loss or gain should not go beyond 2 kilograms a month or 4.4 pounds. Note that 1 pound is equivalent to 3,500 calories or 500 calories per day for seven days.
When you plan to lose weight, do not go below a 1,200 calorie-diet, otherwise, it will trigger hormonal chaos in your body. On the other hand, if you plan to gain weight, limit your calorie intake to no more than 500 calories more than your ideal caloric requirement.

