 Know if it is sensitive, oily, combination, or dry skin. Then get the appropriate skin care treatment.


If you have acne, you should look for specific products to clear your skin, like medicated facial washes and products containing benzyl peroxide, which is strong but it works, though many are allergic to it.
Remember to only use products meant for your skin type.
Start a routine and follow it every day, be consistent!.
If it's necessary, see a dermatologist.;
, Pick appropriate colors that suit you well or look good with your eye color (you could go to makeup counters and the staff could help you chose the right colors) and learn to apply makeup to accentuate that feature.


Don't go bold on lips, eyes, and cheeks. You'll appear over-done. Sometimes if you apply too much your parents and/or teachers will make you take it off and you'll get funny looks.
, Look for what is appropriate for your skin and hair color. Don't just buy the same brands and colors your friends are buying. Also, when buying makeup for the first time, go with your mom or with some friends to get second opinions!

, The initial investment may be more, but you'll be less likely to buy items that are inappropriate. Drug stores won't allow you to sample and try different colors, and the employees aren't experienced to help. Make sure you request they tell you how to do a natural routine, and before you buy the products, make sure it is appropriate and you like it.
 Some teens prefer tinted moisturizer for a sheer, all-over color. You don't want to go overboard. Take off all makeup daily and re-do it every day. Never keep it on when you're sleeping as it can block pores and cause blackheads.
, Try new colors and looks, but be sure it looks natural. As you find good ones you should also write them down. You'll eventually develop makeup looks for different outfits, events, and seasons.
 Try these out at home before you wear them out. Remember the magazines push products of their advertisers. It may look good on the model but the colors or formula may not look good on you.
 Don't wear soft neutral tones everywhere.
, These are some common starting points to consider but every face is different.


If you have pale or light skin, try light pink blush or neutral rose blush.
If you have medium or olive skin, try coral blush.
If you have dark skin, try bolder-colored blush.
Since every face is different, you should make sure whatever colors you choose are appropriate for your skin type, skin color, hair color, and eye color.
,


Remember to take off mascara after one day. If you forget and don’t apply makeup the next day, it will look horrible. Also, go easy on the eyeliner until you are more experienced with makeup, because it's easy for eyeliner to look bad.
One easy way (instead of wearing mascara) is to lightly wing your eyeliner and put it, slowly becoming thicker into the wing, on your top lid just above your eyelashes to make them look longer and fuller.
, Use something natural, like a tinted gloss or balm. You don't want to look obvious!

