 Uber is a company that allows you to reserve a personal driver in any of the cities that Uber operates in. Visit uber.com in your browser.


You can also sign up directly from the Uber app on your mobile device.;
, You will be asked to create an account. You need a valid credit card or PayPal account to use the Uber service.
 Your first name will be provided to drivers when they head to pick you up so that they can confirm they have the right person. Your last name will remain private.
 Drivers will use your phone number to contact you when they're near your pickup location if they can't find you. You'll also be able to use your phone number to log into your account.
 You'll need to enter a valid email address to create an account and receive Uber receipts.
 You'll be asked for this password when you sign into the Uber app later.
 You can use a promo code from a friend who is already an Uber user which will provide both of you with a credit around $20 / €15. If you cannot obtain a promo code from a friend, you can visit uber's site for a promo code.
 Make sure that you are OK with Uber’s terms and privacy policy before continuing on with the service.
 Your account will be created and you will be sent an email confirming the creation of the account. You’re ready to start using the Uber service.
 Sign in if you aren't signed in already.


If you don't have the app yet, download it from the App Store for iPhones or the Play Store for Androids.
 and enter your destination. Tap the result in the search field.


If you've synced your contacts with your Uber app, you'll be able to set a person as your destination. Your contact will be sent an approval request, and after confirming your driver will be able to take you directly to them.
 Different cities have different services available. You'll usually be able to pick between uberX, XL, uberPOOL, Select, and accessibility options. Swipe left and right to view your available options, wait time for pickup, and the upfront pricing.


uberPOOL - This is a ride-sharing service that allows you to share a ride with strangers for less cost. It is not available in all areas.
uberX – This sends an everyday car to your location with seating for up to four people. This is the most common service in most Uber operating areas.
Select - These are higher-end everyday cars than the uberX service.
Black – This will send a high-end black town car to your location, with seating for up to 4 people.
XL – This will send a larger car to your location with seating for up to 6 people.
SUV – This sends a luxury SUV to your location with seating for up to 6 people.
ASSIST - This sends a car service to your location that's designed to aid those with limited physical mobility to your location.
WAV - These cars are equipped with ramps and lifts in order to take wheelchairs on board.
 If you selected uberPOOL as your ride type, you can reserve either one or two seats. If there are more than two people in your party, select uberX instead.
 The price for each vehicle type will be displayed underneath it. This fare is based on current traffic and surge pricing. This is the exact fare you'll pay when you order the ride.


Upfront pricing is not available for all ride types. Other vehicles may only offer fare estimates.Uber charges are based on a combination of time and distance. If the car is traveling under 11 mph (18 km/h), you will be charged by the minute, and if you are traveling over 11 mph (18 km/h), you will be charged by the mile. You will also have to pay a base rate, that varies by location. Fares are different in every city, so be sure to check the Uber website or use an online fare estimator. All cities have a minimum fare.
 You'll be asked to confirm your pickup location.
 Uber will use your device's location to set your pickup location. You can drag the map to move the pin and set a different pickup location if you'd like.


Tap "Confirm Pickup" to set your location and order the ride.
You may be given a suggested pickup spot that will make it easier for your driver to find you.
 Do not go back in if your car is coming and do not walk to an alternate location as your driver will not know where you are and will lose valuable time (yours) searching for you. You will be given an estimation on how long your car will take to show up. If there was no car available, try again in a few minutes, as a driver may have dropped their passengers off and become available.


The Uber app will provide you with the phone number of your driver. You can use this contact the driver if you have any special considerations.
If you need to cancel your reservation, you will be charged a $5-$10 fee if you cancel after five minutes.
Average pickup times vary by city, time, and amount of business.
 All fare payments are handled automatically by the Uber service and your payment method on file. You can add a credit or debit card, link your PayPal account, use Android or Apple Pay, or use other regional options.


You do not need to tip Uber services, including UberX, but tips are appreciated. Note there is no tip included in your payment for any service other than Uber TAXI.You can change the default tip for taxi service, which is set at 20%, on the Uber website. Log in and open the Billing section to change the default tip.
 You'll be asked to rate your ride after you reach your destination. Be aware that a 4 star rating or lower will damage your driver and make fewer drivers available the next time you call. Uber only recognizes a 5 star rating as a positive one. Any number less than 5 may harm your driver's service.

