 The existence of the accounts may encourage you to re-visit the websites and fall back into your old ways.;
, It could be anything from 'You have beautiful eyes' to 'You won the poetry cup in sixth grade'. Once you have completed them all, fold them into quarters and put them into something like an empty matchbox or a jar. Whenever you feel inclined to revisit pro ana/pro mia, or you are feeling in a mood where you may be triggered, select one and think about the compliment. Relax, and let the compliment fill you.


If you can't think of that many compliments to yourself, get other people to write them. That way, they'll be a surprise to you as well when you read them.
 The actual burning of them may give you a sense of relief that those things are gone from your life, however it may also make you feel anxious or panicky without them.
 Then, whenever you are triggered or feel inclined to go back to pro ana/mia, you will have someone to tell and someone who may be able to stop you.
 Engage in counselling and group discussions. The aids which help normal eating disorder sufferers may be especially helpful to those who relied on pro ana/mia as they are good at getting people to accept that their illness was just that - an illness.
 Turn off your computer and phone and ask someone to hide them, or if you used pro ana/mia through books, give them to someone else to look after. If you remove the possibility of reaching pro ana/mia, you will slowly become less dependent.
 Reading the symptoms during recovery may be triggering to some post-pro ana/mia users, but may be useful to others as they read about how anorexia and bulimia are illnesses and the negative affects on the body.
 If you did so, treat these two girls (or characters, however you saw them) as enemies in your head. Avoid them, and if you do end up running into them, think about them with dislike and a clear head. Don't allow them to charm themselves back into your life.
 On the anniversary of your first day, week, month and year without using pro ana/mia, buy yourself a little treat like a book or a CD. This may encourage you to go longer without using them, which would gradually force the habit to break.

