 One important aspect of pet hospice care is pain management. Your vet will help you learn the signs of pain in your pet, especially the ones that may not be obvious. They may instruct you to give your pet oral pain medications, or you may be taught how to administer medications through injections.You may also be instructed to eliminate as many environmental stressors for your pet as possible to reduce their pain.
 Part of hospice care is making sure your pet gets everything needed to meet their specific nutritional needs. This includes a diet you’ve discussed with your vet. You may have to buy a special food to feed them.Your vet may also suggest vitamins or supplements to give your pet.
 Hydration is very important for your pet. Hydration helps reduce sensitivity to pain, along with helping them not feel sluggish, helping maintain appetite, and helping to reduce constipation.You can hydrate your pet by encouraging them to drink water. If your pet doesn’t want to drink, talk to your vet about how to keep your pet hydrated.
 Quality of life for your pet includes making them happy. This might be through spending a lot of time with the family, letting them play with toys they can play with, or going on short walks.Your pet should stay mobile and active though they are in their final days. They just may need to go slower and for shorter durations of time. You may also need to get ramps or other mobility aids for your pet.
Keeping your pet moving can help them going to the bathroom independently as long as they can.
 One important thing while your pet is in hospice care is to keep them clean. Many pets in hospice care are incontinent. If this is the case, try diapers or special beds to help keep your pet clean. Urine and feces on the skin can lead to infections and sores.Keep coats clean and free of mats.
Wipe nose, eyes, and mouth of any discharge. Use a warm, damp cloth in long, gentle strokes to clean your pet.
 Hospice care also helps you by helping you through the grieving process. Hospice care gives you some time with your pet during their last days while you accept the fact that nothing can be done and learn to let go.Hospice care can help you adjust to the idea that your pet will die. You can enjoy some last minute quality time with your pet before you have to say goodbye.
 Another optional service for veterinary pet hospice is at-home euthanasia. This can provide you and your pet with an option that is more comfortable for them. Instead of going to a vet office, your pet can remain in the comfort of their home as they pass away.Not every hospice service offers at-home euthanasia, but your vet may be able to help you find someone who will do it for you.

