 If you have longer hair, use a rubber band, hair tie, head band, bobby pins, or barrettes to pull back your hair. Wash your face as described above. You can also wash your cleanser with grapeseed oil, glycerin, or sunflower oils, which are oils that help dissolve other oils on your skin.Once you cleanse your skin, use lukewarm water to thoroughly rinse your face.
Use a soft cotton towel to pat dry your face. Avoid rubbing too hard because it will irritate your skin.
 There are many essential oils that have healing properties for your skin. These oils can help based on their antiseptic and antibacterial properties. This means they help kill bacteria on your face, which will help reduce the oil production on your face. They all have these properties, so pick the one you like based on your person preference. These oils include:


Thyme, which has antibacterial properties and will open up your facial blood vessels and increase circulationSpearmint or peppermint oils, which may be irritating to some, so test your skin before you use it on your face by putting a drop of the oil on your wrist or other non-descript part of your body for 10 minutes to see if it causes a reactionLavender, which has antibacterial properties and also help with depression and anxietyCitrus oils, such as orange, grapefruit, and lemon, which has vitamin C, a natural astringent and skin enhancer that helps remove oils

, Fill a one quart pot and place it on the stove. Put it on high for one to two minutes, then add one to two drops of your chosen essential oils. Let the water continue on high until it boils.


Once it boils, turn the water off and remove it from the heat.
 Let the water cool enough that it is comfortable to be near but that it is still steaming. Place your body about 18 inches away from the pot of water. Once you are over the pot, place a towel over your head to trap the steam around your face.


Stay in this position from around 10 minutes. Then rinse your face off with lukewarm water and pat it dry with a clean towel.
Apply moisturizer to your face.
Avoid getting closer to the steam and keep your eyes closed. You can hurt your eyes and skin if you get closer or leave your eyes open., You can repeat the steam treatment up to twice a day. You can do it with or without the herbs, but try to use the herbs for one of them each day. This will continually help pull excess oils from your skin without drying it out.


Always follow your steam treatments with moisturizing routines.

