 Use a fabric measuring tape to determine the circumferences of your natural waist. This number will correspond with the backpack belt.;
, Start at the base of your neck at the seventh cervical vertebra and continue along your spine until you reach the iliac crest. The iliac crest is the top front of your hip, and you will need to show your helper where the level of the iliac crest is on your spine with your fingers.


Find the seventh cervical vertebrae by standing up straight. Tuck your head forward. The neck vertebra that sticks out the farthest is your seventh cervical vertebra.
The iliac crest is a bump at the side of your hip. It is not the top of your hip on your back. This bump is farther forward in women, and usually at the direct side of the hip in men.
Place your hand on your hip, between your thumb and forefinger, to mark the line of the iliac crest for the helper., Men with slender frames can get a better fit with a woman’s pack than with a men’s pack.
 Women with broader chests or shoulders can get a better fit with a unisex pack, because women’s fit packs tend to have a narrower shoulder construction.
 You may need to get a replacement shoulder harness, so look for a pack that allows you to replace belts and harnesses.
 It is unlikely standard packs will adjust to accommodate you comfortably.
,, A waist 28 inches or smaller needs a small or extra small belt. A waist over 36 inches will need an extra large belt.


You may want to test medium and large belts for comfort if you are in between this range.
 Pick a pack and ask the associate to help you test it.
 (9 kg) of weight into the pack. Most outdoor stores have sandbags that will allow you to test weight without taking too much time packing individual gear in the pack., You don’t want them to be cinched up until you start putting the pack on your back., Lean forward and allow the pack to spread across your back. Tighten the shoulder straps slightly., Cinch it tightly. You want the majority of the weight to rest on your hips.


Tighten the hip belt stabilizers, if the pack has them. They are smaller straps that fit the belt more snugly.
 There should be no gaps above or behind the shoulders.You can stand sideways in a mirror to assure of good fit.


If you can’t get the shoulder straps to be tight and comfortable, the torso is likely too long for you. If the torso length is adjustable, take the pack off again and change the length.
If the shoulder straps lift the weight off your hips, they are either too tight or your torso length is too small., It is usually located on the chest between the front of the shoulder straps. They should be at a 45-degree angle with the shoulder strap.


Tighten the load lifters as needed.
 Lean slightly forward as you walk, just as if you were on the trail. If the straps dig in or feel off-balance, try another pack.

