 Rinse out your hair and body care products before you get in the spa. If circumstances permit, do not use any clothing in the tub. Microfibers from clothing and costumes clog filters and soap residues from laundry processes will cause scum or even foam. If your spa water is murky or there is foam forming in your spa, it could be due to lotions and body products people wear into the tub. When using your spa, use eco-mode and turn your thermometer up about a half hour before you want to use the tub. The temperature range 101 °F (38 °C) to 104°F (38-40C) is comfortable for many people. Waiting to turn up the heat until you are ready to use the tub will save you energy. Turn it up, and then go take a shower before you get in.


Consider using an enzyme-based clarifier during heavy bathing seasons. This product helps clean the spa of all of the soaps, gels, lotions etc. that people wear into the spa.
 Depending on how much your spa is used and the type of spa you have, you will need to perform a complete water change two to four times a year. Use the instructions that come with your tub to drain and refill your spa or tub with soft water.


If you have a typical family spa, you will want to change and refill the water in your spa approximately every 3 months. You can use a total dissolved solids (TDS) test strip to decide when to change your spa water. You can find these strips at your local spa store. Add a flush product (also found at a spa store) to your spa water before you drain it, and run the jets for 20 minutes on high before you drain your water. Adding a flush product can help keep the equipment in your spa clean.
 Turn down the temperature when you are not using the spa, but keep the spa running at all times. Your spa should be equipped with circulating pumps that will occasionally circulate the water. This circulation will keep your spa from building up algae while continually filtering and cleaning the water. The circulation helps keep your spa water clean.

