;
, The British Museum houses the Rosetta stone, sculptures from Parthenon, and the Portland Vase. The British Museum is considered as one of the best in the world and it was established in 1753 via the Act of Parliament. The first collections were from Sir Hans Sloane. The daily gallery tours, special exhibitions, and guided tours are some of the special offers from this world-renowned museum.
 Some of the artworks in this museum include works from Bonnard, Bourgeois, Cezanne, Dali, Matisse, Picasso, Pollock, Rothko, and Warhol. Located at the former locations of Bankside Power Station and near the banks of the Thames is the Tate Museum.
 This is another museum that you should not miss is the National Gallery at Trafalgar Square. This museum boasts of having some of best European paintings. The number of paintings that you can find at the National Gallery of London range from 1250 to 1900. Included are paintings by Van Gogh, Gainsborough, Botticelli, Turner, Cezanne, Rembrandt, and Leonardo da Vinci . This museum also offers audio-visual and video programs, guided tours, holiday events (children and adults) , lectures, and special exhibitions.
 Some of the tallest, biggest, and rarest animals can be found here. Also on display is a 40-year old spider, earthquake simulators , elephant bird egg, and life-sized Blue Whale model. Children and adults alike will also enjoy the interactive exhibits on Creepy-Crawlies, Dinosaurs, Ecology, Human Biology, Investigate, Mammals, and The Power Within.
 Some of the scientific achievements that man has made within the past 300 years can be experienced here. Afterwards, you can drop by at the Victoria & Albert Museum of art and design. Located at South Kensington, the museum showcases a large collection of Italian Renaissance sculpture among other artworks.
 This is an observation wheel which allows a fantastic view of London during a 30-minute ride. For groups of 15 or more, discounts are offered.
 Among other personalities, you will find Kylie, the Dalai Lama, and Shakespeare here. Then, visit the Tower of London, the place that has held many famous prisoners more than 500 years ago.
 Children will surely enjoy the All Hands gallery and the professional ship simulator.

