 Being open and honest with other people about your illness will help you to start letting go. Let people know what your needs are and what your illness is when necessary. Avoid holding back or hiding your condition because this will only make things worse in the long run.
 Life is full of scary things, and your diagnosis may have been the scariest. However, living a sheltered life because you are afraid of the future prevents you from living. This, in essence, stops you from doing the very thing you want to do most.


Before you decide whether or not to go on a trip, participate in an activity, or do whatever activity may frighten you, calculate the risks. Make a list of the reasons why you should participate and then reasons you shouldn’t. You may find that when you write them out and actually look right at them, you’ll likely see your fears are unfounded and you’ll want to do it.You may also want to carry an emergency toolkit with you wherever you go to reduce your fear. Knowing that you have any medications or other items that you might need in an emergency can help to give you peace of mind.
 As someone with chronic illness, you may have good days and bad days. On your bad days you may not be able to meet every obligation you want to fulfill, and that’s OK. Instead of feeling guilty about it and beating yourself up, find compassion for yourself and treat yourself right.


For example, don't be upset with yourself if you are unable to make it to every single one of your child's tee-ball games. Just be there when you can, and make sure other people are there to show support when you can't.
You may find that taking it easy on yourself, eating right, getting enough sleep, and properly taking care of yourself may help you feel both physically and mentally better, which can help improve your life and possibly allow you to engage more., You likely had a life you enjoyed before receiving your diagnosis of a chronic illness. Although you may not be able to return to that life completely, you should still participate in the hobbies and interests that you did before, as much as possible. This can help you distinguish yourself from your illness, which can greatly improve your life.


Don't assume, for instance, that you cannot still participate in many of the activities you once did, or socialize with friends. Even with a chronic illness, your life can still be incredibly full.
People with chronic illness have many options when it comes to engaging in activities they once enjoyed. If debilitating headaches prevent you from reading, try audio books instead. If physical limitations stop you from participating in yoga, take a tai chi class to get some of the same benefits., There are many mountains to climb when one lives with a chronic illness. A part of living life courageously is facing and embracing those challenges head on. This will mean different things to different people. One of the first challenges will be the physical aspect of your condition like pain or physical disability. However, you might find that you can do many things despite your illness, but you will not know unless you try.


Work with your doctor to find ways to enhance your functioning and mobility despite your illness. Find ways to become an active participant in your treatment, which will empower you and give you a sense of purpose during this difficult time.
Work with a therapist to address the emotional aspect of your condition, such as adjusting to a new physical appearance like losing hair or weight, overcoming stigma, or trying to date while chronically ill.Recognize that although there are many obstacles, there are resources and support you can access to help you endure.
 The challenges that living with a chronic illness present can make focusing on the negative aspects of your life quite easy. Instead of concentrating on only the bad, however, try to put a new spin on it. Thinking of your illness in a new light requires courage and a possible mindset change, but it will likely allow you to improve your quality of life.


For instance, ask yourself what you have learned about yourself since your diagnosis. Then consider what held you back in the past from learning these things. You may find that your illness was the only way you could have discovered these traits, which could be a blessing in disguise.Look at all of your experiences as opportunities to learn and grow. This will help you to keep moving forward no matter what.
 Some people find that they are able to draw strength from a higher power during these difficult times. Studying your religion or learning about a theology you aren’t familiar with may be what you need to get you through your darkest days.Spending time with others who share your beliefs may also provide encouragement and strength.
 A common tendency for those with chronic illness is to isolate themselves. You may feel like you are a burden to others and may even believe your friends and family members don’t want to be around you during this time. However, walking away from those who care about you is one of the worst things you could do. Keeping to yourself can cause depression, feelings of worthlessness, and suicidal thoughts.


Try to spend as much time as you can with positive, uplifting people who make you feel truly alive.
Join a support group if you don’t feel comfortable being around people who don’t know what you’re going through. If your illness prevents you from leaving your home, join one of the many you can find online., To live a courageous life with a chronic illness means to continue to enjoy the things you once did when you were healthier. Your interests and hobbies are a part of what makes you who you are. If you give them up, you will only feel more miserable and deprived.


Of course, you won't always feel well enough to participate in certain passions like hiking or skiing, but others may be more accessible to you every day. Think of some activities you like to do that you can do pretty much anytime and include them in your daily or weekly schedule. This may include activities such as reading, painting, knitting, watching romantic comedies, or perfecting your baking skills. Just do what makes you happy as often as you can.Make sure to include some physical activities into your daily routine as well, such as walking, biking, swimming, or taking an aerobics class.
 Having a chronic illness can help you appreciate the little things. Things that you once took for granted may have a whole new meaning to you now. If your illness prevents you from leaving the house some days, fully appreciate when you are able to get outside.Taking a breath and realizing there is beauty all around you, even when it is hard to see sometimes, can help you live life to the fullest extent possible.
You can also adopt the habit of gratitude by starting a gratitude journal or by downloading an app on your smartphone. Research shows that being grateful gives you more energy, makes you more attractive to others, and improves your mood and sleep quality., The advent of social media has made documenting your journey and sharing it with others easier than ever. You yourself may have gained insight and inspiration from following someone who endures the same challenges as you. You may be able to offer the same thing for someone else who shares your illness.


Creating a vlog or blog of your thoughts and solutions regarding your illness may be cathartic for you, and extremely inspirational for others. Even creating an Instagram page that features pictures could offer help for someone who is also in your shoes., Spending time serving those who share your illness provides benefits in a variety of ways. Focusing on someone else other than yourself can get your mind off of your illness and make you feel like you are making a positive impact in your community.


Seeing others that may have it worse off than you may help you have some appreciation towards your situation as not being as bad as it could be. Lastly, serving others also just feels good, which can improve your quality of life.You may also consider helping to raise money or plan events for an organization that supports research on your condition or that helps people who have the condition.
 Feeling sympathy towards others may be something you struggled with in the past. However, now that you know what it’s like to go through adversity, you may have a better sense of compassion towards others. You can use this revelation to help you build better relationships with others, which may help you live your life more courageously.You can show compassion by being gentle on yourself during your "bad" day, by encouraging others, by using your words for kindness and not hate. Compassion can be exemplified through volunteer service or simply showing kindness to a stranger.
 Another way to more actively show compassion and pay it forward is to become an advocate. Some people do not like to publicly share their trials of living with a chronic illness. However, when people are brave enough to put a face and voice behind these conditions others are educated about them and those who also live with these illness feel less alone.There are a variety of ways you can become an advocate. Share your story through a blog. Offer to speak at national convention relating to disease awareness or prevention. Write a book. Or, simply be willing to discuss the ups and downs of your illness with people in your local community at church, at schools, and at libraries.

