 If you cannot automatically increase your limit online, you should try calling or visiting your credit company or bank. Ask to speak to a manager about your credit limit. You should have your account and identifying information handy. This may include your social security number, telephone number, and account number.


The company might request information regarding your job, rent or mortgage payments, and income., Your bank or credit company will want to know why you are requesting a credit increase. You should be prepared with a strong response that demonstrates that you want the increase for legitimate, responsible reasons. Some good reasons include:“I want to improve my credit utilization ratio.”“I have recently received a raise, and I am able to handle a higher credit limit.”“I have maintained a good credit score for a while, and I would like to have an increased limit just in case of emergency.”

, Your bank or credit company might ask what you want your new limit to be. If you request a limit that is too high, you will likely be rejected. Aim to increase your limit by 10-25%.You can say, “I am looking to increase my credit score by 20%. So I want to go from $2000 to $2400.”

, The bank might be hesitant at first to extend your credit line. To make your argument more persuasive, remind the bank of what a good customer you are. Some things you can tell them include:


“I pay off my balance every month.”
“I have a credit utilization ratio of under 30%.”
“I have been at this bank for ten years, and I have always paid on time.”

, If you were turned down for an increased limit, do not despair. Instead, ask the bank for their reasons why. This can help you improve your next application for a credit increase. Work hard to improve your credit score, and try again a few months later.You can ask, “If you don’t mind, can you tell me why my request was denied?”
If the bank feels as though you have not been a customer long enough, you can wait a few more months before trying again.
If the bank says your credit score isn’t good enough, you can work on improving your score. Pay your balance off each month, and try again after six months.

