 It's important to put your cards in the right order away from your audience, otherwise the trick will lose its magic. Make sure your cards are in place before beginning the trick for your audience.;
, When you remove the 4 Jacks, place them facedown on top of your deck. These 4 Jacks are the cards you will show the audience when you begin your trick.


Place 3 additional cards facedown on top of your 4 Jacks. It does not matter what cards these are, as the faces of the cards will never be seen. These will be your secret hidden cards that will make your magic trick work.
When you show your audience the 4 Jacks, you will hide these 3 secret cards behind the Jacks., You will need to tell a story to go along with this card trick. The story typically states that there a 4 robbers who are going to rob a bank. The robbers are unsure of where the safe is, so they split up throughout the bank. One robber goes to the basement, one goes to the first floor, one goes to the second floor, and the fourth robber stays on the roof as the lookout. The alarm tips off the cops, so the lookout needs to send a signal to the other robbers that it's time to leave. Miraculously, all four robbers get back to the roof and escape in time to get away without getting caught.The 4 Jacks are robbers and the deck of cards is the bank they're robbing. As the trick unfolds, you will move the robbers (Jacks) throughout the bank (deck of cards). The magic of the trick is that all 4 robbers will escape to the roof of the bank (top of the deck) in time to get away.
The cops are a part of the story of the card trick, and actually have nothing to do with the cards.
As long as your story still makes sense with the trick, you can alter this story or add any details that you'd like.
 Showmanship is typically the most important part of card tricks. Engaging your audience with a little pizzazz will help distract them from looking at your hands too closely. Plan your story out with interesting details, and consider adding flashy hand motions to distract your audience even more.


Get your audience to trust you. You'll be a more believable magician if you're audience trusts you, so win them over! Do this by smiling, making good eye contact, and treating your audience with respect., You will start the trick by showing the 4 Jacks to your audience. Fan out only the Jacks and keep the 3 secret cards hidden behind the Jacks. It's crucial these secret cards remain hidden. You want the audience to think that you only are only holding the 4 Jacks.


Begin your Cops and Robbers story by explaining that the 4 Jacks are 4 robbers who have come to rob the bank.
 Keep the entire deck of cards facedown throughout the entire card trick. At this point, your 3 secret cards should be on the very top of the deck with the 4 Jacks underneath them.


Continue your story. Explain that the 4 robbers are looking for the safe inside of the bank, and that they must split up to find it.
 This will be one of your secret cards. Explain that this robber went to the basement of the bank to search for the safe. Be sure nobody sees the face of this card.
 This will be another one of your secret cards. Explain that this robber went to the first floor of the bank to look for the safe. Make sure no one sees the face of this card.
 This will be your last secret card. Explain that this robber went to the second floor to look for the safe. Like the other secret cards, make sure nobody sees the face of this card.
 This will be a Jack. Tell the audience that this is the look-out robber who will be staying on the roof of the bank.Your audience thinks the cards you just returned to the deck were the Jacks you showed them at the start.
 Explain to your audience that the cops were tipped off and the lookout robber had to send a signal to his accomplices. Then, tap the deck to make it look like you're doing magic.


You don't have to tap the deck. Instead, you can say a magic word or do a special hand movement. The point is to make it seem like you're doing something magical with your deck of cards.
 After you've done your magic move, reveal the 4 Jacks, one at a time, that are on top of the deck. Explain that all 4 robbers escaped to the roof on time, and got away with robbing the bank. Your audience will be blown away that all of the Jacks ended up back to the top of the deck.