 In many infants and young children, scalp eczema will clear up on its own within a few weeks. It could take a few months to clear in some cases. Although it may look uncomfortable, most children are not bothered by the condition.If the condition does not clear up, consult with your pediatrician to discuss treatment options.
Like adult scalp eczema, the condition may clear up after treatment and reappear later., The treatments for infants and children younger than two years old differ from treatments for adults. Do not use even OTC treatments meant for adults on children under the age of 2., Most of the time, the scales that form on your child’s scalp can be removed with a gentle massage. Use your fingers or a soft washcloth. Wet the child’s hair with warm water and gently rub the scalp. Do not scrub the skin!Avoid using sharp or exfoliating cleaning tools, such as scrubbers, loofahs, or harsh sponges on your child’s skin., Shampoos meant for adult eczema can be too harsh for your child’s delicate skin. Use a regular mild baby shampoo, such as Johnson & Johnson’s or Aveeno Baby.Wash your child’s hair daily.
1% to 2% ketoconazole shampoo is effective and safe for infants, although you should always talk with your pediatrician before starting treatment. It can be used twice daily for two weeks., If massage does not remove the scales, you can rub petroleum jelly or mineral oil on the areas of scaly skin.Avoid using olive oil.Allow the oil to sink into the skin for a few minutes. Then shampoo with a gentle baby shampoo, rinse thoroughly with warm water and brush the child’s hair as usual.
Make sure to rinse thoroughly your child’s scalp after each oil treatment. Otherwise, the oil may build up and cause the condition to worsen.
 Give your child a warm (not hot) bath every 2-3 day. Don’t bathe the child for more than 10 minutes.


Avoid irritants such as harsh soaps, bubble bath, Epsom salts, or other bath additives. These can irritate your child’s skin and make eczema worse.