 Prescription drugs vary a lot in price. We’re not just talking about by region or by country, either, but store-by-store in your area. In one study, the generic version of the antidepressant Cymbalta varied between $43 to $249 depending on the pharmacy chain. In other words, don’t be satisfied with the first price you see.Call around for quotes to get a sense of high and low-end prices in your area. Ask at each store, “Is this your lowest price?” Prices at pharmacies are often negotiable.
Prefer independent pharmacies to large chains like CVS or Walgreens, at least in general, as the latter tend to price higher. Walk-in pharmacies at box stores like Costco also fare well.
If you have insurance, don’t always use it. Oddly enough, large pharmacy chains sometimes sell common generics in discount programs or at bargain prices – so long as you pay out of pocket.
 It’s possible to save money by by-passing your local pharmacy entirely. Look online for good prices for your prescription meds with reputable websites like Healthwarehouse.com and others. However, be very aware that there are risks with online shopping.Many online “pharmacies” sell fake, adulterated, or expired meds. These can make you sick. Some websites are also scams that will try to steal your financial information or infect your computer with viruses.
Buying drugs online can also mean that the meds you take haven’t been held to strict rules and regulations. Or, they might be slightly different in terms of ingredients.
Only use retailers that are based in the US and bear the symbol VIPPS: “Verified Internet Pharmacy Practice Site.”
You can check through the FDA that the pharmacy is properly licensed, as well., Many or even most online pharmacies that are based in other countries and advertise discounted drugs are not legitimate. Most companies that bill themselves as “Canadian” pharmacies are fakes that sell low-quality or counterfeit drugs, as well. Beware of these “rogues” and learn to recognize warning signs.Watch out for websites with prices that seem too good to be true or that send you spam and unsolicited emails.
Don’t trust companies that aren’t based or licensed in the US.
 While shopping around can save you money, try to avoid switching your pharmacy too often in your quest for the lowest price. Frequent switching can erode the checks and balances that keep you safe and can make a harmful drug interaction more likely.Pharmacies keep data on your prescription history. These databases help to flag possible negative drug interactions. However, the system is less likely to catch these if you are always moving around.
Too frequent switching may raise suspicions, as well. Be aware that prescription drug addicts often try many different pharmacies to pass off fraudulent scripts. You may not be doing anything wrong, but your behavior could raise eyebrows.

