 Most curtains or drapes are affixed on the top frame or the wall above the frame, while shades and blinds are usually attached inside the opening nearer to the glass.
 When measuring how deep your window is, it is vital that you measure in front of any obstructions that may get in the way of your blinds. For example, if you have a double hung window, measure in front of the outermost window, not the recessed window pane. (This is normally the bottom half of the window.) If you have any latches or handles, you may also want to measure in front of those.


If you are hanging half-length curtains or other short material, you may ignore obstructions that are not in the portion of the window covered by the curtain.
 If you are hanging your object on the inside of the window, measure the inside width at the top, middle, and bottom points of the window opening. (Windows, new or old, are not always even.) Take the smallest of the three measurements to make sure your blinds or other objects fit.
 Measure inside height (top-to-bottom) from inside edge to inside edge of the opening. Measure the height at the left, middle, and right points of the window. Take the largest of the three measurements to ensure the hanging material reaches the bottom of the window.


You may skip this step if you are hanging a short length of material at the top of the window and do not need it to reach all the way down. If you are hanging the short material partway up the window, you should measure to the height you intend to mount rather than the top of the window.
 If you are hanging an object on the outside of your window, measure the height and width of the opening from the outside. You may take three evenly spaced measurements and choose the largest of each, but if you intend to cover the entire window you may simply measure at what seems to be the largest point. Add 0.5–1" (1.25–2.5cm) to both width and height if you want to be sure you fully cover the window.


If you are mounting the object above the window frame, measure the height between the intended mounting position and the window frame. Add this to the height of the opening.

