 You will first need to choose the fabric you wish to hang and display. Traditional Marimekko fabric is often hung as an accent for your home; however, you can hang almost any fabric design you wish to. You will also need to purchase four stretcher bars to make a frame. These vary widely in terms of thickness, color, etc. If you would rather make your own frame, check out this link: How to Make a Picture FrameGo to your local arts and crafts store to find bars which accent your fabric of choice, and which are large or small enough for your particular project. If you want a large picture, get large bars, if you want a small picture, buy smaller ones.
Stretcher bars usually come pre-packaged so that you will always get two smaller bars, and two larger bars (two for the sides of your picture, and two for the length of your picture).
You will also need to pick up the following items: heavy-duty staple gun, 5/16 inch heavy-duty staples, an iron, a hammer, 2 eye hooks, and some picture frame wire.;
, Slide the notched ends of the stretcher bars into one another, making each corner a 90 degree angle. Make sure that you place a small bar, next to a large one, next to a small one, next to a large one (how a normal picture frame looks).Give each corner a gentle tap with a hammer to make sure each notch is securely in place.
You can also use glue if you choose to help secure the notches. Before you slide them into one another, apply a small amount of wood glue to the receiving end of the notch. Then slide in the bar, hold for a few minutes at a 90 degree angle, and lift away.
 Take your piece of fabric and lay it on a flat surface, such as an ironing board. Do so, so that the design is facing downwards. Set your iron to the low setting, and gently press against the back of your fabric. Work it to the left and the right in order to smooth out the entire piece.Let your fabric rest and cool. Place your already made frame on top of the fabric (on the back of the fabric). Use a ruler to measure 2 inches of fabric on each side of the frame.
Use a pair of scissors or a rotary blade to cut the fabric at this 2 inch mark all the way around the frame. If you decide to use a rotary blade, make sure that you use a cutting board so that you don't cut through your table.
 Start on whichever side you like. Bring up the fabric around the middle of the side, and staple it through to the wood. Make sure that the fabric is pulled tight. Work towards each of the corners, placing staples about an inch apart each. Pull the fabric tight with each staple.Repeat the previous instruction for each of the sides. If you think that the fabric is too loose underneath one of the staples, use a staple remover, and re-staple your fabric.
Important: leave the fabric on the corners loose. Do not staple the corner fabric down.
 It is best to use a pair of scissors for this, rather than a rotary blade. However, do not cut off all of the fabric, just a good inch or so of the excess. Do this for each corner. After you have the fabric cut, lay one side of the fabric down against the frame, and lay the other piece on top of the other.Staple two staples into these two pieces, each staple about 1/4 inch separate from one another.
Go around and give a gentle tap with a hammer to any staples you don't think have fully sunk in.
 Screw in two eye hooks to the top bar you wish to hang the fabric from. Put each eye hook about an inch inward on each side of the bar. Cut a piece of wire, and feed each end through both of the eye hooks. Curl the wire on each end so that the wire is tight.Remember, you do not want the wire to show when you hang it up. If your piece is too long, either curl more on both ends, or cut a new piece of wire. You only want about 1/2 inch of lag.
Once you have attached the wire, hang it up on your wall.

