 Put one set of quotation marks around these titles to off set it properly. Only put quotations around the title, not the author’s name.For example, if you were citing the poem One Art by Elizabeth Bishop, it would appear as “One Art” by Elizabeth Bishop.
If you were citing the short story Ironhead by Aimee Bender, it would appear as “Ironhead” by Aimee Bender.
If you were citing the chapter The Boy Who Lived from Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone by J.K. Rowling, it would appear as “The Boy Who Lived” from Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone by J.K. Rowling.
 Always use quotation marks when citing the title of an article or essay in a journal, magazine, or online publication. Capitalize all of the words that are not articles in the title and use one set of quotation marks around the title only.For example, if you were citing the article The President Wants to Keep Us in the Dark by Marc Decosta, it would appear as “The President Wants to Keep Us in the Dark” by Marc Decosta.
If you were citing the essay The Fourth State of Matter by Jo Ann Beard, it would appear as “The Fourth State of Matter” by Jo Ann Beard.
 For example, if you were talking about an episode of Friends called The One With the Blackout, it would appear as “The One With the Blackout.” If you were discussing the song Tangled Up in Blue by Bob Dylan, it would appear as “Tangled Up in Blue” by Bob Dylan., Plays should always be cited with quotation marks. For example, if you were discussing the play The Crucible by Arthur Miller, it would appear as “The Crucible” by Arthur Miller.

Do not use italics or underline the title of plays. If you are citing a collection of plays by the same playwright, for example, The Collected Plays of Arthur Miller, you would use italics for the title, not quotation marks: The Collected Plays of Arthur Miller.
 Do not put punctuation that is part of the sentence in the quotation marks with the title. Only include punctuation that is already part of the title in the quotation marks. For example:Did you like “The Crucible”?
I read “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?” by Edward Albee on the train today.

