 You cannot export directly to MP4 in older versions of PowerPoint. With Windows Movie Maker, a free video editor for Windows, you can create a video using image files of each individual slide. PowerPoint makes it easy to create these image files.
 Many versions of Windows come with Windows Movie Maker installed. If you are using Windows 7 or 8, you can download Windows Movie Maker from Microsoft here.
 Once you have Movie Maker installed, you can convert your presentation slides into JPG files to make a movie from.


Click the Office button or the File menu and select "Save As".
Click the "Save as type" menu and select "JPEG File Interchange Format (*.jpg)".






Select or create a new directory for all of the slide files.
Click the "Save" button, and then select "All Slides" when prompted.
 Now that you've created the slide files, you can import them into Windows Movie Maker and create an MP4 from them.
 You'll need to add the folder containing the slide files into Windows Movie Maker:


Click the File menu and select "Import Into Collections". In Movie Maker 2012, click "Add videos and photos" instead.
Navigate to the folder containing the files you just created, and then select them all. The folder will have the same name as the presentation.
Click Open after selecting all of the files in the folder. The image files will be opened into Movie Maker.
 The process from here varies slightly depending on the version of Movie Maker you are using. For older versions, select all of the imported images and then drag them onto the Timeline. In Movie Maker 2012, the slides will automatically be arranged into a slideshow.
 You can increase or decrease the time between each slide transition to suit the amount of text that you expect the audience to read. Make sure that you give enough time for the audience to take in all of the information.
 You can use Windows Movie Maker's transitions tools to add transitions between each slide. Use these to add fun effects, but don't go too overboard or they'll distract from the presentation's content.


See How to Add Transitions in Movie Maker for a detailed guide on using transitions.
 Once you're finished making edits to the movie, you can save it as an MP4 file.


Click "Save movie" or "Save to my computer"
If given the option to select a device, choose either "For a computer" or the specific device you intend to play the video on.
Name and save the file. It should be in MP4 format. If it isn't, select "MPEG-4" from the "Save as type" menu.
 After saving the movie, Movie Maker will begin creating the movie file. This may take a while for longer presentations. Once the file has been created, you can play or transfer it as you wish.