 It's a gray app with gears (⚙️) that's typically located on your home screen.;
, It's the section at the top of the menu that contains your name and image if you've added one.


If you are not signed in, tap Sign in to (your device), enter your Apple ID and password, then tap Sign In.
If you are running an older version of iOS, you may not need to do this step.
 It's in the second section of the menu.
 Slide the listed apps, such as Notes or Calendars, to the "On" (green) position to include their data in the backup.


The data from apps left in the "Off" (white) position will not be backed up.
 It's at the bottom of the "APPS USING ICLOUD" section.


Slide iCloud Backup to the "On" (green) position, if it's not already.
 It's at the bottom of the screen. Wait until the backup is complete.


You must be connected to a Wi-Fi network to back up your iPhone.
 It's a gray app that contains gears (⚙️) and is typically located on your home screen.
 It's near the top of the menu, next to a gear (⚙️) icon.
 It's at the bottom of the menu.
 It's near the top of the menu.
 Enter the passcode you use to unlock your phone.


If prompted, enter your "Restrictions" passcode.
 Doing so will reset all settings, as well as erase the media and data on your iPhone.
 It may take a few minutes.
 The setup assistant will guide you through the process.
 To do so, tap the language you prefer to use on your device.
 Do so by tapping the country or region in which you'll use your device.
 A list of available Wi-Fi networks appears near the top of the screen.


If prompted, enter a network password.
Alternatively, you can choose to connect to iTunes on your desktop with a USB cable by tapping Connect to iTunes.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.
 Your device uses Location Services for Maps, Find My i, and other apps that use your location.


Tap Enable Location Services to allow apps on your device use your location.
Tap Disable Location Services to deny the use of your location.
 Type a passcode into the provided spaces.


If you'd like to create a password different from the four- or six-digit default, tap Passcode Options at the bottom of the screen.
 Do so to confirm it.
 It's listed near the top of the setup options.
 Do so in the labeled fields.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen. Doing so displays Apple's "Terms and Conditions."


Scroll down to read them.
 It's in the lower-right corner of the screen.
 Choose the one with the most recent date and time.


Your iPhone will begin downloading the backup from iCloud. After it's restored, your settings, apps, and data will be reinstalled.

