 Open Windows Movie Maker and click "Videos" from the Import menu, located in the column on the left. If the video file is being stored on a digital video camera, click "From digital video camera." The Import Media Items dialogue box will open.


Locate the video file saved to your computer hard drive or on your digital video camera and double click the file to import it into Movie Maker. Your video will now be visible in the collections folder, located just above the editing timelines in between the Tasks menu and the preview display. The video file has been imported.





;
, In order to adjust the position or change the timing of subtitles for a Movie Maker project, the application window view needs to be set to Timeline view. Click the View tab on the menu bar and confirm that Timeline is selected on the menu options. The application view settings have been set to Timeline view.
 Notice that there are now 3 editing timelines that run horizontally across the bottom of the application window, one stacked on top of the other. The editing timeline on top is labeled "Video," the next one down is labeled "Audio," and the editing timeline on the bottom is labeled "Title Overlay." Click the video file in the Collections folder and drag it into the editing timeline labeled "Video." The video now appears inside the Video editing timeline.
 Once the title overlay has been inserted, it can be repositioned anywhere within the timeline. Click on Titles and Credits, located in the Edit menu in the column on the left. You will be asked where you want to insert the title. Select "Title on the selected clip" from the list of options available. When prompted to enter the text for the title, type the first set of subtitles you wish to add to the video into the empty field.


Choose the option "Edit the title animation" once the text has been entered. The Title Animation menu will appear. Scroll down the list of available animations and click on "Subtitles." Under "More options," click the option to change the text and the font color. The font formatting menu will now appear. From the font menu, choose a font that it simple and easy to read, such as "Arial" or "Times New Roman." The chosen font will now be visible in the preview display on the right side of the application window.






Adjust the size of the font, if necessary, using the up or down pointing arrows located beneath the Font menu. The color of the font, as well as the transparency level and the justification, can all be adjusted from this menu. Experiment with different adjustments to suit your particular needs or preferences. Click the Add Title button when you are ready to continue. The subtitle overlay will now appear in the Title overlay editing timeline running across the bottom of the application window. The title overlay for the first set of subtitles has been inserted.
 Locate the point in the video clip where you would like the subtitles to begin. Click and drag the Title overlay into any position in the editing timeline. Preview the positioning of the first set of subtitles by clicking the "Play timeline" arrow, located above the Video editing timeline on the far left side of the application window. Drag the Title overlay to the left or to the right to adjust the positioning of the first set of subtitles. The first set of subtitles is in position.
 The length of time the subtitle appears on the screen can be adjusted by dragging the edge of the Title overlay to the left to make it shorter, or to the right to make it longer. Adjust the length of the title overlay to match the video clip. The length of the subtitle has been adjusted.
 Right click on the first set of subtitles and select copy from the pull-down menu. Click inside the empty space in the Title overlay editing timeline, just to the right of the first set of subtitles, and click Paste. A copy of the first set of subtitles will now appear in the Title overlay editing timeline. Double click the copy. The Title Overlay editing menu will open in the application window.


Delete the text in the Title overlay text field, enter the text for the second set of subtitles and click the Add title button to insert the next set of subtitles. The second set of subtitles has been created and added to the Title overlay editing timeline. Adjust the position of the second set of subtitles as necessary. The second set of subtitles has been created.
 Continue the process, as necessary, until all of the subtitles you wish to add to the video have been formatted, inserted and moved into the correct position. Save the file on your computer as a Movie Maker Project or export the file as a Windows Media Video, which can be uploaded to the Internet. All of the subtitles have been added to the Movie Maker Video.

