 If you do get pulled over, you may still be able to get away with a warning if you’re courteous.


When the officer comes to your window, greet him or her with respectful words, such as "Good evening, officer." Do not use slang. Say "want to" instead of "wanna," and whatever you do, don't refer to police officers as cops. Following these tips will make you seem educated and sensible. The officer may not give you a ticket just because you don't seem buzzed or you seem like a respectable person who made a small error.
Don’t start arguments or act irritated or belligerent, and don’t make dumb excuses.
Be nice and you may get some pity. If you’ve already broken a traffic law, you can’t make things any better by being a jerk.
Make the police officer feel safe if you get pulled over. Police officers have a dangerous job, and they know that any routine traffic stop can turn life-threatening. If you can put an officer at ease, it make his or her job a little less stressful and he or she may thank you for it by letting you off with a warning.
Pull over when you see the police officer signal for you to pull over. Look for a safe area where the officer can stand beside your car and not risk his own life with passing traffic.
Pull into a parking lot if you can; but always signal to the officer to show that you aren't avoiding him. This can be accomplished by flipping on your right blinker. If you must pull over to the side of the road, the right shoulder is almost always safer for both you and the officer.
Park your vehicle so that you cannot drive forward. For example, pull right up to a wall. Then the officer can park right behind you without worrying that you will try to drive away and escape.
Turn off your car, and possibly remove the keys from the ignition.
If it is nighttime, turn on as many interior lights as possible.
Remain in the car. Do not move to leave the car at any time during the stop unless you are asked to do so.
Sit still with your seatbelt on, and place your hands on the top of your steering wheel, in plain sight. Don’t fidget around before the officer approaches the vehicle or at any time during the stop.
The officer will request your driver’s license, registration and insurance card. Leave your hands on top of the steering wheel. Describe to the officer where the papers are, and ask permission to get them. When the officer permits it, move slowly and deliberately to retrieve the documents. Avoid sudden movements that may make the officer feel you're reaching for a weapon.
If an officer states you were speeding, it is OK to politely ask how they know. If the officer states that he used a radar gun, ask to see it. Most officers inadvertently turn the unit off once you are stopped - deleting the speed entry.
If you got a ticket via a radar gun, ask to see the officers daily log. He or she would need to state they calibrated the unit prior to beginning their patrol.
 When the officer asks you if you know why you were pulled over, never admit to anything if you intend to later fight the ticket. If you do get a ticket, your admission can be used against you in court.


If you think you might get away with a warning, you can try being completely honest. The officer may appreciate your honesty and be more likely to let you off with a warning. It’s a tough choice to make, but do your best to analyze the situation and the officer’s demeanor, and hopefully you’ll make the right decision.
 If you can’t avoid a ticket, consider fighting it through the legal system. Sometimes, just showing up indicates you are more responsible than other motorists. Dress well, and be prepared to argue your side of the case without emotion and with as much supporting material as you can provide. Depending on the judge and the jurisdiction, the judge may give you some leniency.
 Many jurisdictions pay overtime or more for time spent in court. In some circumstances since the officer is being paid overtime for being in court, he or she may act in your favor for dismissal of the ticket - that is, if you were polite and respectful when receiving the citation.

