 Wiping will erase everything on the disk, including your operating system. If you are planning on using the hard disk again as the primary disk, be prepared to reinstall OS X. Save any files you want to keep to an external hard drive, or burn them to a DVD.
 Reboot the computer and hold down the Command + R keys while the computer boots. This will load the Recovery utility. Select the Recovery HD and press Continue.
 This program will allow you to manipulate your installed hard drives.
 In the left menu, you will see a list of your computer’s installed hard disks. Select the hard disk that you want to securely wipe. If you wipe your primary disk, you will need to reinstall OS X.
 Here you can select the format the you want the disk to be. For OS X, the format should be Mac OS X Extended (Journaled). You can name the disk as well if you’d like.
 By default, the drive will be reformatted with a one-pass method that writes zeros over the entire disk. This is moderately secure, but if you want more security, you can pick from several options.


7-Pass Erase – This will perform seven passes instead of one, making it a highly secure wipe. All data will be virtually unrecoverable. This takes 7 times longer than a standard wipe.






35-Pass Erase – This will perform 35 passes instead of one, and uses the Gutmann algorithm, which is incredibly secure. This method is recommended for classified and top-secret material. The 35-pass erase takes 35 times longer than the standard wipe.
 Your drive will now begin the wipe process. Depending on the Security Options you chose, this can take a significant amount of time. Once the process is complete, the drive will be wiped and formatted for your system.
 If you’ve wiped the primary disk on your computer, you will need to reinstall OS X in order to use it again. Click the Reinstall OS X option in the Recovery HD.You will need an internet connection in order to download the installation files. You may need to enter your Apple ID in to verify your account.

