 Find an instructor at a pre-professional ballet school that works with a professional ballet company. A great instructor can provide one-on-one help which can prevent injury and improve your poses.Avoid simply relying on instruction from your peers or online lessons. You need to get proper feedback from a professional who's able to see if you're technique is correct.;
, Avoid dancing on hard floors like cement. Instead, the studio you use should have sprung wood (like harlequin) floors. This will help the floor absorb the shock of your movements. A good floor can prevent shin splints and other injuries.Make sure the floor doesn't have too much rosin covering it in uneven patches. This can make it more likely for you to injure yourself.
 Warming up exercises can loosen your muscles, making them less likely to tear or strain. Do exercises that get your blood pumping and really warm you up before you begin dancing.These will get you ready for more intense activity, which can improve your ballet dancing and prevent injury.


Do standing exercises for several minutes or try an aerobic exercise at a normal pace. Never push yourself too hard during a warm up.
 Exercise (physical training) is one of the best ways to reduce your risk of injury. While ballet is highly physical, most ballet dancers aren't active enough to improve their aerobic health. Work on a general fitness regimen throughout the week to reduce your risk of injury.Be sure to avoid sports that are known for causing damage to the knees like basketball or tennis.
 If you feel pain, this is your body telling you that something is wrong. Ask your instructor to watch you do the movement that caused you pain. Sometimes, you might just need technique correction which will stop the pain. But, if your instructor sees nothing wrong with your form, see a doctor.If no specific move is causing you pain, follow the three day rule. If you feel pain for three days, tell your instructor.
 Your knees should always be in-line with your toes. If they're out of alignment, you'll put excess strain on the kneecaps and your lower leg muscles whether you're doing a plie or turnout. Stand with your knees soft and keep your spine elongated.Never lock your knees. This can hyperextend your knee, increasing mobility. But, it will also lead to knee injury and mis-alignment.
 Research shows that using your knees spread your feet apart creates poor alignment and can lead to injury.Instead, keep your muscles flexible. Lift your toes up and away from each other so that they're each at 90 degree angles. You should shift your weight not from your knees, but from your hips. This will help your feet move apart naturally.


You should never force your turnout. Using your knees instead of your hip muscles can put extra strain on your lower leg muscles and damage your knee.
 Foot hyperpronation ("rolling in") is a cause of knee injuries. When your feet roll in, the arches roll forward. Your tendons will try to compensate for this imbalance, leading to injury and inflammation (like tendonitis).Instead, balance your weight throughout your foot.


You should feel your weight at the heel, the big toe, and the little toe., Your foot should be pointed so that it creates a straight line extending from your calf. If you try to force your toes or point harder, you may actually make your foot sickle inward. Sickling breaks the imaginary line stretching from your calf so that it curves. It can also damage your muscles and form leading to injury.You should keep your heel forward, not off to the side which can cause your foot to turn inward.