 Spiced chickpea nuts are actually not nuts at all. Rather, they’re just roasted chickpeas, often seasoned with garlic or red pepper spice. You can buy prepackaged spiced chickpea nuts in many grocery stores, or make them yourself at home.To make the spiced chickpea nuts at home, just drain a can of chickpeas and lay them on a baking tray. Sprinkle with olive oil, salt, and cayenne pepper. Bake in the oven at 450 degrees Fahrenheit (232 degrees Celsius) for 15 minutes.
 Ants on a log is a quick snack consisting of celery sticks with peanut butter spread on them, then sprinkled with raisins. Instead of raisins, you could use dried cranberries or dried cherries, and instead of peanut butter, try almond butter or cashew butter. Find a combo that you like to customize your energizing midday snack of ants on a log., Pureed veggie soup – as opposed to a more traditional veggie soup consisting of vegetables floating about in a vegetable broth – allows your body to more easily absorb the vegetables’ nutrients. Warm a cup of purred vegetable soup up for quick and energizing midday snack.You could just pour some regular veggie soup in a blender and blend it until smooth, or snack on a soup that is already pureed, such as butternut squash soup or tomato soup.
 Spinach contains iron, a crucial ingredient in your body’s energy production. A spinach salad or a spinach smoothie might be just the snack you need to stay energized through the middle of the day., A cucumber sandwich typically contains three ingredients: bread, mayo, and cucumbers. Slice a cucumber into thin slices. Slather mayo on two slices of whole wheat bread. Lay your cucumbers in an even layer on one slice of bread, then place the other slice, mayo side down, on top. A cucumber sandwich has substantial amounts of B5, an energizing vitamin.Instead of regular bread, you could use a whole wheat pita pocket.
 Edamame are soy beans, a rich source of both protein and vitamin B. Pop some edamame seasoned with a bit of garlic, butter, and salt in the microwave for a quick snack., Hummus is a kind of blended chickpea mash. It makes a great dip for whole grain crackers, which provide complex carbohydrates to keep you fueled through the middle of the afternoon and beyond.Baby carrots, carrot chips, celery sticks, red pepper slices, or raw broccoli are great alternatives if you don’t have crackers on hand.There are many varieties of hummus available such as red pepper hummus and garlic hummus. Choose one that appeals to you.

