 It’s impossible for your relationship to last if one of you thinks the relationship is monogamous and the other things your relationship is polyamorous or open. Make sure you have a very clear, open discussion about whether or not you are seeing other people and if you need the relationship to be exclusive. Some people can make open relationships work, but this takes a lot of trust and communication with your partner. Being entangled with another person means that you or your partner are not completely invested in the relationship.


There are many ways to determine if the two of you are exclusive. Discussing future plans, meeting family and friends, and acknowledging the relationship in public or online are all signs that the relationship is exclusive.Nevertheless, it’s better to be straightforward. A person could discuss the future but still be secretly communicating with an ex. Your best bet is to pull your significant other aside and ask where this is going: “Hey, I just wanted to know where we stand? Are we dating other people or is it just me and you?”

,

If you’re in a relationship, but deep down you aren’t actually ready to take it to the next level, your partner needs to know. When this happens, partners are likely to make “mistakes” that cause a rift or unconsciously sabotage the relationship to prevent it from going anywhere.

Your relationship is certainly not going to last if either of you isn’t ready to commit. Be candid with yourself and your partner and decide if you want this relationship to last long-term., Commitment in a relationship means making a choice to stick it out even during the tough times. If you think you are ready to commit to your partner, you also need to examine how the two of you handle conflict.


Do fights generally end with one of you always having to relent? Is your partner emotionally or verbally abusive? Being able to resolve conflict in a healthy way using effective communication and compromise is an important indicator of how long your relationship will last.Be willing to discuss difficult topics. If one or both of you avoid conflict, this doesn't mean you have no issues, it means nothing is ever resolved. No relationship is perfect, and there will be disagreements and arguments from time to time. One or both of you need to be willing to initiate hard conversations. Even if it's uncomfortable you need to be able to hash things out and fully resolve them.

