 It is not popular, but it is a solution. If you can wake up at 5:30-6:30 am it is certain that you will have plenty of time for some freedom before the children's programs in the television begin.;
, The collaboration with the other half is always desirable. It constitutes the engagement that is called “marriage”. However, it is not always obvious. Discussing, or even lead to an establishment of special shifts between the two spouses will help.
 Even if it sounds tough, is the most common method to people who are involved with deadlines. Make a coffee (not very strong), say "Goodnight" to your children and instead of turning on the TV or the DVD player, turn on your computer. Even if you do not have the courage for intensive work, you can make certain drafts for the next day or to clean up some e-mails.
 This is certainly easier when there are at least two people to do so. Table games (that are not usually noisy), perhaps even games in the computer are the solution. Avoid the easy alternative solution with the DVDs.
 They probably believe, that each time they play, they have to play pillow fight, or games which require body skills. This is good, but it can also end up hazardous. Explain to them how much they should love each other. If this doesn't work, then you can create an "award" for the most quiet kid. That should do because people are born to be competitive.
 You probably know that already, and you love it. However, this is not a permanent solution. The grandmothers and the grandfathers are good and overindulge the grandchildren, but they are not responsible for their behavior. Keep this solution for a very important project that should be delivered immediately.
 Your nerves are in knots and the willingness of your children to do their homework or play quietly, is minimal. Then being in an environment of adults, probably helps. A disadvantage is that you should definitely have someone to babysit.
 That sounds so pleasant and pedagogic. Tell them to go to the garden or to the balcony or anywhere. Learn about the facilities of your town and entertain them. Do you feel bad as a parent? You shouldn't. Remember all these times that you wished to go out to play games with your friends and you didn't have the time. At least, learn to your children to have fun!

, They will probably still interrupt you occasionally, but it should keep them relatively busy for short periods of time while you get work done.
 If you are able to afford a nanny (even if you are still at home) then certainly go ahead. The nanny will have the chance and the skills to engage your children with other activities , rather than playing with your computer.
 You tried everything, but uselessly, your kids won't behave and you are exhausted. Deal with them. Read their beloved fairytale for the 189th time, buy them ice-creams and chips, and do whatever they want. In this way, they will feel appreciated and they won't be in the mood to destroy another day of yours.
 When you're working, you're working and keep to a schedule as best you can. Do take time out to play with the kids, even if it's just five minutes to get them started on something. But make sure you're either working or playing, not both at the same time, or nothing will get done.
 If you get pulled away from your work by your kids, it'll be easier to get back to what you were doing when they're done with you.

