 Often, a job or rental applicant will be willing to disclose the details of their background if you simply ask directly. Explaining the circumstances to you in person is a good way for an applicant to tell his or her side of the story, which may include mitigating circumstances.


If your subject is evasive about the topic of his or her criminal background, you can use his or her response, or lack thereof, in your decision to hire or rent to that person.;
, When looking for background information about someone, the internet is the best place to start. You can find social media profiles, references to the person in media publications (such as newspaper articles), and other sources of information. Simply go to your favorite search engine and search for the person's name.


Use quotation marks around the name. You can narrow your search by including other terms, such as the person's home state or city.
Remember that not every source is necessarily accurate. The information you find could be false.
 Criminal justice records are usually within the public record. However, you may not be able to access them on your own, and may have to pay a fee to perform a records search.Visit your local court's website or telephone the court clerk for more information about your county's records search policies.


When you make your request, provide as much of the following information as you can: the defendant's name, date of birth, driver's license number, and case number.Remember to check with all of the counties and states where your subject has lived. Your subject may have been a defendant in a criminal case in another state before relocating.
 Some county law enforcement agencies make criminal justice information available online. You can sometimes access incarceration, arrest, and arrest warrant records through a website. You may also be able to find out if the subject is on probation by speaking with the probation department. If you cannot find the information online, call the sheriff's office, police department, or probation office directly.
 The National Sex Offender Public Website's searchable database contains the names and locations of convicted sex offenders nationwide. The database will refer you to the local agency that provides information about the conviction. Visit the database at https://www.nsopw.gov/.


Type in the person's name. If there is a match, you should see the case status, including the conviction details and length of the sentence.
 Some states have searchable public registries of drug offenders.For example, Minnesota has a Methamphetamine Offender Registry for offenders who have been convicted in connection with methamphetamine manufacturing.Check online to find out if your state has a similar registry.
 Many online companies, such as Intelius, US Search, and Net Detective, offer background searches or subscriptions to a background checking service for a fee. Fees typically range from $30 to $40. You will need to enter the subject's name and location.These services may return incomplete or inaccurate information. According to the Wall Street Journal, a search might not return any information, while another might report, for example, non-existent bankruptcy filings.