 As you start to try to become an inspiration you need to push yourself to be a better person, and a bolder more courageous one too. Try to regularly put yourself out of your comfort zone in order to broaden your horizons and gain confidence and belief in your own capabilities. You will find out things about yourself that you didn't know.Start by doing small things every few days and try to progress and making bold and brave actions part of your normal outlook.
These leaps could be anything from taking up a new sport to starting to learn a foreign language.
Try to challenge yourself somehow every day.
Be positive. No one will be inspired by a person who grouches. Rather by a person who has a positive outlook on things and has good virtues such as confidence and integrity.
 Being an inspiration is all about leading by example. One of the best ways to do this is to model good life choices. Do what makes you happy and focus on improving your health and well-being. Eat a healthy diet, get regular exercise, and follow your passion. These can all boost your self-esteem and inspire others around you to do the same.Part of taking care of yourself is not putting too much pressure on yourself.
Becoming an inspiration is an admirable goal, but don't expect perfection from yourself or others.
 If you're going to inspire others, you need to be passionate and energetic about what you value. If you simply go about your day without expressing that spark of excitement, you're not going to get others excited either. Be passionate about what you do and share that with those around you.For example, if you notice co-workers losing interest in what you're doing or discussing, explain why you find that aspect of your job so fascinating.
Chances are they'll become more interested and invested in your passion and will feel encouraged to pursue their own passions and follow your example.
Passion and excitement can be contagious and are great ways to inspire someone.
 Inspire people to have the ability to take negative situations and find the positive. You won't inspire people if you're overly judgemental, harsh, or critical. Instead, find the positive in everything. If something hasn't worked out the way you hoped, try to think of it as a possibility to learn more and avoid similar outcomes in the future.

Try thinking back to negative thoughts that you frequently had in the past.
Explain to yourself and others how you've started looking at those thoughts differently, in a more positive light.By focussing on the positive you can inspire people to see the best in themselves and adopt a more positive outlook., A big part of being an inspiration is about helping others achieve their goals and get over setbacks. Be available when someone wants to talk about her dreams or goals. Try to encourage and support her steps to accomplish these goals.Part of this might include teaching the person to ignore comments or gossip that gets in the way of her dreams.

Helping somebody see the positive and learn lessons through their experiences can be very inspirational.
You have to practice this yourself. Use examples from your own life to explain how your friend can learn from her successes and failures.
Don't present yourself as perfect. Acknowledge your failings, but demonstrate how she can find a way through difficult periods., You are more likely to be an inspiration to someone if they see you often and can witness the actions and outlook which inspires them. A one-off intervention might be a moment of inspiration, but in order to be an inspiration in the long-run you have to develop lasting and meaningful relationships with people.Think of how a good teacher can gradually become an inspiration figure over a year or longer as you get to know each other.
You may be inspired by a famous person whose achievements you admire, but a distant celebrity is likely to be less of a direct inspiration than somebody you know.

