 The most obvious way to create a soothing environment for your baby is to choose a wall color that is calming. For example, green is often seen as an ideal color choice for walls as it is a natural and calming color. Orange is a comforting color that evokes feelings of coziness. Choosing a warm blue color may be soothing for your baby. Lavender colors will also be soothing for your baby.Try to aim for wall colors that are a bit softer. For example, you might find that an entire room painted bright green is not as soothing as you had imagined it would be. Softer, more neutral shades will be less overpowering. On the other hand, if you want to use a bold orange color, you can paint just one wall in that color and choose a softer complementary color for the other walls.
Try to think in the long term. Unless you are OK with repainting the walls again, try to choose colors that will be enjoyable for years to come. There are always trends that come and go, but choosing a more classic color means your baby’s nursery can easily be transitioned into a big boy or girl bedroom later on.
Colors like red, yellow, and black tend to evoke stronger emotions in people. These are not necessarily bad choices for a nursery, but since your aim is to create a soothing environment it may be best to stay away from these colors or at least limit them to accents.;
, Another great way to make a soothing nursery is to choose fabrics that are soft and cozy. For example, choose bedding that will feel soft against your baby’s delicate skin. If you don’t have carpet in the nursery, you can place soft rugs that will give the room a cozier feel, and that will also help keep the room a bit warmer during the colder months. You can keep a soft blanket to use when you are cuddling with your baby, but do not place this in the crib with your baby while they are sleeping.Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is the leading cause of death of babies under one year of age.Bedding is believed to be one cause of SIDS. Thus, it is recommended that babies sleep on a firm mattress. You can have a fitted sheet that is tightly wrapped around the mattress, but all other items (e.g. blankets, stuffed animals, pillows, toys, etc.) should be removed from the crib.
Instead of a blanket, your baby can wear some cozy pajamas or even a wearable blanket to keep warm.
 It may be tempting to decorate the walls with lots of pictures and to fill the room with decorations and furniture, but your baby may feel more relaxed in a simple, clean space. Try to limit furniture to what you feel is essential, and if you want to decorate the walls, try not to fill the walls with pictures. Keep it simple.Additionally, at the end of each day, try to do a quick sweep of the room to clean up any messes that have been made.

