 Moisturizing is easy to do, pretty cheap, and it’s important no matter what condition your skin is in. Dry skin is prone to sagging, which produces lines. So make sure you apply a light moisturizer in the morning before you start your day. Simply rub the moisturizer into your skin using small, circular motions. A moisturizer with SPF in it is ideal so that you can prevent new lines from forming without having to buy another product.You can look for a light moisturizer that is ideal for your skin. Research moisturizers that are best for skin types such as oily, wrinkled, depending on what your skin is like.;
, A thicker and more intense cream is best for when you’re winding down your day and preparing for bed. A cream that contains retinol is ideal to use. The vitamin A in retinol helps plump up the skin, which reduces fine lines and wrinkles. You can buy a cream that contains retinol, or have a stronger retinol prescribed by your doctor.Apply extra moisturizer to the frown lines between your brows.
 Natural oils not only smell great, but they can also be really great for your skin! Buy a bottle of pure almond, grapeseed, or jojoba oil at your local health food store. Along with their antibacterial and anti-oxidant properties, natural oils are awesome because they provide many of the same benefits as expensive moisturizers at a much lower cost. Apply a small amount to your face and rub it in using small, circular motions.Natural oils are also great because they provide a barrier for your skin during harsh and cold weather.
 Keeping moisturized can be frustrating if you have oily skin. No one with that skin type wants to add even more oil. A product containing a humectant is a good solution for that problem. A few humectants are glycerin, propylene glycol, urea, and sorbitol. Apply the product to your skin daily, nightly, or whenever you feel the need to moisturize., Keeping hydrated is an important part of keeping your skin moisturized. This may be something you already do, and if so, good job! Don’t worry if you don’t drink a lot of water right now. This is something you can accomplish easily. Try to drink at least 8 cups of water per day. If drinking plain water is difficult for you, infuse the water with lemon or other fruits, like strawberries., Sheet masks seem like all the rage right now, and that is for a reason! Masks are a quick way to add moisture to your skin, and they are so relaxing. You can use a sheet mask, or one that comes in a cream form. Use a mask about once a week, or twice a week if your skin is very dry. Apply the mask, sit back, and relax with your favorite music for 10 to 20 minutes.You can buy masks online, at your local beauty store, or at many supermarkets with a beauty section.

