 The swelling usually appears one week after the bite. The bite site becomes a boil-like, hard and violet colored lesion that may persist for several weeks. The swelling is due to multiplication of the parasite locally in the tissue that leads to inflammation. It is known as “Chagoma”.A chaga bite may be confused with other types of insect bites. However, the swelling of a bee sting or ant bite develops quickly and is extremely itchy while the swelling of a reduviid bug bite is less itchy.;
, If the parasite infects the conjunctiva there may be painless, non-itchy swelling of the eyelids. Your eyelids will then appear firm and reddish. They may also take on a purple hue. This symptom is known as Romana’s sign. There may also be swelling of the surrounding area if the infection spreads locally.This is a very reliable sign of Chagas disease. While other diseases can cause your eyelids to swell, chaga is the only one that results in painless, non-itchy swelling. Lid swelling due to bacterial or viral viral infections will be painful and itchy accompanied by watering. A stye caused by a bacterial infection causes development of boil like swelling in a single lid.
 Your fever will most likely be non-specific and low grade. It may also appear as a fever that lasts for a few hours a day and then disappears for the rest of the day and night.
 Chagas may cause a transient, non-itchy skin rash that resembles the rash you get when you have measles. Luckily, it is usually self limiting and resolves within a few days.
 Lymph nodes close to the site of infection might become swollen after the bite. The parasites will travel along lymph vessels to reach those lymph nodes where they induce inflammation. Swelling of the lymph nodes means they are responding and trying to kill or eliminate the invading organisms.


Lymph nodes fight against infection and are found in different parts of the body. In normal individuals, the lymph nodes cannot be felt or palpated. They are located beneath the skin of armpit, angle of mouth or neck.
 There may be loss of appetite, feeling of nausea, or the development of vomiting or diarrhea. However, these digestive problems are non-specific and result from many different health issues, so they are not the best measurements when trying to determine if you have chagas or not.
 These are also non-specific symptoms. Fatigue may develop because of the acute stress the infection is putting on your body. When the body recognizes an infection, it fights against the invading organisms, which in turn causes you to feel tired. A feeling of pain at different sites in the body is generally due to the toxic substances that are produced at the site of the infection and inflammation.

