 There are three audience levels you need to concern yourself with here:


The interviewer: Usually, a specific journalist will be assigned to your interview. Make sure you know who will be conducting the interview and read his or her past pieces to find out what that interviewer's slant or focus generally is.
The media outlet: The tone of an interview usually varies depending on the medium used to deliver it. A blog is one of the most casual, followed by phone interviews, newspaper interviews, and radio interviews. Professional journal interviews and broadcast television interviews tend to be the most formal.
The primary audience: The company the reporter works for will have a specific audience. A local news or radio station will ask questions that will concern local viewers, while a national station will ask questions that pertain to a wider audience. A specialized source, like a blog or journal, will focus on issues that affect their readership.
 If the interview is scheduled in advance, gather all possible information about it as you set up the time and date. Find out what material the interviewer plans on asking about as well as the expected length of the interview.


Depending on the content of the interview, the journalist may even be willing to provide you with a list of questions he or she plans to ask. The list may not be comprehensive, but it could at least give you a place to start.
 If there is information you cannot disclose about a given topic, make sure the reporter knows this ahead of time. He or she may still try to ask about it anyway, but if you firmly explain that you will not answer those questions before the interview, the reporter is less likely to push you for an answer.
 Since press interviews can be about nearly any topic, it is impossible to generalize about the questions you will be asked during the interview.


If the reporter does not provide you with a list in advance, prepare yourself by noting the most important aspects of whatever the subject matter is. Anticipate what others might be curious about and prepare your answers based on that.
 Conducting a mock interview is often a good way to calm your anxieties about the real interview. Set aside time in advance for a test run.


Ask a trusted associate to practice interviewing with you. Have the associate ask questions you have been informed about or ones that you anticipate and deliver your answers as though you were conducting the actual interview.
 You can wear anything you want during a phone or email interview, of course, but if you are meeting with the reporter in person, you should wear clean clothes that are suited to your position. This is true regardless of whether you will appear in photographs or video.

