 If the event was transmitted by evite, then you can send an email or personal message through social media.

If the invitation was written, but on informal stationary, send a card in return. Call when a phone number is given, unless the invitation says texting is ok.

Even if the option is given on the evite, avoid offering an explanation that all guests can see. It’s much better to simply decline and send a personal message if you feel the need to say why you cannot attend.If your potential host is a close friend, it is best to tell them you can’t make it in person, if possible, or at least over the phone. Send a written note also, closer to the date of the event, to wish them a happy party.
 If you just don’t wish to go, be honest and tell the host you aren’t interested in this particular event, but would love to come to other things s/he hosts in the future.Avoid agreeing to attend something you really don’t want to attend. It will only disappoint your host more when you are expected and don’t show up, or if you change your response at the last minute.It’s ok to not feel guilty for not wanting to attend yet another baby or bridal shower in the spring. Wipe shame from your mind, and respond with a polite decline., If you are declining a friend’s birthday party or graduation celebration, wish them a great party and offer an alternative date to celebrate when it’s just the two of you.


Be sure to offer your sincere disappointment that you cannot attend the original event, and thanks for thinking you were important enough to invite!, This is especially important when turning down informal, but very personal, get-togethers, like a date.Say, “That is very sweet of you, but I will have to pass. I’d love to do something else though, just as friends.”
Don’t embarrass your host by telling others about the invitation. Keep it to yourself, just as you would like others to do when you ask them out.
 If you were invited to a party or event by a close friend, call them afterwards to see how their event went. This gives you a chance to show them you are still thinking about them and happy for their success or accomplishment.

