 What's Thanksgiving without turkey? If you want a more traditional Thanksgiving dinner, make raw “turkey” legs out of eggplant. Carve an eggplant into the shape of a turkey leg for each guest. Slice the eggplant in half lengthwise after it is shaped and scoop out the center of the wider end. Fill the middle with a mix of diced peppers, mushrooms, tomato sauce, spices, and your favorite herbs. You and your guests will enjoy this delicious meal so much that you won't miss that turkey!

Serve the stuffed eggplant closed on a platter, arranged like turkey drumsticks.;
, If you're searching for a "meat" main course, try a raw substitute. You can center your entire Thanksgiving meal around raw “meat” burgers made from vegetables like portobello mushrooms.You can also try “meat” patties made out of almonds and flaxseeds.You can make portobello "meat" burgers with chopped portobello mushrooms, tamari, pumpkin seeds, chopped veggies like carrots, and spices.
Almond flaxseed burgers are made with raw almonds, ground flaxseed, garlic, and coconut oil.
 Raw italian dishes can make good, comforting Thanksgiving meal main courses. The familiar presentation and rich combination of tomatoes, herbs, zucchini, mushrooms, pine nuts, fresh herbs, and other flavorful raw ingredients will be filling and festive for guests of any dietary persuasion.

Raw lasagna contains layers of nut cheese, walnut “meat”, tomato sauce, pesto, and spinach separated by zucchini cut like pieces of lasagna pasta.Raw pasta alfredo is a creamy alternative to tomato-based Italian dishes.
 Nutty balls of rich ingredients, coupled with a beefy flavor from burdock puree will have guests thinking they are eating the real thing. Plus they are tasty and healthy raw alternatives to turkey or ham.

Try making raw meatballs with mushrooms and nuts. Then place it on a bed of zucchini spiral cut into spaghetti, and cover it with a homemade tomato marinara sauce., Thanksgiving day dinner doesn’t have to be full of turkey, dressing, and heavy casseroles. You can do something fun and creative by making a themed menu around world dishes. You can try fun dishes, like raw sushi or raw tacos.

Planning the raw food Thanksgiving meal around an Asian, Indian, or Caribbean theme may make raw food dishes seem less unexpected and more festive for guests unaccustomed to the raw food diet.
 Pureed soups can be creamy, comforting, and very flavorful on the raw food diet. The liquid form will also help fill guests up. You can try to keep with a fall theme by using winter squash, such as butternut squash, delicata squash, or acorn squash, to make a soup.Consider creamy spinach soup, cauliflower soup, or a tomato-based soup to provide more of a rich presentation and hearty taste than broth-based soups.
 Your raw Thanksgiving can feel like a traditional one with some stuffing. There are many different ways to make raw stuffing. It’s full of chopped veggies, like zucchini, carrots, and squash, along with onions and herbs.You can try making stuffing with walnuts, dates, rosemary, and celery.Another yummy recipe includes white mushrooms, celery, onion, garlic, nuts, raisins, apples, herbs, and olive oil.You can also make it with cauliflower, carrots, onions, celery, pecans, olive oil, and herbs., Side dishes are perhaps the easiest selections to make for a raw food Thanksgiving. To make the meal particularly festive, select options that are close to those served at traditional Thanksgiving meals. The richer and more colorful each side dish is, the less likely a raw food Thanksgiving will feel sparse or unfulfilling. Try a festive recipe, like walnut cranberry squash rice or curried cauliflower with cranberries.Consider getting creative with side dishes like onion bread, cauliflower-based raw mashed potatoes, creamed corn, cranberry-apple stuffing, butternut squash, or a raw and warm green bean casserole.
 Cranberry sauce is a staple at any Thanksgiving feast. You can make raw cranberry sauce by mixing cranberries with pineapple, dates, apples, and fresh orange juice. This Thanksgiving staple with definitely give a festive vibe to your meal., Salads are a hit with everyone, and they are a tasty and easy raw food addition to your meal. Consider a traditional salad, like a caesar salad, and a more creative one, like a watercress and red pepper salad or curried sugar snap pea salad., What is Thanksgiving without pumpkin pie? A raw food Thanksgiving can include many of the traditional flavors in desserts, like delicious pumpkin pie. You can make the crust out of pecans, and the filled with pie pumpkin, the traditional spices, and a dash of coconut oil and almond milk. This recipe has a nutty, rich, and hearty flavor., Sweet potato pies are a great addition to a Thanksgiving dinner. Raw sweet potato pies are hearty and will definitely satisfy any sweet tooth. You can make the filling from sweet potatoes, dates, coconut oil, and spices.You can make a tasty crust for the pie that has been soaked and dehydrated.
 Apple pies don't have to be just for summer. Raw apple pies are delicious and can be a good dessert for your holiday dinner. The presentation would trick even the most anti-raw food guest, and the combination of sweet apples, nuts, and cinnamon is sure to please anyone. You can make the filling from apples and dates, and the crust from nuts.Try adding a cinnamon-pecan streusel to the top made of pecans, raw coconut sugar, and spices.
 Chocolate is a hit at any occasion, and Thanksgiving is no different. This decadent cake will be the perfect ending to any raw food Thanksgiving feast.

You can make raw chocolate cake with oat groats, cocoa powder, dates, and raw agave.
 Comforting fall spices on top of pear can add a nice light touch to the end of your meal. Just slice up raw pears, drizzle them with raw honey, and add spices like nutmeg, cinnamon, and ginger., If you will be hosting, let your guests know that you eat raw, so your Thanksgiving meal will consist of all raw dishes. Encourage them to try your delicious and healthy food, or you may consider inviting guests to bring cooked dishes for themselves and other non-raw food dieters to eat., You may be hesitant about bringing your own food to someone else’s Thanksgiving dinner because you don’t want to be rude. However, bringing a few dishes that cater to your lifestyle that everyone can sample isn’t rude. Consider bringing a few raw dishes for yourself that others can eat as side dishes or desserts.You probably should contact the host before you arrive and let them know about your diet preferences. You can give them the heads up that you will be bringing food that aligns with your lifestyle so they won’t be surprised.
 Many raw food recipes require marinades or soaking for tough grains and nuts. This may be impossible to do on Thanksgiving day. Many recipes also need considerable prep work, like shredding, dicing, or chilling portions of the recipes. Know what you are going to cook so you can start meal prep earlier that week., If you are considering serving dishes you have never tried before or hosting non-raw food dieters, select a few recipes for a test run. This helps you know exactly how they will taste and how to prepare them. If there are any problems, you can correct them before Thanksgiving day.

You can rate the recipes on flavor, denseness, and similarity to non-raw food dishes.

