 Private lenders can be both individuals and companies. Common private lenders can be friends, family, business acquaintances, or any other person interested in making an investment in the form of a loan. Private lender companies include specialized private lenders, venture capital firms, investment firms, as well as peer-to-peer lenders.Focusing on private lender companies that have been accredited and approved by governments and/or business and trade organizations is a good place to start your private lender search.
After becoming aware of all the various places to get private lender personal loans, it is important to explore each and every option in search of the best deal. Get quotes from at least five separate businesses before selecting one, and do not be afraid to negotiate. Do not assume that an initial quote is a final offer, and typically rates can be talked down, especially if you can demonstrate another lender offers better rates. In addition, offer collateral if possible, this can often reduce rates significantly.
Websites like Bankrate.com and CreditKarma.com are excellent websites to compare rates.
 The great thing about private lender personal loans is that they don’t have all of the pomp and circumstance that comes with traditional bank loans. In fact, in order to have an oral private personal loan agreement, all it takes is for a person you know to agree to loan you money. However, if a friend, family member or business acquaintance has agreed to lend you money, you should make sure to have the agreement contained in a written contract that outlines the loan amount and terms of repayment.When pursuing private loans from people that you know, you should approach the situation as a negotiation and business interaction. This means that you should have documentation of your credit worthiness available in case they ask to see it.
Be flexible about the loan amount and agreement terms. Doing so could potentially result in you having a low, or even no interest rate.
Be aware that failure to repay this loan to your friend, family member, or business acquaintance may damage your relationship to this person.
 Borrowers need to be prepared to make sure that they look as creditworthy as possible. You should have the ability to show continuous sources of income, savings and physical assets that can be used to secure the debt., Specialized private lenders are companies that are in the business of extending personal loans. Check with your local Better Business Bureau for the specialized private lender companies operating in your community that extend personal loans., In recent years peer-to-peer lender companies such as Prosper have been popping up online. These companies allow potential borrowers to create a profile and list the loan amount they require. Members act as lenders deciding to contribute small or large amounts as a means to fund the loan. The peer-to-peer company collects the donated money and dispenses the proceeds to the lender, who then pays it back directly to the company.These sorts of lenders typically have fairly stringent standards in terms of credit and income. If you are approved, however, you are then assigned to a risk category, and then an interest rate is offered based on your level of risk. Credit standards, however, may still be less stringent then traditional banks, so this option should be explored. Peer-to-peer lending allows you to obtain your money very quickly relative to a traditional bank (often on the same day).
The two dominant peer-to-peer lending sites in the U.S. are Prosper and Lending Club. Simply visit their websites to receive instructions on opening an account, or research other peer-to-peer lenders online.

