 At the dawn of your career, you may find that your expenses often match your earnings, making it hard to begin saving. Consider nontraditional income opportunities to increase or supplement your income. Whether you’re young and looking to establish a solid financial base, or simply between more career-oriented positions, there are plenty of ways to make extra money.


Harness the time and energy you already spend into potential money-making opportunities. For instance, if you already take yoga classes a few times a week, become an instructor. Classes on teaching are probably offered by your favorite studio, and you may even be able to get paid to teach the classes you used to pay to take!
Drive for a ride-sharing company. It’s very easy to begin driving for a rideshare company if you have a vehicle that qualifies, and you only work when you want. If you don’t have an appropriate vehicle, consider being a bicycle-taxi driver. Not only will you be surprised by how much fun you have, you’ll make money while exercising.
Sell stuff you don’t need. Not only can this provide a quick dose in income, you’re getting rid of things that may otherwise lead to additional expenditures.
 If you have a job you’re happy with and your employer is glad to have you, negotiate your salary. There’s no quicker way to increase your salary. Of course, you’ll likely have to do more than just ask for a raise in order to increase your income substantially.


Continue pursuing career advancement opportunities. It is especially financially favorable to get a job that offers benefits. Aside from the reduced costs of healthcare and other financial and lifestyle benefits, many employers offer helpful incentives to begin saving for a financially independent retirement.
If you’re just beginning your career, gravitate towards employment opportunities that will offer you benefits. If you’re already well-established in your field, factors benefits into job decisions, and even propose increases in benefits during salary negotiations.
 Considering that the amount of wealth necessary to achieve financial independence is quite large, you’ll likely need sustainable sources of income to achieve financial independence.Take an active role in your investments. Learn as much about other investment possibilities as you can. Start with standard exchange-traded funds and move up to more-sophisticated investment strategies. Learn to invest online on websites such as Scottrade, Lending Club, and Loyal3.
If possible, acquire some real-estate holdings. Rental properties can readily and quite easily provide passive income streams.
If you attain a level of passive income that fully covers your living expenses to the degree that working becomes optional, you’ve effectively achieved financial independence. Of course, you need to sustain these income sources in order to stay financially independent.
For more information on how to start earning passive income, check out this expert-reviewed article on How to Generate Passive Income.


