 There are lots of places you can look for great upcycling project ideas. Keep in mind that many websites and books use terms like "upcycling," "recycling," and "DIY" or "do-it-yourself" interchangeably.


If you don't have any ideas, you can get a ton from photo-sharing websites and social media sites like Pinterest or Instagram. You can also search for bloggers who specialize in DIY and upcycling projects.
Do a Google Image search. If you already have an item in mind to upcycle, type in the item that you have that you want to change, and the word "upcycle." For example, "sweatshirt upcycle" or "jeans upcycle.";
, Besides the internet, there are resources in your own community that can fill your head with great ideas for upcycling projects!


Head to a second hand store. If you don't own anything that you're ready to cut apart, experiment on items from a second hand store or garage sale.
Try somewhere unconventional. You might take a trip to a junk yard, estate sale, or old garage or barn.
 The first step to upcycling is to know what you're going to do. This will help you plan what materials and supplies you will need and how much time to plan for.


Most upcycling projects take an old item and make it into something that is functionally the same but with new style-- for example, you can turn an old baggy shirt into a more modern style. But you can also take an old item and change it into something completely different, like using an old door as a headboard for a bed or making a sculpture out of old silverware. You can start with items you have and then try to develop ideas, or get ideas and then look for materials.
If you're clueless about how to begin to choose an upcycling project, try rummaging through your drawers, cabinets, or closet for things that you no longer use. When you find something interesting, start brainstorming ideas for a new use or new look for that item.
Rely on skills you already have when choosing your upcycling project (unless you have the time and supplies to learn a new skillset!). For example, if you don't know how to use a sewing machine or a needle and thread, don't choose a project that involves sewing.
 Decide what you would like to change and how you will do it. Choose where you will put things and how it will be laid out.


It’s a good idea to draw out your idea on paper in pencil before you start. Draw "before" and "after" diagrams, showing the item from both the front and back. Indicate what areas will be changed and how.
Your design is completely up to you! Make it stand out and give it personality.
 It can be anything from an old purse to a piece of furniture. Check to make sure the item is structurally sound and safe to work with.


For example, don't use an old piece of clothing that has compromised seams, holes, or stains in areas that will still be visible after the project.
 What you choose to work with is up to you. Make sure to have good fabric or craft glue and a nice pair of scissors.


Always have decorations and things that you can use, or that will just give you inspiration. Things like glitter, or markers, or even printed designs from the internet can come in handy.
 Working off your designs, make your creation. Make sure to wait however long is needed for your glue to dry before adding something new.


Don't be afraid to tweak the designs you find online or in books to better match your personality or just to improve on others' ideas!

, You will need an old painting or print from a thrift store, garage sale, or your own basement. (Please oh please, be sure that it is worthless before you begin your project!) The best candidates are large and with a color palette that you like, but not a design that you want to keep. The final project will hide most of the painting but the colors will peek through your letters.You will also need 2" vinyl letter stickers in a bold font you like and that appears easy to cut out, such as Helvetica (available at craft stores or online); spray paint in white or silver (you can use other colors, but make sure it contrasts enough with the main palette on the art so that your letters will be visible); and sharp scissors., You can use lyrics from a song, a line from a poem, a verse of religious scripture, or just something catchy that you like. It needs to be short and sweet, though, so that it will fit on the canvas.


Choose your phrase depending on where you plan on displaying the painting. If it's for a family room, you might choose something like "love lives here." A kitchen might have something like "season everything with love."

, Use sharp scissors and make careful cuts to cut out every letter, spelling out your chosen phrase.


Keep in mind that if you make errors in cutting, it will show in the final product. Take your time and if you damage a letter in cutting, cut out a fresh one instead. You may end up needing more than one pack of stickers.
 You can arrange them in landscape or letter orientation on the painting, regardless of the original painting's orientation.


Arrange them before sticking them down permanently, to make sure they fit. You can justify them however you like (left, right, or centered)., Using your spray paint, spray over the entire canvas and the stickers with a coat of paint.


If you like the look of a sheerer layer, you can leave it that way. If you want a more opaque coat of color, let it dry and then spray it again. Just be sure that you don't let the paint become too thick, as it may peel up when you remove the stickers.
 After everything has dried, remove the stickers carefully. Go slowly to avoid peeling up the newly painted surface.
 Any old shirt will do, as long as the material is sturdy and not too worn. Remember that a bigger, adult-sized shirt will make a big bag, while a small, child-size shirt will make a small bag.


Keep in mind that a faded, vintage shirt will result in a faded, vintage bag. If that's not the look you're going for, a more crisp, newer shirt might be a better choice.
 It's a good idea to get everything in one place before you begin.


You will need a ruler or other straight edge (a book or box will work in a pinch), a washable marker, and sharp scissors. You might also want a large bowl, but it's optional.
 Using sharp scissors, cut around the inside of the seam that attaches the sleeve to the shirt. You will remove both sleeves as well as the seams. Don't take off any more than that.You can discard the sleeves or use them for another upcycling project, or even keep them to use as dust rags around the house.
 You can make a rounded or more oval opening at the top of the bag. This area will become your bag's handles.To make a rounded opening, use a large bowl (like a salad bowl) as a guide. Line the bowl up in the center of the shirt covering the neck hole, and then use your markers to trace the outline of the bowl edge. This should make a nice rounded guide for cutting, just under the seams around the neck of the shirt. After outlining in marker, remove the bowl and then cut through both layers of the shirt.To make a more oval opening, freehand a large "U" shaped outline that starts directly on either side of the shirt neck and goes a few inches down under the bottom of the seam. Try to be as symmetrical as possible; if you don't like the lines you make, try again (the marker will wash out). Cut it out, cutting through both the front and back of the shirt.
 Depending on how deep you decide, draw a straight line across the bottom of the shirt with your marker. The line should be at least three inches up from the bottom hem of the shirt, but could be more if you would prefer a more shallow bag.
 Starting at the bottom of the shirt, make slits upwards, stopping at the line you drew. Cut all the way through both layers of the shirt.


The slits should be about 3/4" to 1" apart. Complete the slits all the way across the bottom of the shirt. When you're done, you'll have what looks like a fringed tank top., Since this is a no-sew project, you will tie all the fringes together to reinforce the bottom of the bag (so nothing falls out when you use it!). You can choose at this point whether you'd like the fringe to be visible on the outside of the bag, or if you want it to look more like it has been sewn shut with no fringe visible.


For a fringey, boho look, keep the shirt right-side out and tie the fringe across the bottom.
For a more polished, no-fringe appearance, turn your shirt inside out before tying the fringes.
To tie the fringes (whether your bag is inside out or not), begin by tying the front and back sets of fringes in knots in pairs, all the way across the shirt. You will make two ties per set of fringes in order for it to knot and not come undone.Then, to close the gaps between the fringe knots, take one fringe from the first pair and tie it to one fringe from the second pair, tying twice to knot it. Repeat this across the entire shirt, tying every adjacent fringe pair to the one next to it. , You can use the bag instead of wasting paper or plastic bags at the grocery store, and also take it to farmer's markets to tote your produce. You can even take it to the library to tote books that you borrow.


Be sure to keep the bag clean, especially if you use it for raw meat, eggs, and/or produce. You can wash your bag between uses on a gentle cycle, and dry it on low. This will help prevent your knots from coming undone.

