 Winning radio contests is mostly a game of luck, but there are things you can do that will help increase your odds of winning. One thing to try is Skype, which is a voice over internet protocol service that allows you to use your computer to call regular phone numbers. Skype only charges for calls that actually go through, so if you get a busy signal, the call is free.


Skype dials faster than a cell phone, so you increase your chance of getting through before someone who is calling from their cell phone.
 If the contest requires you to correctly answer a question, or is looking for some other specific thing from the listeners, sometimes the disc jockey will casually mention it on the air before they announce for callers to call in. You have to pay close attention to everything that is happening on the radio show a good hour before the contest begins., Many people get frustrated and don't feel like their call is going to connect after a couple minutes, but it still might. Radio stations occasionally pickup a dead line from someone getting frustrated and hanging up just a few seconds too early., When a radio station has a contest where you need to be caller number nine, and the station answers your call only to tell you that you're not the right caller, don't hang up. Stay on the phone and wait for a minute because sometimes when the station switches to another caller they do not completely hang up on you.By staying on the line, you give yourself the chance of the station coming back to you again and you could be the winner.
 Not all phone lines travel at the same speed. Depending on where you are will influence how fast your call will go through to where you are trying to call. The general speed of phone lines from fastest to slowest is office phone, home phone, Skype, cell phones, and then cable digital phones being the slowest to dial out.
 Radio hosts prefer excited callers because they are trying to entertain their listeners which is why they have contests to begin with. They want someone interesting who is willing to show their personality on the air. Sometimes, it doesn’t really matter what number caller you were, as long as you sound excited or have a story.


Tell a personal story about why you are trying to win. Try to be funny and make them laugh.
The more entertaining you are, the better your chances are of winning the contest. They don’t want calm, boring people on air, so if given the opportunity, be outgoing.
 Usually, radio shows announce contests during the morning and afternoon drive-time hours which means a lot of people try to participate from work. Be sure that if your call does go through, you are in a space that allows you to enthusiastically have a conversation with the radio station.


If you call in from your car, make sure you use a hands-free device. Also, be aware that you may lose a call and become disconnected more easily dialing from your car.

