 It is a common pre-adolescent thing to begin watching so intently for the onset of puberty that they see signs that haven't really manifested themselves yet. Start out by clearing away the idea that you MUST have already started on puberty.;
, Hairs, hairs everywhere... One of puberty's clearest indicators is when you start getting hairs in unexpected places. For boys, it is likely to include facial hair, underarm hair, more hair on the legs and chest, and pubic hair. Girls are likely to spot hair growth on the underarms and in the pubic area.
 Your breasts may be tender and may hurt. Please tell a trusted adult about this so you can buy a supportive bra if needed for better support.
 For girls, the best sign of the onset of puberty is the first period. It is likely to be irregular at first, but your periods will settle into a more regular pattern. This shows almost certainty that you are going through puberty.


Before you start getting periods, you may start seeing vaginal discharge, which is a substance that's usually white or slightly yellow in color. These often start happening some time before your first period, but some girls don't get them until after they've started their periods.
 Acne is a common adolescence symptom which is caused by increased secretion of oils and grease in the pores, and bacteria infecting them. If you've got acne, you're almost certainly going through puberty.
 You may suddenly feel all self-conscious. Everybody seems to be looking at you, and you don't like standing up in front of a large number of people any more. If you're finding you suddenly have these sorts of problems, you're probably starting puberty.
 You find that you start to have feelings of attraction for other people, and you may start to be interested in romance, dating, and sexual activity (at least in theory, even if it's too early in practice). If this sounds like you, you've probably started puberty.
 You may find that it took you a year to manage a couple of inches before, you're gaining inches in height faster than you can count them! If this is you, and you're 10-13, you've probably started puberty. If your appetite suddenly takes a leap like it's never leapt before, that's a sign of puberty, too.
 If you find that you get unbelievably happy, and intensely angry, and grief stricken and you don't really know why, you've probably got hormone rushes, which are a symptom of puberty. Boys especially can get very angry and not understand why.
 It may sound gross, and it's true - the smell is hardly appealing. If you find you get stronger-smelling sweat and more of it, even when you're not actually hot, you've probably started puberty.
 If you see any or all of these signs in you, it's time to talk to mom and dad. It may seem hard at first, but in puberty, communication is the key to avoid going off the rails. Parents have been there before, so they'll be able to help you out!

