 However, all Druids believe in the divinity of nature and try to live in balance with the eco-system. Additionally, many Druids believe in reincarnation and in the existence of the Otherworld.


The Otherworld is a spiritual realm where your soul rests before reincarnation.
If you combine Druidism with another religion, you may not believe in the Otherworld. For example, a Christian Druid may not believe that the Otherworld exists.
 Druids believe that nature is inherently holy and should be preserved at all costs. Whenever possible, make an effort to limit your negative impact on the environment. You can practice living in harmony with the environment even if you live in a large city.For example:


Make an effort to recycle all plastic, glass, and metal that passes through your home.
Live frugally to reduce the waste you produce.
Grow a small garden in your home to show respect for nature.
 Many practicing Druids have written excellent books teaching others how to follow the Druid path. Reading these books will enhance your spiritual journey and give you an idea of whether or not Druidism is right for you. Some popular books on Druidism include:


“Druidry and Meditation” by Nimue Brown
“The Path of Druidry: Walking the Ancient Green Way” by Penny Billington
The Druidry Handbook” by John Michael Greer

, There are Druids living all over the world. Experienced Druids can offer advice that will help you along your spiritual journey. Less experienced Druids can offer companionship and insight into the Druid lifestyle.Find other Druids online or by talking to an experienced Druid in your area.
 There are eight Druidic holidays every year where one can celebrate the divinity of nature. During these times, many Druids attend large festivals with seasonal food and dancing. Other Druids enjoy holding small parties in their homes with their friends. There are no rules on how to enjoy these holidays. The Druidic holidays include:


The summer and winter solstice (usually the 21st-22nd of June and the 21st-22nd of December)
The spring and autumn equinoxes (usually the 21st-22nd of March and the 21st-22nd of September)
General celebrations of the seasons that aren’t tied to any specific date