 It's located at https://www.google.com/business/.;
, It's in the top-right corner of the page.


If you're already logged into Google Business, instead click the green START NOW button and skip the next two steps.
 This should be the email address you use for your business, since it's also the email address that will appear in your business location information.
 Doing so will take you to a map view with a field for your business' information on the left side of the page.
 Any information you enter here will display on Google Maps. The information you add will include the following:



Business name - The name you want customers to search for when looking up your business.

Country/Region - Your business' country/region of residence.

Physical address - Your business' brick-and-mortar location.

Phone number - The main line you wish to use for your business.

Category - Select a business category from Google's pre-determined list.

Website - Add your business' website to drive more traffic to your site (and business) pages.

Other details - Click Yes or No at the bottom of the page where Google asks whether or not you deliver goods or services. You may also have to enter additional details about your business depending on your answers to the above inquiries.
 It's the blue button in the bottom-left side of the page.
 This is in the window that's in the top-left corner of the page. Doing so will confirm that you're authorized to manage the business you've posted.
 This will create your Google Business page on Google Plus. Once you verify your address, your business will appear on Google Maps.
 This will appear in the upper-left corner of the page. To verify your address, Google will send you a piece of mail. Until you verify your address, you won't be able to make any further edits or display your business on Google Maps.
 It's next to the "AdWords Express" heading near the middle of the page.
 You can choose from one of three ad goals:



Call your business - If you get most of your business over the phone, click this option.

Visit your storefront - If most of your business comes from in-store interaction, click this option.

Take an action on your website - If yours is a predominately online business, click this option.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of your selected outreach option's window.
 You have two main options at the top of the page that you can click to change your ad outreach:



Target by distance from business - Click and drag the slider at the bottom of the page right to increase your radius and left to decrease it.

Target by city, region, or country - Google will automatically add nearby areas to your ad targets, but you can type additional locations' names into the field that's right of the right-most area.
 It's at the bottom of the screen.
 Google will list several which pertain to your business' name, or you can create your own by typing a description into the field right of the bottom radio button.
 All relevant search queries should be selected on this page by default, so clicking them will de-select them.
, You can change what your ad says by editing the following text fields:



Headline 1 - The first part of your call-to-action.

Headline 2 - The second part of your call-to-action.

Description - A brief description of your business or your provided services.
, To do so, drag the slider right to increase your maximum spending limit or left to decrease it.
 If something doesn't look right, you can click EDIT in the bottom-right corner of the offending item and change the information accordingly.
, You can enter credit or debit card details here.


Remember that ad funds will be directly removed from your account.
 Your AdWords campaign is now set up; your ads will go live when you choose to post them.

