 Use a soft, lint-free cloth to go over all of your furniture before you wipe it down. This will lift any dust and other small particles that might otherwise get ingrained into your furniture when washing.


Feather dusters aren’t as effective for furniture because a feather duster won’t lift any particles. Some feather dusters also have sharp quills which could scratch your furniture.
 Unless you know for sure what kind of finish your furniture is, paint, stain, or another treatment, it’s best to start with the least harmful cleaning products on a small area. Grab a cotton ball or soft cloth. Moisten your cotton ball or cloth with warm water and add a drop of dish soap or dishwashing detergent. Start wiping an inconspicuous area of your wooden furniture like the inside of a leg.


Right now, you want to test to see if the detergent is going to be harmful to your wood furniture. Let the treated area sit for a minute or so and look for any discoloration.
If you don’t notice any unwanted change, your solution is safe.
If you do notice a change, then continue with only warm water and a damp cloth.
 If you didn’t notice a change when you tested your furniture. You can mix water and dish soap in a bucket. Mix 1 gallon (3.8 L) of warm water and 1/2 cup of liquid dish detergent. You want to add enough soap so your water is soapy. Start wiping down your furniture with a damp cloth that you dipped in your solution.


Be careful not to soak the wood. Keep your cloth or sponge damp but not soaking wet. Too much water will ruin the wood.
You can also use mineral oil to clean your wood in addition to or as a substitution to detergent.
 After you’ve thoroughly wiped down your wood, protect it by applying a wax or finish. You can find a variety of wood-specific sprays and polishes at any home goods store or grocery store. Look for sprays that contain silicone oil for protection. For waxing, use only a soft cotton cloth or wax brush. Apply the wax a little at a time and rub it into the wood in a circular motion.Once the wax begins to look dry or hazed over, grab a new cotton cloth or wax brush and buff the wax going in small circles over the waxed area.
Different waxes will require you to wait different amounts of time before buffing. Read the directions on your wax for best results.
Test a rub-on oil, spray, or wax on a small area of wood to ensure it does not cause damage to the wood's finish.

