 To remove mold, you may need to work with chemical cleaners. Many of these cleaners can be harmful if inhaled and, as a result, you should keep the doors and windows open as you work. Never direct a fan of any kind into the room or you will absolutely spread the spores everywhere! A fan may be placed in windows facing outward to push bad air outdoors. You should seal off doors with plastic to avoid spreading the mold spores in other areas of the house.;
, To prevent potential damage that could result if you accidentally spill chemicals or cleaners, protect anything that you do not plan on working with directly. Remove furniture and decorations to the other side of the room or out of the room completely. Cover the floor with newsprint or plastic drop cloth and tape the coverings taped in place. Keep an old rag on hand to catch any spills as you notice them.
 Cleaning agents range from mild to potent and include both natural and chemical alternatives. If you have small children or pets in your home, you may want to consider a milder, natural solution over a powerful chemical one. If you have a more advanced mold problem, a stronger chemical may be necessary.


Combine one part baking soda with five parts water. Baking soda is the mildest, safest cleanser available that is commonly used against mold.
Use straight vinegar or vinegar mixed in equal parts with water. Vinegar is a little stronger than baking soda but it is still natural and safe to use around children and pets.
Try an unscented detergent. Since one of the easiest ways to identify the presence of mold is by smell, using an unscented detergent guarantees that no other smells will interfere with your ability to detect the smell of mold. Detergents are still relatively safe to use around kids and pets even though they are a chemical product. Combine the detergent with a small amount of water.
Use bleach.Some sources recommend the use of bleach while others do not. Objections to bleach are primarily due to how harsh it is and how potentially harmful it can be to breathe in. Some also believe that its effectiveness is not reliably consistent. Nonetheless, it still remains one of the strongest cleaners effective against bleach and safe for painted drywall. Mix one part bleach with three parts water.
 Pour the cleansing agent and water into a spray bottle and shake to combine. Make sure that the solution is thoroughly combined to ensure effectiveness.
 Do not drench the area, since additional moisture can actually increase the mold problem rather than getting rid of it. Spray to mold once or twice over, making sure that each area has been covered with the solution but without using so much solution that it begins dripping off.
 A dish sponge with an abrasive side can also work. Scrub the area until you no longer see any discoloration or visible mold.
 Since mold can start developing if you leave the area moist, point an electric fan on the spot to help it dry out faster.
 If some mild staining still exists even after you have removed the mold, use a stain-blocking primer and paint to mask it.

