 It may take some trial and error to learn what works best for your skin type, but in general, you should never use a harsh soap on your facial skin, especially not in winter.


Choose a mild cleanser that is alcohol-free and does not contain sulfates (an ingredient that strips the lipids from your skin, reducing its protective barrier). In winter when skin is at its most vulnerable, it's a good idea to use a formula for sensitive skin, even if you don't normally consider your skin sensitive.If the facial soap you choose leaves your skin feeling tight, dry, or with a "squeaky clean" feeling, find a different one. Those are signs that your skin is being stripped of its protective layer of naturally occurring oils and lipids.The best mild soaps apply more like a thin moisturizer (without foaming and in a creamy layer).Try Cetaphil, Olay face wash for sensitive skin, or Burt's Bees Sensitive Facial Cleanser.If you do not have acne or other skin issues, using a small bit of coconut oil is enough to cleanse the skin. It is very mild and has the additional benefit of moisturizing your skin. To use, take a small amount of coconut oil in your fingers (coconut oil is solid at temperatures below 72°F or 22°C, but will melt on contact with your skin). Rub into your facial skin and gently remove with a warm, moist washcloth or tissue. Do not rub vigorously, as that can irritate your skin. Coconut oil has the added benefit of being an excellent way to remove makeup.
In the mornings, unless you have very oily skin or acne that needs to be treated, consider using nothing but water to wash the face. Soaps remove natural protective oils which leaves your skin vulnerable to chapping, and morning skin is not really dirty since you've been sleeping on a clean pillow all night with no make-up on., This will vary depending on your skin type, but in general, heavier creams are best for the dry, cold winter months.


Your warm weather moisturizer is unlikely to be effective in the winter months. Many people who use a light moisturizer in the spring and summer need a heavier cream or ointment for the winter.
Don't be afraid to use oils on your face. Years ago, many people believed that oils in face products would cause acne, but new products containing oils such as jojoba, sweet almond, primrose, avocado, argan, or coconut oil have flipped this logic on its head. Look for an ointment or cream that is "oil-based" rather than "water-based" for the best winter moisturization.If you have sensitive skin, look for products that are marked "fragrance free," as fragrance can cause irritation, itchiness, and dry patches.
 The nighttime is a great time to allow your skin to rest and absorb extra moisture to prepare for the coming day. Additionally, indoor heaters can cause a lot of dryness on the face overnight, so a heavier moisturizer can ward that off.


Consider an oil treatment such as pure argan oil, or a nighttime facial moisturizing mask, which is essentially a heavy cream.
While most nighttime facial creams will not damage your pillowcase, those that are oil-based might leave a stain, so consider sleeping with a towel wrapped around your pillowcase or using a pillowcase that you don't mind staining.
 While you may enjoy spa treatments the rest of the year, less is often more during the winter, when the skin is more sensitive to chemicals and abrasion.


Peels, masks, and scrubs used in the winter months can simply irritate already-compromised winter skin. Use them minimally, or not at all.Scrubs in particular can be damaging to the surface of the skin. Avoid those that contain jagged particles (like those made from walnut shells) as well as those that contain plastic microbeads, which do not decompose and pose a threat to wildlife as they wash down the drain.If you do use a scrub, use a gentle one that contains exfoliating particles made of sodium bicarbonate (that is, baking soda), which will dissolve as you wash it down the drain. Olay's Pro-X brand is one you can try.Be sure if you use a toner that it is alcohol-free, as alcohol is very drying to the skin., The lips are more delicate and tend to become chapped due to dehydration, harsh winter winds, and dry air. Prevent these problems with the right precautions.


Use lip balm every day to prevent chapping, particularly those formulated with Vitamin E and beeswax. If you will be outdoors at all, especially during the hours of 10 am–3 pm in the Western hemisphere (when the sun is at its peak) or when there is snow on the ground, be sure to use a lip balm with SPF 15 or higher.At night, use a thicker lip treatment. A homemade mixture of shea butter and coconut oil (melted together in the microwave) is affordable and effective. Mix it with a little sweet orange essential oil, and you have a great homemade holiday gift as well!
Avoid "matte" lipsticks as they tend to dry out the skin (as well as accentuating every dry flake and wrinkle). Generally, glossy or shiny lipsticks tend to be the most hydrating, although you may have to try a few brands to find one that works well for you. If you do want to try the matte lipstick trend, be sure to gently exfoliate and moisturize your lips first (a soft toothbrush with a bit of coconut oil on it works great for this).Most important: Don't lick your lips. Although many people do it, it increases irritation by drying your lips further as your saliva evaporates. Use lip balm if you feel the urge to lick your lips.