 If you're engaged with a text, it's harder to get bored with it. Reading actively can help you get into a book. To start, underline or highlight important sections.


You should underline sections that are of interest to you, like particularly notable descriptions. However, you should also underline sections that seem important to the work. If you've been learning about the concept of foreshadowing, for example, highlight or underline examples of foreshadowing in your text.
Do not go overboard. Some students, especially when they first start to highlight, may end up highlighting half the page. Use discretion. Target significant portions of the text only.
Make sure you check with your teacher before underlining or highlighting. If your book belongs to the school, it may be against the rules to write in it.
 As you read the book, try to ask yourself questions. Make predictions about what will happen next. Try to see how certain lines, passages, or descriptions point to the greater theme of the work. Ask what each portion of the book says and what it does.


What a section of the book says is its literal meaning. For example, if you're reading East of Eden you may note Steinbeck describes the setting as being caught between two sets of mountains. One set is dark and foreboding and the other is light and calm. What this section says is a description of the setting of the work.
Ask yourself what this section does. In other words, how does this section function on a deeper level? Take the mountains in East of Eden. Steinbeck is establishing a metaphor. The main characters are caught between light and dark forces.
 Margin notes can also help you engage with the text. If you underlined or highlighted something, make a note of why. For example, you could write something like, "Example of foreshadowing" or "Symbolic of the main character's emotions." This can help you engage with the text. Better understanding a work can decrease boredom while reading it.
 The more you know about a work, the more interesting it will seem. If you encounter anything unfamiliar or confusing while reading a text, try looking it up. You may read or learn something through your research that makes you more interested in the text.


Write down any unfamiliar vocabulary words and look them up later. You should also write down any terms or concepts that you don't understand.
Do a little research on the author. Understanding the author's beliefs and background can enhance your understanding of a text.
 As you read, write down questions. If there's anything you do not understand or want to know more about, jot it down in a notebook. In class, when discussing the book, you can raise these questions. Your teacher's insight can help you develop an active interest in your reading material.

