 Your health and your safety has to be your number one priority. Depression can be incredibly difficult and can lead to physical health issues as well as suicidal thoughts. Keep in mind that depression is a flaw in chemistry and not in character, and that there is help available. Make sure you are taking care of yourself and not pushing yourself too hard to succeed. Your health is more important.


Make sure you are getting the right amount of sleep, about 6 to 9 hours a day.Since excessive sleeping is a symptom of depression, make sure you get enough sleep and keep a log to ensure you are not getting too much.
Remind yourself to feed and nurture your body by eating well. Depression can often cause a loss of appetite so make sure you are eating regularly and taking vitamins and medicines as directed as well.You may also find that you are self-medicating with unhealthy foods, so aim for a balanced diet.
Exercising will improve your general mental health and self-esteem. Try to exercise 20 minutes a day, three days a week, even if the exercise is just a walk outside. , Symptoms of depression can include feelings of sadness, physical pain, and fatigue.If you attempt to force yourself to attend classes, it will likely not be helpful for you in the long run. Make sure you are giving yourself the time off you need and treating the symptoms as they come up.


If you are feeling overwhelmed, take a break from your schoolwork and do something else, like watching a TV episode, taking a walk, or cooking can be helpful. Likewise, if you are having a good day, then try to accomplish as much as you can. This will help you to feel better about yourself.
Visit your doctor to address any health or pain issues you are having. Reducing the stress of physical health issues by dealing with them will help you focus on working on your depression.
Keep a daily record of the symptoms you are experiencing and the severity of those symptoms. Your record can be brief and will be helpful in the management of your depression.Ask your current doctor about antidepressants. Many people who suffer from depression take pills that help adjust the chemicals in their brain.
 Having hobbies and activities that you like - whether they're sports, games, crafts, or whatever else - can really help you find balance in your life. School is important, as is making sure you don't get behind in your studies. Your sense of balance and enjoyment in life is also important. Make sure you are taking breaks from your stress and engaging in activities that make you feel good like helping others or volunteering., Your support systems can be made up of family, friends, teachers, peers, mental health professionals and medical professionals. Make sure those in your support group are aware of what you are going through and are truly concerned about your health and happiness.


Being social is a large part of the stereotypical college experience. Know that it's okay to be you or to be introverted. You don't have to go out and do all of the social activities, and you should not feel pressured to do so. However, keep in mind that challenging yourself to do something difficult now and then can help to make you feel better.
 Telling someone you have depression can be difficult. Identify people who you're comfortable talking to - your family members, trusted friends, teachers, counselors, or therapists - and talk to them about support.It is possible to balance your studies, school obligations, and your emotional well-being, but you may need a little help or encouragement from time to time. After identifying who you are comfortable with, ask them to meet with you to talk. Take time to explain to them what you have been going through. When talking to your support system provide information about depression, your experience with depression, as well as its occurrence in colleges.


”I wanted to talk to you about something I'm going through. It's difficult for me to talk about.”
”I'm struggling with my classes and with school in general. I feel sad all the time and I can't shake it.”
”I'm not sure what's going on. It's been really hard for me to get motivated or to enjoy anything lately.”
”I just feel like I need some help and I'm not sure what to do.”

