 Discomfort is a normal part of the twin block treatment process, but there are situations where pain could indicate that there is a problem with your braces. If a brace is ever broken or bent, call your orthodontist and schedule an appointment as soon as possible. If you are dealing with severe pain, consider talking to your doctor about pain management medications.If you ever lose one of your braces, make an appointment with your orthodontist as soon as possible., Canker sores tend to appear near the metal parts of the twin block braces where they irritate the skin. These are the most common type of mouth ulcer and it's very likely that you’ll get one at some point during your orthodontic treatment. They typically last 10 to 14 days and can be treated with over the counter remedies.Look for products that temporarily numb the area to bring some short-term relief. You can also rinse your mouth with warm salt water, which helps to ease oral irritations. Be sure not to swallow the salt water after rinsing.You can look for products at drug stores that are specifically intended for mouth ulcers, or for products that contain oral antiseptics, like carbamide peroxide, that will kill bacteria.
If you frequently get canker sores, talk to your orthodontist about whether a prescription-strength product is right for you.
 A dental kit will contain supplies that will help you clean and care for your twin block braces while you’re on the go. You can keep a dental kit in your car, purse, briefcase, or backpack. Your dental kit should include:A travel or full-size toothbrush
Travel size toothpaste
Dental wax
Dental floss or interdental picks
A small spiral dental brush. You may have to ask your orthodontist for one of these brushes.
You can find a dental kit at a large retailer or a drug store if you don’t want to make your own.
 You may experience pain or discomfort after your braces have been adjusted. With most block braces, your orthodontist will either instruct you to turn a key on the top brace or they will do it for you during an appointment. This key expands the top brace and will be adjusted as your jaw moves into the correct alignment. This can be uncomfortable, or even painful. Depending on your specific treatment, your bottom brace could be adjusted periodically.After your top or bottom brace has been adjusted, eat soft foods and avoid any hard foods.


An ice pack can help alleviate jaw pain, or you can take an over the counter pain medication.

