 From the Settings page, select “Timeline and Tagging” from the left sidebar. You can use this page to control who posts on your wall and who sees what on your wall.You'll see three main categories:



Who can add things to my timeline? Use this category to control who can post on your timeline. You can block all friends from posting to your timeline, but you can't block specific groups (say, Family). You can also set up a review system whereby you review things that your friends tag you in before they wind up on your timeline.

Who can see things on my timeline? Use this to review what other people see on your timeline; you can specially regulate who can see the posts that you're tagged in, and you can control who sees what others post on your timeline. Once you've tweaked the settings, click "View As" to see your timeline as someone else sees it: say, your friend, or your grandmother.

How can I manage tags people add and tagging suggestions? You can choose to review the tags that people add to your own posts (say, in comments) before those tags appear on Facebook public.
 Under "Who can add things to my timeline?", click "Edit" next to "Who can post on your timeline?" Select "Only Me" from the drop-down menu, instead of "Friends". This way, no one will post anything—good or bad—to your wall.


Alternately, select "Review posts friends tag you in before they appear on your timeline?" Then, choose "Enable" from the drop-down menu. This way, you'll be able to carefully curate what shows up on your timeline.
 Click "Edit" next to "Who can see posts that you've been tagged in on your timeline?" Then, select "Custom" from the drop-down menu. Type your family members' names in the box beneath "Don't share with" to block them from seeing posts on your wall. Next, do the same with "Who can see what others post on your timeline?"

, In the "How can I manage tags people add and tagging suggestions?" box, select "Edit" next to "Review tags that people add to your own posts before the tags appear on Facebook". Then, select "Enabled" from the drop-down menu. Now, you should be able to stop friends from making offensive tags on your Facebook posts.

