 The different ingredients in the master tonic are important. The first ingredient that you need is garlic. Garlic has a number of components that have been shown to have anti-microbial and immune-boosting properties and is considered safe for adults and children in doses normally used in food. Garlic can also lower cholesterol and help control blood sugar. Buy at least one full bulb of garlic to make this tonic.


Do not use garlic if you are taking medications like isoniazid, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) such as nevirapine (Viramune), delavirdine (Rescriptor), and efavirenz (Sustiva), or other antivirals including the protease inhibitors saquinavir (Fortovase, Invirase), amprenavir (Agenerase), nelfinavir (Viracept), and ritonavir (Norvir).;
, Onions are in the same botanical family as garlic and have similar properties. These are often attributed to one of the components of onions called quercetin. Buy at least one whole white or yellow onion for the tonic.


Onion is considered safe for adults and children in doses normally used in food., Horseradish root has a Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS) status in the US in the amounts normally used in food. Horseradish has anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, and anti-cancer activities. It has also been shown to lower blood pressure. Get at least a 3-inch piece of horseradish root., Ginger, which comes in the form of a root, is an important herb in traditional Chinese medicine and has Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS) status in the US in the amounts normally used in food. Ginger has anti-cancer, anti-inflammatory, immune-boosting, and antioxidant effects.Get at least a 3 inch piece of ginger root for the tonic.


Do not use ginger if you take nifedipine. Excessive bleeding may result in rare cases.
 There are many different hot peppers that can be used in this recipe. These include cayenne, habanero, or jalapeño peppers. These peppers are rich in vitamins, minerals, and bioflavonoids that function as antioxidants and pain relievers. They also have capsaicin, a major component of cayenne pepper, which depletes Substance P, a chemical messenger that transmits pain messages to the brain.Make sure to buy at least eight to ten hot peppers of your choice.
 Apple cider vinegar is widely used for a variety of disorders including heartburn, diabetes, and infections as well as a topical treatment for acne, sores, burns, and skin infections. It is high in B vitamins and vitamin C and has antimicrobial properties.Buy a bottle of apple cider vinegar that is at least 32 ounces.
 To make the tonic, peel your garlic, onions, and horseradish root. Chop the onions into smaller pieces, though they don't have to be too small. Remove the stems from your hot peppers and chop them half or thirds.


Keep the seeds in your hot peppers. If you are worried about burning your skin or getting the juice from the peppers in your eyes, wear plastic gloves., Place all the ingredients into a large blender. Chop up the ingredients if they are too large for the blender, especially the root. Blend until pureed., Pour the puree into a large, lidded glass jar. Leave the ingredients in the wet mixture in jar to marinate. Stir the mixture daily for two weeks. It does not have to be refrigerated, though you can if you prefer.


The jar should be dark to protect against light, but you can use a clear glass jar and place it in a dark area or cover it with a towel., After two weeks, strain out all the solids and use the remaining liquid as your master tonic. Take ½ to 1 ounce daily, which is about one to two tablespoons. Gargle the master tonic for 30 seconds, then swallow. If you are already sick, you can take more each day.


Keep the remaining tonic in a dark jar either in a cupboard or in the refrigerator. It keeps for a very long time without going bad.The master tonic has never been clinically tested. While all the individual components have known medicinal properties, they have not been tested all together. However, it is safe to try, especially during cold season.

