 Scalding liquids are the most prevalent cause of burns in children; this can occur from a bath that is too hot, or the child placing his or her hand under the tap in water that is too hot.Other causes of burns include:


Chemical burns (these can be caused by paint thinner, gasoline, and strong acids)
Fire burns
Steam burns
Burns from hot objects (such as hot metal or hot glass)
Electrical burns
Ultraviolet burns (from sunlight or from excess time in tanning beds)
Abuse (in children especially, this must always be considered as a potential cause of a burn if there is any doubt whatsoever surrounding the circumstances of the burn);
, There are three "severities" of burns — first degree, second degree, and third degree.Examine the area of the burn to get an idea of the severity and to assess whether or not you need to bring your child to the hospital.


First degree burns affect the outermost layer of skin only, causing pain, redness, and/or swelling. Generally, first degree burns are not too concerning and do not need to be seen by a doctor.
Second degree burns affect the outermost layer of skin as well as some of the inner layers. For this reason, they may cause blistering in addition to pain, redness, and swelling. Second degree burns greater than two to three inches wide require evaluation from a doctor right away.
Third degree burns travel through the full thickness of the skin. They may cause whitened or blackened skin, and may leave the skin feeling numb. Third degree burns always require evaluation by a medical professional.
It is also important to note the location of the burn. Burns on the hands, feet, face, buttocks, or over a joint and/or genitals are more serious and, if in doubt, warrant being evaluated by a medical professional., In the case of a more serious burn, prompt medical attention is key to proper healing. It is important to go to the hospital if any of the following are present:You think it qualifies as a third degree burn.
The surface area of the burn is equal to or larger than the surface area of the child's palm.
It is a chemical burn or an electrical burn.
There was smoke at the time of the burn — this can cause a smoke inhalation injury.
The child shows signs of shock. (Symptoms include altered consciousness, paleness, dizziness or fainting, weakness, rapid heartbeat, or rapid or difficulty breathing.) Call 911 if these symptoms are present.
Physical abuse is suspected as a possible cause for the burn.
If at all uncertain, it is best to seek the professional opinion of a doctor.

