 At the end of the day, your athletic prowess is the chief factor determining whether or not you will receive a scholarship. You must play hard every game and you must play as many games are you are able to. Try to be a team player as well in order to show that you will work well with new teammates.
 In the summer before your senior year, if not earlier, make sure to attend as many football camps and showcases (also known as combines) as you can. Try to target those camps sponsored or held by colleges that you are interested in. In some cases you will need to have your coach send in a recommendation for you.These camps are also where your “measurables” will be determined. These are personal measurements of your vertical leap, 40-yard dash, and height/weight. Recruiting services, such as ESPN, will post these stats to their main websites., This is a commonly recognized part of the recruiting process for every sport, including football. Put together a video of your best plays. It should be five minutes or less. You can put this together yourself using basic video software. Post the video to YouTube and email the coaches the link.College coaches will often ignore videos that last too long or are too elaborate. For example, don’t use slow motion graphics or dramatic music.Make sure to include your email on the last frame of the video.
 There are companies and individuals, who you can contact online, who will handle the process of reaching out to college football coaches for you. They will also provide you advice regarding camps, combines, and NCAA regulations. However, be aware that they will charge a fee for these services and it can vary greatly.


Be aware that some coaches can view recruiters as an unnecessary middleman., Search your local area for an athletic training site that specializes in working with professional or pre-professional athletes. These trainers can often offer assistance with reaching out to college coaches. They can also help you to improve your skills which can aid in recruitment as well.