 If you're calling home to see if anyone wants something, do so before entering the drive-thru lane. Trying to gather everyone's order by phone as you're actively ordering creates a delay for you the customer as well as everyone in line behind you.
 Either turn down the volume or turn off any radios or CDs that are blaring noise. Excess noise may interfere with hearing the order. The employees need to hear the actual order, not what you are listening to in your car. If the restaurant has a drive-thru speaker behind the counter for the food line, people ordering inside can hear everything that happens around the service speaker. This includes the conversations held by other people in the car.(Yes! They can even hear you yell at or spank your children... it is very awkward!) Also, if you have a loud engine, it is advised to turn it off as well., Not doing so results in your wipers spraying dirty water, anti-freeze leftovers and grime on the service person., The last thing someone in a drive-thru needs is blazing headlights in their mirrors. Parking lights are acceptable. The only exception to this rule is if the area is not lit. You may turn the headlights back on if there is no one in front of you or when exiting the line., It's polite to know what you're going to have before you come to the speaker. Pondering and thinking at the speaker wastes the employees' time, as well as the time of the people in the back of you. Note that some places may have breakfast and lunch items on the same board, but will stop breakfast at a certain time (usually around 10:30 to 11 am). Some boards may have "express" items, or a limited amount, whereas a full menu can be accessible inside the restaurant., Speak loudly, slowly and clearly but not so slow that you cause the employee to feel like a child and not so loud that you're screaming at the employee taking your order. You'll always want the food line to know exactly what you want, so if there is any miscommunication or if something is wrong with your order, you may need to go into the restaurant to change it. Have one person talk into the speaker instead of people shouting out their orders from the vehicle. Finally, be sure to verify each item or meal before leaving the speaker., Cashiers at fast food restaurants have multiple duties and may not be giving you their full attention, they might also be speaking with a customer at the service window, or putting equipment away, etc. If you read out your full order in a single breath, it will probably be misunderstood. Take small pauses after different items (number one combo...with no pickles and extra mayo) and wait for the cashier to respond ("ok", "yes", etc) before continuing., Don't be afraid to tell the order taker to add ketchup, mayonnaise, extra sauces, salt or pepper, and so forth at lunchtime, or jelly, butter, creamer and sugar, and so forth at breakfast to your bag. For the most part, it's free!

Note that some places charge for extra sauce. You can try to be slick and ask for it at the window but most places see that food cost slipping away and will charge you at the window.
Realize that asking for extras slows down the line. Patience is a virtue not much found in fast food lines.
 The order taking system is so high-tech that many restaurants with drive-thru service have the grill-staff wearing the same headsets as the order-takers so that they can hear and begin preparing your order as soon as you say "cheeseburger." So, if you order anything after said cheeseburger, then go back and say, "Oh, can I have that first cheeseburger with no onions", the grill team now has to make another cheeseburger for you, wasting your time and the customers behind you, and wasting food.

Reminder: By doing this, it means now you have an audience of at least 4-8 people listening to you screaming at your child for making changes––how awkward.




 "Can I add a #4 large with a chocolate shake....I'm sorry my wife just called and asked me to get her something, too"

Do not add to or change your order at the window. As stated earlier, to speed up service, employees begin making the food as you're ordering it. If you change your order at the window, the grill team can't hear it and now they must stop making the next person's order and fix what you changed to not slow down the drive-thru. If your change is a big one (for example, completely re-making an item because you decided you wanted to take something off or substitute, or you added more items), chances are they will ask you to park aside and bring you the changed or added items so you don't slow down the rest of the line more than necessary. That's your time being wasted then but it's only fair since you've made major ordering revisions.
 Fewer people smoke nowadays and in many places, smoking is not allowed on food premises at all. Therefore, not everyone wants to smell your tobacco or marijuana products when they open the drive-thru window, nor do they want your smoke in their face. Remember, this is a window and when it opens, the wind carries the smell throughout the service area of the restaurant. The employee at the window isn't the only one who gets bombarded with it., Organizing your payment method should be carried out before driving into the line. Trying to search for and dish out change from the deepest crevices of your car seat at the last minute may hold up the line and people's orders. Worse for you, you mightn't have enough to pay!, Leave a good space between you and the car in front of you. Have respect for those around you and move forward when they do., Waiting for the customer to move things around while the employee is holding the bag or drinks out the window also creates a delay for the entire line of customers.

If your car is like your second basement, the need to create space for the food should be a paramount concern before you get in the queue to order.

