 Some family problems can affect your life greatly and create a lot of distress, which can be hard when you are trying to balance your home and school life. You want a place where you feel safe, and home isn’t it. This can make you feel stressed, exhausted, confused, isolated, and negative. Some signs of family problems can include:Frequent arguing and disagreements.
Poor communication.
Angry outbursts.
Avoidance.
Physical conflict.
 Especially if your family has gone through a major transition, such as a move, birth of a sibling, or divorce, talk to your parents and let them know how you feel. It’s hard to say whether they will respond in a way that benefits you, but you may be surprised to find they listen and support you.Tell your parents that you’re having a hard time with all the changes. Tell them you feel stressed and don’t know what to do.
 Maybe the biggest trigger at home is trying to get along with your sibling(s). Find ways to enjoy your time with your siblings in ways that don’t lead to conflict. Try to avoid topics or situations that tend to lead to fights. Find ways to show you care about your sibling.


Try to resolve any ongoing feuds. For instance, if you fight for time in the bathroom in the mornings, create a schedule. You can also start taking showers at night.
 If you really struggle to get along while at home, or want to avoid the fights that happen at home between siblings or parents, find an outside activity. Try to spend less time at home and more time with school activities or with friends.


This isn’t a long-term option, but should be used to temporarily get you through a tough time. Hopefully you can repair relationships and begin to spend more time with your family soon.
 If you are experiencing abuse in your home, seek help immediately. This can include from a parent, step-parent, relative, or sibling. Abuse within the home can include:Hitting, shoving or physical force that endangers or injures you.
Someone belittling, humiliating, or criticizing you.
Someone controlling everything you do, controlling your finances and your daily activities.
Sexually approaching you (giving you unwanted kisses, unwanted touches or sexual contact, including oral sex or penetration, or forcing you to do the same).
Blaming you for the behavior.
If you are in danger, call 1-800-799-7233 (SAFE).

