 When choosing a healthy base ingredient, it's best to find something high in protein, fiber, calcium, and iron. You don't need to choose a base loaded with each of these nutrients, but selecting a base that is high in one or two will give you a lot of nutritional value. Try to keep saturated and trans fats, sugar, cholesterol, and sodium low.Generally, yogurt is high in calcium and protein, especially Greek yogurt. Yogurt also generally has a healthy gut bacteria that can improve digestion.Oatmeal and other whole grains are a great source of fiber, but they also generally a good source of vitamins, minerals, antioxidants, and protein.A vegetable base, like baby spinach or other greens, can form an excellent base for a light, healthy breakfast.;
, Again, you'll want to avoid supplemental ingredients high in fat (both saturated and trans), sugar, cholesterol, and sodium. Nuts and eggs are a great choice, as they're not only high in protein, but are loaded with other nutrients.Other healthy ideas for toppings include:

Berries, like blueberries, strawberries, raspberries, blackberries, and so on.
Fruits, like cantaloupe, grapes, bananas, apricots, and more.
Seeds, like hemp seeds, chia seeds, quinoa, and flax seeds.
 This will depend on the kind of base ingredient you've chosen. In some cases, like with yogurt, you might only have to transfer the base to a serving bowl. In other cases, like with oatmeal or quinoa, you may need to cook the ingredient before it's ready to eat.

Generally, the package instructions of most foods contain a description of how it should be prepared. Use the package instructions to guide you in the preparation.
 Some recipes may call for supplemental ingredients, like eggs, to be cooked or boiled before being served with the base. However, many toppings can be added straight to your bowl, like fruits, berries, and nuts.

Be sure you wash ingredients, especially fruits and berries, before adding them to your breakfast bowl., Use a kitchen utensil to load a helping of your base into a bowl. You may want to add some flavoring to it, like honey, maple syrup, or salt and pepper. After that, arrange your toppings on the base and enjoy.

You may find that mixing your topping ingredients with your base has a more flavorful result.

