 They may say that others have contacted them privately about you and your behavior or beliefs in order to bolster their case that there is something wrong with you. This is especially common in long-term online communities like chatrooms or online forums.


For instance, after enduring several weeks of abuse from a cyberbully you might get a private message from them which reads, “A number of users have contacted me about what you’ve said and agree with me that you are both stupid and ugly.”

, Do not let abusive messages hurt your feelings. Remember, the cyberbully is posting or sending abusive content with the express goal of getting a rise out of you. If you feel sad, hurt, or angry, the cyberbully has won. View the situation in a detached light and consider the cyberbully for what he or she is: a pathetic, sad individual who projects their weaknesses and flaws on others.Understand that cyberbullies, like any other kind of bullies, are cowards and use the anonymity afforded by the internet to hide who they are. Recognizing this will help you put their opinions and abuse in perspective. It is difficult to take seriously the worthless claims of a coward.
Don’t blame yourself for the cyberbullying.Don’t, for instance, feel that the abuser might have a point when he or she criticizes a shirt you wore in a picture you posted of yourself. You never deserve slander and abuse online or offline for the clothes you wear (or any other reason).
Engage in hobbies and interests where you cannot be cyberbullied. Try taking a brief break from the web by playing a sport, picking up a musical instrument, or writing your feelings in a journal. Running or biking are also great choices to relieve stress brought on by cyberbullying.
 Cyberbullies thrive on the sense of control they derive from taunting and harassing you. When you see their messages in your inbox, or read them in a forum, do not reply in order to deny their charges, and do not reply with an equally malicious line of slander.Doing so would bring you down to their level.


If possible, block the user on the forum or chat community. This way, they cannot send you messages and you cannot see their posts., Keep all abusive messages and emails. Do not delete them. If possible, create a subfolder for these messages labeled “Abuse” and store them there. The messages will serve as evidence for you later if you need to take more serious action. The accumulated emails or messages will serve as evidence that you have been a victim of cyberbullying.Each time you receive a message or see a threatening or abusive post, report it to the forum administrator.
If your cyberbully is sending messages directly to your email, you may need to contact their internet service provider (ISP) directly in order to have their email account shut down. For instance, if you get emails from bully@aol.com, you can contact AOL (the provider of the email address) in order to get that email address banned.
A full list of ISP contact information is available at http://www.search.org/resources/isp-list/.

