 Knowing what you want to get out of meditation is an important place to start since different meditation techniques can be used to reach different goals. Consider your motivation for meditation:For example, ask yourself if you hope to gain insight into a problem, improve your concentration, achieve a sense of calm, develop more energy, or better sleep? Are you interested in meditation as a way to overcome abuse, addiction, or other difficult life situations?;
, Now that you’ve identified why you want to meditate, determine the specific meditation exercises that will suit your needs. While most forms of meditation relieve stress and anxiety, certain types of meditation can provide specific benefits and work better with certain personality types.



Mindfulness meditation is good for people who are easily distracted and looking to improve their focus and concentration.
If you are an active person who has a hard time sitting still, you might want to consider a meditation technique such as walking meditation where you can move and be outside.

Loving kindness meditation is often recommended for people wanting to feel more compassionate and empathetic.
 There are a lot of books, articles, and online resources that promise amazing transformations, but it’s a good idea to keep your expectations reasonable. Changing the way you think or feel through meditation can take a long time to achieve.Learning how to meditate takes time and practice, so don’t expect to be comfortable with it immediately.
 Many people don't allow much time for meditation or choose a good time to practice it. Ideally, the best times are in the early morning or late at night, when it typically is more peaceful and quiet around you and you can relax properly.You can choose any time when you know your surroundings will be quiet and you can focus for a longer period.
Try to set aside 3 to 5 minutes for meditation at first, and gradually build up to about 45 minutes.
You might not always have the full time you would like, but planning your meditation time will help you get in the right mindset to meditate.
 Many people meditate without knowing it. When you relax with a cup of tea, paint a picture, or go outside and feel relaxed, you’ve had a meditative experience.


Take comfort in knowing that you already have some experience meditating and can achieve even better results with more focused practice.
 Learning to meditate is like any other kind of training, and establishing guidelines or setting ground rules will make your practice more successful. In addition to following a specific meditation technique, try to plan what you will do before and after you meditate.It can also be helpful to plan how you will respond or react if your meditation is interrupted or disturbed. Achieving meditation is difficult and it can be aggravating to have that state interrupted, but you can control how will respond and how you will get back on track.
Having the same routine before and after meditation will help you get in the mindset quickly and extend the benefits for a longer period.
 Choosing where to meditate is just as important as choosing when to meditate. You will want to select a location that is quiet, comfortable, and where you feel safe.If you live in a busy house, or in a noisy environment where there is little space or silence, look for an alternative location. It might require borrowing a spare room at a friend's or relative's house or booking a study room in a library. You can also meditate outside in a place like a garden, a gazebo or other outdoor structure where you can get away from others for a short time.
 Your meditation will be more successful if you can take a few minutes to relax before you get started. Try some of these techniques to get in the right space to meditate:


Practice tensing and relaxing groups of muscles.Imagine a tranquil scene.
Listen to soft music.
Take deep breaths.
Try stretching.
 Like any other skill, meditation is more effective when you practice it regularly. Meditation will come more easily if you schedule sessions frequently.Choose a time that works with your schedule and needs –once a day, twice a day, once a week, twice a week, even once a month if you're struggling to begin.
Try to make meditation a part of your routine so you don’t have to make a decision to meditate. It will just be part of your typical day.
It’s normal for some meditation sessions to be easier than others, so don’t be discouraged if you have difficulty reaching a meditative state.
 Each time you meditate, take a few minutes to reflect on your experience. Make some notes about what went well or didn’t go well.


This might help you identify behaviors or external factors that are making it harder to meditate. You will also learn which parts of your routine are most effective.

