 Once you have introduced the dog and the cat, you should start rewarding the dog for treating the cat in a proper manner. After you first introduce them, if the dog ignores the cat or acts friendly, you should give them a treat. Continue this while you are supervising their interactions.Do not physically punish the dog for barking, snapping, or growling at the cat. This will not reduce their stress or tension with the cat around. In fact, they may even associate the cat with punishment. Instead, remove the cat or confine the dog until they have calmed down., If your dog is trained to respond to commands, you can use them during the supervised sessions to help keep them calm. If you notice your dog starting to chase your cat, use a command like “halt” or “sit” to interrupt and distract them.If the dog listens to your commands and stops chasing the cat, you should give him a treat.Your dog should be easy to distract from the cat. If the dog ignores you to continue barking or chasing the cat, it could be a sign that your dog does not like cats.
 During the first few weeks, you should not let the pets wander alone together in the house until you are absolutely certain that they have accepted each other. If you want to let the cat wander in the house, you should confine the dog in their crate instead.If you have a kitten, you may want to confine them in their room for a few months until they grow a bit bigger. Small kittens are easily injured. You can still let the kitten out while you are home, but when you are gone, the kitten should go back to their room.
 Your dog may want to eat your cat’s food or feces. This is a natural instinct in your dog, but it can cause many problems. Not only will your cat not be able to eat, but either the cat or the dog may start a fight if interrupted during eating. Place the cat’s food dish on a table or counter where the dog cannot reach it. You should also place the litter boxes in a room, bathroom, or closet where the dog cannot get to it.