 Buy magazines like Elle, Vogue, Cosmopolitan and Harper's Bazaar. Look at the pictures. Read the articles. Choose a few key looks that will suit your lifestyle and body type, and implement them into your current wardrobe. Make sure to put your own spin on a look. You can't be an icon if you're just copying Elle.;
, Then, compare that list with the items from fashion magazines that you like, and that will suit you well.
 Try mixing fashions like goth and geek, emo and jock, prep and punk.
,, Steer clear of stores that turn out low-quality items. You want to be fashionable, not cheap. Fashion is about quality clothing that fit well, not cheap, flashy items.
 Think you don't need it? Well, even if you think you look pretty without make up you will be ten times prettier with it. Go to a makeup counter at a department store for a makeover. Some charge, but others don't. Listen closely to the tips they offer for your coloring and facial structure. If you can't afford to buy quality cosmetics, you will be able to find similar items at a drugstore or discount superstore. Items to splurge on: moisturizer, foundation,and mascara. Then, pick up cheaper eyeshadow, lip gloss/lipstick, blush, etc. on your next drugstore run.
 Make sure to invest in quality hair care products. While paying $20 for shampoo may seem outlandish, if you have difficult hair it will make all the difference. Quality shampoo and conditioner can help compensate for hard water or previous poor treatment of hair. (If you haven't cut your hair in the past two months, it's time to visit the salon!) Depending on your facial structure, you will require a different hairstyle. A few things to keep in mind: poor color can ruin the greatest cut, and make sure to wash you hair regularly, but not every day (as this can damage your hair). Different hair types call for different washing routines. Audrey Hepburn only washed her hair once a week!

, You don't have to Get rid of your friends, just try to make friends with some stylish people you like(only if they seem nice).



a flowy skirt with a Camisole
a (preferably a color) colored shirt with white shorts or jeans and statement shoes
a crop top with high waist short shorts
a cute blouse with jeans or black pants is Always pretty

