 Keep in mind that although your parent is sick, they are still the same person they once were. They have the same needs and passions. Although a terminal or chronic illness may change the dynamic of the parent-child relationship, you can still preserve that memory by accommodating the person your parent used to be.If your dad was a huge history buff, plan a trip to a Civil War reenactment. Or, purchase him a subscription to a historical magazine. Helping him past the time with his usual passions will help him maintain a connection to the younger, healthier version of himself.
 Depending on your parent’s physical abilities, you can improve your relationship by helping them get back in touch with hobbies they once enjoyed but discarded. Or, you can just show up and spend time with them talking or reminiscing.


Look through old photo album. Bake cookies for the neighbors. Take photos. Get manicures and pedicures. Read a book or watch a movie. Allow your parent to teach you their painting or weaving skills. Just be with your parent and appreciate the time you have.
 Being a caregiver to an ailing parent is challenging. It’s important for you to schedule in regular self-care to combat the frustration and fatigue that comes with watching a parent deteriorate. Taking care of your own health and well-being will put you in a better mood so that you can strengthen the bond you share with your parent.Eat well-balanced meals throughout the day. Get regular exercise. Sleep 7 to 9 hours each night. Start a gratitude journal. Join a support group. Take relaxing bubble baths. Call a friend to vent or take your mind off things. Ask a sibling to stand in for you while you take yourself out to lunch or to a movie.
Avoid unhealthy methods of coping such as using drugs or alcohol, emotional eating, gambling, or excessive shopping.
 Asking for help goes beyond splitting the caregiving responsibilities with your siblings or other relatives. You need to have self-awareness and recognize when you need a break or respite from this stressful situation.Getting professional help may involve hiring a trained caregiver such as a sitter or nursing assistant to be with your parent a few hours each day.
Getting professional help may also involve consulting with a mental health therapist to discuss your own emotional experience. It may be very upsetting or confusing to witness your parent’s physical and/or mental decline. Talking to a professional can help you sort out your feelings and develop productive ways of coping.

