 Cutting off your friend without warning may seem like the easiest solution, but it is not fair to them to not give them a chance to understand what is happening. Even if your friend was a bad, hurtful friend to you, they still have the right to know what is happening.Do not “ghost” a friend just because you want to avoid confrontation (as long as you know that a confrontation would not end with a physical fight). Breaking up with a friend is uncomfortable and painful, but that doesn’t mean you should avoid it.
Ghosting a friend may cause you to lose some social clout. It makes you look like you took the easy way out. It can also cause the person you are ghosting a lot of pain and uncertainty.
Consider which method would be the best way for you to stop communicating with a friend. For example, you might decide that it is best to tell them in-person, over the phone, or via email.
 Most of the time, it is good to have a conversation with the other person to let them know you do not want to be friends anymore, no matter how vague and brief it may be. But there may be times when ghosting someone is the best option:


Your friend enables your bad behavior, particularly if it is an addiction issue.You feel controlled or manipulated by your friend, and worry how they would react to an announcement that you no longer wanted to be friends.You fear for your safety, and are concerned about your physical well-being if you talk to your friend directly.
 Cut off their access to your life on social media. Avoid messaging them or responding to their messages.If you choose to remain friends with them on social media, prevent them from seeing posts you don’t want them to see. Do not comment on their feeds.
You could also choose to unfollow them so you no longer see their updates.
 If you do not feel comfortable talking to your friend, you could ask your parents to get in touch with your friend’s parents. This is an option you may want to use if you are feeling threatened by the other person. Otherwise, you may wish to try to handle it on your own first.Ask your parents to inform your friend’s parents about the situation, and/or that you no longer want to hang out with this person. You could say, “You know I’ve been trying to distance myself from Jamal, but he won’t leave me alone. Do you think you could talk to his parents for me?”
You could also ask a teacher or school guidance counselor for help.
You could say, “I’ve been trying to work through some problems with David, but he won’t leave me alone. I don’t want to be friends with him anymore, and can’t think of anything else to do. Could you help me?”

