 Start by cleaning your nails and removing any old polish. Next, trim and file your nails down to a shape that suits you.
 You can also cut some colored, metallic foil into a square or rectangle, and use that instead.You can find these items in salons that sell nail art supplies. You can also fine tiny rhinestones and colored, metallic foil in art shops., Make sure that the glue is touching the base of the nail. If you don't have eyelash glue, you can use another type of nail adhesive.If you are applying cuticle art to every nail, do just one nail for right now.
 This will help the item stick better. How long you wait depends on the type of glue you are using. It is usually between 15 and 30 seconds. Some types of glues may even start to turn clear. When this happens, they are tacky enough to use. Check the bottle or tube of glue that you are using for specific instructions., Once the glue gets tacky, press the item down into it. Make sure that the top of the item touches the base of your nail. You want it to look like the design is going into your nail., While the cuticle art dries, you can do the rest of your nails/cuticles. Once everything dries, you can consider your manicure finished. You can also read on to learn how to take your nails to the next level., Start by applying the base coat to just the tips of your nails. Apply a second coat over your entire nail next. This will help seal it in and prevent chips.

You will be adding polish or nail art next. This will help tie the design together.
 Cuticle art is meant to be simple, so less is more. You can paint your nails a solid, matching color, or add a design that matches your chosen item.For example:

Apply a top coat onto your nail, then press a rhinestone onto the wet polish.
Paint on a French tip using a color that matches your cuticle item. Black, silver, or gold is classic.
Replicate the design on your nail using a stripper brush. Make a small dot, rectangle or square.
Paint your nail a flat, solid color, then press another similar stud, rhinestone, or decal onto the upper third of your nail.
 Let your polish dry first, then apply a clear top coat over your nail. Avoid getting anything on your cuticle art, however! Once the top coat dries, you are ready to show off your nails!