 You might not realize that your child is experiencing conflict with a clique. They might be embarrassed by the way they’re being treated, or feel that they can handle it on their own. However, you can identify a problem by looking for signs that your child is struggling with cliques. If you feel that things have gotten severe, especially if they have panic attacks or thoughts of self-harm, consult a mental health professional. Others things to watch for include:sadness or depression
trouble getting to sleepreluctance to attend school
disinterest in certain activities that they previously had an interest in

, Once you’ve identified signs that your child is suffering at the hands of a clique, confirm the problem by asking, “Do you need help dealing with a group of mean children?” Alternately, you might receive firsthand reports from your child that they are, in fact, struggling to deal with a clique. In either case, find out more about their experience.Ask, for instance, “What does the clique do to you?” They might reply that they are being pushed, taunted, or made fun of.
Listen attentively and make eye contact with the child to show you are interested in them and their feelings.
Ask relevant follow-up questions like, “How did that make you feel?” or “What happened then?”
Let your child know that you’re always available to talk by saying, “I am always here if you want to share more of your feelings.” Also, teach them ways they can respond to the bullies or various taunts. Check in with them and invite them to talk to you whenever they need to find out what is working and what is not. You can also ask if there is anything specific they'd like you to do to help.
 If your child is dealing with a bully in a particular class, contact the teacher in the class. The teacher might be able to offer more information, and should be eager to hear more about your child’s experience. With your child’s teacher alerted to the situation, the clique will be less likely to target your child.Work with your child’s teacher to redress the clique’s unfair bullying.
For instance, encourage staff at your child’s school to develop a school-wide intervention program to prevent bullying behavior by cliques or individuals. This program should include counseling for bullies and victims, staff training on how to identify and resolve bullying, and inclusion of parents in how to prevent bullying in their kids.
 Your child will have a hard time dealing with a clique on their own, and there is only so much you can do as a parent. In addition to teachers and relevant school staff, contact the parents of the other children in the clique. With the parents of the kids in the clique on board, the clique can issue an apology to your child and begin adopting more appropriate behavior.Keep in mind that this approach can backfire, especially with teenagers, and the bully may take things out on your child.

