 After many years of being friends with someone or being in a family with someone, we tend to forget to express our love and affection as much. However, expressing your love and gratitude lifts up the other people in your life. Plus, it deepens your relationships with those people, helping you to be happier overall.Try to say, "I love you," when you're feeling affection towards someone you love and care about.
Show a person you care by doing little things for them. Do a chore before they have a chance to do it, or show up with their favorite snack out of the blue.
 When you've reached middle age, you may have a tendency to settle into a routine with just your family. However, it's equally important to maintain friendships outside of your family. For one, if you have kids, they will eventually move out, and you'll be glad you have a social net to fall back on. Plus, it's healthy to have relationships both in and out of your family to help you maintain your own independence.
 Volunteering is a great way to stay engaged in the community while giving something back. You've developed skills for years now, and those skills can be put to good use helping the community. Besides, volunteering will keep you more active physically, which helps keep you healthier.Think about what you have to offer, then try to connect those skills to a local nonprofit, charity organization, library, or school.
For instance, maybe you have skills as a cook. Offer to work at a local soup kitchen to help prepare food. Or maybe you've worked with kids most of your life. Consider reading to kids at your local library when you have the time.
 Another way to get out into the community is to take a class. When taking a class, you can learn new skills like car mechanics or building websites. You could also learn a language or take a class in literature. Plus, you get to meet new people who have similar interests to yours.Look for a wide variety of classes at your local community college.
 Another option is to take up a new hobby or pick up an old one. Hobbies can make life more enjoyable, as long as you pick something you love. Consider what you've liked doing in the past, and use that as a jumping off place.For instance, you could learn to cook a new type of food, try crocheting, learn to play the guitar, or take up gardening.
Browse for books on your hobby at your local library.
Consider joining a local group that focuses on your hobby.
Look for classes at your local library, with your local art museum, or through your parks and recreation department.

