 Add 4 cups (500 g) of caster sugar to the bowl of a food processor. Process the sugar for approximately 1 minute or until it is finely ground.In some areas of the world, caster sugar is superfine or bar sugar.
If you don’t have a food processor, you can use a spice or coffee grinder.
 Once you’ve ground the sugar, add 2 teaspoons (10 g) of food grade citric acid and 1 teaspoon (5 g) of baking soda to the food processor. Blend the mixture for another 30 seconds or until the ingredients are fully mixed.In some areas of the world, baking soda is also known as bicarbonate of soda.
 After the ingredients are fully blended, pour half of the powder into a separate bowl. Set it aside for the moment., With half of the powder still in the food processor, add 2 to 3 drops of lemon extract and a small amount of yellow gel food coloring to the mixture. Blend it in the food processor again until it turns a light pastel yellow, and pour it into a clean bowl.If you prefer, you can substitute orange extract for the lemon if you prefer. In that case, use orange gel food coloring to color the powder.
 After you’ve removed the lemon flavored powder from the food processor, clean out the bowl and return the other half of unflavored powder to it. Add 2 to 3 drops of raspberry flavoring and a small amount of red food coloring to the mixture. Blend it as you did with the lemon powder until it turns a pale pink.You can usually find raspberry flavoring in the baking aisle of the grocery store with the other flavor extracts.
 After you’ve mixed up both flavors of the sherbert powder, pour them into airtight containers to store them. You should have a separate container for each flavor so they don’t get mixed together.Sealable plastic bags work well for storing the sherbet powder.
 To eat the sherbet powder, suck on your favorite flavor of lollipop. Dip the pop into the powder so it sticks to the surface and lick it off. You can also use wooden popsicles sticks or plastic spoons to dip into the powder.If you don’t mind getting dirty, you can also dip your fingers into the powder to eat it.

