 Arrange the tiles on the countertop base. It is important to determine the appropriate placement and spacing of the tiles before you tile countertops. Position your tiles on the concrete board countertop as you want them to be set, making sure to account for grout lines. Use spacers to make sure your tiles are properly placed.


Whenever possible, start from the center. Place a tile in the middle and work out, cutting the end tiles when necessary. This makes everything look evener.In general, grout lines range from 1/16" to 3/16" in thickness.
It can help to use a marker and a straight-edge to draw out your rows of tiles in advance. Start nearest to the wall, then work to the edge., Follow the specific instructions on the back of the bag. Only make as much mortar as you need, opting for a little bit less if you're unsure how much to pour. You'll need to use it all while it is still wet and well mixed, and you can always pour and mix more.


Mastic -- a flexible adhesive -- is often used for the backsplash, not the counter.Be sure to purchase a mortar able to handle the moisture of the kitchen or bathroom., Give yourself enough mortar for 3-4 tiles at once. Lay the mortar down so that it evenly covers the surface, moving in mostly one direction.


Apply thin set mortar to the top of the countertop.
For the edges and backsplash, apply tile mastic, which is flexible, along the outside edge of the countertop. This will allow for expansion so that your edge tiles do not crack., Lay the edge tiles first, then lay the countertop (field) tiles, using vinyl spacers to account for the grout lines. Keep moving in this pattern -- mortar, tile, press, spacers, repeat -- until you need to mix more mortar or finish your section.
 Use a straight edge to determine that your lines are straight, and place a level on top of the tile countertop to determine that your tiles are uniformly set into the grout. If not, you still have some time to adjust the tiles while the mortar sets.
 Use a tile cutter to cut any irregular edge and sink pieces if they only require trimming, then set those in place last. For larger cuts, or making many cuts, you should invest or rent a wet saw, which is made to cut tile without deforming or cracking it.


When done with the counter, set any backsplash tiles using mastic. The process is the exact same.