 While most all-inclusive resorts are enjoyed by vacationers of all sorts, some cater to a certain type of clientele. For instance, a relaxing, romantic getaway may be more likely at some locations than others. Meanwhile, other resorts may occupy children more happily.Look online or contact customer service questions with questions about a resort’s atmosphere.
You can use amenities or activities lists to get an idea of what demographic a particular resort caters to. For instance, if a resort has half a dozen water slides and daily puppet shows, it’s unlikely to be calm and quiet around the pool.;
, Booking price aside, you’ll likely find your time at an all-inclusive resort to be more enjoyable outside of the most popular seasons. In particular, some of the drawbacks associated with all-inclusive resorts will be much less likely when the resort is not fully booked.For instance, less guests means lower chances of crowded pools, heavily booked activities, etc.
Try for a trip just after spring break. Mid-April through June are usually great options.
 Most all-inclusive resorts will offer recreational or dining options that aren’t actually included. For instance, while there may be a gym you have access to, there may also be a charge to attend the daily yoga session. Of course, many resorts do include many more activities than you’ll be able to enjoy.Plan ahead to ensure you’re going to a resort that includes the types of activities that interest you. For instance, one resort might cost a bit more overall, but offer far more activity options at no additional charge.
Other included activities might be additional exercise classes, non-motorized water sports, and evening entertainment.
 More often than not, something you’ll want will cost you extra. This is where the fine print really kicks in. For instance, your resort may offer free alcoholic drinks, but only with well liquor. If you want premium liquor, or food from the restaurant instead of the buffet, it may come at an additional price.