 Preheat the oven to 350ºF (175ºC). Grease eight muffin tins with cooking spray or line them with parchment. Compared to a baking pan, the muffin tins will help the brownies cook more evenly, instead of leaving them gooey in the middle.;
, Grind the seeds in a coffee grinder or mortar and pestle until they form a fine powder. Measure 2 tbsp (10 mL) of the ground flax seeds for the next step. If you're grinding a larger batch in advance, store the rest in an airtight container in the freezer.


Do not buy pre-ground flax seeds. Flax oil turns rancid quickly once the seeds are ground., Take the ground flax seeds and stir it into 5 tbsp (75 mL) water. Set aside to rest for at least five minutes while you move on to the next step. This will thicken into a binding gel roughly equivalent to two eggs., Stir together the following ingredients in a large bowl: ¾ tsp (3.5 mL) baking powder, ½ cup (120 mL) cocoa powder, ¾ cup (90g) all purpose flour, ¾ cup (150g) sugar, and ¼ tsp (1 mL) salt.


Dutch processed cocoa powder will create a denser brownie with a more intense chocolate flavor.Natural cocoa powder (anything not labeled "Dutch processed") is a safer bet, since vegan brownies already tend to be denser than recipes that contain eggs.
 Pastry flour should have an even more significant effect., Stir together 7 tbsp (100g) margarine, ¼ cup (40g) semisweet chocolate chips, and 1 tsp (5 mL) vanilla extract. Microwave for 30 seconds at a time, stirring well after each interval. Stop once the ingredients are mostly melted, usually after about 2 minutes.A few lumps of chocolate are fine.
 Stir the flax mixture into the wet ingredients, then mix in the dry ingredients in stages until fully combined. The batter may be thicker than you're used to with normal brownie recipes.
 Scoop the batter into the muffin tins, pressing down with a spoon to smooth it out. Leave a little room at the top for the brownies to rise.
 Bake on the middle rack of the oven. After the 22 minute mark, test with a toothpick or fork. When it comes out with just a few crumbs, the brownies are done. These brownies do not burn easily, but overcooking them can make them dry and crumbly.
 Wait at least ten minutes for the brownies to cool, or they'll collapse when you try to remove them. Once cool, remove all the brownies before they harden onto the pan.

