 There are many outlets available for selling vintage clothing online. Before you begin to sell, research your options and decide what works for you.You can sell vintage clothes on many mainstream websites. Auction sites like eBay can be helpful. You can set a base price and let potential buyers bid. You could end up making a good sum if two buyers want the same outfit. Sites like Etsy can also work, although bidding is infrequent.
You can also look into specialty sites. These are auction sites and websites specifically designed for the sale of vintage clothing. Such websites can be helpful as you'll be reaching your target marketplace instantly.
 Once you've decided where you'll be selling, create an account on your chosen website. This should not take long. Usually, you need to provide basic contact information like your name and address. You may also have to create a brief profile where you explain a little about your history and background. You can write something simple, just stating you love vintage clothing and are looking to sell some extras from your wardrobe.
 You'll need to put up some pictures of the items you're selling online. It's important that you get clear photographs. Buyers will want to see your outfits from multiple angles so they can decide whether or not to buy. Do not rely on a phone camera. Use a high quality camera to take photos of a given item from a variety of angles.If you don't have a great camera, see if you can borrow one from a friend. If you're not particularly adept at technology, see if a friend would be willing to take some pictures for you.
It may be helpful to have someone model clothing items for you. It may be easier to get a sense of how a dress may look like if you can see it on a person.
 If you want to sell vintage clothing professionally, you'll have to build a brand for yourself. Your brand is how you market yourself. Think of a unique story or style. There are many ways to brand yourself that increase your sales.You should get on social media outlets. Link things like your Twitter and Instagram to your online selling profiles. You can include pictures of upcoming items, as well as behind the scenes looks at you preparing items for sale.
A blog can also be a nice touch. Try starting a blog about vintage clothing. Talk about the history of vintage clothing and your adventures shopping for clothing and preparing them for sale.
Let your personality show. Drop references to TV shows, books, and movies. If you have a sense of humor, let it out in your social media. On occasion, post something amusing from your personal life. This will entice more followers and therefore more sales.
 Honesty is important when building a reputation online. You want to make sure you have buyers' trust. Most sites allow users to leave reviews. If you were dishonest about an item's quality, a buyer may call you out. If an item is slightly stained or worn down, be honest about it. Many buyers don't mind purchasing a fixer-upper, but they'll want to know what they're getting themselves into ahead of time. Honest sales will allow you to gain a good reputation, enticing more buyers in the future., You should find ways to market yourself. You can start by posting links to what you're selling on sites like Facebook. You can also get involved in online forums where people discuss vintage clothing. You can get to know other sellers, network, and advertise your products. You should also maintain active social media profiles advertising your brand.

