 While traditional themes like pinks and purples for girls and blues and reds for boys are still common, it isn't necessary to feel constricted by binary standards of gender assignment.Be sensitive to the needs of the baby's parents. If they are very traditional, it is probably safe to go with the "Blue for Boy" scheme. If the parents are more open-minded they may appreciate gender flexibility.


Common gender neutral colors such as yellow, green, orange, and brown can be used.
A good rule of thumb is to keep colors pastel and light.;
, You should then choose a baby-friendly theme for your basket. Some common themes include: Animals, polka dots, stripes, gingham/plaid, flowers, butterflies, circus, etc. The main point is to be fun and unique.
 Traditionally, craft stores sell fabric, plush, woven, and wood baskets. You could also go for a non-traditional basket that would be functional and could be filled with other goodies. A new car seat or even a baby bath work great if you want to take this route.


For traditional baskets, many prefer smooth and soft baskets that the baby could come in contact with.
For wood, wicker, and similar baskets be sure to check for splintering.
If the basket has paint or varnish, make sure that it does not flake and that it is nontoxic., Select the gifts that you will fill the basket with. Also pick up thick ribbon, foam or wood letters, bows, a card or tag, plastic wrap, and any other decorations that you want to incorporate.Make sure nothing is toxic, and watch out for small pieces that could break of and be hazardous for the baby.
 It's time to get to work! Line the bottom of the basket with a thin tissue paper and filler, letting the corners come just above the edge of the basket.You can also include a soft, plush baby blanket.
 Lanolin, cloth pads, breast pads, and cocoa butter are a new mother's best friends.Make sure that the baby's mom is comfortable and happy with a thorough smattering of postpartum necessities.
 Diapers and wipes aren't funny or cute, but they are necessary and expensive. Long after the thoughtfulness of a cute gift has worn off, the box of diapers you included will be much appreciated.
 The best gift baskets will almost always have something that is personal in them. A gift that hearkens back to an inside joke or a memory that you and the baby's parents share is always a nice touch. If you have your own baby, a gift from your baby to theirs works well.
 This is where you can get a little creative. Chocolate (and coffee!) might be much appreciated for late night cravings and early morning struggles. Gift cards are pretty common too, but options like an Amazon Prime or HBOGO Subscription might really stand out.


You could even order the couple Amazon Dash buttons for essentials like diapers, wipes, and laundry detergent.
 Sometimes it can be tough to find the right items to round out a gift basket. If you feel like you need to add a few other items, it doesn't help to ask other moms what they found most useful, necessary, or appreciated when they were new mothers.
 Some couples will create a baby registry, which is similar to a wedding registry. If a baby registry is created, you can use it to guide your basket. Just be sure to mark items as bought if you are taking care of them, so that there aren't duplicates!

, Wrap the handle in a thick ribbon and apply bows to the handle and front of the basket. Add a tag to the handle if you are using one. Arrange the rest of your small gifts and any cards in the top of the basket.


Consider using foam or wood letters to write the baby's name on the front of the basket.
Be careful with cards and gift cards. Make sure that they are on top and near the front so that they don't get lost in the filler.
 Once you are finished, wrap the entire basket in clear or colored plastic. This can be done with a pre-sized plastic wrapping bag or a cellophane sheet.Use a wrapping sheet by placing the basket over the sheet, grabbing all four corners, and pulling them up and over the handle of the basket. Bunch the plastic together above the basket and secure it with tape and ribbon.The leftover ribbon can be tied into a bow or curled for visual appeal., If desired, you can use this opportunity to decorate the basket once more. Stickers, bows, balloons and personalized writing can be added to the basket exterior and the plastic wrapping.