 Italians love a classy look that emphasizes a persons good points.


Capri pants are a good choice for women; Italians may wear shorts only at resorts. Men rarely wear very short shorts outside of vacation.
If you’re wearing a suit, put on a tie with it. You should probably skip the track suit or sweat pants. It’s going to look too informal for Italy. Pack business casual clothing for your vacation, something you’d be willing to wear to work.Avoid baggy clothes. Italians are partial to clothing that is nicely fitted. So skip the slouchy shirt or baggy jeans. Italians do wear jeans though, but they would pair them with a dressy top.;
, Italians study shoes, and they like a classy she without too much fake bling. Leave the flip flops, gaudy sandals, and Crocs at home.Choose a high quality fabric or leather in your shoes. Make sure that your shoes are in good shape. Get them shined! Pay attention to comfort, too, though, if you’re going to be walking long distances to see the sites.
Italians will recognize and appreciate designer labels in shoes as well as clothing. This doesn't mean, however, you have to wear designer clothing to look good in Italy. As long as your clothes are classy and clean you should be ok. Tennis shoes and cheap flip flops are not considered nice shoes and will mark you as a tourist. If your a female, think of simple ballet style shoes or a nice classy boot or runner (such as PUMA). You can’t go wrong, though, with nice leather shoes.Wear high heels at night when dining out if you’re female. There are some restaurants that won’t let you in if you’re wearing flat shoes. Wedge shoes will be easier to walk in than stilettos. If you’re not in a city, though, you might want to forgo the heels because you could encounter cobblestone streets.
 Italians dress differently for the time of day. You’ll want to consider changing your dress when day turns to night. Try to bring a pair of long pants with lighter fabric for hotter months.


It would be unusual for Italian men to wear shorts in the evening. It’s considered more elegant to not wear shirts that have collar buttons or breast pockets. If you’re going out to dinner or are in a fine hotel, you should dress in a more sophisticated fashion. For example, you might not want to walk around in a tank top, shorts, and flip flops.
If you wear jeans, dress them up with a nice jacket. Make sure they fit you well and are stylish, not frumpy and tattered. A dress and a skirt are a must when packing.
Men should avoid wearing short-sleeved shirts to formal occasions and should not wear a tie with them at any time of the day or night

, You will occasionally see Italians wearing bright, bold colours, but they do it only sometimes and are more partial to the elegance of classic colours than loud prints.


Stick with colours like dark blue, black, cream, white and tans. You could wear some pastels, such as lavender or a salmon colour In the summer.
You can wear white, cream or light tan colors any time of the year in Italy. Brighter and lighter colors are very common in spring. Italians love to wear light colors in the sun because they don’t attract the heat as much, and it can get very hot.
You might want to avoid the most garish or unnatural colors, such as mustard yellow, neon green or lipstick pink.
 Many people who visit Italy want to see the Vatican. There are specific rules for dressing on a Vatican visit The same rules generally apply to any church or cathedral visit.


Vatican City is the headquarters of the Roman Catholic Church. You should avoid wearing tank tops or other clothing that exposes the shoulders when entering the Vatican or a church.
Try not to wear anything that is too revealing as that can be interpreted as a sign of disrespect. Wearing mini-skirts or short shorts would be frowned on in the Vatican. The South is more conservative and a scarf or shawl might be required there.
If it’s hot outside and you’re wearing something sleeveless, you could purchase a shawl to drape over your shoulders. Problem solved. Men should not wear tank tops or expose their arms in church.

