 Caffeine does work to keep you awake by blocking adenosine, a neurotransmitter designed to tell your cells to wind down.However, because caffeine doesn't work as well the more you use it, try to only drink it every once in a while, rather than every day.Start with something lighter on the caffeine, such as green tea. If you need something stronger, black tea and coffee both have more caffeine., You are limited in your office as to how much stretching you can do, but you can perform a few simple stretches.For instance, pull your hands together behind your back, stretching out the front of your body. Breathe deeply for a few seconds, then let go of your hands. Do it a couple of times in a row.Try stretching out your hips. Turn in your chair until you are facing to the left. Lift your right leg out behind you, stretching it straight. Try to keep the top half of your body sitting up straight. Repeat the stretch a couple of times, and then turn to do it with the other leg., That is, try a wax-melting system in your office or use essential oils. Scents such as peppermint, eucalyptus, and lemon can help keep you alert., Some offices will let you work at a standing desk, which increases movement and alertness. If that doesn't sound like something you'd want, try moving around when you take breaks. Get up and take a short walk to increase your alertness.,You'll do even better if you can step outside for a few minutes in the sun, as it sends signals to your body to wake up., Most supplements rely on calories, stimulants, or nutrients that affect how your body metabolizes energy. You're getting energy from your power lunch, and caffeine is a stimulant. However, if you still need a boost, you might try a supplement that focuses on boosting your metabolizing, with ingredients such as creatine, CoQ10, B vitamins, and taurine., If you have the space and the time, try taking a short 10 to 20 minute nap over your lunch break. These types of naps can help refresh your brain without causing drowsiness. In fact, it's natural to feel some afternoon drowsiness. At about 7 hours after you wake up in the morning, your body calls for a break, and a short nap can help fulfill that need.