 While spirulina is being touted by some as a "miracle" food, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) has not found enough scientific evidence to prove that spirulina is effective in treating any health condition.And though spirulina contains many essential nutrients (calcium, niacin, potassium, magnesium, B vitamins, iron, essential amino acids) it is not known how much of the nutrient your body can actually absorb from spirulina. Spirulina is probably safe for most healthy adults, but if contaminated, it can cause liver damage, nausea, vomiting, thirst, weakness, rapid heartbeat, shock and even death. Carefully research the source of any supplements to ensure they are tested for toxins and are grown in safe conditions.Speak with your doctor, registered dietitian, and/or pharmacist before trying spirulina. Get advice on dosing from your doctor, as there has not been enough testing to establish a safe dose range.
People with multiple sclerosis (MS), lupus (systemic lupus erythematosus, SLE), rheumatoid arthritis, and other autoimmune conditions should not take spirulina.
Do not give spirulina to children. Pregnant or breastfeeding women should avoid spirulina.
Note that the FDA does not regulate supplements for content, labeling, or safety. Look for products that have been tested by an outside source, such as USP or NSF.;
, This fresh-water algae is thought to help with a multitude of conditions, from preventing cancer to treating skin ulcers. It contains protein, fats, carbohydrates, fiber, chlorophyll, vitamins, and minerals. The quality of the product can vary wildly, so it is important that you thoroughly research the source of the supplement before purchasing.Speak with your doctor, registered dietitian, and/or pharmacist before trying chlorella. An appropriate range of doses for chlorella has not yet been established, so consult with your doctor about how much to take.
People with multiple sclerosis (MS), lupus (systemic lupus erythematosus, SLE), rheumatoid arthritis, and other autoimmune conditions should not take chlorella.
Do not give chlorella to children. Pregnant or breastfeeding women should avoid chlorella.
You can find chlorella supplements in tablet or capsule form.
Chlorella supplements can be purchased at most health food stores or online health retailers.
Note that the FDA does not regulate supplements for content, labeling, or safety. Look for products that have been tested by an outside source, such as USP or NSF and ask your pharmacist to recommend a reputable brand.
 You may be able to purchase spirulina powder at your local health food store or online. Likewise, you can find nori seaweed and even kelp at many health food and grocery stores. Try picking up some spirulina powder, kelp and nori and experiment with adding these various algae to your recipes.

Add nori to a salad. Simply shred up the algae and add it to a salad recipe. It will add a hint of saltiness to your recipe, so you may not need to add salt to the dressing.
Add some kelp or spirulina powder in a smoothie. You may want to also add lemon juice or another citrus flavor with the algae powders because of the strong taste of algae. Experiment with a small amount such as half a teaspoon and work your way up to larger amounts as you become comfortable with the flavor of algae.
Sprinkle spirulina on air-popped popcorn for a high-fiber, low-calorie snack.
Remember to consult with your doctor before using spirulina.

