 They may even make you hate the band if they play the wrong "first" song.;
, It is a two disc compilation of their hits from '74 to '89. The other greatest hits compilations have similar selections, but Chronicles is the best for an important reason: the liner essay by John Swenson. Mr. Swenson does a masterful job of explaining the significance and context of Rush's beginnings and their subsequent developments. Moreover, the liner notes show the covers of all the albums up to '89, which is helpful when shopping for your next Rush purchase.
 Read the essay WHILST you listen to disc one. Begin with track 2, Working Man. Keep in mind the debut record was recorded late at night, AFTER the band had played a pub for several hours. The last thing Mr. Lifeson felt like doing that night was playing a 2 minute solo. Next, listen to the following songs in this order: Fly By Night; Free Will; The Spirit of Radio; Tom Sawyer; Limelight; Red Barchetta.
 Be a keen listener. Listen carefully to each song 4 times: once for guitars; again for the drums; yet again for the bass; and finally for the keyboards.
 Go get All the World's a Stage. It is a live album and a powerhouse of a guitar record. Begin listening to all the other songs on disc one of "Chronicles."

, Listen to MP all the way through, but skip track 5; you're not ready. Listen to Jacob's Ladder, YYZ, and Xanadu on ESL. Absorb Xanadu and YYZ. Slowly delve into the second disc of "Chronicles."

,, Rush are the best live band you will come across. The mix is always good, and they wear their humour on their sleeves. Most folks think they are a bunch of hard-heads because of the lyrics and album covers. Not so. They have brains and aren't afraid to use 'em, though.
 Good folks and good stories. Something for everyone.
 Lay on your bed and read "Contents under Pressure," pp. 3-99. Don't forget to eat lunch and dinner!

, It has 8 parts to it, and it takes up side 1 of the original album. Listen to the entire song. Absorb

, Absorb.
 Absorb.
,,, Absorb. From Roll The Bones, listen to Dreamline, Bravado, and Face Up. Absorb. From Presto, listen to Presto, Scars, and Show Don't Tell. Absorb.
 Listen to some Zeppelin or Collective Soul instead. Throw in some Beach Boys for good measure.
 Absorb.
, Absorb Ghost Rider

,, From Caress of Steel, listen to Bastille Day. From Rush, listen to Finding My Way.
, Make lots of new friends. Understand how the band's loyalty to each other inspires their fan's loyalty to them. See Rush's welcoming hometown of Toronto and see Rush sites of the city.
 Stay in touch by looking at 2112.net/powerwindows.

