 A good place to put it is your room. Don't put it in a hallway, because it will soon get lonely. It's okay to place the cage near the kitchen, but use common sense! Don't place it next to the stove or oven. Also, make sure you can comfortably sit next to the cage.;
, Sit near the cage. The first time you try this, it may stand still and stare at you. Then, after a while, it will go back to doing what it did before. Get a book to read so you're not watching it all the time. Continue this for a few days.
 Then you can start sitting in front of the cage. Do this until your bird is used to that, too, which shouldn't take long.
 Be patient, because when you approach it with the millet, it may lean away in terror. Hold the millet there, in front of it, until it decides to eat. If not, slowly take your hand out of the cage, saying,"That's okay. Good bird." It's okay for the bird to fly around the cage when it sees your hand. This will fade over a small period of time,about a day or 2.
 Slowly bring the perch towards it. Press it on the bird's stomach and say clearly, "Step up," or "Up," if you prefer. You can't change "Step up" to "Up" once your bird has learned the command. It will just get confused. When the bird steps onto the perch, praise it and feed it millet. Do this until your bird is used to the concept.Do this until your parakeet is used to this.
 If your bird is okay with stepping up, put your finger on top of the perch, covering part of it. Keep practicing "step up", but with the added finger. The parakeet may not step onto the finger, but onto the perch. That's okay.
 Put your finger on it like usual, but don't take the perch along when you and tell it to step up. See if the bird will step onto your finger. If not, keep trying until your budgie will.You may take your bird out slowly once your bird is used to this if you wish.
 Make sure to close all windows and doors in the room. At this stage, you can now stop pushing your budgie's legs to have it step up. Give her/him a choice. When saying "Step up," let the bird decide when to step up. This makes the bird realize it has a say, and will love you more.

