 To assume someone’s mortgage, the bank will need to find your credit score acceptable. Order a credit report for yourself and your spouse online.


To assume someone else's mortgage you will ideally want to have approximately credit score as the current debtor or perhaps a bit higher. A credit score in the mid 600's is generally sufficient to be approved for a mortgage., Many mortgage contracts include a “due on sale” clause that requires the entire sum of the mortgage to be paid shortly after it is transferred. However, some lenders will be willing to make exceptions for qualified applicants with good credit. Also, some types of loans can always be assumed.Even when there is a due on sale clause, you can still assume a mortgage if: you are assuming your parents’ mortgage, transferring the property to a relative after the death of the borrower, transferring the property between spouses, or transferring it according to the terms of a divorce.FHA and VA loans are always assumable.
If there is a due on sale clause in the mortgage, but the lender is fine with you assuming it, they might still change the terms of the mortgage, possibly increasing the interest rate., In some cases, you might not be able to assume an existing mortgage, but can still get a new one to cover the cost of the house. Discuss this with the original lender, but also research alternative lenders in the area.
 Examine the terms of the assumed mortgage, if that proved to be an option, versus the terms of a new mortgage. Assuming a mortgage may allow you to get lower interest rates than are currently available and to avoid large closing costs.


There is no general rule as to which option will be better, however, because interest rates are currently higher than they were in recent years, it is quite likely that assumable mortgage will have rates much lower that you could currently find.
The drawback to assumable mortgages is that often the original borrower will still be liable for the mortgage. If the mortgage is not paid it can affect their credit score. Try to get a written release of liability from the lender and keep it for your records., Pick the best option and complete the requisite paperwork. This should be done through the lender at the same time you are closing the sale of the home with the homeowner.
 You should have a lawyer look at this contract and negotiate changes before finalizing it.
 Send on-time payments to the lender's payment address. Consider signing up for online banking to make the process easier.

