 Schools are competitive; apply to multiple schools to increase your chances of getting in.Be honest when you fill out an application. Your child is not perfect and has both strengths and weaknesses. There is no need to sugar coat or present a perfect child.Schools are looking for well-rounded children that fit the culture of the school.
There may be a fee to submit an application. The costs vary by school, but be prepared to pay.
 Schools receive hundreds of applications a year. You do not want your application to be rejected because you did not get all of the paperwork in on time. Late applications may also show that you are disorganized, forgetful, and not a great candidate.If you miss a deadline, you may have to wait a year to reapply.
Try to stay as organized as possible. Keep a list of the application deadlines and necessary materials for each school. Tackle the applications based on their due dates.
 In addition to your application and test scores, your child may have to write an essay. The essay is a time for your child to make a personal connection with the admissions committee. The essay should be centered around a personal experience (e.g. a book they read, a family vacation, a movie, a friendship/relationship) that has helped your child become the person they are. The essay should also discuss why your child wants to attend the school.Do not write the essay for your child. The admissions committee will be able to tell if a parent wrote the essay. However, you can proofread and help your child brainstorm for the essay.
The essay can help your child stand out or make up for below average test scores.
 An interview may also be part of the process. The interview will focus on your child and how the school is a good fit for your child. Your child should be prepared to answer some of the following questions:What is the last book that you read?
What types of things are you interested in? What do you like to do for fun?
Why do you want to go to this school?
Do you have any questions about he school?
Do you think you would like this school? Why?
The interview process is to get to know your child better. The interviewer will not ask your child any questions that your child doesn't know the answer to.
 If you are an alumni of a private school or have any siblings that went to the school, let them know that you are applying. Also, ask your friends or coworkers if they know any admissions officers or anyone that works at the schools you are applying to. Having some type of "in" can separate you from other applicants.