 A lot of "healthy distractions" revolve around meditation and therapeutic breathing. Sitting someone down and guiding him through a meditation session is a good thing to try, especially if you're trying to distract your friend from physical pain.By focusing your friend's mind on something as arbitrary as breathing, his brain will have less resources available to focus on the thing that needs distracting from.


Sit down and close your eyes. From there, you and your friend should focus on taking long, unrushed breaths, focusing in on the sound and the sensation of inhaling.;
, Watching a good TV show is a great thing to do if you're sick or in need of a good distraction for a while. In particular, "binge watching" shows multiple episodes at a time helps someone become more and more invested in the programme they're watching. Media outlets like HBO are chock-full of great shows to watch in this fashion. Because TV shows favour a serialized format, it's easy to throw yourself into a show.If you need to distract someone, suggest the two of you watch a show together.


Popcorn and snacks are a therapeutic addition to an activity like this as well.
 Clickbait refers to a type of online web article that serves little purpose other than to distract. Sites like Buzzfeed and Clickworthy specialize in this sort of aggregated media. Although clickbait is often worthless and should be avoided, it's a perfect thing to link or show someone who needs their mind drawn away from real-world matters. Some clickbait even self-refers to its role as a potentially therapeutic distraction., Video games are a great way of stepping out of your own life for a time and jumping into another world. There are lots of video games out there that are best when played together. Video games require a lot of concentration. In this manner, they're arguably even better than a TV show for the sake of distracting someone.
 If you suggest doing it with a friend, it opens up a lot of opportunities to talk and bond. Being out in the open together can be a lot of fun, and the experience of simply being outdoors is great for the soul.
 Although drinking to excess or partying isn't recommended as a long-term way to be distracted by something, the loud stimulation of a night out on the town can be perfect for distraction. Make sure your friend is likely to have a good time, and try to stay clear of anything that might remind him of whatever it is he needs distracting from.

