 Research suggests that when healthy bodies engage in activities that exert force on the joints, it can actually help build and strengthen bone, and of course, more strenuous exercise raises the heart rate more.Again, do not attempt high impact aerobics if you have joint or bone pain, unless your doctor permits it. If you think you’re in good enough shape to jump right into high impact aerobics, this is a great way to get your heart rate pumping harder and shape your muscles more than low impact aerobics.









Just as with low impact aerobics, you will create your own combinations and routines from a range of steps, all performed to high-paced music.
 Warm up just as you would for low-impact aerobics, by marching in place. This is just to get your body ready for physical exertion. Perform dynamic movements with a full range of motion. Start by doing arm, shoulder, leg, ankle and wrist circles. Gradually increase the range of motion by doing knee, neck and back bends. March in place for about two minutes before beginning your combinations.
 This motion calls for you to jump, moving your legs back and forth in a scissoring motion. You can keep your hands on your hips or swing them in a controlled motion at your sides, as you normally would during walking or running, but with a more exaggerated range.









From a standing position, jump so your left foot is forward and your right foot is back.
Jump again, switching the position of your feet.
You should switch foot position for each beat of the song you’re listening to.
Make sure to center your balance. Put your arms out to the side to stabilize yourself if you feel like you’re going to fall.
 Begin with your feet about shoulder-width apart, in the “stride” position. Extend your arms out directly to your sides, making sure they stay parallel to the ground.









Keeping your arms straight through the elbow, reach your right arm down to touch the instep of your left shoe. Do you best not to bend your knees.
Your left arm should swing behind your body, and your face should rotate to look out to the left.
Return to your original position, then repeat on the other side, touching your left hand to your right shoe.
Keep your abs contracted. Make sure that your back straight as flat as possible instead of letting it slump and get rounded.
 Let your arms swing naturally at your side as they would during a normal jogging motion. If you want to make this motion more difficult, bring your knees up higher. Alternate between normal jogging and high-knee jogging to keep your heart rate up without wearing yourself out completely.










From your bending position, jump up and to the right side, making sure you jump with both feet at the same time, then land with both feet at the same time. Balance your weight over your heels and sink down into your bent stance again.
The jumping movement should be completely lateral, not forward and back.
As you’re completing the jumping motion with your legs, bring your hands up to the sides of your head as you extend into the jump, then bring them down to your sides, keeping elbows bent, as you land and go back into your bent position.
Jump from left to right, repeating this motion.
To increase the level of difficulty, place an object next to you to jump over. By increasing the required height of the jump, you’ll get a better workout.
 Regardless of which step you’re doing — from hamstring curls to windmills — repeat each motion three times before switching sides. This increases the level of difficulty and makes your muscles burn more quickly, since you don’t get a chance to rest that side of your body immediately after performing a movement.
 There are many styles of high impact aerobic exercise, so you should be able to find one that meets your liking. Some examples of classes to keep an eye out for include:









Step aerobics
Zumba, a dance exercise that incorporates Latin and world musicCrossfit training, a demanding exercise program that cycles you through a wide variety of exercises and stylesCapoeira, a Brazilian martial arts form that incorporates dance and acrobatics set to musicTae Bo, an aerobic exercise form that combines elements of Tae Kwon Do, karate, boxing, and dance.
Call your local gyms and inquire into the high impact aerobic classes they offer.

