


Understanding the products or services you represent is necessary to be able to help customers find the right solutions. Research new products and routinely review your entire line of products and services so you always have details and specifications ready.;
,


Never tell a customer you don't know an answer or can't do something when asked. These responses are negative and will cause the customer to lose faith in your ability to help. Display positive customer service methods by telling the customer you will find the information or that you'd be happy to find a solution to the problem.



Maintain a one-on-one relationship with customers that lets them know you're focused on their individual needs. Address the customers by name and give them your name. Always establish your customer's identity and field of business so you can relate to this information throughout the exchange.



Part of any customer service job is knowing when a customer has a problem you can't handle and being able to direct him or her to a representative that can provide the necessary help. Be willing to tell a customer that you're directing him or her to another representative that can address specific needs.



Allow a dissatisfied or concerned customer to tell you what's wrong or why a product or service didn't deliver as promised. Avoid interrupting or talking over a customer, because this will make the customer feel that you're not listening and don't care. Ask questions to be sure you understand the problem, but let the customer relate it to you in his or her own words.



Admitting fault is an integral part of good customer service, because no company is perfect. Avoid becoming defensive or verbally confrontational with a customer that points out an error made by you or your company. Instead, apologize for the error and explain to the customer how it will be rectified.



Begin with simple or small solutions if a customer has issues or problems. The solution could be as simple as unplugging and restarting a piece of equipment or changing a setting. Try small solutions first and graduate to larger ones, like replacing a whole unit, only if the more simple fix doesn't work.



Customer service technique is about finding a balance between relating to a customer, but still being professional. Address the customer professionally, avoid using slang and never yell at a customer even if the customer is yelling at you. Remain professional, regardless of how the customer acts.

