 Identify key points you can share with your legislators to lobby against horse slaughter effectively. Perhaps most immediately, horse slaughter is an inhumane practice that many people already oppose. Further, horse meat is often unsafe to eat, and horse slaughter is often tied to air and water pollution, diminished property value, and even increased crime.Since legislators are often interested in representing the views of their constituents, look up any statistics about opposition to horse slaughter in your area. Be sure to share these with your legislator.
If there is a horse slaughter plant or plans to put one in your area, point out your concerns. Be sure to mention pollution, negative impact on property value in the area, and the fact that horse slaughter plants are often associated with increased crime in the areas they operate.;
, Organizations such as the ASPCA and the Humane Society, not to mention PETA, lead coordinated efforts to help end horse slaughter. Their methods include taking action to inform the public about the social, economic, and political components effects of horse slaughter. These organizations also commonly lobby government bodies and legislators, and even protest outside of government building.In fact, organizations such as these are already engaged in many of the steps listed in this article. Joining a larger organization may help ensure that your efforts contribute to your shared goal of ending horse slaughter.
 There are several different methods to make your legislator more aware of horse slaughter. Send e-mails and letters to your legislator’s offices, and call the office directly. You can find their office’s address and phone number on their official government website. Though they may not receive your correspondence first-hand, their staff will inform them of the issues and perspectives that matter to their constituents.Be sure to take advantage of every method of direct contact available. The more correspondence a legislator receives about a particular issue, the more likely they are to address the issue.
Remember to keep your correspondence to the point. Focus on asking your legislator to help ensure horses are protected from slaughter, and that people are not exposed to dangerous horse meat.
 Town hall meetings or other political meetings often allow for members of the community to present an issue. Find out about the date and times of meetings in your city or county. Let the political organization hosting the event know that you plan to attend.Prepare a brief, clear, polite, and research-based statement about the reasons to end the practice of horse slaughter.
Know that you do not need to be a professional about a certain issue to bring it to the attention of your city government.
 Use whichever social media platforms you use to bring horse slaughter to legislators’ attention. For instance, on Facebook, post directly on legislators’ pages. You can also post on your own timeline, and tag multiple legislators in your post. Similarly, tweet your legislators about horse slaughter, urging them to oppose the practice.These tactics will be especially effective immediately preceding a vote on any law regarding horse slaughter.
Post something along the lines of “please support/oppose bill ____, to protect horses and keep our meat supply safe!”
On any platform, use hashtags such as #EndHorseSlaughter.
Your legislators’ social media handles can be found on their government websites.

