 Chlorine bleach is an effective cleaning agent that kills norovirus. Increase the concentration or buy a new bottle of chlorine bleach if the bleach you have has been open for more than a month. Bleach becomes less effective the longer it remains open. Before applying bleach to a visible surface, test it somewhere that is not easily seen to make sure that it won’t damage the surface. If the surface is damaged by bleach, you can also use phenolic solutions, such as Pine-Sol, to clean the surface. There are certain concentrations of chlorine bleach you can use for different surfaces.For stainless steel surfaces and items used for food consumption: Dissolve one tablespoon of bleach in a gallon of water and clean the stainless steel.
For non-porous surfaces like countertops, sinks, or tile floors: Dissolve one third of a cup of bleach in a gallon of water.
For porous surfaces, like wooden floors: Dissolve one and two thirds of a cup of bleach in a gallon of water.
 After cleaning the surfaces, leave the solution to work for 10 to 20 minutes. After the time period elapses, rinse the surface with clean water. After these two steps, close off the area, and leave it like that for one hour.


Leave the windows open, if possible, as breathing in bleach can be hazardous to your health.
 For areas exposed to feces or vomit contamination there are special cleaning procedures that you should try to follow. This is because the vomit or feces of a person contaminated with norovirus can easily cause you to become infected. To clean the vomit or feces:


Put disposable gloves on. Consider wearing a facemask that covers your mouth and nose as well.
Using paper towels, gently clean the vomit and feces. Be careful not to splash or drip while cleaning.
Use disposable cloths to clean and disinfect the entire area with chlorine bleach.
Use sealed plastic bags to dispose of all the waste materials.
 If the feces or vomit gets on a carpeted area, there are other steps you can take to make sure that the area is clean and disinfected. To clean the carpeted area:


Wear disposable gloves if you can while cleaning the carpets. You should also consider wearing a facemask that covers your mouth and nose.
Use any absorbent material to clean all the visible feces or vomit. Place all contaminated materials in a plastic bag to prevent aerosols from forming. The bag should be sealed and put into the garbage can.
The carpet should then be cleaned with steam at 170 degrees Fahrenheit (76 degrees Celsius) for about five minutes, or, if you want to save time, clean the carpet for one minute with 212 degrees Fahrenheit (100 degrees Celsius) steam.
 If any of your clothing or a family member’s clothing has become contaminated, or is suspected of having been contaminated, you should take care when washing the fabric. To clean clothing and linens:


Remove any traces of vomit or feces by wiping it away with paper towels or a disposable absorbent material.
Put the contaminated clothing into the washing machine in a pre-wash cycle. After this stage is complete, wash the clothes using a regular washing cycle and detergent. The clothes should be dried separately from the uncontaminated clothes. A drying temperature exceeding 170 degrees Fahrenheit is recommended.
Do not wash contaminated clothing with uncontaminated cleaning.

