 Deep breaths flood your blood with oxygen and can reduce muscle cramps. Breathe in deeply through your nose and out through your mouth, letting your belly relax outward as you draw air deep into your diaphragm. You can perform a set of 10 deep breaths for optimal relaxation. This can easily be done in class or in your office., There are some easily accessible pressure points you can use to reduce menstrual cramping. One is located 4 finger widths below your navel, and one is located on the front of each hipbone. Use your middle finger to apply slow, firm pressure at each point, holding each one for 2-3 minutes to start. You can do this discreetly over your clothes while sitting in a meeting or while you read in school.Don’t hold these points for longer than 10 minutes at a time, which may cause soreness. After performing one session of 2-3 minutes, you can do another if it feels comfortable.
 Massage can increase circulation and bring more blood to the area to relieve muscle cramping. Follow your discomfort to provide the most relief: If your lower back is hurting, rub small circles near your spine with your thumb, which is your most powerful finger. If you have lower abdominal cramping, use your thumbs to massage in a circular motion from hip bone to hip bone across your belly.Circular motions can penetrate more deeply and bring better circulation to the area than more sweeping motions. If a different massage pattern feels good though, just do whatever lessens your discomfort.
This massage is discreet and can be performed over your clothes in the car or when seated during your work or school day.
 Being well-hydrated eases muscle cramping and can reduce period pain. Aim to get 2 liters (or half a gallon) of water a day, especially when you’re having cramps. You can carry a water bottle with you on the go and refill over the course of your day., Essential oils can reduce tension and help naturally balance the hormones that cause bad menstrual cramping. Apply 2-3 drops of peppermint or clary sage oil to the inside of your wrist, so you can take a sniff during the day. If you find the scent to be distracting when you eat or drink, you can apply the drops directly to your abdominal area.You can keep a bottle of oil in your book bag or laptop bag, so you can address your discomfort on the go.
Do not apply more essential oil than directed. It is also not for use internally.

