 This is a more robust page than Wordpress offers naturally, and is needed for advanced settings. To get there, click on "My Sites," then scroll down to "WP Admin."


You can also type in the URL of your blog (like MySite.wordpress.com) and add the phrase "/wp-admin/," so that you get MySite.wordpress.com/wp-admin.
 You can bar anyone else from visiting the blog indefinitely, allowing you to keep your domain name and content in place while still taking your blog offline. This is a good alternative to a hard delete. To do it:


Click on "Settings."
Click on "Reading."
Scroll down to "Site Visibility."
Click on the bubble labeled, "I would like my site to be private, visible only to myself and users I choose." Your site is now private.
Alternatively, click on "My Sites" → "Settings" → "Search Visibility" from the main, blue and white Wordpress page after logging in., You can delete individual posts or all of them -- the process is the same no matter what. Navigate to the thing you want to delete in the WP Admin screen -- posts, categories, etc. From there:


To delete one object, hover over it until a little red "Trash" button appears with other options. This works for all types of content on Wordpress.
To delete multiple objects, select the boxes to the left of the things you want deleted. Then choose "Move to Trash" (posts, pages,) or "Delete" (categories, media, tags) under the "Bulk Actions" button at the top of the screen and hit "Apply.", You do not have to delete the entire blog just because you don't like the name anymore. You can change the first part of the address (ThisPart.wordpress.com) anytime, or pay for a domain name upgrade to get rid of the "wordpress.com" part. Note, however, that changing names will break all links to your blog (from other sites and blogs) unless you buy a "Site Redirect" upgrade. To change your address:


In WP Admin, click on "My Blogs."
Move your mouse over the address you want to change
When it appears, click on "Change Blog Address."
Read through the warnings, then write and confirm your new title.
Do not change your username. You'll be offered a chance to create a new one, but this may mess with some links and your profile. It is best to avoid this.
Decide if you want to keep the old name. This is your final choice -- afterwards the name change is in effect., If you saved your content before deleting by exporting your content ahead of time, you can reinstall all your old content on a new blog, or move it from one old blog to a new one. To import your old content, simply:


Click on "Tools" in the WP Admin page.
Choose "Import."
Note how you can import from any number of blog types. Click "Wordpress" for now.
Find and choose the XML file that you exported when backing up your Wordpress blog.