 Whatever your reason, be it for a relaxing walk to recover from a hard day or for reasons of discovery of your local wildlife, the best time is when you have at least a half hour free and the weather is favorable. It is safest and easiest to go nature walking when light. However, if you wish to walk at night and spot some night nature activity, be sure to choose a place that is safe and to carry sufficient lighting to see where you're headed.;
, There are some commonsense basics to observe before taking a nature walk. Ensure that you're in good physical health before setting out on the walk. Take adequate water and maybe a snack, if needed. Wear supportive walking shoes that are suitable for the terrain and comfortable. Check the weather and take appropriate gear, such as a raincoat or layers of clothing, as required.
 If possible, go somewhere that is close to your home and is not too much of a hassle to get to. However, you might wish to catch local transportation or take the car if you would like to go to a specific natural area. However, anywhere that has sufficient greenery is ideal, and indeed, it can be an excellent opportunity to discover what nature exists in your local urban environment just by being prepared to be observant of nature around you.


If possible, it's best if you can walk in an area with less commotion and more greenery.
, Instead, focus on things around you (not the people). Look around to see the buildings, shops, pavement stones, vehicles, plants, trees, flowers, and so forth.
 Notice small details about each one of these and admire them.
 It is important that you do not think about yourself or any other person (relationships), or any past incidents or future issues. Just focus on the present and look around you.
 Slowly take a walk and breathe in a relaxed manner.
, You can continue to walk for an hour to get the optimum result, such as reducing your stress levels.
 This nature walk will not only de-stress you but also help you to realize that the world is a big place and your problem is not as insurmountable or as huge as you thought before. This walk will also ensure that you relax and soothe your nerves and make you feel mentally better.
 Whether it's just down your street or in a local park, there will be plenty to discover when you are focused on finding nature.
 Even in the middle of the city you will find nature. Look down to find the plants that are pushing their way up through the pavement, look at eye level for street trees and butterflies and other flying insects. Find the gardens in your area, whether private, community run or publicly owned. Walk by them, and if allowed, through them. Look up to see which birds are soaring in the sky above you.


Notice how people bring greenery to the city.
Notice how animals find niches in the city environment, including birds, insects, small and medium sized mammals and people's pets.
 Use this knowledge to reattach yourself to the natural world and to help you distance yourself from the concrete, the technical and the hermetically sealed environments we create for ourselves. Realize that you can always discover nature while walking about and pass this wonder onto your friends, your children and your loved ones. Taking time to notice the ways in which nature has a way of reestablishing itself even in the most reshaped of environments is a way of helping you to remember that you are part of a much bigger and interconnected whole.
 Seek to imagine what it would be like to be a part of the nature around you, such as being a tree or bush, a soaring bird or a furry animal. Stand in your desired location and breathe deeply and soak in the energy of the place and of the nature around you. Close your eyes and imagine you are a tree or a bush or something planted to the landscape. Or, imagine yourself as the animal you've chosen. Simply be for a time, seeking to think as that plant or animal might.
 This can be especially good if doing a nature walk with the kids. Have them check off natural features on a simple chart, such as animals, tree types, plant elements, rock formations, and so forth. Some other ideas include:


Create a nature counting chart

Help children to appreciate nature; and

Make a nature journal upon your return from a nature walk. Keep in mind what you'd like to include in that journal as you walk about.
 This can be a wonderful way to meditate, reflect, get exercise and feel at one with the world.

