 Start by standing to one side of the dog. Make sure the stray dog is not displaying any signs of aggression, such as growling, baring its teeth, or barking. If the stray dog seems docile, you can crouch down beside the dog and position your legs hip width apart.Do not touch or pick up a stray dog that appears aggressive towards you or others. You may be putting yourself at risk of injury if you get too close to an aggressive stray dog.
 To keep the dog calm and make sure you are not at risk of injury, you can use the dog’s leash as a makeshift muzzle. Make sure the leash is clipped onto the dog. Then, bend down at the waist and wrap the leash one to two times around the dog’s mouth. Keep the leash firm but not too tight around the dog’s mouth. Throw the rest of the leash over the dog so it is out of the way.If you do not want to muzzle the dog but need to keep the dog calm, use your non-dominant hand to grab onto the leash right at the dog’s collar. Hold the leash firmly at the dog’s collar with your hand so the dog cannot move around.
 Once you have calmed down the dog using the leash, place your non-dominant hand under the dog’s head. Support the dog’s neck and head in the crook of your arm. Make sure you keep the leash in your hand as you do this so the dog cannot move around.Wrap your hand around the dog’s head or keep your hand away from the dog if you are worried about the dog nipping at you.
 Wrap your dominant hand around the dog’s abdomen, supporting the dog with your arm and hand. Your arm should be between the dog’s back legs to ensure they are supported.You should have a good grip on the dog’s abdomen, enough that you could support the dog’s weight with your arm and hand.
 Once your hands are in position, rise from the crouching position using your legs to lift yourself up, keeping the dog close to your chest area. You can then hold the dog comfortably in your arms and bring them to a safe place nearby.You may keep the dog in the makeshift muzzle or hold the dog at the collar as you hold them until you find a safe place to put down the dog.

