 Traditional grip is unique among drum grip styles in that it's not a matched grip — that is, the way you hold the stick isn't the same for both hands. To play with a traditional grip, begin by raising your your non-dominant hand in front of you and turning it so its palm faces upward toward the ceiling.










Note — traditional grip was originally used by military drummers who found it difficult to drum with a matched grip while on the march.To maintain uniformity, the left hand was generally used to hold the stick with an upward-facing grip regardless of which hand was the drummer's dominant one. However, in a modern context, some left-handed drummers reverse the typical traditional grip and use their right hand as the upward-facing one.
 Lay the drumstick in the fleshy "crook" of the hand between the thumb and index finger on your non-dominant hand. Slide the drumstick up and down until you find its rough balance point, then line this up so that your hand is supporting the stick roughly at this point.
 Bend your thumb so that it rests comfortably on top of the stick. Then, raise your index finger and lay it over the stick so that the inside portion of the finger is touching the stick. This should feel somewhat less natural than curling your thumb over the stick, but it's important for giving your traditional grip playing solid control.









When gripped properly, the pad of your thumb should be resting on the first knuckle of the index finger (or as near to it as possible) while the index finger should be curved over the top of the stick.
 Bring your middle finger along the outer edge of the stick so that it touches the stick at the underside of the second or third knuckle. This may feel a little unnatural at first, but it shouldn't feel outright uncomfortable.
 Next, bring your ring and pinky finger underneath the stick. Rest the stick on the cuticle of the ring finger or the knuckle of the middle finger and align the little finger under the ring finger for support. When gripped properly, your ring and little finger should be curved roughly the same way as your index finger.









With your index, ring, and pinky fingers curved in somewhat and your middle finger extended, it may look like you're "giving the bird". Don't worry! This is OK — in fact, it's a sign of good form.
 Your off hand is ready to play! Now, all you need to do is grip the other stick with your dominant hand in an overhand style just as you would for any of the matched grips above. You can use whichever grip is comfortable for you, but most find the typical American-style grip (or some minor variation on it) to be easiest.
 In traditional grip, you'll want to use a primarily wrist-based motion to do your drum hits, turning your wrists downward to hit the drum. The obvious difference from other styles, of course, is that the upward grip you're using in your off hand requires a slightly different wrist motion than you may be used to. However, you're still turning both hands in the same direction as you normally would.









Traditional grips are often used in jazz drumming and marching band drumming. Because it can be tricky to get the same level of power in your off hand as you would with an overhand grip, this style isn't always a good choice for the kind of loud, heavy drumming you might find in heavy metal, for instance.

