 This should only be done under circumstances where blocked or private calls are threatening or obscene. Your phone company will be notified of the call and will record their number and the date and time of the call. You are then expected to carry out legal action by notifying the police or any law enforcement agency about the call you traced by letting them know the date and time of the call. However, your phone company will only release the blocked or private caller's number to a law enforcement agency. A recording will play to let you know the call has been traced and is being kept in your phone company's records, as well as any further instructions on how to pursue legal action against the caller.


You must answer the call for Call Trace to work. Even if the caller hangs up the moment you pick up, tracing the call is still possible as long as a connection was made.
Some phone companies and law enforcers will require you to trace the call at least three times successfully before they can take action.Most phone companies will charge you a small fee whether or not you choose to report the call to law enforcements. This fee can cost up to $10 per call.
Call tracing should only be used for calls that are malicious, obscene, or harassing in nature.;
, Since it is so difficult to find a blocked caller’s ID, then it might useful for you to reject all blocked calls in the future from calling you. The feature will be activated and all anonymous, private, or blocked numbers will be rejected. To deactivate this feature, simply dial *87 and hang up.Blocked callers will receive a message to hang up and unblock their number before they can successfully reach you.
 This activates Call Return and a voice recording will provide you with the number of your last caller, the date and time of the call, and the option to call back. Call Return can only gather information from the last person that called you.Unfortunately, this does not work for blocked or private calls. If the number is blocked or private, an error message will notify you that your provider could not gather data from the caller.
If you have Anonymous Call Rejection activated and still receive malicious or obscene calls, you can now use Call Return to retrieve their number.
This service may need to be activated by your phone company so call your provider to see if they offer Call Return services.
You don't have to pick up the call to use Call Return. Some malicious callers or telemarketers will call around the same time of the day, so you can always wait for the phone to ring to the end, and then use Call Return to retrieve their information.
 Request that telemarketers place you on their “Do Not Call” list. Most telemarketers need verbal confirmation to put you on their "Do Not Call" list or they will continue to call you until you either buy their services or tell them not to.


It may be difficult to speak to or reason with some callers. Don't give out your personal information and don't let the phone call go beyond your comfort level. Remember, you can hang up to escape the situation.
 If there is a clear pattern between the phone calls you’re receiving, law enforcement will be more likely to get involved. Record dates, times, and the manner of all phone calls from the blocked number.


If you choose to press charges, this can be an expensive and long lasting ordeal.
Be prepared to take difficult actions such as changing your phone number to protect yourself or following instructions given to you by your law enforcement in order to trace the call. This might mean having to interact with the blocked caller or keep them on the line for an extended period of time to trace them.

