 Slowly pour the liquid or powder detergent on the spot until it is completely covered. Your detergent can be a common household product: baking soda, vinegar, soap, dish or laundry detergent. Let the detergent sit on the stain for 15-30 minutes if it is liquid.
 You can heat water in a large pot of water while the detergent is sitting on the stain. Or, using your bucket, get hot water from the tap. Pour the hot water onto the stain, and vigorously brush the detergent with hot water and a steel or stiff bristled brush. Scrub the spot for a minute or two, and then rinse the area with hot water or water from a hose. 








Repeat the process as necessary if the stain is still there. Wait a day to see if any more oil has surfaced on the pavement. This can happen with oil stains and you should repeat the process if it does.
 You can also use this mixture on fresh oil spills, because the absorbent material will soak up the oil. This mixture is good for small and difficult stains but may be less practical if you are trying to take large stains out of concrete.








Make the mixture by combining an absorbent material, for example, sawdust, kitty litter or baking soda with a solvent like acetone, lacquer thinner, or xylene until it is a thick paste. The components will work together to remove the stain, and the solvent will break up the oil while the absorbent material will soak it up.
Spread the material over the stain, about a ¼ of an inch thick.
Last, cover the poultice with plastic, and tape it down to keep it in place.
You can stamp on the plastic to get the mixture into the cracks of the pavement. Wait a day for the mixture to work on the oil stain, and then remove the plastic, sweep up the mixture, and dispose of it. Then wash off the area with water from a hose or bucket. Make sure that there is not a sealer on your driveway - these can be damaged by poultice mixtures.
 Let the soda sit on the oil stain for a day. This is the easiest and least expensive method for removing oil from your cement. Come back the next day and use a hose or bucket to wash off the coke and oil residue. If the stain still remains, consider using another method to remove the oil. 







