 The easiest way to download YouTube music is to use a computer. You'll need a computer to burn it to a blank CD anyway.
,, You can press ⌘ Command+C (Mac) or Ctrl+C (Windows), or you can right-click the highlighted address and select "Copy.", This is just one of many YouTube-to-MP3 converter sites, and the process will be very similar for most of them., Click the text field and press either ⌘ Command+V (Mac) or Ctrl+V (Windows), or right-click the field and select "Paste.",, This may take a few minutes.,, You can monitor the progress in your browser's download manager., Find and copy more YouTube addresses into the converter site to download more songs. You can fit up to 80 minutes of music on most blank CDs., You can find the iTunes icon in your Dock.,, This may say Music, Movies, TV Shows, Apps, or whatever library is currently open.

If your iPhone or iPad is connected and open in iTunes, click the "<" button to return to the main Libraries view.
 This will display your iTunes music library., If you didn't move them, you'll find them in your Downloads folder., Hold ⌘ Command and click each one in Finder to select them all., This will add them to your iTunes music library.,, You can call it something like "Mix CD.",, When adding music, remember that you're limited to 80 minutes of music per disc., This will close the playlist., This will highlight it.,,, This will automatically level the volume of all of the songs before burning.,, It will eject automatically when it's finished burning., You'll find this in the lower-left corner of your screen., This will search for Windows Media Player, which is typically the fastest way to open it.,,, You'll find this on the right side of the window.

If "Audio CD" is not displayed underneath the drive, click the menu button in the upper-right corner and select "Audio CD."

, If you didn't move the files after downloading, you'll find them in your Downloads folder.

To quickly open your Downloads folder, press ⊞ Win+E and then double-click the Downloads folder.
 This will allow to select all of them., You'll see the total time at the top of the list of music. Make sure the total time doesn't exceed 80 minutes (74 if you're using a disc that only supports 74 minutes)., This will allow you to enter a new name for the disc., This name will appear in players that support CD text and when the disc is inserted into a computer., You'll see this at the top of the Burn tab., The tracks you added will appear in the main frame of Windows Media Player, and you'll be able to monitor the progress of the burn.