 Your financial time horizon is a set date, usually months, years or even decades in the future, at which time you will achieve your financial goal. A common time horizon is a retirement date. If you have a longer time horizon, you may feel more comfortable taking on riskier financial decisions. If your time horizon is relatively short, you may need to minimize risk.An example of a shorter time horizon would be a teenager saving for his college education, or someone in their 50s planning for retirement.
Long-term investors should be willing (and able) to "ride out" the low points of financial return, i.e., periods when their assets have lost value.
Holding an asset longer doesn't necessarily result in increased value.
 Your risk tolerance is based on your ability — financial as well as emotional — to lose much of your original investment in exchange for greater potential returns.Your risk tolerance will change over the course of your lifetime, though your temperament may not.
Someone with a higher risk tolerance may take on more aggressive (and risky) investments, while someone with a lower risk threshold will be happier with a less risky investment, even if it results in lower returns.
Think of your risk tolerance level in terms of sleep — anything that causes you to worry and lose sleep at night should be avoided. If there's an investment that keeps you up at night worrying, then you've taken a bigger risk than you're currently prepared to take.
 If your time horizon changes, or your life circumstances alter your risk tolerance level, you may wish to change the manner in which you allocate your assets. This is known as "rebalancing" and it occurs when your investments are no longer in line with your investment goals. Many investors choose to readjust their investments on an annual or semi-annual basis.Rebalancing may trigger transaction fees or tax consequences.
Avoid changing your asset allocation based on performance. Remember that if a given asset isn't doing well, it will likely increase in value in the future. Remember the old adage: buy low, sell high.

