 This catapult uses the same basic supplies as the catapult from Method 1, but uses torsion, or twisting force, to propel its payload.This catapult is also quick to build and a lot of fun to fire!10 standard (4.5") craft sticks
4-5 elastic bands
1 bottle cap
A hot glue gun and glue stick
Ammunition: small marshmallows, beans, and pencil erasers are all great choices!

, This will form the fulcrum of your catapult. Stack 5 craft sticks together and secure with rubber bands at both ends.
 Align one craft stick perpendicular to the stack and center it, leaving 1/3" hanging below the stack. Attach the throwing arm to the stack with 1-2 elastic bands, wrapped in a crisscross pattern.


The more secure the attachment, the more spring you will get from your catapult.
 Arrange the catapult so the stack of craft sticks is laying on the table, and the throwing arm is sticking up.


Add a small dab of hot glue to each end of the stack and glue a craft stick to each end.
Add another dab of glue to the end of each support you just added, and use an additional craft stick to attach the two ends, creating a rectangular base.
 This step is optional, but will add additional stability and power to your craft stick catapult.


Cut or break off a 2-inch piece of craft stick.
Add a dab of hot glue to the middle of the support beam that is parallel to the fulcrum stack, and attach the piece of craft stick.
Thread an elastic band over the throwing arm, and pull the end under the base of the catapult and secure it to the craft stick stub you just created.
 Add a small dab of hot glue to the end of the throwing arm, and press the bottle cap into the glue, holding it in place for a few seconds while the glue cools.
 Load your ammunition of choice into the bottle cap. Hold the catapult frame securely to the table with one hand. Pull down on the lever arm with the other hand, and then let go! This catapult should have a longer range and more accuracy than the basic craft stick catapult in Method 1.

