 Check the major Internet registries such as Bluehost, Godaddy, NetRegistry to ensure your chosen name is not yet taken. If you find that your preferred name is available, register the .com and all other surrounding domain names, such as .net, .org, .info, etc. to ensure that competitors do not try to buy it. They also might ask you to pay an exorbitant price if you want to buy it in the future., Is the company or business name already registered by someone else? If you decide to register the business name you can check government sites such as the Securities and Exchange Commission in the U.S. or, in Australia the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, or in the UK, Companies House.,If your online business becomes big, you may find out too late that someone has already registered your business name and you will have to consider changing your website name if they registered the company name first., Register your Intellectual Property immediately. If you are setting up a website, you need to consider protecting your idea. You receive immediate copyright protection for anything you create, but you also need to consider protecting your trademark in your logo and any tagline by registration.


In the U.S., you can search and lodge this online at the Patent and Trademark Office and in Australia you can do this at IP Australia.Many countries have an online search and registration function so just do an Internet search for "intellectual property" in your country., Check reviews — do not pay all fees upfront but rather hold back a percentage until you are completely satisfied with the work. You could test them out with a smaller project first. You need to ensure they are responsive, deliver on time, and understand your style and requirements.


You should be involved in the design and content of website since you have the most expertise about the business and products.
Research your different options for a web hosting service. Determine the needs of your online business and choose one that meets your requirements. Look for things like 24-hour support, storage space, and uptime.
Most importantly, ensure you agree that at the end of your project, they are going to give you your software code and passwords. If you don't have these, it's difficult to get funding and impossible to sell your business.