 Besides all the other health benefits of drinking water, it will also help keep your metabolism up. When the body gets dehydrated, metabolism slows down. This means you won't burn as many calories, making it harder for you to lose the weight you want to., While protein is important for building muscles, it also helps keep your metabolism high. This is because the body burns a lot of calories digesting it, so your metabolic rate will stay high if protein is a normal part of your diet.Good sources of protein are chicken, fish like salmon and sardines, eggs, tofu, low-fat milk, low-fat cottage cheese, nuts, and beans.
 Heart disease is the number one killer of men in the United States, and diets high in saturated fats and cholesterol are a chief contributor to heart disease. Good fats, like mono- and polyunsaturated fats, lower cholesterol and decrease your risk of heart disease.Sources of good fats include oily fish like salmon and sardines, olive oil, avocados, and nuts.
Even when you're eating good fats, make sure no more than 25-35% of your overall calories come from fat. Any more will lead to weight gain.
 Iron deficiency will slow down your metabolism, so you'll want to get plenty of this nutrient in your diet. Some good sources of iron are shellfish. red meat, lentils, beans, and spinach., Carbohydrates are important for a diet geared towards building muscle. Without carbs, your body will burn protein for energy, which means that the protein won't go towards building your muscles. There are two kinds of carbs, however. Complex carbohydrates take longer for your body to digest than simple carbs. As a result, your body's metabolic rate will remain high if you eat these foods.Good sources of complex carbs include whole grain products, starchy vegetables, green leafy vegetables, and beans., Spicy foods like chili peppers give your metabolism a short boost right after eating. It doesn't last very long, but eating spices regularly can have a sustained effect on your metabolism. Try adding a scoop or two of chili powder to your meals to add flavor and give your metabolism a boost., Although men usually love a good steak, red meat is not the best choice for your health.Satisfy your meat craving with lean meat like poultry, and keep red meat down to 3 servings per week.


You don't need to cut out red meat entirely. Extra lean cuts of beef and pork will provide much less fat and cholesterol, which is good for your waistline and overall health.The USDA considers an extra lean cut of meat as follows: for every 100 grams of meat, there are no more than 5 grams of total fat, 2 grams of saturated fat, and 95 milligrams of cholesterol., It's very important to keep track of your calories to avoid overeating. Make sure to read all food labels and write down everything you eat. This will help you keep your eating under control by showing you where you stand in relation to your daily maximum. Keep your count low by swapping high-calorie, low-nutrition items for nutrient-dense, low-calorie foods and snacks.Also check for apps that will help you track your calories. There are several of these that will give you an accurate measure of what you've consumed., Some people think that eating very few calories every day will help them lose weight. While you'll probably see some weight loss from this, it is overall counterproductive. First of all, it slows down your metabolism, so the calories you do eat stay around longer. Second, you'll probably lose muscle as well, which means your body won't burn as many calories. If you want to lose weight, crash dieting is not the way to do it.