 While not all songs are part of a larger message, many songs make more sense in the context of the whole album. Are there other songs that hint at a similar meanings or themes? Are there characters, images, or ideas that keep cropping up in other songs?


What songs come before or after the song you're listening to? Do the shifts in mood or tone between songs tell you anything?
The first song and last song generally set the theme. If the song came first, what kind of mood does it set for all the songs after it? If it comes last, what kind of tone does it leave the listener on?

, Charles Mingus's famous jazz song "Fables of Faubus" means very little if you don't know that Governor Faubus tried to prevent desegregation in Arkansas. The famous Fleetwood Mac album Rumors makes much more sense once you realize that, at the time, everyone gossiped that the band members were secretly dating. Many songs only make sense in the year they were released, as they explicitly address current events.


Look up the year the song was released or written, as well as any major current events from that period. Does anything seem familiar?
Sometimes artists will talk about personal issues that influenced songs years after they were released. For example, Kanye West's second album, Late Registration, talks a lot about fame and money, whereas his first album talks about the struggles of a starving artist.
 How do the instrumentals make you feel -- dark and moody, happy and bouncy, slow and contemplative, high-energy and rocking? Sometimes there will be a disconnect between lyrics and music, which points to more meaning. For example, if there are melancholy lyrics but a happy backing track, you can often assume that the lyrics are supposed to be funny. They could also show an interesting contrast -- the world around the singer might be happy, but the singer is not.


Third Eye Blind's famous "Semi-Charmed Life" is about a crushing meth addiction. The happy background music symbolizes the quick but high-tempo high the characters get, even as they are ruining their lives.
 A clue to many songs' meanings comes from their progression. If you think about the song as a speech from a friend, what was the point of the speech? How did their mood or perspective change from the first line to the last? If you have noticed a change in the song, go back and find the line or lines where it occurred.


A sudden twist or change is often called a "turn." For example, if the singer is pining over a girl in the beginning but seems happy at the end, what was the line where the singer's luck "turned?" This is often your biggest clue to a song's meaning.
 Music videos can sometimes help show a song's meaning, but they can also make it far more confusing. That's because many music video directors are telling short stories that may or may not line up literally with the lyrics. Instead, they tend to match the mood or tone of the song without directly portraying what the song means.


What is the theme of the music video? This often will match the song's theme, even if the stories are different. For example, a video may show two people fighting, smashing their own house, while the song is about politics or current events. The theme may be that people are hurting themselves from the inside.
Many music videos are purely aesthetic. That means they are meant to look pretty without really exploring the song's meaning.
 Some songs are just songs -- they cover a wide range of ideas or topics, describe a straightforward love, or are simply made to get people dancing. If you've dug into the song's lyrics, looked up its background, and understand the references, but still don't see an overall meaning or point, there probably isn't one. Just enjoy the song and the deeper understanding you've gained of it and move on.

