 When removing milk stains from clothing or fabric, it's important that you blot the stain as soon as possible. Letting the milk dry into the fibers of your clothing makes it harder to remove the stains later. Soak a cotton rag or sponge with cold water and blot the stain in the area where you spilled the milk.Rubbing and scraping the milk stain may make the stain worse.;
, If you have a bad milk stain, soak your clothing in a bucket or tub of cold water for five minutes. Soaking a milk stain will help loosen up the fabric and will prevent discoloration when you wash your item. If the milk has hardened onto your clothing, you can use a flat edged tool to scrape it off.Using warm or hot water can make the stain worse, so avoid doing this.
For really bad stains, soaking your clothing overnight could help remove the stain., Pretreat the area by rubbing detergent or another fabric cleaner into the stain before washing it. You should only need a couple of drops. As an alternative to liquid detergent, you can use a solution of equal parts baking soda and water. Pretreating the stain before washing it will help lift the stain from the fabric.


Other cleaners, like Oxiclean, can also do a great job at reducing the appearance of milk stains.Cleaners with enzymes do a great job of removing stains but could affect those with sensitive skin., Put the clothing in a washing machine as you normally would. If you don't have access to a machine, you can wash the item by hand. Once the item has been washed, check the area to see if the stain has washed out. If it's still there, pretreat and wash your piece of clothing again until you no longer see the stain.
 Do not dry your clothes if you can still see the milk stain. This can set the stain, and make it harder to remove later.If the stain is visible, continue to pretreat and clean it until the stain is gone. Check the item's clothing tag to see if it's safe to put it in a mechanical dryer. If it's not, then you can pin up your clothes to dry them.

