 You will, of course, have to actually show up come game night. DnD is a commitment, since it is difficult to enjoy the game if members of the group are constantly missing. When joining a game, you should be willing and prepared to work with their schedule.
 For the first session, you will need to create your characters. This can be done alone, before meeting as a group, or together. Creating characters together should lead to a more balanced party, as you can discuss what is needed. Doing this together is also helpful for new or inexperienced players.


Make sure everyone has a blank character sheet or use a program like Redblade to do it for you.
Read the instructions regarding character creation in the Player's Handbook and have everyone but the DM create a character.
Take note of the differences between races and classes, and which complement each other. For example, if you decide to be a Fighter and this is your first time out, a Human or Half-Orc will be a far better choice than either an Elf or a Gnome. On the other hand, if you want a challenge, then try a Monk or a Spell Caster of any sort (Sorcerer, Druid, Cleric, Wizard, etc.)
The character you create will be called your Player Character (PC). All the other characters that are in the game world which are not controlled by a Player are called Non-Player Characters (NPC) and will be controlled by the Dungeon Master.
 You can move right into this step on the first session after you finish making characters, or this could also be the second session. Either way, this is where you all begin actually playing the game.


Each player controls their own PCs. You cannot control other people's PC, nor can you control NPCs.
The DM will describe where you are and what is around you.
The players all take turns telling the DM what action they would like to do in response. The DM will answer each question and explain what the outcome of any action.
Play will continue in this way, back and forth between the players and DM.
 The average time is determined by how often you play - if you can play once a week, then those sessions may be only four hours, whereas if you can only play once a month everyone may opt for eight hour sessions. Whichever you prefer, the DM generally keeps track of the time and will call the end of game when appropriate.


Most DMs prefer to create an episodic "cliff-hanger" feel right before some kind of action to stop at. This essentially pauses the adventure at an intriguing point so that excitement for how it will resolve at the next session is high among the players. Just like a TV show, this will encourage everyone to come back next time!

