 When you have writer's block, no ideas spring to mind when you are writing and you are stuck for what to write. Understand that writer's block is easy to overcome, and there are many ways to get over it. Do not stop to the idea that you will never write again.;
, Anything in the world - even write about pineapples. It gets your brain to think more and be creative. This works the best for many people. Once you've thought of a paragraph or a few sentences about your topic go back to your story.
 The writing does not have to be polished; writers often have writer's block because they worry about the quality of their writing. Remember that nobody has to see a word you've written except you. You can show it to the world when you're ready.
 For example, if you have a long, action-packed sequence, try going over to a reasoned conversation. Be sure that the changeover makes sense. You don't have to write in one speed or one tone all the time. Something completely different can really end up inspiring you to reach new depths. If you tend to write dramatic scenes, switch to something a bit more lighthearted, or vice versa.
 Look over what you have written and ask yourself, "Does this seem to be leading up to anything?" If you feel like it's going absolutely nowhere, then it may be time to move on from it.
 You may have writer's block because the situation doesn't seem realistic to you. Don't be afraid to rewrite parts of the story to make it more natural.
 If you are having trouble with the beginning, write the middle or end. After you have written another part of the story, things may start to fall into place where you were before.


Writing out of order may require more familiarity with the plot so that everything makes sense from start to finish. At the same time, it may help you think out the details when you cannot decide what to do with your story. Writing a good ending while you think of about the rest of your story will help structure it.
 It may surprise you how much you like it! A monologue, song, poem, or even taking a short amount of time to write a scene from a completely different story will get your writer's blood flowing again.
 Out of all writers block stoppers, using prompts is one of the most effective ones. Use any random word or sentence to help you come up with a plot and start writing your story. For example if you asked a friend to give you a prompt and they said the words "Forever" and "Passion" you would most likely think of a romance. And if they were to give you the phrase "Bite me" then you would most likely think of a vampire or werewolf. (Twilight anybody?)

, Use the people around you and the personalities. Use the nature, atmosphere and scenes that surround you to build up your story/plot. The best possible way to do this is to use a diary. Jot down your daily life,random thoughts and feelings.
 Even if you think one won't work. It's a simple way to cure writer's block. To make it easier, say everything you're thinking about out loud. You'll bump into something. Good luck!

