 To help toddlers get the hang of stitching and sewing, there is a simple project you can try with them that uses a lot of things you already have around your house. You’ll need the following: a piece of cardboard; mesh from a bag of potatoes, citrus fruit, etc.; a stapler, a pair of scissors and an Exacto knife; an embroidery needle with a blunt tip; and thick embroidery thread or yarn., The mesh will essentially be used as your toddler’s sewing surface, and the cardboard is used to stabilize the mesh as a frame. The setup is very similar to a cross-stitch frame and fabric. Therefore you can cut the cardboard and mesh any size that works for you and your toddler.Attach the mesh to the cardboard using the stapler.
You want the mesh to be approximately 1.5” longer and wider than the cardboard frame.
Pull the mesh taught over the cardboard so it’s not too flexible in the frame.
 You may need to thread the needle for your toddler, even though the eye is quite large. Once you have the needle threaded, show them how to stitch in and out of the mesh squares. Change-up the colour of the thread (or yarn) every so often.Once you show your toddler how to stitch, let them go at it however they want. Don’t worry about ‘normal’ sewing rules.
If they want, you can use a marker to draw a pattern on the mesh for your toddler to follow.
 While not a exactly a sewing project, stringing beads will help a toddler with their hand-eye coordination. Plus the motion of stringing beads is almost the same as threading a needle, so this skill will be useful should they want to sew in the future.Making a string of beads is incredibly simple. For the ‘string’ you can use plastic gimp, yarn, or thick thread. The beads can be any type that you find at a craft or fabric store. The younger the child, the bigger the beads should be. You can even use buttons instead of beads.
Demonstrate how to put the beads on the string, then allow your toddler to take over.
The resulting string of beads can be used for just about anything: bracelet, necklace, bookmark, keychain, etc.

