 If you're calling someone at a company, you need to know about that company. Of course, you can find out about the company through its website, but you can also check out its Facebook page and other public pages. Another good way to learn about the company is through news stories; do a search on the company, and switch the search to just news stories. Make notes on any information relevant to your real estate business., Yes, you need to know the person's company and what the company does. However, it's equally important to know about the person you are calling. Look her up on her company's website. Check out her LinkedIn profile or even her Facebook profile, if she has it set on public., Show how what you're offering can help the person and the company. That is, make your email as specific as you can to the company. It's much like writing a cover letter to a resume; you're selling yourself by offering up specifics about why your real estate offerings would be the best option for the company and the person.For instance, you can write, "Dear Ms. Jones, I'm writing because I am a realtor with real estate offerings that you or your company would be interest in. I noticed that your company is purchasing small local shops, and I think I have some properties you would be interested in. I would like to discuss these properties with you over the phone. Would Friday at 3 work for you?"
Including a time usually gets people to at least offer a response.
 If you sound tired or bored, no one is going to want to listen to you. Try to put a smile on your face (people can tell by the sound of your voice), and try to act enthusiastic about what you're doing., The person you are calling is busy. If you want her to actually listen to her, you need to respect her time. Keep your call short and to the point, and ask if you can call back at a better time if she turns you down because she's too busy., You are actually trying to have a conversation with the person you are calling. If you dump information on her, she'll likely want to end the conversation before it really begins.