 Your first decision involves the sort of stroller you are looking for. Essentially you have two options: a side-by-side model, in which both children sit next to each other, or a tandem, in which one seat is in front of the other.


Side-by-side strollers are usually the same length as a single stroller but tend to be fairly wide, which can prove to be a disadvantage when maneuvering in tight spaces or attempting to fit through narrow doorways. They usually fold more compactly than tandems, however, and are usually lighter, although this largely depends on the make and model. Parents who favor side-by-side doubles like the fact that the seats tend to have more reclining positions, and that both children have a clear, unobstructed frontal view – even though this does mean the parent pushing the stroller cannot see either of them directly. However, side-by-side double strollers are not usually able to accommodate two car seats, which makes them unsuitable for newborn twins.
Tandem double strollers are easier to handle in the sense that they are the same width as single strollers, and so are good for small stores and tight spaces. Many models can accommodate two infant car seats, and – perhaps their best feature – the better ones will offer a variety of seating options: both babies facing parent, both facing forward, or even facing each other. Unfortunately the placement of the seats sometimes means that the child in the back seat has less legroom and a restricted view (which becomes an issue as they get older and want to see more) and parental access and view of the child in the front seat is restricted. The front seat may also have limited recline options, which causes problems for the younger baby who may want to nap in the stroller. Tandems also tend to be heavier when compared with side-by-side strollers, and may be fairly bulky even when folded, so it’s worth checking to see if the one you like will fit in your car boot before you purchase it.
There are other options also available, such as jogging double strollers, which are side-by-side three-wheelers with added stability and a more aerodynamic shape for active parents, and even ‘snap and click’ stroller frames onto which baby bassinets or car seats can be attached. Both are options worth looking into but usually parents will pick a more traditional double stroller and explore these styles further when it comes to purchasing a second or supplementary stroller.;
, This essentially boils down to your budget for this item. Even though most parents of twins consider a good stroller a necessity, you need to balance the amount of use you will get out of a double stroller with the price you will be paying. If, like most parents, you anticipate using it daily and for extended periods, it’s worth investing in a good-quality model with the ability to grow with your kids. That means avoiding double prams – they are only useful until your baby can sit up – and looking for models that can accommodate children up to a reasonable weight, such as fifteen kilograms.
 The activities you intend to carry out with your stroller will determine which kind is most suitable.


If you need something that’s quick to unload from the car and set up, while you’re running errands and dashing into shops, a lightweight, easy-open type is best.
If you know you’ll be taking long walks in the countryside, you’ll need a jogging stroller with large wheels and off-road capabilities.
If you anticipate keeping the babies in their stroller for long periods of time while you shop, you’ll need to look for something with maximum comfort, reclining seats and perhaps even space for food and toys.
 There are any number of features you can find on strollers now, from the basic (like tray tables or reclining seats) to the high-tech (mobile holders and iPod docks). And even though it’s tempting to go for the strollers that seem to offer maximum style and multiple gizmos, think carefully about what kind of practical gear you will need.


If you anticipate spending a lot of time outdoors with the stroller, a rain cover might be a useful extra to have, as would a hood and footmuff.
Food trays are good for storing snacks and small toys to keep little fingers busy, and a large storage basket is always useful.
Some strollers come with custom-made diaper bags, others with specially designed parasols, storage bags or changeable covers.
It’s worth thinking about what you’ll need before you set out to buy, so you can choose a model that comes with the extras included, or so that you can factor the cost of the accessories you’ll need to buy into the final price.
 No matter how sure you are about what you want, there’s always a possibility that you may change your mind when confronted with the stroller in question. Some models look great online or on paper, but turn out to be awkward when you try them out in the store. Others that might not have appealed to you initially could prove winners in maneuverability and comfort tests. That’s why it’s important to ‘test-drive’ the stroller of your choice before you make your purchase. It might be tempting to order online and take advantage of cheaper prices, but then you run the risk of ending up with something you just don’t like. Having said that, if you do decide to buy online, research your choice as thoroughly as possible, read online reviews, and watch videos of the stroller in question being used. You’ll end up with a much clearer picture of what you’re getting, even if you haven’t seen it in a store beforehand.

