 Instead of replacing your countertop with costly granite, marble, or stainless steel, save yourself some money and simply purchase paints that are specifically designed to resemble those materials.Or, just use whatever color suits your fancy. Be sure to choose a paint that is specifically meant for laminate countertops, since these are often cheaper than other paints and won’t require you to prime.;
, Make sure you buy enough paint for the job. Measure the dimensions of all surface area to be covered. Be sure to buy enough for two coats to ensure the countertop’s original surface doesn’t bleed through once the paint dries.


Search online for “paint calculators,” such as http://www.glidden.com/Tools/PaintCalculator, to get a ballpark figure on how much to buy.
 Refer to your brand of paint's instructions regarding drying times. Expect some brands to take as many as three days for all coats to fully air-dry. Also be aware that the paint’s consistency made be adversely affected by extreme weather. Plan accordingly, with a guaranteed stretch of consistently ideal weather for as long as the paint needs to dry., Line all other surfaces that connect with the countertop (such as walls and cabinets) with painter’s tape where they meet. Remove or cover appliances like sinks and stoves. Use painter’s tape to secure a tarp, dropcloth, sheet, or other protective covering over the floor., Expect paints to be toxic. Minimize the amount of contact that you will have with the paint itself or its fumes. Open windows and/or set up fans to promote better air circulation. Wear protective gear, such as air masks, gloves, foam collars, long sleeves and pants., Use fine sandpaper to smooth the surface. Scrape away any substances that may have dried, congealed, or otherwise stuck to them. Create as smooth a surface as possible for an even finish.
 Expect the paint’s ingredients to separate from each other after sitting on the shelf for so long. Once you open it, stir the contents until the color is even. Then pour some into your paint tray., Use your roller to cover large surface areas. Use brushes to coat smaller and/or harder-to-reach areas, like corners and edges, to avoid making a mess. Have paper towels and water handy so you can quickly clean up any drips on unwanted surfaces before the paint has a chance to dry., Refer to your paint’s direction to find out how long it needs on average to fully air dry. Be aware that environmental factors, like low temperatures or high humidity, may make it take longer. Periodically test it by gently touching it to feel how tacky it is. Once it is fully dry, apply a second coat to finish.