 Locate the orange headphone icon on your Android homescreen or app drawer, and tap it.


Google Play Music is usually pre-installed on most Android devices. If for some reason you don’t have it, download it for free from Google Play.
 If this is your first time using the app, you will be asked to log in. Enter your Gmail address and password in the fields on the screen and tap “Sign in.” Now you can access your libraries.


The standard Google Play Music service is free and lets you upload up to 20,000 tracks. There is a size limit, but that only really matters if you’re uploading very high-quality music. Files themselves are limited to 300 MB, and if Google has to convert a file, that limit applies to the converted track. The supported file formats are MP3, AAC (m4a), WMA, FLAC, OGG, DRM, AAC (m4p), and ALAC (.m4a).
 Download Music Manager on your computer; Music Manager is a simple desktop application that lets you upload your collection from your iTunes music library or any music folder on your computer to the cloud.


To download, go to Google Play and click “My Music” at the top. In the My Music page, in the upper right-hand corner, click “Upload Music.” On the next screen, click “Download Music Manager.”
After it has downloaded, an installation pop-up will appear automatically. Click “Run” to install the Music Manager. Wait for it to finish, and the Music Manager will automatically open when it’s done.
 Click “Next” on the pop-up after the installation is finished, and then enter your Gmail email address and password into the fields. Click “Sign in” to continue.
 After signing in, you will be given the option to either “Upload songs to Google Play” and “Download songs from Google Play to my computer.” Select “Upload songs to Google Play” by clicking on the circle beside it, and click “Next.”

, The next prompt will ask where you keep your music collection. There are 4 options to choose, but the first one is iTunes. Click the circle beside it and click “Next.”

, On the next prompt, you will be asked if you want to automatically upload songs that you add to the iTunes folder in the future. You can either opt for this by clicking “Yes”, or if you don’t want to by clicking “No.” Click “Next” on the next pop-up and the Music Manager will begin uploading your iTunes music collection to Google Play Music.


You can now access your iTunes music collection (those in MP3 format) from the Google Play Music app on your mobile device.
Note that those songs purchased from iTunes are under DRM copy protection. You will need to convert those before being able to play it in Google Play Music.

