 One of the easiest ways you can keep your pet rat safe from your dog is to put its cage in a separate room. This room should be one that has a door you can keep closed to prevent your dog from entering. Consider putting your rat's cage in a room that you can easily keep your dog out of to help keep it safe and secure.Even if your rat escapes its cage, being behind the room's closed door will keep your dog and rat from meeting.
Don't forget to keep the door to the room shut, even if you aren't in the room itself.
You could also try using a dog-gate or baby-gate to keep your dog out of the room. However, you will need to make sure your rat can't climb over or around the gate when it's out walking around.;
, If you don't have a room that you can keep your dog out of, you can try placing your rat's cage on a surface that your dog cannot reach. You could try putting the rat's cage on a special high table or a sturdy shelf to keep it up and away from your dog. Look around your home for any elevated places you could use to keep your rat separated from your dog.Make sure the space you choose is safe and is capable of supporting the rat's cage.
It's good to check that your dog won't be able to jump up and reach the cage.
 Rats are clever creatures and may try to escape their cages. A rat that escapes while you are away may have a potentially dangerous encounter with your dog. Always check the rat's cage to make sure that it is sealed properly and there is no chance of your rat sneaking out.Check that all doors are securely latched and locked.
Make sure there are no loose areas of the rat's cage that could come undone.
Look for any spots that you think your rat might be able to squeeze through and seal them up.
 Whenever you want to let your rat out of the cage for some playtime or exercise, make sure your dog is securely held in another room. Keeping your dog out of the room while your rat plays will help keep your rat safe and allow them time to explore their space.Make sure the door to the other room is securely shut.
If you can't put your dog in another room, try putting them outside or having someone hold them on a leash.
 Some dogs will do better than others when it comes to introducing them to your pet rat. There are some dog breeds that have been bred to hunt small game and may view your rat as prey. Other dog breeds might get along just fine with your pet rat. Take a look at some of these dog breeds to learn which ones might get along well with your pet rat:Australian Shepherd
Basset Hound
Bulldog
Golden Retriever
Irish Setter
Pug

