 CNA stands for certified nursing assistant. Being a CNA means being a member of a health team and working under the supervision of a certified nurse.


A CNA's job is hands-on. You provide care to patients, residents, clients, and customers. It's a busy job and hours are usually long.A CNA's work is generally in the realm of non-invasive procedures. Assistance is a big part of the job. You will help with bathing, toilet issues, dressing, eating, and oral care when patients cannot perform these tasks alone. You will also monitor vital signs and assure a patient's dietary restrictions are met.While the job is not glamorous, it is important. You're essentially responsible for assuring patients are treated with dignity and respect and bridging the communication gap between doctors, nurses, and patients. Important information is transferred from patient to nurse/doctor via the CNA.;
, A CNA is not like other professional pursuits. It's highly rewarding work but also very challenging. As so much of the profession involves hands-on care, the best way to know if you're up to the task is to witness a CNA in action.


If you are a high school or college student, your school might have a program where you can shadow professionals. Check with your principle or with the Office of Student Affairs and see if you can set something up with CNA in your area.
Call local hospitals. Even if they don't have pre-existing programs for shadowing nursing assistants, they might be willing to work with you if you express interest.
This is also a great way to make career connections that could be vital in finding a job down the line. Stay in touch with the CNA you shadow and do not hesitate to ask them for career advice.
 While some people choose CNA as a longterm career, others use it as a stepping stone to other medical professions. Figure out why you want to become a CNA and whether you hope to advance to other positions. Carefully consider what a career as a CNA looks like before making any major decisions.


Compassion is key to becoming a successful CNA. You must have a genuine desire to help people that will fuel you through difficult times. The environment of a hospital or nursing home is fast-paced, and many young CNA's feel initially overwhelmed by the position.A CNA is not a high paying job, especially when compared to the salaries of nurses and doctors. However, on the upside CNA's are always in great demand. The lack of direct care has been a major issue in hospitals across the country. While the position may not pay as much as others, job security and availability is greater.You might not plan to stay a CNA forever. A CNA is often used as a stepping stone to becoming a nurse or doctor and the experience of working with patients hands-on is invaluable to a medical career. Your capacity for bedside manner, compassion, and communication can be greatly enhanced by having years of CNA experience going into the medical field.

