 If you mute the television, you will instantly free yourself from their bad calls, their inane comments, and their clearly scripted background information on players they haven't really got a clue about. Not hearing the uninformed broadcasters obviously helps, but you still want to have some sort of play-by-play audio, so consider the next step in tandem with this one.


Another good alternative is to lower the volume rather than muting it completely. Then, occupy yourself by doing something else like reading or surfing online, and turn it up whenever it appears to be important. You should still be able to notice important moments to raise the volume for.;
, Even if the game is broadcast on national or local radio, you might prefer the radio announcers' approach. It can be a good idea to listen briefly to both the television and the radio announcers to ascertain who is giving better commentary and which is more likely to be more informative for you. If it turns out to be the radio, mute the TV and listen to the radio commentary instead.


Note that your ability to do this will depend on where you live and the sport you're following, as media broadcast deals differ from sport to sport, as well as being dependent on what your region or country usually does with respect to sports broadcasting rules in general.
 Use one of the specially programmed online sites that allow you to watch a game online. You might need to pay but if the announcing is annoying, you could minimize the screen and mute the computer, and do something else while keeping an eye on the game. You might even be able to read blow-by-blow accounts if the site provides them.


Make use of websites such as Twitter and Facebook to discuss the commentary with your online buddies!

, This can be quite a lot of fun at times and will ease your annoyance at the irritating comments made by the announcers. You might even consider holding a competition to see who can spot the most mistakes or bad calls for the entire game. Tally it up at the end and the winner gets shouted a free drink or something else you've decided on in advance.


You could also point out particular over-used catch-phrases, attempts at sounding like they know what they're saying but clearly don't, arrogant comments, self-interested comments, etc.
 It might sound silly, but doing this can be entertaining, with or without an audience. If there are other people watching the game with you, take it in turns to call the game; inject a little rivalry into the commentating by holding a competition for the best home announcer for the game!

, Some of your frustration might be sourced from expecting too much from the commentators when you already know full well that they're not across your team's or player's background and performance history. In this case, instead of getting irritated or frustrated, just accept that there will be a slackening in the quality you'd normally expect but don't let it spoil the game for you.
 If money is no object, and if the game is important, go to the game. Attending a game in person is better than listening to even the best broadcasters and you'll soak up the atmosphere and enjoy the experience first hand.


Know well in advance that there are games you're likely to want to go to so that you can budget for them and set aside savings. If you need to travel, you'll also need to factor in travel and accommodation costs.
 Many of these types of games won't matter much. Stay in-the-know by checking the box score tomorrow, online just after, or by watching the main highlights on your local news station (as they're likely to dub over their own commentary anyway).

