 A streaming platform does all the heavy lifting for you. You don't have to worry about any coding or technical knowledge. There are plenty of free or paid streaming services that give you user-friendly tools to easily broadcast your webcam without the hassle of installing encoders or hosting it yourself. Go to a reputable search engine and search for "live stream platform." The results will give you more than enough options to choose from.


Decide what you need from a platform. Do you want a huge audience, HD streaming, mobile compatibility, and an ad-free platform? Look for a paid service. Do you just need a basic stream for a small audience, and you don't care about ads? Look for a free service.
If you decide you want a free platform, alter your search to "live stream platform for free." Just remember there are far fewer free platforms than paid platforms.
You can try out different free platforms before you commit. Many paid platforms also have free trials you can take advantage of.
Popular services include: Ustream (paid, free trial),DaCast (paid),Livestream (free option, free trial),and Bambuser (free option).;
, Every service requires an account of some kind. There will probably be a button in the upper right corner of their site to create an account.


Sign up for a premium account for a broader audience, better quality, and fewer ads. Premium accounts can be quite pricey, often over a hundred dollars a month.
Sign up for a free account if you don't need those perks or you can't afford it.
 There's usually a "Go Live" or "Broadcast Now" button. This will let you stream your webcam directly without downloading any software.
 You only have to do this once if you check "remember" when prompted. You may have to update your version of Adobe Flash to do this.


You should see your webcam's light turn on. If the platform can't access your webcam, your webcam may be broken (in which case you should buy a new one) or you may have to update your webcam drivers.
For better quality, you may want to upgrade your webcam's software or buy a new one.
 Now that everything is ready, broadcast your webcam to the world. Every site has different tools and instructions, but they should be straightforward. Click the broadcast button to toggle the stream on and off.


Once you start your stream, you will have your own channel or room that viewers can tune in to. You can share the link on your social media or blog. You can also name and customize your channel to suit your needs.
You can also embed the stream to your personal website. Your stream comes with embedding code that you can place in your site's code so your stream is always up. If you don't have access to your site's code, contact your web developer. Most sites and blogs have intuitive embedding features, but this link will help you embed your stream.
 Some sites offer it for free, while others don't. You can also utilize a third-party software like the free Open Broadcaster Software. This makes you less dependent on your platform and your wifi. Method 3 has more information on encoding software.

