 The bacteria that causes cavities feeds on sugar in the mouth. To help prevent cavities, make sure that your child is not eating snacks high in added sugar. Read the nutrition labels of all prepacked foods to see how many grams of sugar it contains per serving. You can:


Choose cheese sticks instead of gummy fruit snacks.
Give your child oatmeal and fruit for breakfast instead of sugary breakfast cereals.
Buy natural, full-fat yogurt or Greek yogurt. Fat-free yogurt often contains more sugar.
 A diet rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, dairy, and lean proteins will ensure both your child’s dental health and general health. While most foods contain sugar, you can limit the intake of these sugars by ensuring that they receive other vital nutrients as well.Besides the healthy advantages that natural food brings for the entire body and development of your child, they also keep your gums and teeth protected. They do this by stimulating the blood flow and bone development through the force required for chewing harder foods compared to processed food, which is soft.


Half of what your child eats should either be fruits or vegetables.
Whole grains include whole wheat bread, oatmeal, or brown rice.
Lean proteins include fish, eggs, beans, and lean cuts of chicken and beef.
Dairy includes milk, cheese, and yogurt.
 Children take in a ton of sugar from their drinks. Soda, juice, and sport drinks all contain high levels of sugar. Many of these drinks also contain acid that can break down tooth enamel. Your child should be drinking primarily water to prevent tooth decay.


If your child is still bottle feeding, only put milk, formula, or breastmilk in the bottle. Do not give them juice.Instead of juice, give your child whole fruit. Whole fruit has fiber that can scrub the teeth as you eat it., Certain foods can help keep tooth enamel strong. These foods tend to be high in either vitamin K, calcium, or protein—all of which are essential for strong bones. Cheese in particular is a great snack because it encourages saliva production and can strengthen enamel.Some other good foods include:


Milk
Dark, leafy vegetables like spinach and kale
Tofu
Meat
Eggs