 This will play an important role in determining which topics you write about and how much depth and background or supporting information you provide.


If you're blogging as a hobby and want to share information you know as well as technical information you're learning regularly yourself, you can choose diverse topics that interest you at a specific time.
If you want to gain a reputation as an expert, you should choose a select number of topics about which you are knowledgeable. You should attempt to provide more information about the topics you choose than most technical bloggers you research online. That may include doing lengthy research before writing. You should focus on in-depth articles and discussions that can be of use to your readers.
If you're blogging to earn money, you should first look into tech companies that offer a good affiliate program, which is a way of earning money based on the amount of people who click through to their websites from yours. Choose companies that offer products or services you feel confident you can blog about, as you will need to refer to them in some form to earn money. This can be done by means of linking phrases in the text of your blog, or posting their ads on your website, which, when clicked, lead to the companies' websites.;
, Plan your topics for the next 3 months ahead of time so you're prepared and have plenty of time to research them. If you're serious about blogging, you might want to have the entire 3 months of content written ahead of time so you can maintain a consistent number of posts while researching and writing more content.


You can find out what topics people are interested in by reading other technical blogs, as well as looking on online forums. In the forums, you'll run across topics that many people want to know more about, which can give you a list of topics for your blog.
Follow the technical news. Watch programs on TV and the web about technology, and read publications about technology to find out what are the most recent developments. News often generates good material to write about and enhance your own knowledge of a subject.
You can write tech product reviews that inform consumers of the quality and use of tech products and services. In some cases, you might even receive discounted or free products from the companies that make or provide the products or services. However, this is most likely to happen when you can prove you have a large number of recurring readers.
Once your blog is up and running, you can always react to some of your readers' suggestions in your blog. For example, if somebody asks for information on a specific topic, you can react to that in 1 or more blog posts (a blog post is an entry in your blog).
 Even if you know a lot about a subject, always make sure to do some quick research to verify what you're writing. If you're writing as an expert, provide more detailed research, as well as sources and links to other pages.
 Blogs are casual, opinionated authored articles and usually don't include a lot of complicated terms and language. Even if you're an expert, try to explain things in terms that a layman will understand.

