 Japan offers plenty of budget food choices in restaurants, so you don't need to avoid eating out altogether. Décor is often a good indicator of price, so be alert. Tipping is not expected in Japan, so you can save even more by not doing so. It's a really good idea to have a menu-reading list on your smartphone or in your guidebook so that you know what you're eating and the value. And it pays to ask for meibutsu if you're a food lover––this is the word for "speciality" and will ensure that you get the most locally true cuisine possible.


Noodle bars and night street stalls specializing in noodles (ramen) are often a great way to get very full at an affordable choice. You'll know a ramen restaurant when you see customers seated at a long counter eating from steaming bowls. Udon and soba dishes are another cheap way to eat in Japan provided you choose a cheap restaurant.

Izakaya is the Japanese version of a pub-eatery, and you can get a selection of typical Japanese foods as well as Western foods as such places. It's casual food, and therefore usually fairly inexpensive.

Yakitori is a skewer of vegetables and charcoal-grilled chicken. It's usually served with beer or sake after work and it might be enough for a meal in some places. There are yakitori restaurants (yakitori-ya), often found near train stations. Just be aware that prices are usually for one yakitori, so add up the costs if you want more.
Although sushi is considered to be a snack, it is possible to fill up on sushi as a meal. Look for automatic sushi places, known as kaiten-sushi, that serve sushi on an automatic conveyor belt. The color code on the plates you choose are the price indicators and they should match with a price chart on the wall. Choose carefully and you might be able to fill up for very little cost.
Look for places where the locals eat, although you'll need a grasp of basic Japanese as such places rarely have menus and if they do, rarely anything in English. Look for nomiya and aka-chochin Japanese restaurants or chuka-ryori-ya cheap Chinese restaurants.
 Grocery stores sell plenty of prepared foods just like convenience stores but for a lot less money.
 These are almost everywhere in Japan and you can get a range of food and drink from them, including snacks, green tea, coffee, beer, etc.
 McDonald's and other fast food chains are everywhere. Try Mosburger, a Japanese hamburger chain.
 These are great budget places to eat, with lots of variety available. Along with grocery stores, these can be a great place for vegetarians, as there will be plenty of fruit, rice snacks and vegetables for sale.


Bakeries are another option, although most food sold in bakeries is fairly sweet and isn't going to be quite what you're used to.
 You might have heard that things in Japan are really expensive, however if you avoid alcohol and clothing you will find that everything else is quite reasonably priced. You should, of course, try sake while you are in Japan. Just don't plan on going out to bars every night.
 Convenience stores have great tasting, inexpensive pre-made meals. They have everything from prepared ramen to beef bowls. Some convenience stores even have fresh bakeries. Most will have microwaves and chopsticks and/or disposable utensils available. Many have counters where you can eat in the store, if you wish.
 They're cheaper and more personal than souvenirs or expensive artisan items, and they're the best way to jog your memory years later.

