 The texture and color of the old paper that you repurpose will directly inform the quality of the "finished" recycled paper. You can use printer paper, newspaper, (clean) napkins and tissues, photocopier paper, wrapping paper, brown paper, lined paper, and even old envelopes.Remember: the paper will shrink and contract through the soaking and drying process, so you will need to find much more scrap paper than the amount of recycled paper that you want to create. The more


As a general rule of thumb, 4-5 sheets of newspaper should produce two small sheets of recycled paper.This ratio may vary depending on the type and thickness of the paper that you pulp.
If you want your recycled paper to be "plain" with a consistent color, be mindful of the variety of scraps that you use. If you use mostly white paper scraps, for instance, your finished product will more closely resemble a standard piece of printer paper.;
, Rip up your paper scraps into small, fairly equally-sized pieces – the finer, the better. If the pieces are large, then the finished product will be jumbled and chunky. Try putting the pages through a shredder, then grinding or ripping the shredded pieces into even smaller bits., Place the finely ground-up scraps into a dish or a pan, and fill the container with hot water. Stir the mixture to ensure that all of the paper is thoroughly soaked. Leave the paper to stew for a few hours, stirring occasionally.


Consider adding a few tablespoons of cornstarch after a few hours to firm up the consistency. This step is not mandatory, although some recycled paper crafters swear by it. If you add cornstarch, stir it thoroughly into the mix, and add a bit of hot water to aid the soaking., After a few hours, place two or three handfuls of the soggy paper mixture into the blender. Fill the blender about half-full with water. Turn on the blender in short bursts to break up the paper into mush. When the paper is ready to use, it will have the mushy texture of cooked oatmeal.If you don't own a blender, then shredding and soaking should suffice. However, this added act of mechanical pulping will make your finished product much smoother.

