 Eating sustainably means eating foods that support both your own good health and the sustainability of the environment. If you’re eating seafood, make sure that it’s not at risk of being overfished, or farmed in a way that’s damaging the environment.Try to buy from local growers whenever possible. Local farmers are usually invested in employing sustainable farm practices.
Read the labels on your food products. If you don’t recognize more than ⅓ of the words found there, look for something less processed.
 This means eat less beef (high on the food chain) and more roots, vegetables, and fruits. Smaller fish, being lower on the food chain, are usually better than larger fish. Plant-based foods require still less energy to produce. Shifting to a more plant-based style of eating will slow the deforestation that meat production requires.Healthy diet guidelines encourage at least 50% of your daily diet consist of fruits and vegetables.
If you do eat meat, treat it as a condiment rather than a main dish. Be aware that factory-farmed meat is produced in ways that contribute to greenhouse gases and environmental degradation.
 You’ll avoid the energy required to transport products from far away. In addition, getting to know your local food producers will help you how your food was grown and harvested.Most fresh fish must be transported by air, if it’s not local. Even out-of-season frozen fish will be more sustainable than fresh fish flown in.As the nutritional value of food diminishes with time, eating locally grown food increases the amount of nutrition you’ll receive., Many international food growers use unregulated or under-regulated environmental practices. American grown products, while not always perfect, are usually farmed with more sustainable practices. Take the time to research products you purchase regularly.Good retailers will be well-informed on the way their sellers practice sustainability.
Knowing more about your farmers and food sources through your retailers can help support local business, which are invested in protecting and preserving the environment.

