, You'll use this pattern as a guide to cut away the unnecessary part of the wood block. You can either draw the pattern freehand or make a template for the top and bottom and another for the sides.
 While you can use a knife to start whittling at this point, for most lure designs, you'll find it faster to use a scroll saw.


Depending on the design of the lure you're making, you may have to tape the block back together after cutting out the sides so you can cut out the top and bottom.
 Now you can whittle in earnest, using a sharp knife designed for carving wood to round the lure body into its intended shape. You can also etch patterns and designs into the wood.


Cut away from yourself when whittling to keep from being cut if the knife slips.
If you're making a popper, you may want to use a rotary tool (such as a Dremel) and cutter to carve out the depression at the front of the lure.
 Once you've created the lure's approximate shape with the knife, use coarse grit sandpaper to refine that shape. When you have the shape down, smooth it with medium sandpaper, and then go over it again with fine sandpaper to ready the wood for painting.
 First, mark out the places where you'll insert the eyelet screws and holes for the ballast weight and rattle, if desired, then drill them out, using a bit slightly thinner than the screw's thickness.


If your lure will have a diving lip that requires cutting a slot into the body to glue it in place, now is the time to cut the slot. Use a waterproof epoxy to hold the lip in place.
You can use a BB, buckshot, or a small split shot for the ballast weight. Use wood glue or a waterproof putty to seal up the hole.
Lure rattles consist of several metal pellets inside a very thin glass tube. You may need a caliper to determine the tube's thickness to figure out what size drill bit to use for the insertion hole.
 Whether you use brushes and paint freehand or an airbrush and stencils, painting is a 4-step process:


First, apply a clear sealer to protect the wood from water damage.
Second, apply several coats of primer.
Third, paint the lure in the colors you want. You can get ideas for colors from fishing lure catalogs.
Fourth, apply a waterproof clearcoat to seal the paint.
 You'll need a front eyelet to attach the lure to your fishing line and one for each hook.


On bass lures, for the front eyelet, use an eyelet screw with a one-inch (2.5 cm) thread. For the hook eyelets, use eyelet screws with 1/4-inch (6.25 mm) threads. You'll need larger eyelets made of stainless steel for muskie lures.
For some lures, you may want to thread a cup or one or more beads onto the eyelet screw before attaching it. This may require an eyelet screw with a longer thread.
 The easiest way to do this is to use split rings. Thread a treble hook onto the split ring, then thread the split ring onto the rear and bottom eyelets. You may find it easier to open the split ring with special split-ring pliers.


You can also put the hooks on without using split rings by opening the hook eyelets first, threading the hooks onto them, and then screwing them in place. Be careful you don't puncture your fingers if you choose to do this.
Although treble hooks are the most common hooks used on plugs and crank baits, you can substitute double hooks. Most double hooks are designed so you can slip them onto the eyelet without using split rings.

