 The country of Australia is comparable in size to the USA between the Atlantic, Pacific, 54th parallel and the Rio Grande. Europe will fit easily into Australia with room leftover. Understanding Australia as a country will help you navigate around it.;
, The Queensland state capital, Brisbane, is more than 1600km (1000 miles) from Cairns, the popular tourist centre in the same state. The distance between Sydney and Perth is similar that between Washington and San Francisco.
 They cannot use Euros, US or Canadian dollars. Your Visa or MasterCard will be accepted in all the major cities. American Express is also accepted in the major cities at most destinations, but Discover and Diner's Club cards are not accepted at many destinations or attractions.
 Australian crime rates are among the lowest in the world.
 Australia (and New Zealand) uses 240Volt 50Hz power and two or three pin plugs with angled pins that can only be put in one way. 220Volt and dual voltage items - battery chargers, computers, cell phones - will work with adapter plugs. Most Australian motels and hotels provide wired-in hair driers and have adapters for guests' use.
, Get a prepaid SIM card when you arrive in Australia and it should work.
 When crossing roads, make sure you look right, left, right first.
 Australian town water is safe to drink.
 Male kangaroos can be aggressive, as can the cassowary, a large flightless bird with a crest. A dingo may look like a friendly dog, but is a dangerous wild animal. In some areas, wild pigs can also be a problem. Saltwater crocodiles are mostly north of the Tropic of Capricorn, so be careful of riverbanks, particularly near boat launching ramps where fishermen sometimes dump scraps. It is best not to go river swimming near the coasts unless a reliable local assures you that the area is safe. If you do not molest snakes, they will not bother you, but in grassy country good shoes and jeans can prevent accidents.
 Lifeguards patrol beaches every day for strong currents and erect flags to show the safest areas. "Stinger" (venomous jellyfish) season is from November to March in ocean waters in the northern half of Australia. Swim only in approved areas during this time or only with a stinger suit.
, The food in a main street café is usually better than at a petrol/gasoline station.
 The Australian War Memorial and attached museum are among the best in the world. Admission is free, but a coin or two is accepted. The 1988 Parliament House is open to visitors, which has guided tours. Security checks are similar to those in an airport. The National Museum of Australia is free except for special exhibitions in a side gallery. The Art Gallery has works by artists from all eras.
 There are chairlifts and cable tows on many of the runs.
, Ship wrecks are found by diving off Darwin and Townsville (south of Cairns).
 Choices include Canowindra, southwest of Sydney, Melbourne, Cairns and around Alice Springs.
, There are also many small wineries scattered throughout Australia.
,,, Hospital stays can be expensive and most will not accept medical plans from other countries.
, Wet suits are strongly advised.
