 Evaluate the many reasons you and your partner are in a relationship. If a difference in intelligence has become a problem, it might be worth your time to think through your partner’s positive attributes., Trust is one of the many characteristics that make for happy, healthy relationships, and breach of trust is one of the most common reasons for breakups. If you’ve found a trustworthy partner, this may be more valuable than intelligence in the long run., Rather than focusing on the intellectual content of conversations with your partner, consider whether your partner communicates with you openly and honestly. The odds of finding a partner who shares your exact level of intelligence are slim. Finding a partner who understands the way you communicate and can effectively reciprocate this communication is much more likely., Remember intelligence based on educational background is just one of many types of intellect. Your relationship may be happier if you shift your focus to your partner’s emotional intelligence, the ability to understand and empathize with emotions and navigate emotional situations. Think through the following set of emotional intelligence compatibility questions.


Does your partner provide comfort when you’re sad?
Does your partner hear you out and validate you’re your feeling when you’re mad?
Does your partner know when you’re upset without you telling them?, One mistake couples make is assuming their significant other has to be their confidant, business partner, and whole world. This expectation is unrealistic. Every relationship we have with romantic partners, family members, and friends gives us something different. Maybe your partner can’t chat about Noam Chomsky, but they understand when you need to take a break or why you love comic books., If you believe you’re dating below yourself because your partner is less intelligent than you are or vice versa, it may become tempting to adjust your own self worth down. Remember your value and that of your partner are in no way interdependent. However, if you truly believe you’re not good enough for your partner or vice versa because of a difference in intelligence, the relationship may not be salvageable.