 Is it a group of people, or just one person? If you are dealing with a group of people, it is best to confront either the leader of the group or the weakest person in the group.


Tell them that you feel like they are pressuring you into doing something you don’t want to do.
 When you feel you are being manipulated, try asking the person a series of probing questions. This may catch them off guard and allow you the time you need to analyze the situation and make a decision about how you want to handle it.Some questions you could ask include:


Do I have a say in this?
Does this seem reasonable to you?
Are you asking me or telling me?
What do I get out of this?
Does what you want from me sound fair?

, When this person(s) asks you to do something you do not want to do, simply refuse. This can be difficult at first, but you have to understand that no good will come out of it for either of you. Once you say no, the person will most likely be surprised.Learning to firmly say no is an important part of not allowing yourself to be manipulated.
 If you are continually pressured to do something unpleasant, say no and walk away. Do not allow the person(s) to coerce you by pressuring you over and over. If they don’t accept your refusal, simply exit the situation.
 It is best to do this in a private place. Explain that you do not want to let yourself be controlled. However, you should also mention that you still want to continue the friendship, as long as this person is willing to change their behavior.Most of the time, this person will not want to continue the relationship. Do not be depressed about this. Recognize the fact that your life was not improved at all by this person.
 One of the main methods of manipulation that people use is giving undue flattery. When someone praises you, especially when you really haven’t done anything to deserve it, this feels good and it’s easy to give in to it. But that is just a form of trickery by a manipulative person who knows exactly what they’re doing.Try telling them that you appreciate the compliment, but you don’t feel like you’ve done enough to deserve such comments.

