 Choose a smaller area to start your bed head garden, rather than an entire yard. If you go with too large of a space, you might exceed your budget and abilities.Starting small will also help get your neighbors accustomed to your garden’s natural look. Some homeowner associations discourage bed head or natural gardens, and some local ordinances ban or set limits on natural landscaping.
If you have any concerns, call your local government office or neighborhood association and ask about applicable codes.;
, Keep track of your garden area over the course of the day. Note which areas receive the most sun and which remain shaded, and choose plants that are appropriate for your site conditions.If a patch of your garden receives at least six hours of sun, go with plants that do best in full sunlight.
Choose plants that thrive in partial sun or shade for areas that receive less than six hours of sunlight.
To fully understand your garden’s light conditions, it’s best to make observations over the course of the year. Light conditions will vary as the sun’s position changes from season to season.
 Visit a local nursery or home improvement store and look for plants that are native to your location. Since they’re adapted to your climate, native species will require less watering and maintenance. Call your state or local government’s natural resource department or a nearby nature center for help finding a reputable nursery that offers native plants.Plants will be marked full sun, partial sun, or shade to help you make appropriate choices for your light conditions. You should also go with various heights to add aesthetic interest.
For example, you could choose Foxgloves, a mid-height wildflower native across Europe for color.For groundcover, you could go with a locally native fern or ivy. Finally, you could add height with a tall grass, shrub, or tree, like Paul’s Scarlet, which is a shrub or small tree native through continental Europe., The number of plants you’ll need to purchase depends on your garden’s size and your coverage expectations. If you want immediate coverage, you can purchase more seedlings and plant them a few inches away from each other. To reduce your cost, you can wait a season or two for full coverage and plant your seedlings ten inches apart.
 A short fence, edge of low plants, or garden divider can all serve to frame your bed head garden. If you maintain a lawn, you can mow and edge it around your garden area. For a more natural look, use the borders to create gentle curves around your planting area instead of framing it with straight lines., Consider using a hardscaped walkway if your planting area is larger and you need a pathway through it. A path will help prevent anyone passing through the space from picking up ticks that might be hiding in taller plants.Use natural materials for your walkway, like natural stone, wood steps, or bark mulch.When you clear out the planting area, designate a space for the path. Use a rake to spread mulch in a two inch layer, or position wooden or stone steps to create a walkway.
 Before you start planting, think about testing your soil to find out its pH and nutrient levels. You can use a do-it-yourself kit available at a home improvement store or nursery to find out the pH and get a rough idea of nutrient levels. A DIY will likely suit your needs well, but for a more thorough analysis, you can send a soil sample to a nearby garden center or soil-testing lab.Testing your soil will let you know if you need to make your soil more or less acidic and if you need to add nutrients, like nitrogen and phosphorus.
 Use a grub hoe to scrape away weeds and other undesirable plants from the garden. Work around any existing plants you want to incorporate into your garden, and take care not to disturb their root systems. Compost or bag and discard the plant matter you’ve scraped away., An organic material like compost or peat moss will help you improve your soil’s fertility and drainage. Add one to two inches to cover the garden. Your soil analysis will help you determine which other amendments to add.For example, if you need to add acidity, sprinkle a layer of used coffee grounds over your garden. Your plants’ information sticks will tell you if they prefer acidic or low-acid environments and whether they require high or low nitrogen levels.
 Use a roto-tiller or garden fork to work through and loosen the existing soil and to blend it with any amendments you’ve added. Till through the topsoil about six inches deep.A power roto-tiller will make the work easier. If you don’t have one, the most affordable option would be to rent one from your home improvement store.
 After tilling the soil, start planting your shortest plants first, like ferns, ivy, and other low creepers. These may include plants that define your garden’s edges and groundcovers that form its bed. Use a hand trowel to dig a hole large enough for each seedling’s root ball.Space your plants according to your coverage expectations. For immediate coverage, space them two or three inches apart. To lower your cost, space them about ten inches apart.
Try massaging or loosening the root systems a bit to encourage them to grow.
 Once you’ve planted a row of groundcovers and edging, proceed to add your mid-sized woodland flowers. Dig a hole to accommodate each plant’s root ball with your hand trowel. Place your seedlings in regular intervals across your garden according to your cost and coverage needs.Be sure that your flowers and shrubs will receive enough light for their needs. Most flowering plants require lots of sun.
 If you’re purchasing larger shrubs or small trees, look for specimens with unblemished bark and strong, evenly spread branches. Dig a hole for the root ball, and cover the bottom with compost or manure. For most trees, the top of the root ball should be level with the ground.Stake a newly planted tree for about year after planting by tying a short stake 1.5 feet (45 cm) in length at a 45 degree angle to its trunk. The nursery or home improvement store will carry stakes and tree ties.   

, Water your newly planted seedlings thoroughly, so the soil is saturated, to encourage root growth. When you’ve finished watering, cover areas around each plant with an inch-deep layer of mulch, and take special care to cover any trees’ planted area.Mulch will help retain moisture and keep away undesired weeds.
Water two to three times per week for several weeks until the seedlings start to develop coverage. If you’ve chosen native plants, rainfall in your area should be adequate to sustain them once they’ve established themselves.

