 Before you embark on this teaching task, reflect about your motivations for teaching this particular subject to these particular people. Ask yourself: How do you imagine that this knowledge will help them? Some goals are short-term and some long-term. Either are okay. It is part of a teacher's responsibility to hold the larger vision and purpose throughout the teaching and learning experience. If you don't know the answer to this question, consider choosing a different subject that will bring added value to someone's life.;
, Will the learners gain a new skill? Will there be a material object produced? Will they gain the ability to understand or participate in something that they could not before? Be prepared to describe to, or better yet show your students what the results of their learning will be. If it is a piece of art, have an example of the final product. Somehow represent the result that will benefit them from participating in your lesson.
 Maybe the student asked you to teach them. If not, or if this lesson is part of an obligatory training program, you will generate good rapport with the students if you first announce your intention to teach them this subject and wait for their agreement. This demonstrates to the student that their preferences matter. It also allows them to formally accept the role of the student and the responsibilities it entails.
, This might include all the ingredients if you're teaching people how to make a dish, plus a copy of the recipe, plus all of the kitchen equipment and the spacial needs that you will have when managing the group. The list should include the supplies that both you and the students will use during the entire lesson.
, This may be showing the students the model that you have already made of what they will learn how to produce, or showing them a video of people performing with the ability that they will gain, or explaining to them how the lesson relates with other things that they already know, use, or enjoy.
 Describe the unique actions or behaviors they will be able to do, using action verbs. Consider a way to share these objectives to your student, perhaps verbally or visually.
 These include step-by-step explanations, demonstrations, giving directions, or modeling. To make new concepts accessible to learners, break them down from simplest example and explain to the students how to put the pieces together as a whole. If possible, use or model the correct behavior with many examples, starting from the simplest. Consider the current ability or knowledge level of the learner, and use the techniques of scaffolding to build small step by small step to more complex knowledge.
 Consider the behaviors that will demonstrate that your learners have understood and can repeat, explain, or perform the content on their own in the future.  One way to do this is by asking the students to repeat the steps or reasoning back to you from memory or while demonstrating the logic behind them.
 This is called "guided practice". Design a stage of the lesson where you can step back and give students some time to implement what you have taught. During this period, be available for support and to answer questions or intervene if some part of your lesson was not yet absorbed by one or more students.
 This can be through sharing with peers, doing a performance of the skills, asking them to make a statement saying what they learned, or designing a short assessment to check for understanding overall.
 Design a homework assignment, project or other assignment that the student can carry out in the near future.

