 Eating together with your child can make eating a communal and fun time for your child.


Although your toddler won't be able to say so, it can mean a lot to them to spend time eating together as a family.
You and your other family members may have tight schedule, but it is very important to make sure you share one meal per day together.
Avoid arguments during mealtime. Make your family’s mealtime pleasant.
 Eat the same food as your toddler to make him feel better about eating it.


Do not give him special food and don’t eat special food yourself, either.
 Toddlers often learn through imitation, so showing how much you enjoy your food can set a positive example for your toddler.


Be a good food role mode; if you want your child to eat broccoli, you must show that you eat it too.
 Always make positive comments about the food as you eat, to show your child how delicious it is.


Appearing convincing will make your child believe that the food is truly delicious.
 Making up stories and games with your child's food can make eating a fun experience for them.


For vegetables, you could let your child eat them by pretending to be a big monster or alien who will eat up all the green trees (lettuce, cabbage, etc.) that he sees.
You could make up stories with your child and pretend that he will become as green as the Hulk if he eats all his green leafy vegetables.
 Positive reinforcement is when you give your child praise after eating.


Some children appreciate it when they are being praised and complimented.
Always praise your child when they eat their food properly.
 You can try inviting your child’s playmate, neighbour, or classmate to eat together with him.


Sometimes, children enjoy it when they eat with kids in their same age group.
They are more likely to eat fruits and veggies when they see their friends eating them. Group feeding can motivate other kids to set as an example.
You can serve them yogurt with fruit slices, berries, or even dried fruits.
You can try adding healthy dips like cream cheese, guacamole, or peanut butter.
Along with these, you can use a cute bowl, or their favorite dish and plate sets.
 Gadgets, TV, and toys won’t help while your child is eating.


He will not be able to enjoy and concentrate on his food if he is too busy playing with his iPad or favorite toy.
Let you child explore his food by touching and playing with it. Allow your child to make a mess instead of cleaning or wiping him once in a while.
After your child gets older, they will be able to focus their attention on learning how to properly use utensils and table manners.

