 Both of these options are used to cook raw pieces of meat, seafood, and vegetables, but there are a few pros and cons of each.


Oil fondue tends to be a little unhealthier than broth fondue.
On the other hand, oil fondue is a little more versatile because you can use it to prepare a variety of different dippings without affecting the taste of each one. Broth, however, will season the dippings with the taste of the broth.
 Standard options include beef, pork, lamb, chicken, seafood, and vegetables. Tender cuts of meat are usually preferred to tough cuts since the meat cooks fast.


Prepare 1/2 lb (225 g) of meat per guest.Prepare 6 oz (180 g) of seafood per guest.
Prepare 1 to 2 servings of vegetables per guest.
 Each piece of meat should be cut into 3/4-inch (2-cm) pieces.


Blot the meat with paper towels to remove excess moisture and refrigerate it until ready to use.
Keep different types of meat separated while still raw to avoid cross-contamination.
 If you decide to go with an oil fondue, choose an oil with a moderate smoking point. Peanut oil and canola oil are your best bets.


If neither of these oils is available, however, you could opt for vegetable oil, grape seed oil, or clarified butter.
 Since the flavor of the broth will affect the flavor of the dippings you use, choose a broth that matches or otherwise enhances the flavor of your dippings.


Vegetable broths work for most fondue dippings and chicken broth works well for chicken, lamb, and pork. Beef broth is best for cooking beef, and seafood broth should be used for seafood.
Prepare 6 to 8 cups (1.5 to 2 L) of broth for a single 4-serving pot.
 Pour the oil or broth into a small saucepan and heat it over medium-high heat.


Broth should be heated to a steady boil.
Oil should reach a temperature of 350 to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (180 to 190 degrees Celsius). Check using a deep frying thermometer or candy thermometer, or test it by dropping a piece of bread into the oil. The oil is ready when it takes 30 seconds or less to turn golden brown., Carefully pour the hot liquid into an already warm fondue pot.


Light the burner beneath the fondue pot as instructed.
Pour the hot liquid into the fondue pot carefully to avoid burns.
The fondue pot should be 1/2 to 2/3 full.
 Skewer your dippings with a long fondue fork and cook them, one at a time, for a couple of minutes or until cooked through.


Always check your meat before eating it to verify that it has fully cooked.
Let the dippings cool slightly before eating them to avoid burning your mouth.
Note that the liquid level may decrease over time when using broth, so you might have to pour more in as time progresses.
 When cooking oil or broth fondue, you would usually serve the dippings with a variety of dips. Roughly 3 to 5 dips is standard, and each guest will use about 1/2 cup (125 ml) of the various dips.


For chicken or pork fondue, consider honey mustard or barbecue dips.
For lamb fondue, mint dips, sour cream dips, or cottage cheese dips.
For meatballs or beef fondue, try sweet and sour dips, mushroom dips, and mustard dips.
For seafood dips, try tartar sauce or cocktail sauce.
