 What happened the last time your snapped? You probably didn’t sit down, take a few cheap hits in Mortal Kombat, and spike your controller into smithereens. Chances are, you got worked up over the course of back-to-back-to-back headshots right as your character spawned. Who wouldn’t snap!? Watch out for signs that you’re about to snap and try to chill before it happens.Before each new mission, level, or respawn, take a moment to gauge your heartrate. Gaming is fun, so your love muscle is probably pumping like mad. That said, if it’s going a little too fast, and your cheeks are flushed, take a breather.
If you start spewing words your grandmother wouldn’t like, put your controller down immediately. You’re nearing meltdown.;
, In between epic campaigns - or every other Tetris level – get up. Walk to the kitchen. Eat a carrot. Have a glass of water. Go outside. Listen to the birds sing or contemplate the stars. The point is: give your brain or your mouth something else to ruminate.You don’t have to give up on beating the game tonight – you totally still can. You’re more likely to do so with your mood intact if you take quick breaks from time to time.
In fact, your virtual sword may fall with heavier swings if you give yours eyes and thumbs a break periodically.
 In order to help you chill after a loss, have a non-video game entertainment option already planned out. This doesn’t have to be anything grandiose. For instance, set that magazine you’ve been meaning to read next to you. Even better, get your running shoes out or pump up your bike tires. When you feel your blood begin to boil, blow some steam by working out.You can always return to your game if you so desire. Working a healthy activity into your day may even help you execute in the virtual realm.
Game for shorter periods of time. This may sound like a terrible idea, but it’s an important step if you want to do a better job of keeping your cool. Your patience will begin to run thin during marathon gaming sessions.
Set a timer for yourself at the start of a gaming session. Have a plan for what to do when the timer goes off.
 Discomfort unrelated to the game may also make you agitated. If it’s uncomfortably hot in your gaming arena… er, room, you’re much more liable to snap. If you’ve been postponing dinner to continue your quest, this too shall increase your risk of snapping. Though you should work on controlling your temper regardless of environment, it’s easier to do so when you’re comfortable.If it feels like the furnace of Mordor or the ice plains of Hoth, adjust that thermostat.
Keep an apple beside your console. Not only might this remind you to collect real-world nutrients to prevent a meltdown, it will also offer another distraction within easy reach.

