 Low-glycemic foods are composed of "slow release" carbohydrates such as oatmeal, bran cereal, or whole-wheat toast. Consume your low-glycemic meal three hours before working out. Studies show that doing so will enable you to burn additional fat during exercise.


Proper hydration before a workout is also important. Plan to drink two to three cups of water, two to three hours before you exercise.
 You may be familiar with various carbohydrate blends of glucose and fructose (sports drinks, gels, etc.) that are commonly used during long workouts. You might, however, want to consider a natural option that combines glucose and fructose with additional vitamins and antioxidants: honey! The darker the honey, the more antioxidants it contains.Continue to hydrate during your workout. Drink 3/4 to 1 1/2 cups of water every 15 – 20 minutes, and consider an electrolyte drink if you have been exercising longer than 60 minutes., This is your big opportunity to combine a treat with food that will keep your body fit: chocolate milk is an excellent post-workout recovery drink. The carbohydrates it contains will help replenish your energy stores. Try a banana with peanut butter if you aren't fond of milk.


Drink tart cherry juice after exercise to help ease muscle inflammation. Avoid drinking juice before or during exercise, however, as it can cause stomach cramps., Good sources of protein include fish, poultry, meat, nuts, beans, seeds, lentils, soy, and milk products. Note that while advertisements for protein supplements often advertise that they provide amino acids the body cannot make, you can obtain the same important nutrients by consuming a variety of protein-rich foods., One prominent study suggests that "fitness branding" encourages consumers to eat more of a given food and exercise less. This can undermine your efforts to keep your body fit. That "fitness" bar has just as many calories as any other food of its size and nutritional content!Read labels carefully. Energy bars and other "fitness" products often contain significant amounts of added sugar and are usually heavily processed and filled with artificial ingredients. If you do opt to purchase an energy bar, look for bars with about 5 grams (0.2 oz) of protein, some carbohydrates and very little fat.
Pay attention to the caloric content of your sports drinks. If you're exercising to lose weight, opt for water or "light" versions.