 A letter of intent is completely different from a letter of interest. However, the two are sometimes confused. While letters of interest attempt to set you apart from other buyers in the market, you can think of a letter of intent more like a pre-contract on the house. It sets a basis for the details of the transaction around the house and acts as a starting point for negotiations. This allows the buyer and seller to make sets of offers and counteroffers before committing to a final contract.One of the most important aspects of an LOI is that it isn’t binding, meaning either party can walk away at any point in the process.Like letters of interests, letters of intent aren’t common when realtors are involved in the process. Realtors usually hash out the details on behalf of their clients with the implicit knowledge that nothing is binding until a final contract is agreed to and signed.
 You should also be aware of contingent offers and how they differ from LOIs. A contingent offers constitutes a very real offer on the house, but one for which contingencies must be met by the seller.If the seller accepts the contingent offer, he or she will have the specified amount of time to complete the work, inspection, or other contingent action before finalizing the house’s sale.You can include contingent items in your letter of intent, but the scope of an LOI is larger and less official than an actual contingent offer. You shouldn’t make any offer on the home—contingent or otherwise—until both parties have agreed upon all of the specifics of an LOI.
 Use the seller’s full personal or company name, main address, and contact information, and date the letter.
 Include the property address and any details about what will be included in the purchase, including furnishings, land, or other items.


Formal language is most common. You can write, "This letter describes the intent of (your name) to purchase the real estate located at (location) owned by (seller's name)." Ensure that the name and address of each party, as well as that of the property, are included.You may choose to begin this sentence in a semi-formal manner, such as, "I, (your name name), am writing this letter to declare my interest to buy.."

, Use a phrase such as "The proposed purchase price is...," or, "The purchase price proposed is," or similar wording.Remember that as a basis for negotiation, the seller can choose to counter at a higher percentage of the full asking price than what you offer here.The offer should also indicate that the purchase price will be paid to the seller at the closing of the deal, when a binding Purchase Agreement is signed.If you are proposing to rent or lease, indicate whether you are proposing a weekly, monthly, yearly, or multi-year rent, and in what installments the rent will be made (e.g., every month, every year, etc.). Also include any pro-rated portions of rent if the home is to be inhabited in the middle of a month.
 To show that you’re serious about the intent to purchase the house (contingent upon good faith negotiations), you can choose to offer a deposit in your LOI. Rather than actually exchanging hands, this deposit is typically held in escrow for the duration of negotiations. Ensure that you clearly spell out the term under which the deposit will be returned to you, such as by a certain date or if no agreement on the house can be reached.


This amount may be approximately one to three percent of the purchase price. When a final agreement is signed, the money typically goes toward the down payment., Indicate the expected period of time you will require to secure the necessary funds. While you do not have to include any specific banking information, you should include the soonest you can expect to secure financing, as well as the soonest date you might be willing to close on the sale.


You can include other dates in this section, such as a date on which the negotiations automatically void. This can help push a buyer into making a decision more quickly if you place an expiration date in the LOI.
If you are represented by a broker, you can also clarify how the broker's fees will be paid., If you would like to take additional time to inspect the home, review property tax records, examine building permits, or anything else, you can also suggest a period for you to perform your due diligence on the house.Use this period to discover anything about the house on which your eventual offer might be contingent.


Be specific about the nature of your inspection: an independent tour, for example, or investigation of tax or other records.
You may also specify what types of information or disclosures you will require during an inspection., Make sure this clause is carefully worded and explicitly clarifies that neither party is legally bound to the letter of intent.Make sure there is a clause that states explicitly that "this letter does not bind the buyer or seller to any offer, financial or otherwise," or use similar wording that clearly communicates that neither the buyer nor seller is legally bound to the letter of intent and may walk away at any time.A seller who is both a novice to the selling process and working without a realtor can interpret such as clause as a lack of seriousness about the property, but you don’t want to risk leaving the letter of intent otherwise worded in such a way that a court could find a legal, enforceable document.
 Use a formal sign-off, such as "Sincerely," or similar wording. The letter should also include phrasing such as "Agreed to and Accepted by," or similar wording, followed by the signatures of both the buyer and seller.