 Since you are not introducing the new dog in a neutral area, keep your pets separated until after they have grown more comfortable with each others presence. Place the dogs in their crates, close enough to smell and be aware of one another, or in adjoining rooms separated by a baby gate. Let the dogs out at alternate times so that they can pick up on each others scent around the house without a confrontation.The new dog should spend more time confined during the first few days, being let out for approximately 15-20 minutes, 3 or more times a day.
 Smell is the primary way for dogs to get to know each other and establish a sense of comfort with one another. Place objects from one dog (e.g. a toy or blanket) in the other's crate or bed so that it gets used to the unfamiliar scent. In the long run, the recognition of each other's scent may forge a bond between the dogs., During the initial period where your resident dog adjusts to the new dog’s presence, offer it as much comfort and attention as possible. Identifying an unfamiliar scent in its home without being able to confront the source will be confusing and unsettling, as your dog will likely suspect that there is an intruder in the home. Spend quiet time cuddling or petting it to keep it calm and make it feel secure.This kind of quality time will also help to curb jealously later on.
 If both dogs seem to have grown comfortable with each other’s presence, allow them to interact for a few short periods each day (5-10 minutes, or longer if the dogs get along well). Clear the area that you choose for these play sessions of any objects they might fight over (toys, dog blankets, food bowls, etc.). Monitor the interactions closely- if one of the dogs shows signs of aggression (e.g. staring at the other dog), remove it from the interaction and tell it to go lie down until it is calm.
 Create positive associations during your dogs’ first interactions so that your resident dog sees the new dog’s presence as something good. Use praise and a happy, upbeat tone of voice to address both dogs during this time. Reward both dogs with treats, being careful to give each dog the exact same treat at the same time to avoid jealously or fighting., Monitor your dogs very carefully while they play, watching for warning signals. Actions like moving to another part of the room are clear signs that a dog needs a break from the situation, and should be respected. Watch for other signs that could be mistaken for simple play, such as:Staring at another dog
A dog circling another dog with its neck arched, legs stiff, and tail high
A dog licking its lips or nose in an exaggerated manner, which is likely a signal that it is anxious or uncomfortable., During your dogs’ supervised interactions, look for indications that they are forging a bond. Such signs would include cuddling, increased play and interaction, or mutual grooming (e.g. licking each other). As time goes on the dogs should not avoid each other, as that is generally a sign of having incompatible pets., If your dogs do not get along after several attempts at play time and monitored interactions, contact an animal trainer for help regulating the problem behavior occurring. Avoid punishing either dog, which will result in further negative associations with the new living situation. To find a professional near you, search the Association of Professional Dog Trainers website at https://apdt.com/trainer-search/.

