 Offer help to people in your community who speak your language as a second language. Search for schools or organizations in your community that ask for volunteer teachers, or offer to help people at school, church, or other parts of your community that are trying to learn your language. In exchange for practicing English, you can ask to learn more about their culture and language.Commit to helping just as much, if not more, than you are receiving information.
 Museums will often have exhibitions about other cultures. Ask museums in your area about current or upcoming exhibitions. Also, check with cultural centers in your area for opportunities to learn about cultures outside of your own.Many museums have online exhibitions if you do not have that many museums in your area.
 Many community colleges allow enrollment for individual courses. You can take a language course, or a course specifically about a certain culture. Contact local colleges and teaching institutions in your area for more information about classes.Make sure you have time to commit to a class that may require homework and tests.
A class will probably require money. Look up information or ask local institutions about course requirements and cost.
 It is always good to make friends from other cultures. It is a way to gain compassion and understanding, as well as possibly gaining a valuable friendship. Reach out to people in your community from work, school, or other local organizations. Talk to them about how your culture differs from their own. Ask what the biggest differences has been for them.
Offer your companionship to people, but never force yourself on anyone that is unwilling to communicate.
Be respectful of a potential friend’s culture. Do not say any slurs, or act in a manner that is disrespectful to their culture.
Become friends for the right reasons. Wish to gain knowledge about their culture, but don’t use a person only to benefit from information.
 There are probably more opportunities to educate yourself on other cultures in your community than you realize. Look for ethnic restaurants, places of worship, and ask about upcoming festivals or holidays. Ask first before entering a place of worship or inviting yourself to a celebration.Express that you are genuinely interested in their culture, and do not want to disrespect it in any way.
 Ask members of your community from other cultures, or search online to ask about appropriate behavior and dress. It is important to be respectful, but do not appropriate another person’s culture. Avoid cultural appropriation by asking questions, such as:What behaviors and styles make you uncomfortable when people from other cultures exhibit them?
Why is this food or artifact important to your culture?
Is it okay to join in on this festival or celebration?
How do I show appropriately show respect to your culture?

