 Being responsive can really attract people to you. If you’re responsive, that means you are listening to the other person and engaging with them honestly.Responsiveness means you are making sure others know they are being heard and listened to. They should feel comfortable and valued in your presence.
If you are talking to someone, you should validate their feelings and thoughts. Give them positive verbal feedback (such as “I understand” or “That must be difficult”) to show that are listening to what they are saying.;
, If you are expressive when talking and listening to others, it’s clear that you are engaged in what they are saying. They will want to talk to you and be around you more often when you’re showing clearly interested in them and their thoughts.Lack of expression on someone’s face makes others think you are not interested. Additionally, it can sometimes be unsettling when meeting new people.
Expressiveness shows you are vulnerable and open towards others. Instead of hiding behind a mask of impassiveness, having an expressive face lets others know you are willing to share your feelings with them.
 Lively people are more inclined to speak kindly of other people and not put them down. If you’re spending too much time putting down others, you’re not spending much time building yourself up.Conversations about others can often lack substance. Instead of spending your time talking about other’s shortcomings, you can praise others and show what you value, instead of just what you dislike.
Additionally, gossip about other people can hurt your self-esteem. If you avoid talking about others, you’ll feel better about yourself as well.
If you do not like others, don’t conceal your dislike. It’s better to be honest about your feelings than to be fake.
 Spontaneity can make you more fun to be around and more interesting. However, it’s a practice you have to develop through making conscious choices.


Try to say yes as much as possible. If you agree to going places with people or doing things, you’ll have more fun adventures.
If you try to not be afraid of trying new things, you’ll be more inclined to do them. Be motivated about why you should do new things and how you could do them.

