 Modification hearings can become as complex and prolonged as the original trial, so you may find it important to have someone help represent your interests.


If you cannot afford an attorney, you may be able to find legal advice or assistance at a self-help or family law clinic. You also may be able to get a family law expert or attorney to review forms you've completed before you file them and make sure all the information is complete and that you've filled out the forms correctly., The clerk of court will have a packet of forms you must fill out to ask the judge to modify visitation.


You also may be able to download these forms online. You can fill them out either by typing in your answers on the computer, or by printing paper forms and hand-writing your information in the blanks.
If you hand write your information, be sure to use blue or black ink and write clearly and legibly., To ask the court to modify your visitation you must file a supplemental petition that alleges a "substantial, material, and unanticipated change" in circumstances since the original visitation order.Generally, the court will make the modification if the judge determines that the change is in the best interests of the child. Thus, your petition must demonstrate that there has been a substantial and unanticipated change in circumstances since the original order was entered, and that modifying the original order to reflect that change in circumstances would be in the best interests of the child.When you finish drafting your petition, sign it in the presence of a notary public or a deputy clerk to authenticate your signature.If you don't know where to find a notary public, call your bank – many banks offer notary public services free of charge to their customers.
 All the other forms in the packet must be filled out completely along with your petition.


Once you've completed all of your forms, make at least one copy for the other parent and another for your records. The clerk will keep your originals when you file them with the court., After you've completed your forms, you must file them with the clerk of the same court where the original visitation order was made.


Under Florida law, the court that made the initial order for time-sharing and support has continuing jurisdiction over that case and any modification of that order.The court may change the venue to the circuit court in the county where at least one parent and the child lives for purposes of modifying the time-sharing order, if the child and one or both parents have moved since the original order was entered.You must pay a fee of $50 to file a supplemental petition to modify the original order. If you are unable to pay the filing fees, you can fill out a form and request a waiver of fees in your case., The court won't hear your petition until you present proof that the other parent has been served and has notice of your action.


You can use the sheriff's department or a private process serving company to serve the other parent your supplemental petition.
After service, the other parent has 20 days to file an answer. If no answer is filed in that time, you can file a motion for default. If an answer is filed, you can call the clerk and set a final hearing.
If the other parent denies or disagrees with anything in your petition, you may be required to attend mediation before your case is set for a final hearing., You must attend the hearing to convince the judge to approve your petition and modify visitation in your case.


Dress appropriately and treat all court staff with courtesy and respect. Arrive early and bring with you a copy of all documents you've filed with the court, as well as any other witnesses or documents you intend to submit to the court as evidence in support of modification of the time-sharing arrangement.Along with the documents you've filed, also bring copies of the original court order and the original time-sharing plan that you're asking the court to change.The judge may appoint a guardian ad litem to represent your child and submit a report to the court regarding the child's best interests. You and the other parent also may be required to complete a parenting course prior to the judge entering a final order on your supplemental petition.