 Be careful not to express any math anxiety you may personally have. It’s important to show your child that anyone can use math to solve problems. By telling your child that you don’t understand math, you are giving him or her the impression that math is incomprehensible, and that it is okay to not be good at it.Let your child see you confidently doing math at home. Balance your checkbook, alter recipes, and make a grocery budget without complaining or expressing doubt in your abilities., If you personally know people who use math in their careers, have them talk to your child and share their positive experiences with math, and how math helps them in the real world. If you don’t know any mathematicians, introduce your child to a famous person who used math to change the world. Kids learn about famous authors and historical figures in school, but rarely do they learn about mathematicians.Some important mathematicians in history include Albert Einstein, Isaac Newton, and Alan Turing.Famous female mathematicians include Katherine Johnson, Marjorie Lee Browne, and Mary Cartwright.Numerous children’s books have been written about some of these figures, such as Albert Einstein and Isaac Newton. Some of these books include On A Beam of Light by Jennifer Berne and Who Was Isaac Newton? by Janet Pascal.
You can do research online with your child to find biographical information about the mathematicians, as well as anecdotes and fun facts.
To make the activity fun, find pictures of the mathematician online. Then have your child dress up like the mathematician and read a report about him or her, or your child can explain how to apply one of the mathematician’s theorems.
 Provide your children with authentic learning experiences that show them how to use math in the real world. The more you expose your children to math, even in their preschool years, the more successful they are likely to be.Students often ask, “But when would I use this in real life?” Children don't want to put effort into learning things that aren't useful to them. Math is used every day in the real world. Grocery shopping, baking, measuring, counting, and building are all activities you can do with your child to show how we use math in the real world.For example, at the grocery store, you can ask your child to calculate the price of three boxes of cereal. While driving, you can ask how long it will take to reach your destination based on mileage and speed. At a toy store, ask how long it will take for your child to save enough allowance to buy a particular toy.
 Start the day with a morning math problem over breakfast. You can also end the day with math. Many families have bedtime stories, which promote a love of literacy. You can also have bedtime math to foster a love of math. Children who have bedtime math discussions with their parents can improve their math skills at school.It is never too early to discuss math with your child. Even preschoolers can have a discussion about math, such as finding patterns or comparing quantities. You might ask, “Do you have more blue stuffed animals, or yellow stuffed animals? How do you know?” Explore your school's math standards so that you know what topics are appropriate to discuss with your child.
There are a number of engaging picture books that directly address math topics.Dr. Seuss has a few books, such as One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish, that include math topics. Other Dr. Seuss books can easily inspire math activities. Many Eric Carle books, such as The Grouchy Ladybug, lend themselves to math discussions.While you read, pause to ask your child questions about what is happening in the story, and the math behind what is happening.

