 When thinking about banking your baby’s cord blood privately, look at the costs involved and work out your budget for at least the upcoming year to see if it is feasible. Private banks charge between $1,300 and $3,000 for the first-year processing fee, then another $90 to $175 per year for storage of the cord blood.You may choose to invest in this procedure if family members have suffered from blood disorders like leukemia, there is a higher probability that your baby’s cord blood will be beneficial to have in the future, either for them or another close relative.
To make the process simple, use a budget planning app or program. For example, download Mint, a budget app for iPhone or Android that connects directly to your bank to determine the ideal financial plan for you.;
, To bank your baby’s cord blood, you must be sure that your health care provider is willing and able to collect it following your child’s birth. Before signing up with a private bank, talk to your physician about the process and make sure that they agree to collect the sample for you. If your health care provider is not willing to do so, consider making other arrangements for your child’s delivery., When looking for a private bank to store your baby’s cord blood, opt for a reputable, profitable company. A smaller, less recognized bank will be more likely to go out of business, at which point your baby’s cord blood will be lost. Research long-running companies, or look into one of the following large banks:Cord Blood Registry (CBR), the largest newborn stem cell bank in the worldViaCord, which has preserved the cord blood from over 350,000 babies to dateCryo-Cell, the world’s first cord blood preservation bank, When deciding where to store your cord blood, compare pricing and add-ons to get a clear picture of what each private bank will cost you. Inquire about financing plans or possible discounts for pre-paid plans (which usually include twenty years of storage). Look into other discounts that the company may offer (e.g. a reduced fee if more than one child’s cord blood is stored by a family). Ask whether the courier fees for shipping the donation kit to the bank will be covered in the overall collection, processing, and administrative fees.
 Many private cord blood banks will make the registration process simple by letting you enroll with them online or via telephone. Payment (all at once, or in installments) can be made online by credit card, and shipping options may be chosen for delivery of the collection kit. Some banks may offer a free information kit to be mailed to you for further consideration., When you are ready to give birth, bring your cord blood collection kit to the hospital and give it to your physician. In most cases, the mother’s blood will be tested for infectious diseases (in accordance with U.S. federal regulations) and a sample will be submitted to the bank along with the baby’s cord blood. After birth, the doctor will extract cord blood from the cut umbilical cord and seal it in the kit., Take note of the specific mailing arrangements outlined in your agreement with the private cord blood bank. In most cases, you will be instructed to call a medical courier to collect your kit and bring it back to the bank. Be sure to inform the bank of your baby’s birth as soon as possible to ensure the timely delivery and processing of the cord blood.The bank will inform you when it receives the sample, usually within 36 hours after it is picked up.

