 Lethargy and inactivity can be a sign of illness, as can the refusal to eat or drink. It's important to confirm that your guinea pig is simply bored and mildly depressed - which can be treated with increased stimulation and socialization - and not seriously ill.Lethargy for example often accompanies misaligned teeth, infection, and obesity, all of which are dangerous for guinea pigs.Assess whether your guinea pig is suffering from other signs of illness, such as loss of appetite, weight loss or gain, rough hair, and loss of elasticity in the skin. If you notice any of these symptoms, you should consult a veterinarian who has experience with guinea pigs. If you don't notice these other signs, then consider the following steps to make life happier and more exciting for your guinea pig.;
, The Humane Society of the United States has noted that most commercial cages available for guinea pigs are too small. Guinea pigs are animals that love to move around. The happiest guinea pigs have ample space in their cages to run, exercise, and play. Guinea pigs need a minimum of eight square feet of floor space in their cages, but more space is even better. If you have one guinea pig, aim for a cage about 30" x 36"; if you have two guinea pigs, try to get a cage that is 30" x 50". As a general tip, there should always be room in any cage for exercise space, a food bowl, a tunnel or box for your pig to hide in or under and a place for him go to the bathroom.
 Guinea pigs like to be near other beings, so consider putting the cage in a living room or family room, where your guinea pig can be part of the family and can be seen and heard. Do keep in mind, however, that guinea pigs have sensitive ears and that they do not like loud noises. Keep the cage away from stereos, televisions and anything else that emits loud sounds.In addition, place the cage in an area that is neither too warm nor too cool. Guinea pigs don't like extreme temperatures; moreover, extreme cold or heat can cause the animals to become ill. Aim for an area that is about 65-75 degrees Fahrenheit and away from any heat sources or drafty spaces.
 Try to keep food dishes, water bottles, houses, and toys away from the walls of the cage so that your guinea pig has lots of space to run and play. Place all cage accessories in the centre of the cage to create a perimeter around the cage that is free of obstructions for your pig to run around.Always change up toys, houses and their locations in the cage in order to keep them interesting for your guinea pig., To make sure your guinea pig has a well-balanced and nutritious diet, provide him with ample hay. Fresh hay provides the fiber the guinea pig's digestive tract needs and grinds the teeth down to keep them in good shape. Guinea pigs can run and play in and also eat the hay so this is key to keeping them healthy and happy. It is important to provide an unlimited source of grass hay because food pellets don't contain enough fiber to help the digestive system fully function properly.In addition to hay, provide your guinea pig with 1/8 of a cup of food pellets, and about 1 cup of vegetables per day. Veggies are a key source of vitamin C for guinea pigs; good choices include leafy greens like kale, spinach, and romaine lettuce.Try to vary your pet's meal choice to make eating more exciting. Experiment to see what your pig likes. Other veggie options include bell peppers, brussel sprouts, carrots, cucumbers, peas, and tomatoes.Add fruit to your pigs diet. Guinea pigs love fruit! Try to choose fruits high in vitamin C, such as cantaloupe, strawberries, and kiwi. However, make sure that you are only giving fruit as a special treat not more than a few times a week because of its high sugar content.Make the food fun! You can cut up your guinea pig's favorite veggies and thread them together with twine, making a kabob you can hang on the side of his cage. You can also buy a little metal pole for the kabob from pet stores.Keep the food fresh. Checking the cage constantly and remove anything that is uneaten and will wilt or decompose. In general, avoid giving your guinea pig spoiled or wilted vegetables; don't feed them anything you yourself wouldn't eat.
 Guinea pigs have very delicate feet so it's important that they have soft and abundant bedding. Make sure to provide about 2-3 inches worth of bedding, so that there is sufficient padding and absorption. The ideal bedding material is hay, since it's warm and absorbent. Make sure the hay is of a high quality and soft nature. Straw-like hay can injure guinea pigs' eyes. Be sure to change bedding if it ever becomes wet or sodden. Spot clean every day by removing wet patches and replacing with clean straw. Damp hay can cause health problems and is also greatly disliked by the guinea pigs themselves. In general, guinea pigs prefer clean, dry bedding and will feel more comfortable in cages that provide this comfort.
Do not use cedar and pine shavings as bedding, even though these are widely available as bedding for small pets. These materials have phenols, which can be harmful to guinea pigs.
 In general, cages should be cleaned quickly every day (spot-cleaning) and thoroughly washed and cleaned once a week.At the end of every day, remove any uneaten food from the cage and droppings.
At least once a week, replace and/or clean the bedding in the cage and remove everything from inside the cage so you can give it a good scrub with warm water. Because guinea pigs like dry surfaces, make sure the cage is fully dry before putting the bedding back in.

