 Many of the actuarial societies release copies of past exams. They do this so you can understand the subject material and use the past tests as a study guide. If you visit the website of the actuarial society in question, you should find a link to certain past exams that have been released. The test administrators are careful to keep some material confidential, but they do understand the value of studying from the actual tests., When you are ready to take a practice test, do it under conditions, as much as possible, that simulate the actual testing environment. When you take the actual test, there will not be a television in the background or children running around the house. Find a quiet place to test, with no distractions., The actual tests will be timed. Determine what the time limit is on the test that you are practicing, and give yourself that amount of time for your practice test. In the beginning, you may not be able to complete the practice test in that time. If this is the case, then try to work faster. If you find that you finish with too much time left over, then slow down and read the questions more carefully.Learn to pace yourself to use the full amount of time to your best advantage.


If you happen to get interrupted during a practice test session, make a note of your stopping point and the amount of time left. Then try to pick up where you left off later.
 After you complete the practice test session, check your results against the answers that are given. Determine the number of correct answers, incorrect answers, and the number of questions that you were unable to complete.Do not be put off or worried by low scores in the beginning. This is a long process, and if you continue to study, your scores will improve.
Keep track of your scores from one test to the next. Chart your improvement.
 The released tests generally provide not only the correct answers but also explanations for each answer. Read those materials very carefully, for ALL your responses. For the questions you answered incorrectly, you need to learn why you missed them and how you can improve for next time. For the questions your answered correctly, check to make sure that your reasoning was the same as the explanation.On the final test, the only thing that matters is getting the right answers, and getting lucky is fine. But during your practice tests, you need to know that you are getting the right answers for the right reasons, so you can duplicate your success.
 Use the practice test as a way to measure your strengths and weaknesses. Look for patterns in the questions that you seem to get right and wrong. Then, after you have completed a few practice tests, focus your studying efforts on the topics that seem to be your weaknesses. This will maximize the impact of your study time.