 These are the products that are most likely to be genetically modified. Crops that are genetically modified include soy, corn, canola, sugar beets, cotton, Hawaiian papaya, zucchini and yellow summer squash, and alfalfa.Soy is not limited to actual soybeans. See How to Live With a Soy Allergy for more information on avoiding soy products. Make sure that your soy milk, edamame, and tofu have a 100% certified organic label.
Corn includes corn flour, meal, oil, starch, gluten, and syrup.Canola oil is also known as Rapeseed oil. This ingredient can be found in a lot of processed foods. If you usually use Canola oil for cooking, try using olive oil instead.
Sugar beets are found in any sugar that is not 100% cane sugar. Make sure you read the label.
Cottonseed oil is a common ingredient in vegetable oil. shortening, and margarine.Many dairy products contain GMOs. Some farmers inject their cows with a genetically modified hormones rBGH/rBST and/or are fed genetically modified grains. You should look for dairy products that say rBGH or rBST free.Hawaiian papayas are genetically modified. You should buy papayas grown in other regions like the Caribbean.We usually do not directly ingest alfalfa. Alfalfa is grown to feed dairy cows and other animals. Both organic alfalfa and genetically engineered alfalfa are grown. You can avoid genetically engineered alfalfa by eating grass fed meat and dairy products that are 100% certified organic., Not only are the actual crops genetically modified, but an ingredient that is derived from the crop is genetically modified as well. If you are buying processed foods, you should read the food label and avoid any of these ingredients: amino acids (synthetic form, not naturally occurring in protein), aspartame, ascorbic acid (synthetic vitamin c), sodium ascorbate, citric acid, sodium citrate, ethanol, natural and artificial flavorings,high fructose corn syrup, hydrolyzed vegetable protein, lactic acid, maltodextrins, molasses, monosodium glutamate, sucrose, textured vegetable protein, xantham gum, vitamins, and yeast products.About 75% of processed foods at the grocery store contain these ingredients.This includes foods like soda, cookies, bread, and chips. You can avoid these derivatives by cooking your food from scratch and carefully buying your food.
 There is no way for you to know every food that contains GMOs. If you are unsure, you should consult a GMO food guide. The Center for Food Safety has created an iPhoneand Androidapp that can help you avoid GMOs when you are shopping. You can also downloador use their online guide., If you eat out, you should ask the manager or your waitress if they use organic ingredients or if they use GMO ingredients. If they do not use organic foods, you should avoid tofu, edamame, corn tortillas, corn chips, and any other products that contain corn or soy. Most of the items containing sugar will contain GMO derivatives.You should also ask what type of oil is used for cooking. If they say vegetable oil, margarine, cottonseed oil, or corn oil, ask if they can cook your food with olive oil instead.

