 A hairstyle should work with a person's face shape and complement his or her features.


Oval. An oval face shape is considered to be the one shape that can wear any type of style.
Round. A layered top that provides fullness and height and thinned out hair below the cheekbones all work to lengthen the look of the face and give the illusion of a narrower chin line.
Heart shape. Go for a style that offers more fullness lower on the face and less fullness at the forehead.
Square. The idea here is to soften the face so wispy bangs and wavy styles help to create this effect. It's best to avoid straight lines, straight bangs and straight or flat hair for this face shape.
Oblong. Avoid flat, long straight hair because this will make the face look even longer. Consider a bang, especially a side-swept bang to create the illusion of a shorter forehead for the person with this longer face shape.
Diamond. Choose a cut with lots of layers. Avoid bangs unless you go with a slightly off-center curtain bang., You don't want to "wing it" when it comes to creating a hairstyle. Learn as much as you can about how to do a specific type of cut before you attempt it.


Watch online videos. Check YouTube and websites dedicated to hair for videos that depict the steps involved in creating the hairstyle you've chosen. Be sure the person who is doing the demonstration is an experienced stylist.
Page through hair style magazines. Some magazines offer tutorials with photos that will show you how to do your cut.
Check out sites belonging to hair product companies. Companies that produce and/or sell hair products often include "how-to's" on their websites. Instagram and Pinterest are also great for inspiration.
 You need to understand some of the specialized terms stylists use when talking about cutting hair so that you can follow instructions more easily.Angle indicates the position of the scissors when cutting; you may be holding them vertically, horizontally, or at 45 degrees.
Elevation refers to which direction the hair is pointing when you're holding it to cut. When the ends point to the floor, that's considered to be zero degrees of elevation. When it's pointing to the side and parallel to the floor, it's at 90 degrees. When hair is held so that the ends point to the ceiling, it is at 180 degrees.
Razoring is a technique used to create wispy layers or to remove volume and thin the hair.
Layering means creating variable lengths of hair through an established cut. The longer layers give the illusion of length and the shorter layers create volume.
Graduation is a style of hair cutting where the hair is cut progressively shorter towards the back to create a curvy shape. A graduated bob is an example of this.

