 These people can provide a useful source of support for you in a difficult situation.


For example, parents might be able to help ensure that your home study environment is as comfortable as possible. They can also help get you to a doctor or liaise with teachers or school administrators if you feel that you need additional support.
 This is always a good idea when you’re sick. But, if you do need to make special provisions for an exam, you will also need an official medical statement from a doctor. Seeing a medical professional can help you determine if your illness is likely to seriously affect your performance on exams or if you should take them as planned.Many schools have campus health services that make it easy to see a doctor in a timely fashion and provide verification of your visit to teachers or administrators. They also have academic advisors who can assist you in making an necessary arrangements to accommodate your illness.
 If your doctor thinks your illness may affect your performance, communicate that to the person overseeing your exam as soon as possible. They may not excuse you from the exam, but it’s a good idea to keep them informed of anything that might affect your performance and see if they have any suggestions or offer any alternative testing dates.The sooner you do it, the better. If you wait until the last minute before an exam, it will seem like an excuse. If you notify your teacher in advance, it’s more likely that they will have time to respond to your concerns and offer support.
A simple email will suffice. Write something like, “Dear Professor Chan, My doctor recently diagnosed me with pneumonia. I am worried that the illness will affect my performance on Tuesday’s exam. Is it possible to delay my exam if I’m not better by then, or do you have any other advice? Thank you.”

, If you feel that being sick is going to seriously impact your test results or grades, contact an administrator to see if there is an established policy for addressing student sickness during exams. Sometimes administrators will have more direct knowledge of a school’s specific rules surrounding the issue than individual teachers will. Even if they can’t answer your question directly, they will know who to forward it to.

