 Depression should not determine your schedule. When it does, you avoid social interaction and productivity and, as a result, you keep on rolling in its negative cycle. Try to make your day full and full of useful and handy activities to stay busy and to accomplish tasks to give you encouragement. Staying busy and productive is one of the best ways to help to alleviate depression.


Routines can help, too. As humans, we like feeling safe and knowing what to expect – which is exactly what having a routine can do. Have rituals that you can rely on every day whether it's lunch with a friend, yoga, cooking dinner, or a bath. This is time you know your brain can slow down.;
, When you're planning your busy day, be sure to always make time for your favorite activities. This will boast your motivation and will lift up your mood. Don't feel guilty about that movie! It's now more than ever before that you deserve adequate time to be happy.


If you catch yourself feeling guilty for getting that pedicure or scheduling in an hour-long bath, remember that being a mom is a 24/7 job. In time, you won't have time for you. This is just you getting everything on your to-do list out of the way while you can.
 Just like bright lights, exercising and sexual activity release two hormones that make you feel joyful – dopamine and endorphins. These hormones are responsible for feelings such as euphoria, excess energy and hopefulness. These are all very important to experience throughout your entire life, but especially during pregnancy. Naturally, you don’t have to exercise vigorously. Pilates, yoga, and other similar exercises are both very suitable during a pregnancy.


Apart from helping your body release those “happy” hormones and thus fight depression, exercise will help you keep to your initial weight. Very often pregnant women become depressed because of the body changes they endure, thus making them feel unattractive. Workouts, even light ones, will help you feel fit and strong and will therefore soothe the sense of being depressed.
Nevertheless, before starting on any exercise routine at all, make sure to talk things over with your obstetrician, as he or she can tell you what specific workouts are suitable in your case.
 Being pregnant can be a highly stressful, anxiety-ridden time. This sets you up for depression, especially when you're under the impression you should be overjoyed with your current situation and aren't. Two things you can do to combat the stress? Meditation and naps.



Meditation can lower your cortisol levels which lowers your stress, making you sleep better and ultimately feel happier. So when you don't quite have time to meet up for virgin cocktails with the girls, try spending that free time meditating. Even just 15 minutes of zen can make a difference.
Naps, on the other hand, mean more sleep, which helps you feel more energized and balanced. Just try to keep them to an hour or less so you don't mess up your sleep schedule.
 Women suffering with depression during pregnancy is not an uncommon issue. Most of the women you know have either gone through it themselves or know someone who has. While having friends and family at your side is invaluable, having a support group of women going through the same thing can help you realize just how not alone you are.


Talk to your friends, family, coworkers, or even doctor about resources. Your hospital may either offer a program or know of a women's organization that does. If you're currently in therapy, your psychologist may have some ideas, too. And, as always, the Internet is full of resources, too.
 If you are experiencing depression, talking about your feelings to friends and family can be very useful. They won’t necessary be able to give you any advice, but the fact that they are there and are willing to hear everything you need to say is usually enough to make you feel loved and less isolated.


Depression during pregnancy is often caused by relationship problems, worries about the future and anxiety concentrated around the much expected baby. In addition, it is a well-known fact that women have more in-depth experiences while they are pregnant, due to hormonal imbalance. So, even though support from others is generally an important factor of human life, it is especially essential during a woman’s pregnancy.
 It is very important to know that you have people to count on. However, what's more important is to actually count on them. More often than not, depression is caused by feelings like loneliness – asking for help when you need it can make you feel infinitely better.


Carrying a child changes your mind and body in a lot of ways and that might sometimes make you feel misunderstood, scared and isolated from everybody else. This is why support is a key part of dealing with depression during pregnancy – if you ask for help when you need it, your loved ones can help these miserable feelings disappear. What's more, your mom/sisters/cousins/friends may have been right there too!
Even if currently you don’t feel much support from your loved ones, you should explain to them why you need it – keep in mind that they have no way of knowing what is going on in your mind and need to be told that their help is required.
 Often in depression we fail to forgive ourselves and others over minor mistakes. We are being cruel to ourselves and others needlessly. Try to accept things with an open heart. No one is perfect and rigid thinking is never helpful. Healing comes through forgiveness and letting go.


Pregnant women often find themselves being moody and irritable for no reason. They see themselves nagging and being hurtful when they know inside they don't mean it – it's just the hormones talking. Those around you know that you're at the whim of your mood swings, so forgive yourself too! Not just those around you.
 Underlying core negative thoughts (also known as negative automatic thoughts) often remain unrecognized. This is pivotal as they are the main source of depressive rumination. Identify these thoughts, write them down and practice replacing them with positive ones.


When you catch yourself thinking, "Life has never been good to me," stop for a second. After that thought, think to yourself, "No, that's not right. Though there have been hard times, life has also given me happiness and pleasure."
Try to omit should and musts from your life. Don’t demand excessively from yourself, environment or others. This will help you a lot.
 These consist of small coping cards, on which you have written positive statements for yourself. Here are some ideas:


You can make coping cards using colorful paper, charts or any other material. Cut it in small cards and write positive and forceful statements that help you change and cope with negativity. For example, "I have always coped well and I have the strength to do it again."
Cue cards can be pasted anywhere in your room and whenever you start feeling depressed or start thinking negatively, they can remind you to stop. They are very helpful in distracting and reducing cycles of negative thoughts.
Make your activity schedule on an A4 sheet or card and paste it on your cupboard or nearby place. Daily, mark the activities you have performed to check your progress. This is very helpful in dealing with depression and will give you insight regarding your progress and will motivate you to further action.
 Living in the past, constantly thinking about negative events does not allow to focus on the present. Enjoy today, focus on what you have and try to live in the here and now. You're about to bring a life into the world!


Living in the future is almost as bad. Constantly worrying about how you'll make ends meet or what kind of mother you'll be will get you nowhere. The fact that you're worrying at all means you care – which is the first step. Focusing on what you can do now to improve the present will also improve the future.
 One of the most widespread symptoms of depression is sleep disturbance – getting either too much or too little sleep. Sleep is an important part of staying mentally healthy and when you don’t get the right amount, mood swings and depression are often the result. To avoid these negative consequences, prepare a sleep schedule.


Coming up with a sleep schedule depends on your personal needs – some people need to sleep more than others. However, when depression during pregnancy is concerned, the generally accepted rule is that you should sleep about 9 hours per night, and have two short naps during the day (approximately an hour long for each).
 To reap the benefits of your sleep schedule, you're going to need to go to sleep and wake up every night and morning at the same time. It's best to have it at the same time every night so your body can get used to the schedule and eventually find it easier to sleep.


This will mean some sacrifices, yes. If you choose 10 PM as the time to go to sleep, this includes weekends, too. There will be the occasional night when you want to stay up (or morning when you want to sleep in), but the schedule still needs adhering to.
 This might be difficult to do at first, and it is very likely that the first few times you will toss and turn without being able to fall asleep, but in a few days your body will get used to the new regime and things will get easier.


Depression itself usually also affects your sleep. The biggest problem with this symptom is that it feeds a vicious cycle. In order to get yourself out of this sleeping trap and feel happier, you need to dedicate yourself to this idea of a sleep schedule and stick to it. Normalcy and routine are key.
 Sleep is especially important when suffering from depression during pregnancy because it is what allows your brain to fully rest and recharge. As your brain is the organ that controls your emotions, and therefore depression, depriving it from the right amount of sleep can be very harmful. If you spend a night tossing and turning, make up for it with a nap during the day.


Two one-hour naps are appropriate during pregnancy if you did not receive enough sleep the night before. However, be sure that these naps don't interfere with you falling asleep and waking up on time the next day!

, CBT is a type of psychotherapy which has shown very positive effects on conditions such as depression. However, when it comes to pregnancy, CBT is very useful even if you are not feeling depressed, as it will help you accept and understand your new situation better and can truly prepare you for the new joy in your life – the baby.


This approach has been constructed around the belief that our thoughts influence our actions and therefore negative thoughts result in negative actions.
However, this therapy is not simply a “positive thinking” approach; it goes much deeper than that. CBT examines the thoughts that you tend to have and helps you build a positive outlook on life, which is incredibly useful when it comes to fighting depression.
Negative thoughts, such as “Why does this always happen to me?”, result in negative experiences and behaviors, such as falling victim to depression. That is why CBT aims to transform negative thoughts into positive and more realistic ones, such as “Yes, this situation isn’t the easiest one, but instead of feeling defeated, what can I do to feel happy?”

, CBT can also be very helpful when preparing you for the arrival of your child as this life event, as exciting as it is, can also be very stressful and overwhelming and could, in itself, be the cause of depression. In these cases your therapist will help you find the deeper meaning behind thoughts such as “I am afraid I won’t be a good mother” and transform them to healthier views such as “Everyone makes mistakes and I will probably make some too with my child, but that’s OK because I will always do my best to be a great parent."


As we mentioned above, depression during pregnancy is often the result of relationship problems or an inability to understand and accept the new situation you are in. CBT can be really useful here because it finds the underlying reasons for your problems and helps you turn things around.
 This depression treatment approach is relatively new, but it does hold promise and it is safe for pregnant and breastfeeding women. This type of therapy is especially useful in the winter season, or when your condition will not allow you to expose your skin to sunlight for too long.


Basically, bright light therapy means exposure to very bright lights, using a special light box (simple home lighting is not enough) at illumination level of 10,000 lux, most commonly for 30 to 40 minutes.
The operating principle of this therapy is based on the fact that our body works in an interesting way – light stimulates it to release hormones that make you feel happy and even euphoric.
 If your living situation allows it, you can choose the natural way – spend more time in the sun and in nature. The scientific explanation behind this interesting phenomena is that people are able to function best during the day and are very dependent on the warmth of the sun. That is why over time our brains have adapted to seek light and to ensure that we do that, we have evolved to feel pleasure when exposed to it.


Even though bright light therapy has not yet be proven successful in all depression sufferers, it does help over half of the people who try it, as was discovered by a study conducted by the Medical Journal of Psychiatry in 2005.So, if you are a pregnant woman suffering from depression, give it a try.
 These will help you understand your own condition and what areas you might want to address in order to treat your depression. The common symptoms of depression during pregnancy include the following:


Disturbed appetite (increased or decreased)
Disturbed sleep (increased or decreased)
Extreme fatigue and loss of energy
Crying spells
Poor fetal attachment
Lack of feelings of pleasure
Irritability
Suicidal ideation
Thoughts and feelings of worthlessness

, There are some common factors that enhance the risk of depression and if addressed timely might alleviate prenatal depression. These factors include:


Dysfunctional thinking and coping styles with ongoing life stressors
Problems with significant relationships in family
Current negative/stressful life events
History of physical, emotional or sexual abuse
Earlier miscarriage or stillbirth
Childbirth related distress
Vulnerable personality type to depression and anxiety

If these factors existed prior to pregnancy, know that there is a greater chance of an ongoing depression and functional coping is required to treat it.
 Depression during pregnancy can be a very scary and startling experience. Most mothers expect to be overwhelmed with joy all the time, though that is hardly the case. Keep in mind that this is a trying time for both your body and your psyche and the healthiest way to deal with things is to seek help and support as soon as you feel you might be depressed.


Slightly over 1 in 10 women experience depression during or after pregnancy. You are hardly alone! Talk to the women in your family or your friends – odds are one of them has been there, too.

