 Depending on what part of the world you are moving from, Norway could be culturally and climatically very far removed from what you are used to. If you are moving from Northern Europe, the change will less dramatic than if you are moving from Central America or East Asia. The chances are that you have already visited and spent some time in Norway, if you have decided that you want to make the move over there.


If you haven’t actually been there, it’s sensible to try to book yourself a holiday and spent a couple of weeks travelling around the country.
Talk to people and try to get a feel for the culture and sensibilities of Norwegian people.
 One of the biggest adjustments and potential barriers to living in a new country can be the language. If you don’t speak Norwegian, you might have a tough time finding work and dealing with the administrative and bureaucratic processes of finding a place to live and register as a resident. Although English is widely spoken in Norway, it’s a good idea to try to learn some basic Norwegian before you go.


Once you are there be sure to commit enough time to learning the language.
Your experiences, relationships and opportunities will likely stay reasonably narrow if you can’t operate in the local language.
 One of the biggest shocks to new arrivals in Norway might be the weather. Parts of Norway are in the Arctic circle, so you should expect plenty of cold, wind and rain. The weather does vary depending on weather you live close to the coast or more inland. As a general rule, the coastal areas will have milder winters, but will experience more wind and rain throughout the year.The average winter temperature of Oslo is around -4 degrees Celsius, or 23 degree Fahrenheit. Winter snow and frosts can occur from October, all the way to April.
In the summer months you can expect milder temperatures, and even the occasional heat wave., Norway has very long days in summer that can cause problems to people who have not experienced this before. In the winter, however, the long days are replaced by long nights. The impact of this will depend where you are moving from, but it can cause problems.


In the summer in Oslo, it will generally not get any darker than twilight. The further north you go, the longer the days. If you go far enough north you will reach a point where the sun doesn’t set.
In winter, the daylight in Oslo can be as brief as six hours. In Tromsø, above the Arctic circle, the sun does not rise for six weeks., One of the potential problems with living in Norway, is the relatively high cost of living. Housing costs and eating out can be expensive, and there are relatively high levels of taxation. Be sure to spend some time thinking about housing and other essential costs, as well as how much money you can expect to earn.