 There may be tons of great candidates for friends around you, but you may not know how to approach these people and get connected. Great conversation skills can help you bridge a bond with others and figure out what you have in common. A great rule-of-thumb is that people enjoy talking about themselves and their interests, so look for cues that can help you get them talking.For example, you’re in line at the grocery store and you see a teen in front of you who is playing on their smartphone. You might say, “You seem to be really good at that. What’s the goal of the game?”
Try to ask an open-ended question that requires the person to expound on their answer rather than just replaying “yes” or “no.”

, Even if you don't want to make friends, being around other people can improve your mood and outlook. If you've taken up a sport or hobby, go to club events, sporting meet-ups and competitions. Engage with people at these events to make connections.


Don't be afraid to join a club for something you've never done before, like Improv or bowling. You may meet many other people who are equally inexperienced, and you can bond over that.
Take it slowly if you're hesitant, but allow yourself to connect and potentially click with people who like the same things that you do., Even if you don't find friends in real life in any hurry, you can find many people online who share your thoughts, ideas and dreams. Online friendships are not as intimate as those in real life and usually won't solve loneliness completely. But they are still a good way to feel connected and pass time.Just don't let your online friends keep you from making friends in person, and be careful about meeting up or connecting with any people you meet online.
 Doing things that benefit your neighborhood like community service projects are a great way to meet people. Helping the less fortunate also allows you to step out of yourself and put things into perspective. You'll find that you may be even more grateful for what you have, and will feel more worthy after putting yourself out there and doing meaningful work.Help adults and children learn to read at your local library, volunteer at your local soup kitchen, or help clean up a park in your community.

