 Add different size adhesive bandages, gauze pads, adhesive tape, cotton balls, a small travel size container of peroxide and alcohol swabs or pads.;
,, Pack antibiotic ointment to prevent infections in cuts and scrapes, a corticosteroid cream for relieving itching and reducing inflammation from bites, scrapes and other injuries, Caladryl® lotion for contact with poison ivy and similar plants, and an aloe gel for soothing minor burns.
 Include pain relief medications such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen for headaches, toothaches, muscle soreness, fever and any other minor conditions that may develop while you are traveling.
 Also bring medications and treatment options for allergies and sinus problems. Include anti-allergy medication, saline nasal spray, eye drops, decongestants, antihistamines and throat lozenges.
 Bandage wraps for sprains, disposable cold packs to bring down swelling and heat bandages for muscle aches can all come in handy if a minor muscle injury occurs.
 Include anti-malaria medications, anti-fungal medications, an anti-pollution or respiratory mask and water purification tablets.
 View their lists of recommended prophylactics for trips to specific areas of the world.
 Include items in the kit that are specific for each member. For example, if your teenage daughter suffers from migraine headaches, remember to include migraine medication and anything that may be used to offer migraine relief while traveling, such as disposable moist towelettes and fabric eye covers that block out light.
 The last thing you want to have to deal with while away from home is trying to replace a daily medication that was lost while traveling.
 Also ask for an additional prescription that you can carry with you and have filled while away, if necessary.
 For example, place only one bottle in your medical travel kit, and place the other in an entirely different spot, such as your handbag or laptop carrying case. This ensures that you still have your medications if one item of luggage is lost or misplaced during your trip.
 Don’t forget an extra bottle of contact lens solution as well.
 Visit your physician and ask for an extra prescription if you take birth control pills. Be sure to have the prescription filled before you leave rather than bringing the prescription with you to fill while you are away. It is better to have the pills on hand if you need them than to have to scramble to have a prescription filled, which might not be so easy to do depending on where you will be traveling to.
