


Pr-made burgers are available in beef, chicken, pork, veal, turkey, bison, ostrich and several combinations. Know what type of burger you want to serve, then focus on finding burgers that fit your price range and look good.;
,


Fat content is the ratio of fat to meat in a burger patty.
Extra lean ground meat is usually labeled as 93/7, which means it's 93 percent meat and 7 percent fat. This content is healthier than others found in burger patties, but the meat can dry out faster and be less flavorful.
A patty with 80/20 meat is 80 percent meat and 20 percent fat. These burger patties will be more juicy and flavorful and get a better sear on the outside.



Burger patties should be uniform in size and thickness. This will ensure even cooking times.
Patties portioned by a machine can be identified by the uniform-shaped edge. These are portioned out to an exact weight so they will always be the same size. Hand-made patties will be rounder, but should still be roughly the same size.


Packaged burger patties will have a stamp reading "Use By" or "Cook or Freeze By" on the outside of the package. This is the expiration date for the burger patties, after which they could be unsafe to consume. Be sure to buy patties with an expiration date that will give you time to cook your patties or freeze them for future meals.



Patties could have freezer burn from being at an extreme temperature or being refrigerated too long. Look for discoloration along the surface of the burger or gray coloring or cracking around the edges of the patties.



Properly packaged burger patties will be wrapped tightly with no gaps, tears or loose sections of the packaging. Patties should not have juice leaking out of the packaging or be sitting in a pool of juice or water in the package. These encourage bacteria growth and should be avoided.



Most grocery stores have a butcher on staff that can grind your meat and make burger patties for you while you wait. This will ensure that the meat is fresh.



Try burger patties made from a meat you've never tried before. Many grocery stores now carry more exotic burger patties made from ostrich or bison. These burgers are often lower in fat and cholesterol than beef burgers.

