 Many main route establishments, especially rest stops and designated “trucker” stops, will have special parking spaces intended specifically for large vehicles, like semis and moving trucks. Be on the lookout for places such as these, as this kind of parking will make your job much easier. Some semi-trucks can need as much as four times the space used by a normal sized car.You might want to plan your route well in advance so that you know where you can park easily while on your trip. A few popular sites that give comprehensive resources on roadway information are:

http://www.truckstops.com/
http://www.cdljobs.com/resources/trip-planning
http://longhauler-usa.com/



, Due to the fact that your large vehicle can block the view of smaller ones and sometimes create a dangerous blind spot on the road, there are laws in place to prevent this from happening. These laws will vary between state and country, but generally you should never:


Park on a road with a speed limit over 30 mph (48 kph) unless your vehicle is disabled.
Park in a way that blocks the view of the road from driveways and other streets.
Park with your vehicle facing opposite the direction of traffic., When you are forced to stop on the side of a road due to mechanical issues or some other problem, you must place emergency warning devices no later than ten minutes after coming to a stop. Different kinds of roads will require different placement of your warning devices, such as:


On or near a one-direction street or a divided highway, you will need to place your warning devices at 10, 100, and 200 feet (3, 30.5, and 61 m) behind your vehicle.
On a two-lane road with traffic that moves in either direction, or on an undivided highway, you should place warning devices 10 feet (3 m) in front of and behind the front and rear corners of your vehicle and 100 feet (30.5 m) ahead of and behind your vehicle.
On bends, curves, and hills that obstruct the view of your warning devices, you’ll need to place your rearmost device so it can be clearly seen before the sight obstruction., Smaller parking lots and residential areas are built with smaller vehicles in mind. The best way you can gauge the space of these places is by stepping out of your vehicle and getting a clear look of your surroundings.If possible, you should make use of a spotter, who can direct you as you move into the spot safely., Larger vehicles are much heavier than your average sedan. If your vehicle were to experience a critical brake failure, its weight would make it even more dangerous to others if it started to roll. You can easily prevent this from happening by always using your parking break as an extra safety measure.