 If you let the dog jump on you or bring you to the ground, you’ll be in a much weaker position and more likely to be seriously hurt. If you’re in a city or residential neighborhood, call out for the dog’s owner.If you’re in the woods or a rural environment, you’ll need to call out for any help you can get.;
, This will deter the dog from attacking you, or confuse the dog as to what part of you it should attack. If you have a backpack or bag with you, hold it in the dog’s direction. If you have nothing else, you can use a piece of clothing to protect yourself from a severe bite.


A frenzied dog may bite the backpack or bag in front of you, sparing your arms and legs.
If you have time before the dog attacks you, you can wrap a shirt or jacket around your non-dominant arm and use that to distract the dog., These are the areas that a dog will first attack, and they are the most sensitive areas of your body. Use one arm to cover your face and neck, and the other to shield your groin and belly region.


If the dog attacks you while you’re using a hand to cover your face and neck with one hand and your groin with the other hand, it may bite you on the hand or arm—but that would be much less serious than a facial or groin wound.
 If a dog has sunk its teeth into your body, don’t try to wrench yourself free. This will tear the flesh and make the bite wound much worse., If you do not have a weapon, you’ll need to rely on punching, kicking, and gouging. Your best chance is to attack the dog in a vital area that is easy to injure. This will weaken the dog and reduce its ability to hurt you.Specifically, aim for the eyes, ribs, and groin.


A well placed kick to the ribs with a steel-toe boot could be effective at deterring an attacking dog
If a dog is latched onto your arm, attack its eyes with your thumbs, strike it in the throat, or seize the dog’s throat and try to choke it.These are effective defensive measures and may stop the dog from attacking you.
 If an aggressive dog is intent on attacking and harming—or killing—you, use whatever weapons you have to protect yourself. If you have a knife, stab the dog repeatedly in its face, jaws, and throat. These are vulnerable areas that will cause serious damage and disable the animal.If you are carrying a pistol or gun, aim for the dog’s head.
If you’re not carrying a weapon, use nearby objects (rocks or boards) to strike the dog.

