 The driver's seat position causes your body to sit at a flexed angle that is not a usual posture stance. The sagging of your lower back into the car seat will inevitably cause pain from the lack of support, so it is important to remedy this. Add a small lumbar support cushion; your sore muscles won't have to do so much work to keep you in place.;
, It is very important that your head rest is comfortable as this will help to minimize back pain.
 If you are constantly tilting, this will result in muscle and lower back tension.
 There are parts of your body that have little choice but to keep working while driving. Differential relaxation places a focus on relaxing those muscles not being used while you are driving. For example, while your neck and shoulders don't actually do the driving, they often end up being a source of pain from driving in one position repeatedly. Try to remember to keep your neck, shoulders, non-working leg, etc. relaxed as the other muscles do the driving work. Pull your shoulders down, sit up straighter, stretch your neck or shrug when waiting at lights, etc.
 As the day progresses, many people find themselves slumping through tiredness. Rather than stretching back to your proper posture, the temptation is to slouch and adjust the mirrors to suit the lower positioning of your eyes. Instead, aim to leave the mirrors alone and keep your eyes at the same level no matter the time of day. This will force you to maintain the straighter posture of first thing in the day.
 Rather than straining forward to see out of the window during rain, fog, snow, etc., it is far better to remain seated properly as usual and to simply move the seat forward a little to help you see better. If the visibility is so bad that you cannot see, take a break and rejoin the traffic when it improves.
 Being frustrated, angry, or enraged by other drivers is not only a waste of time (because you can't control events beyond yourself in this situation), it is a surefire way to build up muscle tension and bring on aches and pains. Acknowledge that it is annoying but go with the flow; think about something else, like planning your weekend or thinking through an idea. Put on music, etc. See wikiHow's article on practicing zen driving for more ideas.
 Tension can be brought on by being either too hot or too cold, as your muscles try to compensate for heat loss or gain. Also, being too hot or cold can impact your ability to concentrate, making you feel tense.

