 A rugby tackle is quick, simple, and safe if you keep your head up and lead with your shoulder. A good tackle has several components, and mastering them will prevent injuries and bring down opponents with ease:


Start in an athletic position, on your toes to adjust to the attacker's movement.
Lead with your shoulder, driving it into their thigh or stomach.
Keep your head up, tucking it along the butt of the attacker.
Wrap your arms around their thighs, squeezing in to take them off balance.
Let your momentum carry your shoulder through them, using your arms to "squeeze" them to the ground with you.;
, You need to be ready to move in a moments notice as the tackle approaches. The best way to prepare is to be on your toes, knees slightly bent, and arms in front of you. Imagine an Olympic wrestler in their starting position and you have a good idea of your stance:


Knees bent.
Weight forward, on the balls of your feet and ready to spring.
Spine straight.
Hands out in front of your body, ready to tackle. Your elbows should not be "chicken-winged" outwards.
Head up and looking at your opponent., Don't wait her him to come to you -- take the tackle to him. As she runs at you with the ball, take short, choppy steps to close the gap. Make the attacker make a decision before they're ready, all while staying on your toes and closing in. Once you're 1-2 meters away you're ready to start the tackle.If you're chasing them down, or running over, slow down and gain control of your body 5-10 yards away from them.
You don't want to run at them. You simply want to move your feet with quick, short steps towards them, allowing you to change direction on a dime if they try and fake you out.
Watch their waist as you approach. A player usually fakes with their head, their arms/shoulders, or their feet. A person's waist, however, must point in the direction their body is moving., This is how you build the momentum needed for a good tackle. Once you've closed the gap and know what direction he's going, step towards him, aiming roughly right between his legs. Once you've reached this point you need to be committed to the tackle, and the next few moves need to happen in rapid succession, without hesitation, to succeed.


More often than not, the attacker will pick a side of you and run for that, trying to get around you. This actually makes your job even easier -- once they've picked a side you can step right at them and tackle from the side, as they've eliminated their forward momentum.
 This is usually up to the attacker to decide, so be adaptable. The safe side is where you're going to place your head on the tackle. Most often this is their backside: a player chooses a direction to run around you, and you don't want to tackle them on the same side as their pumping knees and legs. For example, if an attacker runs to your right, the safe side would be on your left, right along the attacker's butt.


In the rare instance when a player runs right at you without making a move, never fear -- keep your head up and step right at them, positioning your head to whatever side you're comfortable with., Follow up on your big step by throwing your momentum, shoulder first, into the opponent's midsection. Your head needs to stay up to watch out for injuries, and your cheek will slide along their butt cheek if you've made proper contact. As you make the move, drive with your legs, pushing yourself "through" the tackle for the maximum power.Keep your elbows close to your ribs as you tackle, not out wide. The majority of your tackle is done with your shoulder and body weight, not your comparatively weak arms.
You can hit anywhere between the upper thigh and just underneath the chest. Know, however, that the lower you hit the easier they will be to bring

, This is the best way to pull someone off balance, no matter how much bigger or stronger they are. After you've made contact, wrap your arms around their legs and squeeze into your chest, like you were giving their thighs the biggest hug you can give.


When warming up with teammates, practice this quick grip and squeeze around the thighs. You'll notice how easily your teammates lose their balance and get lifted off the ground.
 Once you've made contact and wrapped up their legs, keep your legs moving and arms squeezed to bring them to the ground. More often than not you'll end up on top of the tackle, making it easier to get up and join the ruck. If you've lost your footing on the tackle, keep squeezing with your arms. If this doesn't bring them down on its own another teammate will soon be there to finish the job.Keep your feet moving the entire time you're tackling. You want to be constantly in motion and driving the opponent back.
Once the player is down, jump back up to your feet immediately. You cannot keep playing the ball from the ground, but once you're on your feet again you can grab the ball or ruck for your team.

