 Officer’s uniforms also include the Army Combat Uniform (ACU), which is typically made of camouflaged print fabric, and the “Green” uniform, which is made of a heavy fabric coat and trousers or skirt. Insignia will be displayed on various places depending on the type of uniform:


Rank insignia is displayed in the center of an ACU cap.A rank insignia patch will also be sewn on the chest area of an ACU.
The “Green” uniforms of officers will show rank insignia on the shoulders.An officer’s rank insignia will be displayed in the center of his or her beret, when one is worn.Officer’s “Green” uniforms will have a black stripe on the outside of each trouser leg, as well as a black band on each sleeve just above the cuff., A Second Lieutenant’s is a single gold bar, while the First Lieutenant’s is a single silver bar. A Captain’s (CPT, O-3) insignia is made up of two silver bars.
 However, a Major’s (MAJ, O-4) is a gold leaf, while a Lieutenant Colonel’s (LTC, O-5) is a silver leaf.
 The insignia of this rank is a silver eagle with outstretched wings.
 The insignia of each rank is made up of silver stars, so pay close attention to the different insignia to distinguish the ranks.


A Brigadier General’s (BG, O-7) insignia is a single silver star.
A Major General’s (MG, O-8) insignia is two silver stars side-by-side.
A Lieutenant General’s (LTG, O-9) insignia is made of three silver stars side-by-side.
A General’s (GEN, O-10) insignia is made of four silver stars side-by-side.
The General of the Army’s (GOA, O-11) insignia is made of five silver stars arranged in a pentagon pattern. This rank only used during certain wartime periods.
 The insignia can be distinguished by the type and number of blocks.


The insignia of a Warrant Officer 1 (WO1, W-1) is a single small black block in the center of a silver bar.
The insignia of a Chief Warrant Officer 2 (CW2, W-2) is two black blocks in the center of a silver bar.
The insignia of a Chief Warrant Officer 3 (CW3, W-3) is three black blocks in the center of a silver bar.
The insignia of a Chief Warrant Officer 4 (CW4, W-4) is four black blocks in the center of a silver bar.
The insignia of a Chief Warrant Officer 5 (CW5, W-5) is a single long black block running down the center of a silver bar.

