 Believe it or not, you can actually make really good scrambled eggs in the microwave.


Beat together 2 eggs in a microwave-safe container.
Add 1 handful of your favorite chopped veggies. Cherry tomatoes and sauteed spinach leaves work well, or you can use whatever veggies you have leftover from dinner the night before.
Sprinkle in a bit of cheese. One ounce of reduced-fat cheese is packed with protein and is a great addition to any healthy breakfast. Don't overdo it, though, as cheese can still be a caloric food. Keep your serving size to once ounce and stick to reduced-fat or skim cheeses.
Zap the mixture in the microwave for about 30 seconds, stir, and then cook for another 30 seconds or until the eggs are solid.;
, Sandwiches are often thought to be off limit because they can be a bit heavy on the carbs. However, there are healthy ways to put together a satisfying breakfast sandwich.


Watch your fillings. To keep you sandwich healthy, plan on filling it with low-cal items like egg whites ( to cut out some fat and cholesterol from the yolk), light cheeses, and veggies. Avoid caloric spreads like full-fat mayonnaise.
Cut the carbs in half by making an opened-faced sandwich with just one slice of bread instead of two.
Top a lightly toasted slice of whole wheat bread with some smashed avocado and then top it all with a sunny-side up egg (or cooked however you prefer). Avocados are rich in "good" fats, oils, and tons of vitamins., Burritos are great on-the-go breakfasts; simply warm up your fillings, roll in a tortilla, and hit the road with breakfast in hand.


Eggs work great in a breakfast burrito, which can be made using whole wheat and/or low-carb tortillas.
You can basically throw whatever you have on hand in there -- cooked beans, veggies, low-fat cheese, even leftover whole grain rice -- it’s a great refrigerator clean-out vehicle.Some things to avoid, though, that will take your burrito into unhealthy territory are refried beans, full-fat sour cream, full-fat cheeses, and other processed foods.
Boost your protein count by adding some lean meat to your breakfast burrito. Soy-based vegetarian meats have tons of protein, as do traditional meat items like Canadian bacon, lean ham, turkey bacon, and smoked salmon.