 Find some leaves outside, rinse them under cool water, then pat them dry. You can leave the stems on or cut them off, but make sure that each leaf is smaller than 8 inches (20.32 centimeters), otherwise it won't fit in your lantern. Set the leaves aside when you are done.


Consider pressing the leaves between the pages of a heavy book for several days. This will help dry the leaves out further and flatten them.;
, You can make your lantern a different size if you want to, but the rectangles need to be twice as long as they are tall. For example, you can make a mini lantern using 4 by 8-inch (10.16 by 20.32-centimeter) rectangles.
, You can place as many leaves as you want inside each paper, but the light will shine through better the fewer leaves you use. These will be the panels for your lantern.


For a twist, consider adding a sprinkle of glitter inside the folded paper., Set your iron to the lowest setting; you want it to be warm, not hot. Cover your work with the cloth, then press the iron over it for 2 to 5 minutes. Flip the paper over, and press it again for another 2 to 5 minutes.Repeat the process with the other sheets, working one at a time.


If you don't have an ironing cloth, you can also use an old pillowcase or thin towel instead.
 Line the sheets up side-by-side to make a strip with the edges touching. Make sure that the front of the leaves are facing you. Cut three 8-inch (20.32-centimeter) long strips of washi tape, and tape the strips together.For a neater finish, make sure that the folded edges of your panels are facing the same direction.
If you are making a smaller/larger lantern, cut your tape accordingly.
Consider using washi tape with a wood grain pattern. This will make your lantern look more like a lantern. You can also use black washi tape instead.
 Cut a 32-inch (81.28-centimeter) strip of washi tape, and place it along the top, long edge of your wax paper strip. Repeat this step with a second 32-inch (81.28-centimeter) strip of washi tape for the bottom edge.
 Make sure that the backs of the leaves are inside the lantern. Next, cut an 8-inch (20.32-centimeter) strip of washi tape, and place it along the edge of the first panel. Align the first and last panels together, then fold the tape onto the last panel.
 Get an LED or battery-operated tea light, and turn it on. Set it down onto your table, then place the lantern over it. Avoid using real tea lights, as they can get too hot, and may cause the wax paper to melt and come apart.

