 The secret exit in world 1-2 can only be accessed if your character has the Cat Suit, and unfortunately, the level itself does not have any areas where you can get the Cat Suit. Luckily, the very first level of the game provides a very easy way to attain the cat suit.


While on the World map, press the toggle back until you reach the very first level, World 1-1 Super Bell Hill. Press the A button to begin the level.;
, Your character will be transported to a green yard with a set of stairs up ahead. Ascend the stairs using the toggle stick, and take a left. You should see a yellow question block.
 A Cat Bell will come out of the block.
 Approach the Cat Bell, and you will be transformed into the Cat Suit form.
 Once you have successfully donned the Cat Suit, press the + button and select the “Quit level” option. You will be brought back the World map still wearing the suit., After getting the Cat Suit, use the toggle stick to move to the right, and your character will be standing on the World 1-2 stage. Press the A button to begin.
 When the level begins, you will be brought to a green hill with a pipe at the end. Run down the hill, and jump onto the pipe using the A button. Hit the ZL button to be transported to the next stage.


The pipe will bring you to an underground area. Continue left, going through the glass pipe to reach the higher level of elevation. Continue going left; you will pass over a group of purple blocks and two glass pipes sticking out from the wall.
Keep going until you reach a glass pipe lying flat on the ground. Run into it using the toggle stick to be brought to the next area.
You will reach a drop filled with moving clouds; simply jump across them using the A button, and continue to the left until you reach the checkpoint flag. Run through the checkpoint flag and the game will save your progress thus far.
 After passing the flag, you will continue to head left through the level, passing by blocks and enemies. You’ll encounter yet another glass pipe, which will bring you to an area with a large yellow question block. Jump on top of it using the A button, and hit the A button once more to reveal an invisible block above it.
 Jump onto the newly formed block, and hit the A button once more to reveal yet another block. These blocks form a staircase, allowing you to reach the higher platform above. Once on the higher platform, you can now reach the secret exit

, Here is where the Cat Suit finally comes into play. The pipe to the secret exit is located on a ledge that’s normally inaccessible due to its height. You can climb up to the ledge using the Cat Suit. Face the wall, and hit the A button to jump while pushing your toggle stick in the direction of the wall. Your character will immediately latch onto the wall. Push the toggles stick upwards to make him climb.


Once your character reaches the top of the wall, he will automatically climb onto the ledge. On the ledge, you will see a red pipe. Press the A button to jump onto the pipe, and then the ZL button to be transported. You will be brought onto the world map, as your character slides underground, past all the upcoming stages in the level.
Your character will exit the pipe in the second world, having successfully skipped the boss battle in the first!

