 Determine who will roll first by having each player roll one die; the player with the highest roll gets to go first. Players will take turns in a clockwise direction.;
, This will help make the game go smoothly.


A roll of a 1 is worth 100 points.
A roll of a 5 is worth 50 points.
A roll of three of a kind is worth 100 times the face value. For example, if you roll three 2s, your total will be 200 points, three 5s will be 500 points and so on. However, there is an important exception to this rule; three 1s are worth 1,000 points, instead of 100 points., Roll all six dice at the same time and remove at least one "point dice," meaning any dice that are worth points like 1s, 5s, or three of a kind.


Players do not have to set aside all point dice. It is important to consider strategy here. For instance, in cases where a player rolls two point dice, such as a 1 and 5, it can be strategic to keep the 1 aside and place the other back with the rest of the non-point dice to be rolled. In so doing, you may have a better chance at rolling a three of a kind (or other combination) and thus increasing your score., In the case of the former, this is where the game gets its name from.


If the player rolls and no point dice appear, this is called a "farkle." In the case of a farkle, the player loses all the point dice collected during that turn. The turn then passes to the next player on the left.
If the player rolls and all six dice become point dice, something known as "hot dice," the player must roll all of the dice once more before stopping and adding the points collected. There is no limit to the number of "hot dice" a player may roll in one turn.
 In other words, the player can roll to collect more points, or stop and keep any points acquired. Carefully consider strategy in deciding whether to roll or stop. For example, if a player throws 1,2,3,3,3,5, any of the following plays are possible:


Score three 3s as 300 points and then roll the remaining three dice.
Score the single 1 as 100 points and then roll the remaining five dice.
Score the single 5 as 50 points and then roll the remaining five dice.
Score three 3s, the single 1, and the single 5 for a total of 450 points and then roll the remaining die.
Score three 3s, the single 1, and the single 5 for a total of 450 points. Stop rolling and score the 450 points.
If the player continues rolling in any of the above cases except for the last, they risk rolling a farkle and losing all accumulated points from that turn.
However, if they score five dice and have only one die left to roll, they have a 1 in 3 chance of scoring a 1 or a 5. Then, having scored all six dice they will have "hot dice" and can roll all six dice again to gain more points.
 It's important to keep clear records in order to keep the game fair and fun!

, To win, a player must get 10,000 points. After a player gets over 10,000, the other players get one turn to try to beat the first player out of the game. Declare a winner based on this last roll and play again!