 If your vehicle has been modified to add a turbocharger or supercharger to increase power output, it has the same effect as dramatically increasing the compression ratio of the cylinders in your engine. These engines require a higher octane fuel due to the increased likelihood of pre-detonation. If you aren’t certain if your vehicle came with a form of forced induction from the factory, check the auto manufacturer’s website.If your vehicle came turbocharged or supercharged from the factory, it likely requires premium fuel, which is considered to be 91 octane or higher.
If you added a form of forced induction to the engine, it also will require high octane fuel. Some aftermarket forced induction applications even require higher octane than is offered at most gas stations.
 While most vehicles are designed to run on 87 octane, carbon build up in the engine over years of use may result in an increased likelihood of pre-detonation. As the engine burns fuel, carbon begins to develop inside the cylinder. Over time, this can create hot spots that may ignite the air and fuel mixture early. Switching to a higher octane fuel at around the hundred thousand mile mark may help you to avoid this.If your car was designed for 87 octane, you may want to switch to 89 at around the hundred thousand mile mark.
Not all cars will suffer pre-detonation as a result of carbon build up, but switching to a higher octane can reduce the risk if yours does.
 Because the octane level of your fuel helps to determine its stability under high heat and high pressure, an increase in the ambient temperature of the air can have an effect on the way your vehicle runs. Hotter air entering the cylinder has an increased likelihood of pre-detonation as it is mixed with fuel and compressed. Locations that suffer extreme highs like the desert, or any area that routinely exceeds one hundred degrees Fahrenheit may require a higher octane fuel, particularly in older vehicles with carbon buildup.Exceptionally low humidity can increase the risk of pre-detonation further, so deserts may require a higher octane fuel.
If you will be driving through extremely high temperatures and low levels of humidity, you may want to add a higher octane fuel to your vehicle.
 Research has shown that under rigorous driving, a higher octane fuel may help reduce the stress on your engine. Towing something behind your vehicle or carrying heavy loads forces the engine to work much harder. This type of driving is referred to as “severe duty operation.” Severe duty operation can be made even worse when driving in high temperature, low humidity areas like the desert.During severe duty operation, running a higher octane fuel can improve gas mileage and emissions.
These benefits are dramatically reduced during normal vehicle operation.

