 Draw two triangles: one taking up two-thirds of the top of the torso circle and the second taking up the bottom-third. The top triable should lie just underneath her chin.


Draw two lines down from her jawline. They should be about the same width as her nose.
Draw a curve connecting the two lines. Erase the part of the triangle that's protruding through her neck.
 Draw two circles at the middle of the top circle and thicken the lines on the outer sides. Erase the circle for the torso proportion.
 Draw a short line protruding out under these circles. They should start at the point that the bottom art of each circle meets the triangle.


Draw a semi-'s'-shape curve down to the bottom triangle.
Draw over the top sides of the bottom triangle with curves.
Erase the inner portions of the torso.
 Draw circles at the top corners of the top-triangle. If you have to, you can draw the circle through the left-bang. Just erase the parts inside the bangs afterward.


Draw lines away from the sides of the circle.
Draw connected to the bottom line. This new lines should be about the same height as the bottom of her torso.
Draw partial circles connected to the bottom of the left-side of the arm.
Draw a line that curves toward the bottom arm-line without connecting them.
 Draw a line from the bottom arm that's horizontal and align with the bottom of her torso. Draw a curve above the line.


Use your thumb and index finger to check the proportion. It should be about the same distance as between her chin and nose.
 Draw a line at the center of her hand and angle it slightly down toward the bottom of the hand.


Draw a curve from the line to the end of the bottom of the hand. This is her thumb.
Draw a curve from the middle of the thumb and up past the top of her hand.
 From the shoulder-to-should, draw two parallel curves. The bottom curve should lie right above her chest.


Draw similar curves on both arms and under her chest.
 Draw a long 'U' shape from her neck to the top of her chest.


Draw another one outside of the 'U' shape, but keep the top of the 'U's close while the bottom of them have a larger gap between them.
Draw a circle with another circle in it in the center or the two 'U' shapes.
Add circles between the stem of the necklace and the bottom curve. Draw a curve above the bottom of her neck for her choker.
 Draw a curve at her wrist. Add three more above it in order to create three bracelets.
 Add upside-down arches to the bottom of her sleeves and shirt. You can connect them to each other, have gaps between them, or alternate between the two. When you get toward the edge of her torso/arms, don't complete the arch. Just draw the arch until it gets to those lines and then stop. Add a tear drop slightly bellow her waist, but leave the top unconnected. Draw arches within the arches.

