 At most movie auditions, you will be asked to perform a monologue or two. This is your chance to display your flexibility an range as an actor. Choose monologues that fit your personality and acting style. Having at least 3 memorized at any given time will keep you prepared for potential casting calls; you never know when one might crop up.


Choose 3-4 monologues that are each distinct. Have a dramatic monologue, a comedic monologue, and so on. You'll want to show the casting director that you're capable of capturing more than one type of emotion or style.
Look through monologue books for unique monologues that you haven't heard before. Casting directors will be tired of hearing the same old choices hundreds of times.
Practice your monologues often, so you aren't rusty if you need to perform last minute.
Time your monologues and make sure they're all 2 minutes or less. Auditions are timed, and you'll get cut off if you go beyond 2 minutes or so.;
, Headshots are often what get you in the door at a casting call. Hire a photographer with plenty of experience making headshots, which are quite different from regular portraits. Headshots are designed to display your personality type and highlight the physical features that make you unique.


Ask people you know in your industry for recommendations. Headshot photographers can be quite expensive, so make sure you have the rate nailed down before you go in for a shoot.
When you're researching what photography studio to use, ask if a makeup artist will be available to work with you throughout the shoot. If not, it might be worth paying extra to hire someone to keep you looking fresh while your pictures are being taken.
 A demo reel is a compilation of clips from other film projects you have done. The clips should be careful selections from scenes that display your acting talent to best effect. You can use video editing software to make your own demo reel, or hire a video editor to create a professionally-polished reel. The entire reel should be no longer than 2-3 minutes.


The reel should be as easy to view as possible. Some casting directors will ask you to send an electronic file via email, while others will ask for a hard copy on DVD. Have your reel available in both formats.
If you've never been in a movie before, include clips from a play you've been in that was filmed. You can also include clips from student films.
In recent years some casting directors have been asking for clips that cater to the project at hand. For example, if you're auditioning to play a football team captain, try to send a clip that shows you playing a similar character.
Don't start your reel with an introduction or montage. It should begin with your name, then launch directly into the first scene.Don't save the best for last. Casting directors have a lot of reels to review. If yours doesn't start out with your strongest scenes, chances are they'll skip to the next person's reel.
 The easiest way to find auditions in your area is to do an online search. Backstage.comhas a comprehensive listing of auditions in various cities. You can also check the classifieds section in your local newspaper or check with classifieds on university websites for casting calls for student films.


New York City and Los Angeles have the highest concentration of casting calls, since both cities are big into the movie business. However, many smaller cities and towns have a thriving film community, and you're sure to find opportunities in your area if you know where to look. Check out arts blogs, alternative weekly newspapers, and other arts publications to find more information.
 You may be asked for a resume and cover letter in addition to your headshots and demo reel. You may be asked to bring these materials with you to the casting call or submit them beforehand. Either way, make sure the materials are formatted according to the casting director's specifications, and don't leave anything out. Making things less convenient for the casting director will definitely hurt your chances.
 You have your monologues ready to perform at any time, but you shouldn't treat each audition the same way. Think about the part for which you're auditioning and choose the monologues that best fit the role. If possible, memorize a new one before audition day arrives.


You should dress appropriately for the part as well. Don't arrive in full costume, but make yourself look like a believable version of the character you'll be playing. If you're auditioning to be a classy CEO businesswoman, don't show up in jeans and tennis shoes.
 In addition to performing one of your monologues, you'll probably also be asked to read a section of the script without getting the chance to look at it beforehand. Most casting calls include a description of the characters, so hopefully you'll already have a feel for how to get into character.

