 Although it hasn’t been approved for use in the United States, there is a type of laser therapy on the market that will permanently make your eyes blue. The treatment works by using a laser to burn out the top layer of melanin in your eyes, revealing blue iris’ underneath. As a result of being a relatively new treatment, there is no word on what the long-time health effects of it is. However, using a laser on your eyes under any circumstances can be dangerous, and should be avoided if at all possible.Because no long-term studies have been conducted, it’s hard to know if the melanin that was removed every returns later in life.
 A treatment originally developed for people suffering from serious eye problems, you can have a small silicon disc implanted over your iris to change the color of your eye. Almost like a permanent set of contact lenses, the colored disc will turn your eyes bright blue. However, there are serious downsides to the procedure: more than one person has gone blind as a result of seeking out the procedure for cosmetic reasons. Iris implants are typically only used on patients who are going blind or who have serious cataracts, and should be avoided for the sole purpose of changing your eye color.Iris implants aren’t available cosmetically inside the United States.
 Although this method hasn’t been scientifically proven, many people claim that cleansing their bowels has lead to a semi-permanent change in eye color. The theory is that when you change what you eat/drink and what your bowels take in, your hormones change, therefore altering the melanin production in your eyes. Talk to your doctor about finding a bowel cleanse that is healthy and safe based on your lifestyle.You should never do a bodily cleanse without first speaking to your physician about the possible outcomes.
Don’t drastically change your diet for the purpose of altering your eye color, as this could have other unintentional negative results.
 If you’ve ever looked at the eyes of someone who is quite old in age, you’ll notice that they all tend to be a milky blue-ish hue. That’s because as you age, your body doesn’t produce melanin as heavily as when you are young and in prime physical condition. As a result, eyes turn a dark blue color. If nothing else, waiting until you’re in the later years of your life will give you blue eyes that you otherwise might not have.

