 Backpacks are one of the most expensive school supplies you’ll need. As a result, purchase a backpack that has plenty of room and that you can grow into. If you buy a small backpack, you’ll likely have to upgrade to a larger one in the near future.


Pick a backpack that appeals to you, but is neutral enough so it won't go out of style.;
, While it might be tempting to buy cheaper school supplies to save money, you should focus on quality when purchasing items. Some quality brands and their products include:JanSport, North Face, and Patagonia backpacks. These backpacks could potentially last you the entire time you are in school.
Flair, Bic, and Sharpie pens.
Palomino, Dixon Ticonderoga, and General's Semi-Hex pencils.
 One of the best ways to prolong some school supplies is to purchase plastic ones. This is especially true with folders and dividers, since they’ll typically last a lot longer than paper or cardboard ones.Buy plastic dividers that you can relabel.
Use folders that are completely made of plastic. This way, paper or cardboard parts won’t break, forcing you to purchase new ones.
 One of the easiest ways to make your school supplies last is to use pens and pencils that are refillable. This way, instead of having to purchase new pens and pencils when they run out of ink or wear down, you can simply refill them with ink or graphite., Place your folders gently into your backpack instead of stuffing them in. This way, you won't damage them and anything else that is in your backpack. In the end, your folders, backpack, and other supplies will suffer less wear and tear.
 When it comes time to pack your backpack, don’t simply throw a pack of notebook paper into your backpack. Chances are that it will wind up bent and crinkled – and you might waste some paper. Instead, put your paper directly into a folder or binder., Instead of carrying all your supplies with you to school, take only what you need and keep all extras organized at home. This way, you’ll have what you need daily, but you won’t have too much to keep track of. In addition, if you lose your backpack, you won’t lose all of your supplies., Once you’re done using something, put it back where you got it. For instance, if you just used your highlighter, make sure to return it to your pencil bag or your backpack. If you don’t, it could get lost. This way, everything will be where it is supposed to be, and you’ll be less likely to lose something.Whenever you’re done using a pen or pencil, put it back into your pencil box or bag.
Put loose sheets of notebook paper back into your notebook instead of throwing them away or letting them get crumpled in your backpack.
 One of the biggest ways to ruin pens or markers is to leave tops off them. To avoid this, make sure to put tops back on pens and markers whenever you’re done with them. In addition, if you have a pushdown pen, make sure to push it back down when you’re done., Whenever you handle your supplies, be gentle with them. Ultimately, wear and tear is one of the most common ways that a lot of school supplies simply stop working. Try to be careful handling your supplies, and don’t abuse them.


Don’t throw your notebooks and binders around. They’ll wear out faster and you could break them.
Be careful where you put your backpack. If you want it to hold up for a long time, you need to make sure you don’t throw it onto the sidewalk or let it get walked on or rained on.
 Although your friends and schoolmates might ask to borrow supplies, sharing your supplies will lessen the amount of time they will last. Instead, tell your friends that you don’t have enough to share.


Be polite. For instance, say “Sorry, I don’t really have much to spare.”
Buy certain supplies to share. For example, buy a cheap pack of notebook paper to share with your friends. In addition, buy some inexpensive pens or pencils to lend to friends if they need one. This way, your quality supplies won’t get lost and will last longer.
 Use a label maker, masking tape, or other ways to put your name on your school supplies. If you don’t want to put your name on things, you could simply color code or make tags for important school supplies. This will help you recognize your school supplies if you lose them. Consider putting your name or a tag on the following:Pencil bags
Your backpack
Folders

