 After your kitten has been feed, hold the kitten so that your non-dominant hand is under its belly and its rear is facing you. Your grip needs to be gentle, but firm enough so that the kitten can't escape from your hand. Make sure that you stimulate the kitten in a warm room. Young kittens can become seriously ill or even die if they get chilled.;
, You will be using this washcloth to stimulate the kitten’s abdomen and anal region so that the kitten can poop. Mother cats give their babies a thorough tongue bath after each feeding, but a warm moistened washcloth can stand in for the mother cat’s tongue. A light-colored cloth is preferable, so that you can also see whether the kitten has urinated or not.


Use a washcloth that can be designated for pet purposes only. Do not use a washcloth that you use in the kitchen or for washing your face.
You can also use warm water moistened cotton balls or gauze to help a kitten poop., Using your thumb and fingers, gently massage the kitten's anal region through the cloth. Your thumb should be doing most of the work, acting like the mother cat's tongue when she licks her kittens' bottoms to make them go., If not, keep massaging the anal area. When the kitten starts to urinate, you will feel some added warmth to the hand that is massaging the kitten's bottom. Keep massaging until the flow of urine stops, then check to see if the kitten is about to poop.


This process should not take more than about 60 seconds. If your kitten is not pooping or peeing after feedings, then you should contact a veterinarian.
 Continue massaging and readjust the cloth as needed. Move the cloth now and then so that the feces does not get the kitten dirty. If you are using cotton balls or gauze, dispose of soiled materials and continue massaging with clean ones.


Keep in mind that it is normal for a kitten’s feces to be soft as long as they are drinking formula. Completely solid feces will not form until the kitten switches to solid food., After the kitten has finished defecating, give its bottom a good wipe to make sure it is clean. Then using a dry towel or another dry washcloth, dry the kitten's bottom as much as possible. Making sure that the kitten’s bottom is clean and dry will help prevent rash or infections.
 Place the kitten back with his/her litter-mates in the box or cage where you are keeping them/him/her. Repeat the anal massage process with each kitten you are caring for. Make sure that you use a fresh cloth for each kitten.
 If you used cotton balls or gauze, simply throw them away. If you used washcloths, wash them thoroughly afterwards. Your best option is to wash them in a washing machine on hot with detergent and bleach.


Do NOT keep the washcloths in their dirty state for the next time you need to make a kitten poop. Reusing dirty cloths may give your kitten an infection, which could pose a serious hazard to their health.
 Even though you are placing a washcloth between your hand and your kitten’s anus, that does not mean that urine and feces won’t get on your hands. Make sure that you wash your hands with antibacterial soap and warm water after you finish making a kitten poop.

