 Add 2 ½ cups (591 ml) of almond milk and 4 large eggs to a large bowl. Use a whisk to beat the ingredients together until they’re fully mixed.If you prefer, you can mix the tortilla batter in a stand mixer with the wire whisk attachment inserted.;
, Once the almond milk and eggs are mixed together, add 2 cups (244 g) of tapioca flour starch, ½ cup (56 g) of coconut flour, 1 tablespoon (14 g) of flaxseed meal, and ½ teaspoon (3 g) of salt. Whisk the ingredients together until they’re fully blended and the batter is smooth.You can purchase tapioca flour starch at most grocery stores.
If you prefer, you can substitute whole wheat flour for the tapioca flour starch.
You can find coconut flour at many grocery stores in the gluten-free foods section.
Flaxseed meal is just ground flaxseeds. You can purchase the meal at many grocery and health food stores, or make your own by grinding whole flaxseeds in a food processor or coffee grinder.
 After you’ve finished mixing the batter, let it sit on the counter for 1 to 2 minutes. That gives the coconut flour time to naturally thicken up the batter so it’s pourable but not as thin as water.Be careful not to let the batter sit for too long. You don’t want it to thicken up too much or you won’t be able to pour it into the pan to fry the tortillas.
 To fry the tortillas, you’ll need an 8-inch (20-cm) frying pan. Place it on the stove, and turn the heat to medium. Allow it to fully heat, which should take 3 to 5 minutes, before frying your tortillas.You may want to add a ½ teaspoon (2 ¼ g) of coconut oil to the pan to prevent the tortillas from sticking. If you’re using a non-stick skillet, it usually isn’t necessary.
If you want to make larger tortillas, use a pan that’s larger than 8-inches (20-cm). Your finished tortilla will be roughly the same size as the pan that you use.
 When your skillet is fully heated, use a measuring cup to scoop ½ cup (80 g) of the batter from the bowl. Add the batter to the center of the pan from the measuring cup.If you’re using a pan that’s larger than 8-inches (20-cm), you may want to add a little more than ½ cup (80 g) of batter so the tortillas aren’t too thin.
 As soon as you pour the batter into the center of the skillet, rotate your wrist to smoothly to tilt the pan and move the batter. The goal is to spread it so it covers the entire bottom of the pan.The batter should spread in a fairly thin, even layer throughout the pan.
 Once the batter is spread throughout the pan, allow it to cook on medium heat for 1 to 2 minutes until the tortilla is just set. You’ll know that it’s set when the edges of the tortilla begin to lift and curl., When the bottom of the tortilla is set, use a rubber spatula to carefully flip it over. Allow it to cook on the other side until it is golden brown, which should take 2 to 3 minutes.It helps to use as wide a spatula as possible because you’ll be able to support more of the tortilla so it’s less likely break as you flip it.
 After the bottom of the tortilla is golden brown, use the spatula to flip it over again to the first side. Let the tortilla cook for an additional 1 to 2 minutes or until the first side is golden brown too.Be careful not to cook the first side too long because it’s already partially cooked. If you leave it in the pan too long, it may burn.
 When the tortilla is golden brown on both sides, use the spatula to lift it out of the pan. Set it down on a wire cooling rack and allow it to cool completely, which should take 15 to 20 minutes., Once you’re finished with the first tortilla, continue the same process with the remaining batter. If you used oil to grease the pan, you’ll likely need to add more before you make each tortilla.This recipe should make approximately 12 8-inch (20-cm) tortillas.
Store the coconut tortillas in plastic zipper bags in the refrigerator. They should keep for up to 2 weeks.
You can also freeze the tortillas, so they’ll keep for up to 3 months.

