 Even after using technology and keeping frequent contact, it is sometimes needed to physically visit your clients or partners. Traveling to their location will not only aid in completing certain work tasks but will also allow for working relationships to grow stronger. A stronger working relationship can not only be beneficial in working together to complete current projects but can also be beneficial for an ongoing relationship with possible mutual benefits in the future.
 As mentioned previously, it is important to research different cultures before conducting business in other parts of the world. When researching differences between your culture and your business contacts it is important to recognize any differences in the following:


Gift Giving: Some cultures accept gifts as a good gesture, while others see it as a bribe.






Handshakes: Learn if it is appropriate to shake hands, whether there is an issue with opposite sex handshakes, who initiates the handshake, the length and the level of firmness.






Bowing: As opposed to handshakes, some cultures prefer to bow.






Kissing: In addition to shaking hands, some cultures kiss on the cheek.






Communication style: This includes preferences for both verbal and nonverbal communication.






Eye contact: Some cultures prefer eye contact while others find it intimidating.






Pre business practices: Some cultures will get right to businesses while others will make small talk first. #*Decision making: Some cultures like to take more time than others to make a decision and rarely will change their minds once a decision is made.






Contracts: Many cultures prefer a formal business contract, but others find a handshake and one’s word good enough.
 When visiting your business contacts around the world you should try to gain an understanding of where they come from and why they do the things they do. Understanding one’s background and culture makes working with a person much easier because you can anticipate and appreciate how one will react in a certain situation.


For example, if you are an American and are asked to travel to China where your business contact is located, you may wonder why you must travel all that way. Based on your research you know the Chinese value relationships but cannot understand why frequent conversations are not good enough.
Once you arrive and experience the Chinese business culture, you will gain a greater understanding of the importance of relationship building and why it is an integral prerequisite for your contact to do business with you.
 Every time you are exposed to a different culture, you gain valuable knowledge and experience that can help you work with additional clients or business partners in that area. Having this experience will allow you to market yourself as an experienced professional who has successfully worked around the world.

