 Usually if you share a link to the original work rather than copying and pasting, you won't be violating copyright laws by sharing it.On social media, providing a direct link to an article rather copying it or screen-capping it and posting it directly to your account is preferred to avoid copyright violations.
Many blogging platforms such as WordPress and Tumblr allow for you to reblog or "re-press" an article so that the author and original source remain intact.
This general rule applies not only in material you share with the general public, but also information you forward to fellow employees.
For example, if you read an article you think has application to your business, you may want to share its insights with your coworkers. To comply with copyright law, send them a link to the article (if you found it online).
If it was a print article, write a capsule summary, then tell them how to purchase the magazine or journal where you read it. You also might suggest that you have a copy if anyone wants to borrow it – but typing the article into an email, or scanning it and attaching it, generally is considered a violation of copyright law.
 If a copyright was registered after 1978, you can search the online database to find the name and contact information of the copyright owner.To access the Copyright Office's public catalog, go to http://cocatalog.loc.gov/cgi-bin/Pwebrecon.cgi?DB=local&PAGE=First.
You can search by title, the name of the copyright owner, or by keyword. Searching by name or title will provide the most narrow search results, but you should use a keyword search if you're not sure of the exact title or copyright owner.
You can narrow the results of your keyword search as much as possible by using Boolean operators such as "AND" or "NOT."Keep in mind that a creator doesn't need to register his or her copyright to have copyright protection – so just because you don't find anything in the Copyright Office's records doesn't mean you're off the hook in terms of getting permission to use the work.
 Generally you must get permission directly from the copyright owner to use his or her work.Once you find the copyright owner, send him or her a letter. Introduce yourself and describe the work you want to use and how you want to use it.
If you plan to use the work for internal purposes and don't anticipate any commercial gain as a result, be sure and highlight that.
For example, you might write: "I recently read your article on making effective use of social media and believe it would be extremely beneficial to my marketing team. I would like to make 20 copies of your article to distribute to my team for use as a reference during a presentation I'm making next month."
If you want to use the work for commercial or advertising purposes, be prepared to pay. There are no legal guidelines that control how much – or how little – a copyright owner can demand in return for the right to use his or her work.
Avoid putting forward an amount you'll be willing to pay to use the work. Some creators would be willing to let you use their work for free, but if you offer them money, they'll take it.
In your first contact with the copyright owner, you simply want to ask for permission. Let the copyright owner tell you if he or she expects to get paid, and you can negotiate a price from there.
 If you come to an agreement with the copyright owner, make sure you have it in writing to protect you from later questions or issues.If you've agreed to pay the copyright owner to use the work, make sure you have a written license before you send him or her the check.
Copyright law doesn't provide any requirements for a license – it's just like any other contract. The terms should be straightforward and can be written in plain language; there's no need for any formalities or specific legal language.

