 Whether you receive a kick-off or start with a snap, always aim to carry the ball as far as you can toward the opposite end zone. If you catch a kick-off, pass the ball to a teammate if they have a better chance of gaining more ground.Advance the ball as far as possible until you either reach the end zone and score a touchdown or are declared “down” enroute.When catching a kick-off, your entire body must be within bounds for the catch to count.The only exception is if you have to leap into the air to catch the ball, in which case one foot still must land within bounds. This rule is not universal, though, so have all sides agree to it before the start of the game if you wish to adopt it.
If you are unable to make it all the way to the end zone, you are “down” as soon as your opponents snatch one of your flags or force you out of bounds.
Although tackling is not permitted, you are still considered “down” if any part of your body other than your hands or feet comes into contact with the ground., Place the ball in the center of the field at the exact yard where it went “dead” (that is, the yard line where you were declared “down”). Assemble your team along your line of scrimmage. Position four players at the line of scrimmage itself, with the quarterback positioned behind whoever is playing center and snapping the ball to them.To be considered “at” the line of scrimmage, at least one part of your body (foot, upper torso, head, etc.) has to be within a yard of it.
Replace the flag that was snatched before you get into position. Starting a down with one less flag for your opponents to try for will automatically result in you being declared “down” again.
 Have the center pass the ball to the quarterback from between their legs in one fast, fluid motion. Until they do, the center must not shift their feet or raise their hands once they are in position. Be aware that any false start on the center’s part will result in a five-yard penalty, meaning that you will have to retreat five yards.No one is allowed to cross into the neutral zone until the ball has been snapped. Doing so will also result in a five-yard penalty.
Some rules dictate that all players must refrain from moving at all until the ball is snapped.Other rules allow players to move parallel to the line of scrimmage or farther back from it.
 Once the ball has been snapped, have the quarterback pass the ball to another player as they advance toward the end zone. Alternately, they can hand the ball off to another player behind the line of scrimmage, or they can run the ball themselves toward the end zone if no one is open. Be aware, however, that they are no longer allowed to pass the ball once they cross the line of scrimmage.Only one forward pass is permitted during one down.
A successful handoff to another player behind the line of scrimmage does not count as a forward pass, meaning this second player can then make a forward pass as long as they don’t cross the line of scrimmage.
You may make as many backward passes as necessary., Aim to gain at least ten yards in that time. Once you do, consider your next down your “first,” with four more chances to gain another ten yards. Keep advancing toward the opposite end zone in this manner.If you do not gain ten yards in four downs, surrender possession of the ball to your opponents, who may now start their own offensive run from your last line of scrimmage.
Once the line of scrimmage is within five yards of the end zone, you can only score by throwing a successful pass into the end zone, not by running the ball across the goal line.