 When your cat experiences a food allergy, medical intervention is often necessary. While at the vet’s office, your vet may advise you to put your cat on a hypoallergenic diet for a two to three week period to see if your cat’s allergies clear up.Hypoallergenic diets are very bland and limited in ingredients. If your cat seems to recover, switch your cat back to her regular diet for the next two weeks to see if the allergy symptoms return.
If symptoms do return, your cat needs to be returned to the hypoallergenic diet for good, or you can try feeding her another prescription diet.
 When your cat has allergies, it is frequently due to a protein component that your pet eats over a long period of time, such as turkey, pork, chicken or beef. Change the protein and you may resolve the problem.


However, this process does require a trial or test diet until you can pinpoint the exact protein that is at fault for your cat's discomfort. If you currently feed your cat a diet with chicken as the main protein, choose fish or another healthy meat to feed your cat.
If the new trial diet is not successful after two to three weeks, you consider feeding your cat a different protein for the next two to three weeks, until you find a protein that your cat can eat comfortably.
 When choosing a new food to help your cat with allergies, consider a choice with minimal ingredients. The first option should be a healthy protein, which should be different from the ones your cat has eaten previously.


Ensure that there is only one protein source in the food that you give your cat, or you will not be able to determine which product is affecting your pet. Also check to see that the food has no grains, fillers or by-products; these may cause your cat some discomfort.
Once you have introduced your cat to this new trial diet, keep her on the new food for at least 8 to 12 weeks, feeding your pet nothing else. If you see a positive change in your cat, continue to feed her this diet. If not, you may need to try a different novel protein food until you find one that provides satisfactory results.
 The diets you choose during this trial period should contain one good protein and one healthy carbohydrate, such as duck and peas, venison and potato, egg and rice or fish and potato.You can also find treats with the same components. Remember, the object of this trial period is to limit the number of ingredients your cat eats, so try to find treats that match the ingredients of your cat’s trial food. If you think your cat may be allergic to chicken, do not feed your cat chicken-based treats.
 You may also choose to feed your cat a home cooked diet. Preparing your cat’s food at home will give you the advantage of knowing exactly what your cat is eating.


To make your cat’s food, choose one healthy novel protein such as chicken or fish and a novel carbohydrate like potato or brown rice; these ingredients should be free of any chemicals the immune system might attack.
Contact your veterinarian for advice on where to find some of the best home cooked recipes for your cat. You can also run an online search.
 With a home cooked diet, your feline may need some nutritional supplements for a balanced diet. However, your vet may advise you to eliminate all supplements until the end of the trial diet, so contact the vet before giving your cat these supplements.


When appropriate, consider nutritional supplements that are often recommended in the veterinary field such as essential fatty acids; black currant oil, flaxseed oil, evening primrose oil and fish oils. These oils are usually administered at a dosage of about 200 mg daily.

