 Apple’s password reset site will walk you through the process of resetting your Apple ID (the new name for your iTunes account).


Open iforgot.apple.com in your web browser.
Type the email address you use to sign into iTunes (this is your Apple ID).
Click “Continue.”

, There are several ways you can verify you're the owner of the account. The options that appear will vary depending on your account security options:Get an email - You'll receive an email at your primary or rescue email address. Your primary address is usually the one you used to create your Apple ID, though you may have changed it later. Click the link in the email you receive to reset your password. It may take a few minutes for the email to appear, and if you're using Gmail it may get filtered into the "Updates" tab.

Answer security questions - Selecting this option will prompt you to answer two security questions you created when you made your account. If you don't remember the answers to these questions, you can get them reset only if you have a rescue email address associated with your Apple ID. After answering the questions, you'll create a new password.

Confirm your number - This option appears if you have two-factor authentication enabled for your account and have a trusted device associated. You'll be prompted to enter your confirmed mobile number to verify it. A notification will appear on your trusted iOS device. Tap "Allow" and then enter your device passcode to reset your Apple ID password.

Enter recovery key - This option only appears if you have two-step verification enabled for your account. You'll be prompted to enter your recovery key, which was created when you enabled two-step verification. You'll then receive a code on your trusted device, which you also enabled when setting up two-step verification. Once you enter the code, you can reset your password. If you've lost your recovery key and you don't know your password, you're locked out of your account., Enter a new password twice to confirm it.


Your new password will take effect immediately, and you will be logged out on any of your connected devices. You'll need to log back in with your new password.
Consider writing your password down in a safe location, such as your home office, so that you can refer to it in a pinch.

