 Kyouya is a very hard working and ambitious guy. He knows what he wants and he does his best to prove to his family that he is worth to take over the family business even if he is the younger brother and therefore he has fewer chances than his older brothers. So if you want to achieve something do your very best and use every resource you have. For instance, if you want to be a lawyer or a doctor, try to have top grades in school so you can enroll in a good college or university. Also, try to meet and make friends with people who might help you.;
, If something surprises you, act like you already knew about it. Don’t overreact. Never show your weaknesses.
 Kyouya is not always nice to commoners, but he is in good terms with most of the people he knows. That's why he can get help and information when he needs it. So even if you don't like someone, make sure you smile politely and leave a good impression.
 Being the son of a very powerful business owner, Kyouya obviously has more money than you have, but he knows how to manage them and he also takes care of the host club finances. So even if you only have your allowance and your pocket money, try not to spend them on useless things. Make sure you always have some savings, because you never know when you might need them.
 Try to be in good terms with people from whom you might get information. Reading newspapers and watching the news on television are good sources for information on current events, as well as websites on the Internet (Kyouya is often seen with his laptop).The things you might find out will also help you with your general knowledge, which is very important.
 Kyouya is in a top school and he always achieves top grades. So try to do your best in school, and make sure you get mostly A's and B's because your grades might be pretty important for your future, depending on what job you want to have.
 Kyouya is one of the best looking guys in his school, and he certainly knows that looks are very helpful. So make sure you always do your best to look neat and well dressed.
 Kyouya is sometimes able to even read people's thoughts by watching their actions in different situations, but is very hard for people to guess what he is thinking, so try to do the same. You will also seem mysterious.
 You will need to know this, because like the step above, It helps you get a read on others and like Kyouya, always have the upper hand on others if need be. Do not abuse the power it gives you.

