 You could make a onesie bouquet from a random assortment of onesies in different colors and patterns, but if you want to make your gift or centerpiece look more impressive, you should choose a color scheme and build the bouquet around that.


The most common color schemes revolve around the gender of the baby: blue for boy, pink for girl.
If you do not know the gender or if you otherwise want a gender neutral option, consider colors like yellow, green, orange, red, or white.
You could also pick a color scheme based on the baby's parents rather than on the baby. For instance, if the parents are both big fans of a certain sports team, you could arrange a onesie bouquet using that team's colors.;
, Bouquets come in different shapes and arrangements. Some onesie bouquets would make great gifts to an expecting parent but may not make great decorations for a baby shower. Ask yourself how you plan to present the onesie bouquet and choose a design or arrangement pattern based on that.


This article contains basic instructions on three different bouquet designs: the bundle of joy, traditional bouquet, and vase or basket bouquet. The bundle of joy and traditional bouquets are great to use when presenting the bouquet as a gift, while the vase or basket bouquet is better served as a decoration.
 The number of onesie flowers you need will determine how full or large your final bouquet is. A small bouquet will look adequately full with as few as three onesie flowers, while a larger bouquet may need a dozen onesie flowers.
 Spread the onesie out onto your working surface. Use your hands to smooth out any wrinkles.


The onesie can be in any size, but understand that larger onesies will produce larger flowers.
 Fold the sides of the onesie in toward the center, bringing the sleeves together. Then, fold the onesie in half lengthwise, creating a narrow strip of cloth.
 Start from the bottom end and carefully roll the cloth around itself, moving toward the neck.Note that one side will likely look better than the other. The neat side is the top, while the lumpy side should be the bottom.
 Use a rubber band, small piece of yarn, or small length of string. Tie it around the newly created flower bud to prevent the cloth from unrolling.


For a cute, baby-themed twist, pin the buds closed using a large diaper pin. Just make sure that the pins you use are in good shape and that any colored portions of the pin coordinate with the color scheme of your overall bouquet.
 Take a short dowel rod or popsicle stick and carefully insert it into the rolled up center of the onesie flower bud.


Slide the stick to the approximate halfway point of the inside flower bud. The exact stopping point does not matter, but the stick should be far enough into the roll to keep it in place but not so far that you can see it sticking out through the top of the roll.
 Use this same technique to roll up as many onesie flowers as you need for your bouquet.


If desired, you can mix and match onesie sizes to create various sizes of flowers. For a more uniform bouquet, though, stick to one size for all your flowers.
 Lay a square receiving blanket upside-down on a flat surface. Fold it diagonally in half, bringing one corner up to meet the opposite corner.


Note that the right side of the blanket should face out once you make the fold.
If the blanket is not a perfect square, you will not be able to create a perfect triangle. Should this happen, simply fold in the excess strip of material left behind after you make your triangle fold. Do not fold it back and behind the blanket. Folding it in toward you is best because doing so will make it easier to eventually wrap and hide the excess material beneath the onesie flowers.
Turn the blanket after you fold it. Rotate the triangle so that the long folded edge is now on the bottom. The open point of the triangle should be at the top.
 Use a rubber band to tie the onesie flowers into a secure bundle. They should be about even in height at this point.


You could also opt for a piece of ribbon, yard, twine, or thick thread.
 Place the onesie bundle on top of the receiving blanket so that the bottom of the stems stop just short of the bottom fold of the blanket. Bring the two side corners up and over the stems, tightly tucking them beneath the stems on the opposite sides.


Essentially, you are wrapping the two bottom corners of the blanket triangle around the stems, similar to the way you might tuck the corners of a blanket around a newborn baby.
This hides the stems and creates a cute wrapping around the bouquet, like the paper wrappings around a bouquet of real flowers.
 If some of the back flowers are hidden behind some of the front, carefully wiggle the back flowers up a little higher so that they are easier to spot from the front of the bouquet.


Never push any of the flowers further down, however, since doing so might cause the stems to poke out from the bottom of the bouquet.
 Use a coordinating satin ribbon and tie it around the blanket wrapping once. Finish the whole thing off by tying a bow with the same piece of ribbon.
 With the flowers neatly arranged into your desired pattern, tie the stems together with a rubber band or thick yarn.


You may also try using hot glue or tape to hold the stems together if the ties are not sufficient.






Usually, five to eight onesie flowers should be enough.
 Find or make small ribbon flowers. Look for empty spaces in between your onesie flowers, and carefully insert these ribbon flowers into the majority of those spaces.


If the ribbon flowers threaten to fall out, dot the bottom tip of the stems with hot glue before inserting the flowers back into the bouquet. Make sure that the stems of the ribbon flowers touch the stems of the onesie flowers so that the glue actually has something to stick to.
 Use large fake leaves that are at least as tall as the onesie flowers, if not larger. Arrange them around the flower portion of the bouquet so that they frame the onesie flowers and mask the sides of the bouquet.


Glue the leaves to the flower stems. Avoid gluing them to the onesies since removing the glue from the onesies later can prove difficult.
 Select a pretty satin ribbon that matches the color scheme of your bouquet. Apply a dab of hot glue to one end and stick this end to the bottom of your bouquet stems. Gradually wind the length of the ribbon around the bouquet handle, completely cover the stems in the process. Secure the ribbon with another dot of hot glue just below the bottom of the onesie flowers.


For an even better final result, use the same ribbon and tie a bow around the top of the handle after you finish wrapping it.
 Fold one to four. These will line your vase, hiding the flower "stems" and giving those stems something to stick into. The exact number you need will vary depending on how large your vase is.


A standard bouquet vase will need about two blankets. A short basket or box may only need one blanket. A large vase might need three to four.
To fold each blanket:

Lay the blanket face down on your working surface.
Fold the blanket in half, bringing the bottom to the top. Note that the right side of the blanket should now be facing you.
Fold the blanket in half in the same manner to create a thick strip, then once more to create a skinnier strip.
Fold the blanket in half from side to side.
 Use one folded receiving blanket to line the sides of the vase. If there is excess material, bring it into the inside of the container and either continue wrapping it around the perimeter or bunch it up in the center.


After lining the vase with your first blanket, step back and take a look. If both the sides and bottom are covered, you can stop here.
On the other hand, if the sides are covered but the bottom is not, take a second folded blanket and arrange it in the bottom of the basket. You can wind the blanket around or fold it accordion-style to create ridges along the bottom of the vase. Either way, you should have enough bunched up fabric to help hold the flower "stems" in place.
If you vase is somewhat tall, you might need to stack a second receiving blanket on top of the first so that the sides are completely covered.
 Place the baby onesie flowers in the vase. Stick the wooden stems into the layered blanket folds at the bottom of the container, wedging them in to prevent them from falling or moving around.


Note that your first few flowers will likely feel a little loose, even if they are secure inside the blanket layer. As you fill your bouquet with more onesie flowers and additional accents, though, they should start to feel steadier.
 The bouquet can consist of nothing but onesie flowers, but if you want to give your creation a little more pizazz, slide a few fake flowers and fake greenery in between the onesies. Arrange them according to your own sense of taste.


You could also consider tying a ribbon around the base of the vase or the handle of the basket.
