 Active listening is an essential part of settling an argument. Listening with your full undivided attention lets the other person know that you care. Some things you can do to show that you are listening include:Putting away all distractions, such as cell phones, laptops, and tablets.
Facing the person and making eye contact.
Summarizing or restating what the other person has to say to see if you have it right. For example, you can say, “So you’re saying that slamming the door didn’t mean you were angry?”
Asking questions if something is unclear. For example, you might say something like, “I’m sorry. I don’t understand what you meant when you said that I should have known you were upset.”

, Starting sentences with “you” can cause the other person to feel attacked and this may put him or her on the defensive. Instead, try to start all of your statements with “I” to keep the focus on your perspective and avoid making accusations.For example, you might say something like, “I really like the idea of using pastel colors in the baby’s room,” rather than saying, “Your color choices for the baby’s room are all too bright!”

, While you may feel like the other person is in the wrong, it is often necessary to admit any part you played to settle the argument. Sometimes this isn’t a direct action. Your responsibility in the matter might be as simple as forgetting to express a need or want or a miscommunication.For example, if your spouse forgot to pay a bill, consider whether you played a role in that as well. Do you usually pay the bill? Do you usually remind your spouse to pay it? Is paying the bill late really that big of a deal?
To acknowledge your role in a conflict, you might say something like, “I know that I usually remind you to pay this bill and I didn’t this month. I guess we both have some responsibility in this situation.”

, Blame tends to exacerbate conflict. While you may well be "right" about some parts of the argument, it doesn't help the relationship to fixate on blame. Instead, try to use compassion, and remember your role in the conflict.For example, if you are upset with your spouse for forgetting to pay a bill, then you might consider whether your spouse would get as angry at you in the same situation. How would that make you feel? How would you want to be treated instead?

