 One way to demonstrate that you are mature is to participate in household tasks without being asked to do so. This demonstrates maturity by showing your parents that you have selfless qualities and that you want to help out.For example, if your parents often ask you to load the dishwasher after dinner, don’t wait for them to ask. Just start doing it as soon as you finish eating your dinner. Seeing you take the initiative will make your parents see that you are mature enough to know what is expected of you and to do it without having to be told.
Going above and beyond your normal responsibilities is another good way to help your parents see you as a mature person. For example, if your mother normally does your laundry for you, start doing your own laundry.
 Having your own money to save and spend is another great way to demonstrate maturity.By taking on a full or even just a part time job you will be earning money that is yours to spend as you like. Maintaining a job over a long period of time is another great way to show that you are responsible and mature, so try to maintain the same job for as long as you can.Good money habits also demonstrate maturity, so do your best to save most of the money that you earn. Avoid making impulse purchases or spending money on things that your parents might consider wasteful.
However, if there is something that you want and you have saved enough money to purchase it without depleting all of your savings, go ahead and buy it for yourself. Your parents will be impressed that you worked hard and saved for something that you wanted instead of asking them to get it for you.
 Waking up early is a good way to demonstrate responsibility and maturity. People who wake up early also tend to be more productive.Try to wake up around the same time as your parents do and do something productive right away. Work on a project for school, go for a run, or help out with household chores.


Get into the habit of setting a daily alarm and waking up as soon as it goes off. Otherwise, your parents may have to wake you up and that may cause them to perceive you as irresponsible.
 Eating healthy, exercising, getting plenty of rest, and demonstrating an overall interest in your physical well-being is another great way to show your parents that you are mature. Some other ways that you can take good care of yourself include:


staying drug-freeshowering every day
wearing nice clothing
getting regular haircuts
brushing and flossing your teeth twice daily

