 The sebum that clogs up your pores and can cause irritation in rosacea is an oil. The best substance for dissolving oils (and dirt, cell debris, dirt, bacteria, etc.) is another oil. We are so used to thinking that oils are bad for the skin. This makes many people forget that the skin has natural oils to protect and moisturize it. As a result, we may use cleansers with (often) irritating chemicals.Choose your primary oil from a list of non-comedogenic oils. Non-comedogenic means that the pores won’t be blocked.Some of these oils are more expensive than others, and some may be easier to find than others. The most non-comedogenic according to the American Academy of Dermatology) with a rating of 0 or 1 out of a possible 5 are:
Hemp seed oil (0)
Mineral oil (0)
Shea butter (0)
Sunflower oil (0)
Castor oil (1): Castor oil can be moisturizing for some people, but it can be drying for others.;
, Make sure your skin reacts well to the oil cleanser that you choose. Test it on a small patch of skin first and wait a day. If your skin condition worsens, stop using this cleanser and try a different one.


Avoid cleansers that might trigger allergic reactions. For example, if you have a nut allergy, don’t use hazelnut oil.
 For oil cleansing, pour a small amount of oil into the palm of your hand. Gently massage the oil onto your face for two minutes, using small, circular motions.


Use this method twice a day and after heavy sweating.
You can add essential oils to your oil if you choose. Add one to two drops of essential oil for every ½ cup of oil. Some scents to choose from include:
Oat
Chamomile
Lavender

, Use a washcloth soaked in warm water and apply the washcloth to your face. Let it stay on your face for about 20 seconds. This helps the oil absorb into your skin.
 Use the warm damp washcloth to slowly and gently wipe off the oil from your skin. Rinse the washcloth in warm water and repeat until you have wiped all the oil off your face.
 Use a cotton towel to gently dry your face. Do not rub your skin, since this may irritate your face.
 Once your skin is clean and dry, moisturize it with an oil-based moisturizer. It doesn’t need to be the same type of oil that you use in your cleanser. But if you notice that your skin is improving with the oil-based cleanser, try a moisturizer made of the same oil.
 If your rosacea affects your skin anywhere else on your body, use the same basic approach as you use for your face. Apply oil, allow it to get absorbed and rinse off with warm water. Apply an oil-based moisturizer over your entire body.
 Protecting the skin also involves protecting yourself from the sun and heat. Use a sunblock if you are going to be spending extended time in the sun. This is usually more than 15 minutes in full sun. Be sure to limit your time in the sun.


If your skin is too sensitive for chemical sunscreen (most conventional sunscreens), consider trying a physical sunscreen. This type of sunscreen contains ingredients that actually help reflect the sun's rays from your skin. Look for a sunscreen with zinc oxide or titanium dioxide. You might also try a natural sunscreen, such as retinyl palmitate (a form of Vitamin A), vitamin E, or beta carotene., Rosacea can get worse in hot temperatures, so keep cool! You can make a cool compress by soaking a clean cotton towel with plain cool water. Press this gently to your skin to help decrease redness.

