 No one looks good with a double chin. To make it less likely you will have a double chin in photos, stretch your neck out, and push your face forward slightly in the photo.To do this, stick your chin and then tilt your head forward. This should reduce the chances you end up with a double chin in photos, as it creates a slimming effect.Imagine that there is a string pulling your nose up to create a more refined jaw line.;
, We’ve all been there. The second the camera clicks, you blink, ruining the photo! There is a strategy you can use to reduce the chances this will occur.


Asking the photographer to count to three before he or she takes the photograph will help you time this right.Close your eyes fully right before the photo is taken. Open them slowly, just before the camera clicks.
 It’s a good idea to make your eyes the focal point of any photo. The more you highlight the eyes, the better many people will consider the photo. Defining your cheeks can make a big difference too.


If you are female, use mascara on your eye lashes, and curl them, or apply false eyelashes. This will open up your eyes and dramatize them.
Filling in your eyebrows with a slightly darker brow pencil will also emphasize your eyes. Remember that people’s features often look lighter in pictures than they do in real life. Apply your makeup in natural light, though, to make sure it looks good and also use primer.To highlight the cheekbones, apply blush and bronzer. Put the blush on the apple of your cheek, and put the bronzer around the outside of your face as well as on your cheekbones., People are attracted to radiant smiles. It makes them feel better, and so they are more likely to respond positively to your photograph.


To make your smile more natural, take a deep breath, and exhale right before the photo. Keep your jaw open, and make sure not to clench it so you look more relaxed.You can also put your tongue behind your teeth when you smile to increase the natural look.Get someone to tell you a joke, and then have the photographer snap your reaction.