 For entry into France, your passport must be valid for at least 90 days after your date of departure.


You will most likely be required to pay a fee and turn in an application with a picture and ID.
You may be able to apply for an expedited passport that may take approximately 2 weeks to receive, but will cost more money.;
, Residents of the United States and Mexico do not need a visa if they plan to stay less than 90 days.


Some European citizens may need a Visa C or "Schengen Visa." Citizens of many countries outside of Europe may need to make an appointment with the local consulate to apply for a visa.
 Although these are not strictly required for France in particular, influenza, chickenpox, polio, measles/mumps/rubella and diphtheria/pertussis/tetanus should be current before visiting another country. If you are unsure, consult your doctor or medical records.
 Although France's medical system is nationalized and friendly to visitors, it is a good idea to be sure you have coverage in other countries and during your travel.
, Check the Eurail, Rail Europe and Rail France websites 6 months ahead of time to see if you can qualify for discounts on certain dates or for buying advance tickets.
 Foreign languages are widely spoken in Paris, but if you want to go outside of Paris, simple phrases are important to avoid getting lost. Buy a French phrase book to bring along on your trip.
 Most of France uses 220 to 230 volts, but occasionally some plugs run on 110 to 115 volts. Buy a universal converter that will work on both plugs.
 Check with your cell phone company to see if they offer service and to find out their rates. You can get a French phone chip to put in your current phone, buy calling codes in your home country, or buy calling cards when you get to France.
 France is often considered an expensive country to visit, so be prepared.


You can easily get the rest of your money by using an ATM card with a pin number. You will get the current exchange rate on the day of your transaction.
It is a good idea not to avoid keeping more than 200 euros on your person, unless you are expecting a larger purchase, in case of theft.
 Many credit and debit card companies will cancel or suspend cards that are being used outside of your country.
 If you lose your passport or are the victim of a crime, they will be able to help you.
 Paris has its share of pick-pockets, like all cities and tourist attractions. Avoid flashing money or merchandise to avoid being a target.
,,, Include a light rain jacket and layers. Also leave space for the lovely clothes and accessories you'll buy in Paris to bring back home.


Choose good walking shoes. Paris will tempt you to walk long distances. Throw in some daintier shoes for dinners and shows but rely heavily on those walking shoes to keep your feet comfortable during the day.
 Keep it in the original bottles. It can also be useful to have a doctor's letter if you have any concerns about being questioned over the medication.
 While you might have an "app" for that, a phrase book can be invaluable for those moments when you forgot to charge the phone or for ease of finding the right phrase quickly. It's also less likely to be a thief-magnet.
 A smartphone, a camera, a tablet, etc. can all come in handy while traveling.

