 The faster you apply the drops, the easier it will be, especially if you have a distressed or squirming child. Make sure that you have within reach the medicine, tissues, and washcloths, as well as any pillows or towels you will be using to prop up the child’s head., Children can be easily distracted. Since you will want them to keep their gaze steady while you apply medicine, make sure that there are no distractions in the room. This means that the television should not be on, nor should there be any nearby activity that will catch their gaze., If your child is old enough to talk, explain in simple terms that you will be putting medicine in their eye. Tell them that while it may sting or feel cold at first, it will help them feel better afterwards. Warn them that their vision will be blurry, and discourage them from touching their eye afterwards., If you show them ahead of time that the medicine is safe and harmless, they will not fight as much while you apply the eye drops. You can reduce their anxiety by placing a drop on the back of their hand. While you do this, point to your eye, and tell them that you will be quickly dropping it there., Using a harmless eye lubricant, you can show them what will happen by applying eye drops to yourself. Using the applicator, tip your head back and put one drop into your eye. Blink. The calmer you are while doing this, the calmer your child will be as you do it to them.Do not use your child’s medicine for this purpose. Use a drugstore eye drop, particularly one designed for hydrating dry eyes.
 Promise your child a treat if they are able to take the eye drops well. Inform them that they must sit still, and they cannot cry. You should give them a small reward, such as a piece of candy., If you have eye drops that are kept in the refrigerator, you should remove the bottle beforehand so that it can come to room temperature. To quicken this process, you can roll the bottle between your hands until it is warm., The best way to prevent the spread of disease is to wash your hands before and after you give your child medicine. This is especially important with eye diseases, which are very infectious. Wash your hands with warm water and soap before drying them completely on a clean towel.You can also wear gloves while applying the medicine to be extra cautious. You should still wash your hands before putting on the gloves.
 If your child has crusty or gooey buildup around the eye, you will first need to clean this area. Wet a cotton ball or clean washcloth. Gently wipe the eye from the nose outward. Use separate cloths for each eye to prevent reinfection. Wash your hands after finishing.