 Especially if you have children, you may neglect yourself during your divorce. You may be too worried about helping your children or other family members understand the divorce to think about yourself; however, it is important that you make time to care for yourself.Find time to do something that you find enjoyable, whatever that may be. If you really like going to the movies, then do that. If you like to paint, then paint. If you want to get a massage, then do that. It’s important to find a bit of happiness during this time.
If you don’t have much time or money, don’t worry. Making time for yourself can be as simple as making yourself a good cup of coffee or taking a relaxing bath.
 It’s important to understand that a divorce is a loss, and the feelings may be similar to those you might feel when someone close to you dies. Allow yourself to grieve the loss of this relationship instead of thinking you have to stuff the emotions down.Remember that going through the grieving process, no matter how difficult, is important for healing and moving on.
You may experience a range of emotions that range from denial and anger to sadness and acceptance. Don’t beat yourself down for feeling any of these emotions as they are simply a part of the process of grieving.Allow yourself to feel these feelings and process them however you need to. For example, you might simply want to lay in bed and cry, or you might want to write down everything you’re feeling in a journal, or you might talk about how you’re feeling with someone you trust., Talking about your divorce and your feelings about it with a trained professional can be an excellent way to get through the divorce. It may feel weird at first to talk with a stranger about such an intimate topic, but therapists are trained to help you deal with difficult emotions.One big advantage of talking to a therapist is that you are talking with someone who is trained to be objective about the situation, and who is also outside the situation. Talking with friends and family members is good too, but these people will have a more difficult time being objective because they may know your ex, and have their own opinions about the divorce.
A therapist may also be able to help you find ways to communicate with your ex effectively.
 In addition to seeing a professional, talking with family and friends that you trust can be very helpful. People who have strong support systems are typically better able to deal with difficult situations.You can also look for a local or online support group where you can listen to the stories of others, and ask for advice from fellow divorcees.
Some people feel like they have to give you their opinions and advice in order to show that they are interested in what you are saying. If all you want to do is get it out, then say that. Most people will be happy to simply listen and say, “I understand.”
If you don’t feel comfortable talking with anyone about your emotions, then at least try to spend some time writing about how you feel. It is important that you get the emotions out somehow.
 If you have the time and money, treat yourself to a spa day or a vacation. If you don’t, then just let yourself off of the hook for a day or two. This doesn’t mean you should neglect your children or not show up to work without telling anyone, but you can give yourself a little break from all of the responsibilities you normally worry about.For example, if you have a few extra vacation days, then consider taking them to just relax and do something you enjoy.
If you are normally very strict with yourself about eating healthy and going to gym, then allow yourself to forget about it for a day or two. Eat what you want and be lazy. In general, these things will help you move on, but giving yourself a little break can feel like a treat.
 After you let yourself go just a little bit, try to re-commit yourself to something good. This can be whatever you want it to be, but try to choose something that will be beneficial for your well-being. Finding the positive aspects of your divorce will help you find happiness again.For example, if you love animals, you could start volunteering your spare time at a local shelter. If you enjoy art, you could take a class in painting or sculpting. If exercise helps you work off stress, then consider joining a gym.

