 The bag should be lightweight and easy to carry. It is helpful to have a bag that can be carried as a backpack, or as a shoulder bag depending on the circumstances. However, backpacks tend to be easier on your shoulders and back when you expect to be walking with your bag for any significant amount of time. It is also handy if it has wheels (but these have their pros and cons, which we'll address at the end of this article). It is quite common to have to walk long distances, climb stairs and have to do many things at once, all while you have your bag with you.
 Check the weather report, so that you know what type of clothing to bring with you. For example, if the weather is going to be warm, then there is no need to bring a heavy jacket. If it is going to be sunny, then bring a hat, etc.
 This does not have to be monochromatic or boring. Rather, it suggests a minimalist approach to fashion. One skirt and a single pair of trousers can be matched with a t-shirt, a fancy blouse or a tank top to make six different outfits--plenty of clothes for a week journey. You can get fancy with a scarf, bandanna, hat or other uniquely "you" wardrobe piece. Also, be sure you have appropriate clothing for area you are visiting, and for holy sites if necessary. If done right, you might be able to get away with one load of laundry rather than 'darks' and 'lights'.
 This is so that you can get through at least half of your journey's time without doing laundry, up to 5 days time. After that, you will have to do laundry anyway. This also goes for socks, if you will be wearing those daily. And, bring laundry supplies, if you are planning on doing laundry. (Note: just put enough dry detergent in a resealable plastic bag for as many loads as you plan to do--don't bring the whole box.). Alternatively, if you are not moving much you can pack 3 days worth and regularly sink-wash them, allowing about a day for them to dry.


Clothing, another alternative : 3-4 sets of clothes, including the one you are wearing, is more than enough. Do your laundry once every 2 days. If you wait too long, you will end up having to do a huge load of laundry, which is quite a discouraging prospect after a long tiring day out sightseeing. Some people do their laundry every day since the effort is minimal for just 1 change of clothing.
 Bring at least two pairs of shoes that you can walk in comfortably. In the event that one pair gets wet, or your feet hurt unexpectedly, you will be incredibly grateful that you have that extra pair of shoes. You can wear one and carry the other. I also suggest bringing a fun or fancy pair of shoes, in case you want to go someplace like a club, a fancy dinner, or the opera. You never know who you may meet!


Shoes, another alternative: Instead of 2 pairs of shoes (as above), wear just 1 pair of waterproof, dark hiking shoes. Short of a river crossing by foot, they won't get wet, they are incredibly durable, and are extremely comfortable. Best of all, you won't be carrying an extra kilo of weight and sacrificing the big space taken up by another pair of shoes in your luggage. If you really want to travel extra light, extra shoes are not the way to go. This goes for most things (except clothes) when traveling light: bring 1 really good quality item that will not fail you, and save the space/weight of spare items.
 Put items inside of other items, like those Russian nesting dolls. Roll clothes into small rolls to reduce wrinkling. Make a proper usage of the space you have, and try being creative about it!

, Pack your dry toiletries in the same bag, and your liquid and gel toiletries in another same bag. If you are going to be flying, then your liquid and gel toiletries must fit into a 1 quart/liter-size clear resealable plastic bag, and none of the bottles can be more than 3 oz.
 If you have special supplies or equipment that you need to have with you, invest in high quality travel versions that fit into a smaller bag. Another alternative is to have these items sent ahead of you to your hotel or home stay where you can meet them later. This sometimes takes a bit of planning, but it is much easier than carting items around with you.
 Keep your hand lotion, water, sunglasses, ear plugs, snacks, lipstick (or chapstick), toothbrush, floss, hairbrush/comb, a change of underwear, pen, sticky notes, and any special medicines and necessary items you need in the top of your bag or in a separate hand bag, because you never know what may happen when you travel. Do not carry all your valuables in this bag (e.g., camera, computer, jewelry, etc.). If its stolen, you won't lose all your valuables at once.
 Keep your ID, money, credit cards, in a security pouch. Keep some small currency in your pocket for little purchases (rather than pulling out everything each time). Carry photocopies of your ID, visas, and credit cards with you but in a separate compartment from the real ones (the idea being that if you lose one, you still have the other). Copies can also be scanned and kept on a USB thumb drive (possibly encrypted). Consider 'buddy packing' where your travel partner keeps your important photocopies and you keep theirs.
 You should consider if you want your bag or suitcase to have wheels or not. They take up lots of precious packing space and add weigh to your bag. But they are also useful at maneuvering through airports and making loads feel lighter.


Be aware that, in most cities, luggage with wheels are of limited use due to the large numbers of stairways, uneven roads, sidewalk/pavements/curbs, and cobblestone streets (in Europe), etc. They can also get in the way when you are taking public transportation.
If you decide to take a trip out into the countryside, wheels are pretty much useless, because of the terrain.
An alternative is to get a lightweight, strong backpack, and ditch the wheels completely. Since you will be traveling light anyway, you will probably not miss the wheels but will appreciate the freedom of walking in any terrain, as long as you can carry the weight.
,