 One of the most obvious signs of feline urinary tract disease is an increased frequency of urination.When you are at home, make a note of how often your cat is going to her litter box and compare it to her normal frequency. If she is going more often when you are at home, you can be confident that the frequency is also increased when you are not there.;
, In addition to increased frequency, how your cat urinates will indicate urinary disease. For example, you may hear her whine or cry out when urinating, due to pain.She may also squat for a long time, trying to urinate.The straining would be due to a blockage of the urethra, which is the structure carrying urine from the bladder and out of the body. Your cat may feel the urge to urinate frequently, but will not be able to urinate much, or at all.
Urethral blockage is a medical emergency, particularly in male cats. If left untreated, a cat can suffer serious organ damage, and may even die from the condition.Your cat may also squat if she is trying to defecate. If your cat becomes vocal when squatting, it is probably because she can’t urinate.
 With urinary tract disease, your cat may not want to go to her litter box anymore. She may prefer a cool and smooth surface, such as a tile floor or bathtub, on which to urinate.This different surface may help her feel better, at least temporarily.


Your cat’s urinary tract disease may cause her to lose her bladder control and drip urine, which would lead to her urinating elsewhere. She may also have developed a fear of the litter box, if she associates it with painful urination.
Do not punish her if she is urinating outside of her litter box.
 If your cat manages to urinate, look at her urine. Blood is commonly seen in the urine of cats with urinary tract disease. The urine may look cloudy, which would indicate an infection. In addition, the urine may have a very strong ammonia odor.
 Unsurprisingly, your cat will probably start acting differently if she has a urinary tract disease. For example, she may be more irritable because of the pain.She may direct this irritability toward you and/or your other pets. In addition, she will groom her genital area excessively.The constant pain and strain may leave your cat feeling very tired. She may also start drinking more water.
Urinary tract disease will make your cat’s abdomen feel painful, so she will probably not want you picking her up or touching her abdomen.Upper urinary tract disease can cause back pain, so you may see your cat walking more slowly and gingerly, or not at all., If your cat is experiencing any urination problems, make an appointment with your veterinarian right away. Urinary tract disease can quickly become a serious medical problem, so you do not want to delay getting your cat diagnosed and treated. When you call your veterinarian’s office, provide as much detail as you can about your cat’s urination behavior (e.g., how long it’s been going on, level of pain).


If your cat is having trouble urinating, poisonous wastes in the urine can accumulate in her body and make her very sick., In addition to a physical exam, several other tests are available to diagnose urinary tract disease in cats: urinalysis, urine culture, bloodwork, and imaging (x-rays and abdominal ultrasound). Because lower urinary tract disease in particular can have many causes (e.g., urinary stones, cancer), your veterinarian may need to run several tests to rule out other causes of your cat’s urination problems.For the urinalysis, your veterinarian will test the urine’s pH and look for the presence of blood, stones, and white blood cells.He or she will also look for ‘casts,’ which are clumps of dead cells from the kidney that would indicate kidney disease.If white blood cells are present, your veterinarian may want to also perform a urine culture to see what types of bacteria are in the urine.
Bloodwork can provide a good indication of your cat’s overall health and indicate kidney disease.
Imaging can be helpful if your veterinarian suspects stones or some type of blockage within the urinary tract. For example, x-rays or ultrasound could show a tumor mass in the bladder (very rare) or stones in the kidney or bladder., After making a diagnosis, your veterinarian will put together a treatment plan. There are many available treatment options (e.g., antibiotics, dietary changes, surgical removal of stones), so your veterinarian will choose the combination of treatments that will most effectively treat your cat’s urinary tract disease. Do not hesitate to ask your veterinarian any questions you may have about your cat’s treatment.


Other potential treatments include pain medication, anti-inflammatory medication, and stress reduction.Be aware that what works for one cat may not work for another.If the initial treatment is not working well for your cat, talk to your veterinarian so he or she can come up with another treatment approach.
 Urinary tract disease, particularly kidney and bladder stones, can recur after initial treatment.Several specially formulated therapeutic diets (e.g., Hills C/D Multicare, Royal Canin Urinary SO) are available that can both treat and prevent feline urinary tract disease. Purchase the diet through your veterinarian—pet store foods that claim to aid in the prevention of urinary tract disease may not be as effective as veterinarian-prescribed therapeutic diets.Your veterinarian will recommend which diet will be best for your cat.
Switch your cat’s diet gradually by slowly increasing the amount of new food versus old food until she is eating 100% new food. A sudden change could upset her digestive system and be stressful to her.
Urinary diets add acid to your cat’s urine to prevent stone formation. Do not supplement your cat’s diet with urine acidifiers—they can damage your cat’s kidneys and cause an imbalance in her body’s minerals., A limitless supply of fresh water will encourage your cat to drink more.You can also encourage her to drink more by giving her water with a syringe or feeding her more wet food.Consider increasing the number of water bowls around your home or purchasing a cat fountain to encourage more drinking., A clean litter box will encourage your cat to urinate more frequently.Scoop out the dirty litter each day. Be aware that, even though her litter box will be clean, your cat may continue to have a negative association with the litter box.Encourage her to start using her litter box again by using comfortable litter and giving her privacy. Do not use treats to entice her—she will not want to eat where she uses the bathroom., Stress can contribute to urinary tract disease development, so it will be important for you to minimize your cat’s stress as much as you can. For example, maintain her daily routine with as few changes as possible. In addition, spend more quality time with her (e.g., playing, petting) and give her toys and scratching posts to keep her busy. Also, consider spraying a cat pheromone in your home, which will have a calming effect on your cat.Pheromones are available at your local pet store.
If you have a multi-cat household, make sure each cat has her own litter box.Place the litter boxes far enough away from each other so that one cat cannot block access to them.If your cat’s stress or anxiety is especially bad, your veterinarian may prescribe an anti-anxiety medication for her., This is particularly important if your cat was treated for kidney or bladder stones. Your veterinarian may want to test your cat’s urine for the presence of urinary tract disease. He or she will recommend how often your cat’s urine should be tested.