 You should have a conversation with the child’s guardian where you tell them that you want a relationship with your child. Explain why you should be a part of your child’s life. Tell the guardian that your child should be the top priority for both of you, and a child needs their parent in their life.If you have had problems in the past, such as substance abuse, criminal troubles, or other problems, let the guardian know how you have stopped these destructive behaviors or the steps you have taken to get help.
 One way to make sure you connect to your child when you don’t have custody is to stay on good terms with their guardian. Try not to fight with the guardian, or talk badly about them in front of your child. Remember, your first goal is always your child. Try to put away your hard feelings for the sake of your child.Your ex might have custody of your child, or it might be a family member or someone else. No matter how you feel or how angry you get, try to keep that anger in check. Getting angry, yelling, and putting your frustration towards the guardian may make it so you can’t see your child.
Depending on your past behavior, you may have to prove yourself to the guardian or demonstrate that you are responsible. Don’t get angry if this happens. Remember, they have your child’s best interest in mind.
 Your child’s guardian may place certain restrictions on the time you can spend with your child. Though this may upset you, there is nothing you can do about it. The child’s guardian has custody, so they get to dictate what happens to the child. Try to accept the terms the guardian puts on the time you spend with your child.


Remember, the important thing is not to fight with the guardian, but to spend time with your child.
By accepting the guardian’s terms gracefully, you may show them that you are trustworthy enough to eventually spend more time with the child.
 Let the guardian know how much you want to see your child. If they have severely limited the amount of time, ask for more time. Offer to come to their house. Tell the guardian that you want to connect to your child and be a part of their life.Make sure that you request instead of demand. By saying things like, “What if I…” or “Could we…”, you can avoid unnecessary conflicts.
Remind the guardian how important it is for the child to have their parents in their life. Your child needs you, even if you don’t have custody.
Make sure your actions reflect your words. Don’t give the guardian any reason not to let you see your child, like not showing up for scheduled time or participating in destructive behavior.
 If you and your child’s guardian cannot resolve your differences and come to any acceptable terms, you should suggest going to counseling. A professional might be able to help you with conflict resolution and figure out a solution that is good for everyone involved.You can try to find a family counselor or ask your lawyer for suggestions about mediation help.
 When you are spending time with your child, they may miss or have a hard time being away from their guardian. If they miss their other parent, or have trouble going to sleep without saying goodnight to their guardian, don’t get upset or offended. Instead, support your child and empathize with them. This can help a stronger bond grow between the two of you.Children sometimes have trouble adjusting to change or a disruption of their routine. If they are spending the weekend at your house once a month, they may love spending time with you but still miss their home.
Telling your child you understand their feelings and that it’s okay to feel that way can help you connect to your child. Getting jealous or angry may push them away.
 Often, one parent may feel jealous or threatened if the child loves or enjoys being with their guardian. This may be the other parent, a stepparent, or someone else. Be happy that your child has good relationships with their guardians and you. Encourage them to talk about their experiences with their guardian. This will help you connect with your child because they will feel like they can share things with you.Your child will also find comfort in the fact that you are happy about things they are happy about.
Getting mad because they like their guardian can make your child feel confused or guilty. It may damage your relationship with them.
 If you are having trouble getting access to see your child, don’t give up. Keep the goal of being part of your child’s life in your mind. Continue trying to talk to the guardians and proving why you should be part of your child’s life. It may take years, but staying committed to your child can pay off at the end.