 Visit a gallery or museum. Try a few times day to stop and look for something nice in your environment. In the evening before going to bed, try to remember at least one thing you've experienced, heard, seen, read, said, or done that was beautiful.;
, Walk down a street that you've never gone down. Buy some snack foods, candy or other food that you haven't tried before. Try to find out more about the people you see every day about whom you don't know very much.
 Avoid telling lies, even those "small" lies that you think can not harm anyone. Think about your most important values and every day do something that is consistent with them. When you explain your motives or ideas, do so in an honest and courteous manner.
 Your fear might hinder you from doing something you like. Wear a piece of clothing that you like that you never had the courage to wear before ... and enjoy! Stand by someone who is in danger or need of help, even if it isn't popular.
 Sign up for classes in photography, painting, writing, or sculpture. Find something in the house and use it for a different purpose than how it is normally used. This is called re-purposing. Send your friend a song or video that you recently posted.
 Try to learn every day and use new words regularly. Ask a question why, and look into the answer for yourself and others. You can learn a lot of interesting things this way. At the end of the day, at bedtime, remember three things you learned that day. You could call it your "Learning Journal."

, Do something for the people you care about, bearing in mind things that they enjoy. Write a message to the people you love and allow them to find it. Accept a compliment without the discomfort and learn to say thanks.
 Make at least one person laugh each day. Learn a joke and tell it to your friends. Try to be able to laugh at yourself.
 Wear your wrist watch on the other hand, just to change it up. Make a list of things that you always do the same way and write down how you did one of those things in a different way

, Select a thing and be aware of how it helps you in life and you'll be grateful (umbrella, public transport, lift, pencil ...). Select the person for whose presence you're grateful in your life and find a way to express your gratitude. Make a "gratitude journal" - before going to bed at night write down three things you were grateful for that day.
 Select a task that you haven't fully completed to your satisfaction and keep working at it. Try Step 9 and do the task in a slightly different way than you have before.
 Start your day with your favorite music. Surround yourself with people you like. Make yourself tea, coffee or hot chocolate, sit in your favorite corner in the home, turn off your mobile phone and enjoy.
 Think of someone in public transport or on the street and try to imagine the life of that person. When you are annoyed at someone else's behavior, try to stop and think about why these people behave this way. Think of a situation where you were hurt and someone expressed sympathy for you. This can you give some ideas about how to have compassion for others.
 Give yourself credit for something you've tried to do, even if you failed. Consider whether it is everything you expect of yourself really important to achieve? Make a list of things you have to do, things that would be good to do and things that are not required to do. Give yourself more room to rest.
 Create a plan for the next week - at least one thing you want to achieve. Make a list of obstacles that might prevent you to achieve that plan. For every obstacle, come up to be able to prevent it.
 Remember the people from whom you have learned a lot. Think about some of the sayings you've heard or read and that you were inspired. Watch the people around you today and choose something from one's behavior as you and you can implement in your life.
 Do something for others that you do not profit from. Remember the people from their environment that are precious. Give someone something.
 Do something that is delayed. Support a positive action by the second run. Sit in peace and relaxed for several minutes, creating a space to come into contact with them. Sometimes activity appear to be random and the actions we lose power.
 Watch your favorite chair, the salt you like to drink, shelf on which there are books that you love to read, a decoration in a place where you live, a pen that you love to write, socks that let your feet warm.... and to enjoy what you have, no matter how trivial these things!

, Try it in something that annoys you, find what is positive. There's always something to find!

, Take a few minutes a day to feel a connection to life energy that flows through you.

