 Make classes that make sense by getting rid of tactical mask immediately. Try Ninja to protect yourself from from turtle beach users or hacker so you can run and gun without worrying about claymores. Or if you are really die hard, go for tactical mask pro for immunity from flash's. Also try the "supposedly bad" guns like the Enfield, m14, pm63, RPK, Uzi etc. with different attachments as they can completely change the feel and abilities of the gun along with some good perks # Choose your playing style. Don't camp or use noob tubes. You'll become dependent on these things and you'll end up sucking when you try playing like a normal player.;
, If you liked the mp5k, stick with that until you get the AK-47. If you liked the m16, then the FAMAS is a great gun. The Enfield is frustrating because it doesn't do a lot of damage. Buy the hardline perk. It's extremely useful for beginners.
 If you're feeling the spy plane isn't becoming useful and you want to improve your KD like most new players than buy the RX-XD. It's very cheap to buy and is very useful. With hardline it only requires 2 kills and can get multiple kills.
 Start out playing regular matches. Then play wager matches on the ante up setting. That way you can get good at wager matches without the risk of losing money. Once you feel comfortable start wager matches on weekend gambler. Hopefully you've tried every wager match a few times. Choose the one your best and start gambling. If you're not great at any but still want to play, go with sticks and stones. It can be won just through sheer luck. Remember have fun wager matches are some of the most fun parts of black ops.
 Set the difficulty to recruit and boom. You have every single unlock in the game from killstreaks to guns. You can just destroy the cpu's and gain awesome killstreaks that are normally hard like attack dogs or gunship. You pretty much just fight computers who are horrible and own. You can make any class you want.
 Anyone one has every tried using a suppressed weapon has seen no influence in MAXIMUM distance of bullet travel but instead the amount of bullets it takes to kill someone from far away will increase and for most submachine guns the minimal hits required for a kill are also increase by one

