 Social media has made the world a smaller place, making people like celebrities who were previously inaccessible to us much more so. It also benefits celebrities to have followers because the more fans they have, the more endorsements they get and products they sell. It also influences their pay scale and opportunities for more work. The two primary sites for connecting with your idol are Facebook and Twitter.With Facebook, you can follow someone even if you are not “friends,” as long as the person has made his or her profile available to the public. For many high-profile public figures, Facebook verifies the person is who he or she claims to be, placing a blue badge, or check mark, next to the person's name.With Twitter, you can follow whomever you want. However, you cannot directly message someone who does not also follow you, nor will your tweets appear in the other person’s feed.Finally, while you cannot “follow” your idol on LinkedIn, you can “connect” with other LinkedIn members by sending them requests.;
, If you’re able to post comments, based upon how the person has set up his or her account, comment upon what you like about his or her work, how it inspires you, ways in which you may have used it for charitable purposes and the like. Avoid overdoing it. You should not post multiple times per day, let alone multiple times per week. That begins to look like stalking and will not get you what you want – contact with your idol. You could also find yourself blocked.If your posting(s) goes unnoticed or if it takes a long time to get a response, don’t get upset. Celebrities are inundated with requests for their time, along with messages and a steady stream of social media chatter.
And never leave a snarky remark in response to feeling rejected or for any other reason. Doing so will drastically decrease your chances of meeting your idol.
Additionally, keep in mind that while some celebrities work on all aspects of their social media sites themselves, others do not. Instead, they hire agencies to do this for them., This is another way to get on your idol’s radar. Again, you want to be thoughtful in your replies. Demonstrate that you’re not only articulate but that you also know about what you’re writing. Opinions are great, but opinions backed by facts, including references to things demonstrating to your idol you’ve been a longtime fan, are better. Also consider sharing something you’ve created that relates to what your idol is discussing.On Facebook, you simply comment on the person’s post if public comments are allowed. On Twitter, you can reply to your idol’s tweet; however, replies will not show up on his or her home timeline if your idol doesn’t follow you., One way to get your idol to notice you, and hopefully to respond, is by sharing their messages and content, particularly those they ask fans to share. For example, if your idol asks followers to repost or retweet information pertaining to his or her favorite charity, an upcoming performance or event, a personal statement contradicting tabloid rumors or a statement supporting another in the industry, do so., Send your idol a message a) explaining who you are and b) either asking him or her a question or explaining why you’d like to talk or meet. Be polite and professional. Don’t start off by telling your idol how you’re his or her biggest fan ever or that you’ve listened to every album ever recorded. A lot of people have. You need to stand out, and to do that you should do the opposite of what most fans do when writing letters and messaging their idols. In other words, don’t gush, blabber, use too many exclamation points, include hearts or other emoticons, express your undying devotion and love, etc.


Write to your idol politely, in a clear and concise manner and using a standard letter format. Quickly get to the point, which is to either ask a question or explain why you want to talk or meet. Next give your idol a compelling reason to want to respond.Except under certain circumstances (he’s your professor or there are serious time constraints, for example), it could be in your best interests to start a dialog before diving right in and asking to meet your idol first.
You might consider creating a video or slideshow instead of a letter, as long as it is short, professional and to the point. Skip the singing and dancing.
Don’t be afraid to contact your idol again in a few weeks. Remember, he or she is likely a very busy person. When doing so, begin by referring back to your previous message and include it below the second.

