
Click on the Advanced Tab.
In the Performance Area, click the Settings Button.
Click on the Visual Effects Tab.
Check the Adjust for best performance radio button.
 A background image takes some resources, though minimal.
 Do this after step one. You can also simply repeat it through the Control Panel, to which it's added after installation.



Go to Start in the task bar (bottom left).

Control Panel (in Classic View) -> Display -> Appearance.
In the field Windows and buttons choose Windows Classic style and in the field Font size put Large.
 Right-click on it, go to Properties and check Auto-hide.


Control Panel (in Classic View) -> Power Options.
First activate Hibernation. Then go to the Advanced tab. Put the following settings: Close lid = Do nothing , power button = Ask me what to do , sleep button = hibernate.
Hibernate only if you have the disk space available. Remember the file is approximately equal to the amount of system RAM.
 Prevent a website from using a font that is smaller than what you are able to read. The browsers Mozilla, Opera, and Safari provide this option through the configuration settings.


In Mozilla go to the Tools menu, then Options -> Content -> Fonts & Colors -> Advanced and adjust the field Minimum font size (recommended is a font size of 13 or 14 pixel on a 9" screen).
In Opera it's almost similar. Go to the Tools menu, then Preferences -> Advanced -> Fonts and adjust the field Minimum font size.
In Chrome go to the Tools menu, then Options -> Change font and language settings -> Under the Hood and adjust the numeric part in the font fields.
In Safari go to the Modify menu, then Preferences -> Advanced and adjust the field Never use font sizes smaller than.



Go to the View menu, then Toolbars -> Customize.
In the Menu bar there's an outlined rectangle between the Help menu and the throbber. It's known as a flexible space. Click-and-drag that flexible space from the Menu bar into the toolbar palette. When you do so, the throbber will jump leftwards to cuddle up near the Help menu.
Drag the Bookmarks Toolbar Items in the main window onto the Menu bar, placing it between the Help menu and the throbber, then click Done in the toolbar palette box.
Go back to the View menu, then Toolbars and uncheck Bookmarks Toolbar. This closes the now-empty bookmarks toolbar.
 From the last one use the buttons Hide/Show Toolbars, Toggle Minimum Font Size, Toggle Menu Bar and whatever other buttons are useful for you.
 This works in all popular browsers. In some browsers, the scroll-zoom function results in a page zoom of all content, in others it affects only the text., Just press F11 to toggle to Full Screen. This works in all latest browsers.

