 Many people are naturally introverted, and simply need time to recharge after social interaction. If you suffer from depression or social anxiety, however, you may consider seeking help.


Introversion is perfectly normal. Introverted personality types tend to draw their mental energy from being alone, whereas extroverted personality types tend to draw their energy from time spent with people. Give yourself time and space. Do what you need to do in order to feel balanced.
If you aren't sure whether you're introverted, or you'd like to explore your personality further, consider taking a personality test like the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator.Be aware that while personality tests may give you insight into yourself, they may not give you the whole picture.
Social anxiety disorder, or social phobia, can lead people suffer from extreme shyness and fear social interactions like meeting new people, speaking to others, or social events. This fear may focus on being judged or scrutinized by others about how you look, what you say, or what you assume people are thinking about you. If you think that you might be suffering from an anxiety disorder, consider speaking with a counselor or therapist.
Depression is characterized by a sad, hopeless mood, along with a loss of interest or pleasure in things that usually interest you. Many people with depression wind up withdrawing from friends, family, and loved ones, but support form these loved ones can be one of the best ways to bounce back from depression. If you feel that you're suffering from depression, tell someone--a friend, a family member, anyone close to you. Consider seeking help from a professional counselor or therapist.;
, The best way to avoid people is to stay home. There are people outside, so don't go outside.


Read a book or watch a movie. Explore the Internet. Play a game. Do whatever strikes your fancy.
Consider turning your phone off, or putting it on "silent". Turn off Internet-based chat apps like Facebook Chat, Skype, or Google Messenger.
Bear in mind that this may not be a long-term solution for you. Staying home for a day is one thing; staying home for a week or a month is entirely another.
 If you must go out, you can give off certain attitudes and social cues which will deter people from approaching you.


Don't make eye contact. It is said that the eyes are the windows to the soul. Eye contact can be a social cue that you want to interact with someone: it initiates connection and establishes mutual awareness. Look at your phone, at a book, at the world around you, or at your feet--just not into anyone's eyes!
Wear headphones or earbuds. Listen to music, listen to podcasts, or just wear headphones to deter people. Whether you're riding the train, walking down a street, or sitting in a park, people may be more hesitant to approach you if you have headphones in.
Read. Stick your nose into a book, a newspaper, a Kindle or an iPad. Absorb yourself in what you're reading, and people may be hesitant to disturb you.
 If you want to avoid people, go where there are no people.


Consider going camping for a weekend. Get away from the hustle and bustle of life in a populated area. Make sure to do your research and properly prepare for the trip.
Visit a county, state, or national park. Check your area for open space preserves, national forest, and wilderness areas. Go for a long hike, or just sit and take in the silence. Be sure to secure any appropriate permits and heed the park rules.
Be aware that you may encounter people even in wilderness areas. There are billions of people swarming this planet, and it's going to be very difficult to avoid all of them. If you do encounter another person in the wild: be polite, say hello, and they continue along your way.

