 Fresh yeast refers to yeast stored in a slightly moist, packed together form, which keeps it active but cannot preserve it for nearly as long as modern dry yeast packing methods. Be aware that fresh yeast likely won't survive freezing, and only lasts one or two weeks at room temperature, or one to three months at most in the refrigerator.If it has become hard or turned dark brown, it is likely not usable. You may still test it by blooming to be sure, but it's wise to purchase additional backup yeast in advance so you do not have to interrupt your baking.



Note: fresh yeast is also known as cake yeast, wet yeast, or compressed yeast.Never confuse liquid brewer's yeast with fresh baker's yeast. Only use baker's yeast (in any form) for baking.
 Measure out 1/4 cup (60 mL) of a liquid called for in the recipe you plan to follow. You may use more if you need a lot of yeast, but make sure to note down how much you use so you can deduct this amount of liquid from the recipe.


For example, if a recipe calls for 1 cup (240 mL) milk, and you use 1/4 cup (60 mL) milk to bloom the yeast, only add 3/4 cup (180 mL) milk in addition to the yeast mixture.
 Warm the liquid slightly, to between 80-90ºF (27 – 32ºC), which is the temperature that encourages maximum yeast activity.Fresh yeast is already active, not dormant like some dry yeast, so there is no need to warm the liquid further to "wake the yeast up."


This temperature is only slightly warm. Steam or a skin forming on the milk means the liquid is far too hot and may kill the yeast.
Because fresh yeast contains moisture already, you do not technically need additional water. Water is recommended in most cases, since room temperature may not be warm enough for the yeast to bloom. However, if the room is warm, you may simply mash together sugar and yeast., Yeast feeds on almost any type of sugar, so mix in a small amount of white sugar, brown sugar, or anything natural and sweet. Artificial sweeteners cannot be used for blooming any type of yeast.
 Gently stir in an amount of fresh yeast called for by the recipe. Because fresh yeast contains some liquid ingredients as well as yeast, you will need to adjust the amount used if the recipe calls for a different type of yeast:If the recipe calls for active dry yeast, use twice as much fresh yeast as the amount listed.
If the recipe calls for instant yeast, use 2.5 times as much fresh yeast.
 If foam or bubbles form within 5 or 10 minutes, the yeast is alive and active, and the mixture can be added when the recipe calls for yeast. Otherwise, assuming the liquid wasn't too hot or cold, the yeast is likely dead and should be thrown away.


Because fresh yeast is kept active, it will likely not take as long to bloom as dry yeast.

