 Before you start your candy cane Christmas ornament, get everything together that you will need to complete the project. You will need:A ball of red yarn and a ball of white yarn (Caron Simply Soft is a good choice).
A size H (size 8) hook.
A pair of scissors.
A darning needle.
 To start your candy cane, you will need to create a chain of 40 stitches. This may seem like it will result in a large candy cane, but your final result will be small enough to hang on a Christmas tree.You will need a coil of red and a coil of white yarn, but you can create these one at a time. Start with the white or red and then do the other coil after you finish the first.
 After you have your 40 stitches, you will need to count back to the fourth stitch from the one that is currently on your hook. Insert your needle through this loop and then wrap your yarn over the hook and pull the yarn through both loops.Then, chain three loops and repeat the double crochet stitch on the next stich.
 Then, move to the next loop, and continue to chain three and double crochet down to the bottom of the chain. As you do this, the stitches will form a coil. You do not have to do anything but continue to double crochet and this coiling effect will happen.After you finish your first coil, pick up your other ball of yarn and create the second coil.
 To create the candy cane stripe effect, you will need to intertwine the coils you have just created. Carefully line up the ends and then swirl one coil around the other. The coils should fit together easily.The coils will form a candy cane shape when you hang them on the tree by the part of the coils that will be the curve of the candy cane. Try shaping the cane into the position that you want it to be in when you hang it on the tree.
 To hold the coils together and create a loop to hang them on your tree at the same time, take a 6” to 8” piece of yarn and tie the ends in a knot. Then, use the hook of your crochet needle to pull the loop through the top of the curved part of your candy cane.Pull the loop through itself to secure it. Then, hang your candy cane ornament on a Christmas tree!

