 Toddlers that are overtired will get irritated quickly when things are not happening as they think they should. Although this can sometimes be marked up as a toddler temper tantrum, it is usually due to exhaustion when it occurs along with the other signs listed here.


For example, a toddler that normally enjoys putting together simple puzzles might get frustrated or angry when they can’t get a piece to fit. Instead of calmly asking for help or signaling for an aid, the toddler might scream or throw the puzzle.;
, Overtired children become clingy and seek every second of your attention. If your child is usually clingy, this sign may be more difficult notice, but if he or she is not, this could be one of the signs that your child needs a rest.
 When you notice that your child is screaming and whining more than normal, this is an indication of fatigue. Lack of sleep and fatigue lead to impatience and nervousness in children. Many children who are overtired become stressed and emotionally temperamental.
 Some children may go a bit crazy when they are too tired. They may ignore their parents, be loud, hit, spit, bite, yell "no" to each question, and become selfish. If you notice that your child is acting like this, it does not necessarily mean that they are trying to be rude and nasty. Perhaps they are just too tired and need some rest.
 Tantrums are a very common manifestation of fatigue in children. They may cry, scream, and throw things on the floor if something is not the way they want. If the tantrums occur in the evening, it is a sure sign that the child is too tired.
 If you notice your child frequently cries about little things, he or she is probably overtired. The lack of rest makes children very sensitive, and they may cry over small incidents.
 Once an overtired child starts whining about something, it is very difficult to soothe and comfort him or her. They actually do not know why they're crying, and when they start it is hard to stop, because the crying is originating from a source that they do not understand.

