 Most places have regulations protecting the mother’s right to pump milk while at work. Understand your local laws. If your employers refuses you a sanitary place to pump your milk, report the violation to your department of labor. This will encourage other employers to provide women the proper facilities to pump.


In the US, employers are required to provide a sanitary pumping room for mothers. This does not include a bathroom. Lactation rooms must be a private room with an outlet. Employers must allow mothers breaks to pump their milk.In the UK, you should provide written notification to your employer before you return to work that you intend to breastfed. While your employer is not legally obligated to provide you a separate space for pumping, they do have to allow you to rest and take breaks.In Australia, it is against the law to discriminate against breastfeeding mothers. While laws vary from state to state, you may be able to prove discrimination if your employer does not provide a sanitary space or adequate breaks for breastfeeding.In Canada, employers must accommodate breastfeeding mothers by providing a private space for pumping milk, adequate breaks, and alternative work arrangements., The best way to spread awareness of breastfeeding is to show others that breastfeeding is a normal, natural thing. You can do this by breastfeeding in public. While some might judge you for this, it perfectly legal in most English-speaking countries. The more you do it, the more normal and accepted it will become.More and more stores are offering sanitary areas for breastfeeding. You can ask a store if they have a nursing area for mothers.
If you are out at the park or playground, you can breastfeed your baby there. It is not illegal for a woman to breastfeed in open, public places.
In general, employees do not have the right to forbid you to breastfeed in stores.You should double-check your local laws to see if you are able to breastfeed in a private establishment, such as a store or restaurant.
 Breastfeeding USA offers accreditation to mothers who want to become consultants to other mothers. They may offer one-on-one lactation sessions or hold group support meetings. To apply, you must be a member of the organization and have breastfed for at least one year., If you are struggling with breastfeeding or if you want to connect with other likeminded supporters of breastfeeding, you can find a local breastfeeding group. These groups help support women with infants. They also work to educate people on maternal health and lobby the government for mother’s rights. Even if you are not a breastfeeding mother, you may want to contact these groups to see how you can help.


La Leche League International offers groups across the world. You can search their website for information on locating a group near you.Breastfeeding USA can connect Americans with local breastfeeding counselors and support groups.The Australian Breastfeeding Association offers programs across Australia to help connect mothers and advocates.Your local hospital may offer its own support groups led by a lactation consultant.

