 Although foreigners may use travelers cheques or U.S Dollars, trading becomes much easier when paying in South African Rands. This can be done easily at your convenience at any one of the many international and domestic airports.Many foreign exchange banks are also available at the major city centers. Ask for advice at the information desk, if you encounter any difficulties. Most hotels and holiday inns will accept credit cards or any international travel card.;
, Most hotels will provide you with a reputable taxi and tour guide to show you around the city and other interesting places one can visit. One can also use the city bus services, provided you carry a map and know where you intend on going. It is simple to ask for directions since most people will communicate in the English medium.
 South Africa has many miles of sandy sea shores that extends into many of the provinces. This shoreline starts from the Atlantic Ocean in the Cape and extends into the warm Indian Ocean that resides on the West side of the coastline. The exotic beaches and the warm sun indulges the luxuries of 5 star hospitality or self catering facilities, depending on your budget and preferences.
 The ethnic diversity of the country is an enchanting source of interest and mystery. Depending on where to choose to stay, the people are of a varied mix. You will most likely encounter the different race groups all living and working together as one.
 The far interior and extreme north is sprawled with scattered mountain territory and valley of a thousand hills. The natural game parks and Eco-villages/parks are also situated in the interior of the country. The big 5, Rhino, lions, buffalo, Giraffe etc can be seen in abundance at any of the nature reserves.
 South Africa experiences a cold and chilly Winter from late April to the first week in August. Temperatures in the interior and the Cape can range between 3-5 degrees at night and increases to around 10-11 degrees during the Day. The mountain winds can be icy in the Cape province so be sure to dress warmly when visiting in the Winter. Areas along the north of the country, such as Durban places that extend further north experience much warmer weather and the Winter is quite warm. Be sure to dress appropriately in order to make your stay comfortable.
 Food and drinks range from fresh fruit cocktails to best brewed white and red wines. The cuisine differs from truly ethnic to Oriental or English dishes prepared by the locals. All types of foods are available as this will once again depend on your eating preferences.
 These gardens host a splendor of indigenous trees and flowers endemic to the South African Climate and conditions. Experience the calm and tranquility amidst this natural beauty and awe. These gardens can be easily accessed by taxi or public transport. Coffee shops and finger lunches are also available within the confines of the gardens that are available at an affordable price.
 South African Airways is a member of the star alliance group, giving you credit on your travel miles. However most other airlines travel daily to and from South Africa's major international airports. These include Air Emirates, Etihad Airlines ( Abu Dhabi ), Egypt Air, Ethiopian Airlines, Air France and an option of many other airlines that travel regularly into the country.

