 Don't make and take your spa when you have something important coming up. You want to have a few hours' time in which you can relax. Be sure to have everything ready and on hand before you start your spa, so that you don't have to interrupt your experience.


You don't have to do everything listed in this section. Choose items that appeal the most to you.;
, If it's been a while since you last cleaned your bathroom, give it a quick clean and hide any clutter from sight. If your bathtub looks grimy, give it a good scrub. Part of what makes spas look and feel so luxurious is how sparkling clean they are. A clean bathroom will also make your spa experience more enjoyable.While you are cleaning, turn off any electronics and other distractions. The one exception to this, of course, would be your music player!, A quick and simple way to do this is to stick your towels into the dryer for a few minutes; you can also leave them out in the hot sun for an hour or two. Once the towels are nice and toasty, set them down some place where they'll be easy to grab. This will give that final, luxurious touch to your spa.


If you have a bathrobe, warm it up, and have it nearby as well.
 Choose things like Zen music, nature sounds, instrumental, or classical music. Some channels on popular video and music-sharing websites (such as YouTube) have spa music play lists. Choose an extra-long play list, so that you don't have to get up and restart it.Even if you like fast, up-beat music, you might want to save those for a different day.
 They don't have to be scented, although a nice fragrance will certainly help! If you are hesitant about lighting candles in your bathroom, get some battery-operated ones—just be careful not to get them wet, or they will short-circuit. You could also plug in some Christmas lights; they will be just enough to cast a soft, dim light in your bathroom, but they won't be so bright as to distract you.If you don't like candles, you can also use incense, wax melts, or oil diffusers.
 Things like facemasks and foot soaks often take a while to do their "magic," and not all bathrooms have a comfortable place to sit. Unless your bathroom has a comfy bench or chair, find a quiet spot in your room, and add some more candles and soft music., Some of the more expensive spas will often serve up refreshments, such as candy or drinks. It does not have to be anything fancy: lemon-water, herbal tea, or champagne are commonly served in spas.Keep food simple and to a minimum. Small candies, chocolates, grapes, nuts, or sliced strawberries would be ideal., This will help open up your pores, and make things like masks and lotions more effective. It will also help create a more spa-like atmosphere., You don't have to do everything that is listed here. Instead, pick the items that you have time for, need, or that appeal to you.
 This is great if you don't have much time. It will also help you relax. Fill a large bowl with hot water. If you want to get fancy, add a few drops of your favorite essential oil, a handful of fragrant herbs, or a couple of tea bags. Lean over the bowl, then cover your head with a towel to trap the steam. Sit down some place comfortable, and relax for about 10 minutes. After that, pour the water out, and follow up with your favorite scrub, mask, and/or lotion., You can use a store-bought scrub, or you can make your own using some sugar and oil. Apply the scrub in small, circular motions, then rinse it off with warm water. If you are using a body scrub, consider rinsing it off in the shower; this way, you don't have to dirty up the bath water for your soak!, Your hair needs just as much attention as your skin. You can use a store-bought hair mask, or you can whip up your own. Apply it to damp hair, then tuck your hair up under a shower cap. Wrap a warm towel around your hair to further the experience.Consider multitasking! Relax in your tub while the hair mask is working. Most hair masks need to be left on for at least 30 minutes.
 Fill your tub with warm water, then add your choice of bath salts, bubbles, bath fizzies, or essential oils. Slip into the tub, lean back against the wall, and relax for 15 to 20 minutes. You can use homemade or store-bought bath products. Once your bath is over, slip into a warm bathrobe.


For a quick and simple bath soak: fill your tub with warm water, then add 1 can of coconut milk, 1 tablespoon of almond oil, and 20 drops of your favorite essential oil.Rinse off in the shower. All those bath products are wonderful, but they often leave behind residue. Once your body feels relaxed, get out of the tub and drain the water. Then, turn the shower on, and rinse off. If you put on a hair mask, now is the time to wash those off too., The best time to apply body butter is right after you get out of the tub, when your skin is still damp. All those rich oils and butters will soak into your skin, and leave it feeling silky smooth. You can even give yourself a massage while applying it! You can use either store-bought body butter, or you can make your own.
 Both facemasks and foot soaks take little time to prepare, but a lot of time to do their "magic." It might be a good idea to do both at the same time. Prepare your foot soak, then apply your favorite facemask. Once you have it on, massage your favorite lotion onto your feet, then wrap them in plastic. After that, wrap them in a warm towel, and wait 10 to 15 minutes. Once the time is up, take the feet wraps off, and wash your mask off.Get extra cozy by slipping into a warm bathrobe first.
Dampen a towel, then heat it in the microwave for 30 to 60 seconds. You can also use spa socks instead., Fill a small tub with warm water, then add in your favorite foot soak. Slip your feet into the water, and relax for 10 to 15 minutes. You can pamper your feet further with foot scrubs, pumice stones, lotion, and a pedicure!, Take some leftover foot scrub or body scrub, and massage it onto your hands. Rinse it off, then apply some of your favorite hand lotion. Finish off with a manicure. It doesn't have to be perfect; just relax, listen to music, and have fun., If you don't own a bathrobe, you can slip into something you find comfortable, such as pajamas. Read a book, do your nails, put on some makeup, or listen to music. If you have any refreshments leftover, you can enjoy those too!

, In a large bowl, mix together 2 cups (480 grams) of Epsom salt, ½ cup (90 grams) of baking soda, and 40 drops of your favorite essential oil. For a more luxurious bath salt, add ¼ cup (60 grams) of sea salt. Once everything is mixed together and there are no more clumps, scoop everything into a glass jar. To use the bath salts: fill your tub with warm water, then stir in ¼ cup (60 grams) of your bath salts into it.You can use all one type of essential oil. For example, you could do 30 drops of lavender and 10 drops of peppermint., In a large bowl, stir together ½ to 1 cup (115 to 225 grams) of white or brown sugar and ½ cup (100 grams) of coconut or olive oil. Scoop everything into a glass jar when you are done. For an extra special scrub, consider adding any items listed below. To use the scrub: scoop out 1 tablespoon at a time, and massage it onto your arms or legs.½ teaspoon pumpkin pie spice or ground cinnamon
½ teaspoon vitamin E oil
½ to 1 teaspoon vanilla extract
15 to 20 drops essential oil

, In a double boiler, melt 1 cup (215 grams) of shea butter or cocoa butter, ½ cup (100 grams) of coconut oil, and ½ cup (120 milliliters) of almond or olive oil. Stir everything together, then chill in the fridge for 1 hour. Add in 10 to 30 drops of your essential oil, then beat everything with an electric mixer until it is light and fluffy. This will take about 10 minutes. Transfer everything into a glass jar, then chill it in the fridge for 10 to 15 minutes. After that, your body butter is ready to use!You can also use ½ cup (105 grams) of shea butter and ½ cup (105 grams) of cocoa butter for something extra special.Store your body butter at 75°F (24°C) or cooler, or it will melt., In a small bowl, mix together 1 tablespoon of plain yogurt and ¼ teaspoon of lemon juice or honey. Spread the mask over your face, taking care to avoid the eye area. Wait 10 minutes, then wash the mask off using warm water.Yogurt is naturally exfoliating and brightening. Try to use Greek, full-fat yogurt, if you can.Lemon juice can help brighten skin. It is also suitable for oily skin.
Honey is great for all skin types. It is naturally moisturizing, and great for acne-prone skin.
 In a small bowl, stir together ½ cup (100 grams) of coconut oil and ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of olive oil. For something more nourishing, add 10 drops of Argan oil. Massage the mask onto your hair and scalp, then tuck your hair under a shower cap for 5 to 10 minutes. Wash the mask out using shampoo; you may need to shampoo twice. Apply some leave-in conditioner when you are done., In a small bowl, mix together 2 teaspoons of ground oatmeal, 1 teaspoon of honey, and 1 teaspoon of sweet almond oil. Massage the scrub onto your face using small, circular motions, taking care to avoid the eye area. Rinse the scrub off with warm water, then splash your face with cool water to seal your pores.You can also leave the scrub on for 4 to 5 minutes. This will make it more like a mask.
If you can't find sweet almond oil, try olive oil or coconut oil.
If you can't find ground oatmeal, you can grind it yourself using a blender, food processor, or coffee grinder.
The oatmeal will help gently exfoliate and moisturize your skin. The honey will help moisturize your skin, and kill any acne-causing bacteria. The oil will help moisturize, nourish, and cleanse your skin., If you plan on wearing makeup, then a lip scrub is a great way to prep your lips! In a small dish, combine 1 tablespoon of brown sugar, 1 teaspoon of honey, and 1 teaspoon of olive oil or coconut oil. Massage the scrub onto your lips, then rinse it off with warm water. Store any leftovers in a small jar.For some lip plumping action, stir in ½ teaspoon of ground cinnamon.
For a tasty scrub, stir in ½ teaspoon of vanilla extract.
 Fill a glass jar with 2 cups (480 grams) of Epsom salts and ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of minty mouthwash. Stir until the salt is evenly-soaked; you will get something that feels like wet sand. To use the scrub: massage 1 to 2 tablespoons of the scrub onto your feet, then rinse it off. Store the rest of the scrub in a cool, dry place.This scrub will help exfoliate and deodorize your feet. It will leave them feeling refreshed, making it ideal after a long day of walking.
 Fill a glass jar with ½ cup (120 grams) of Epsom salts and 2 tablespoons (25 grams) of baking soda. If you'd like something extra-special, add 6 drops of your favorite essential oil; peppermint, lavender, or eucalyptus work great for foot soaks! Close the jar, and shake it everything until it is evenly combined. To use the scrub:Fill a plastic tub or basin with warm water; make sure that it is big enough for your feet.
Stir in 2 tablespoons of your foot soak.
Dip your feet into the water.
Relax for 10 to 15 minutes.
Store the rest of the foot soak powder in a cool, dry place.

