 Many kids enjoy keeping ladybugs as pets. They are cute and easy to care for. Your first step in having new pets is to capture the ladybugs.Get a clean jar and poke small holes in the lid. You can use a hammer and nail to make the holes. Or, you can use any clear container that has a lid.
Place a cotton ball soaked in water in the bottom of your jar. You want your ladybug to have something to drink when you capture her.
Walk slowly around your yard or garden, looking at leafs and twigs. When you find a ladybug, take the whole leaf or twig (including the ladybug) and place it in your jar. You can also use a paper cup to scoop the ladybugs into your jar.
 Once your have captured your ladybugs, you need to provide them with a good home. You can get a 2-3 gallon plastic cage for your new pets. Put mesh netting between the lid and the cage, as ladybugs can escape through very small cracks in the lid.Place hay, grass, twigs, and leaves in the cage to help make the ladybugs comfortable.
Everyday, mist the enclosure with non-chlorinated water. Ladybugs like moisture.
Don't place the cage in a place where it is too cold or too hot. About 70 degrees is the right temperature for ladybugs.
 Ladybugs can live for over a month on their body's reserves. However, you can also feed your ladybugs. A good choice is to offer them moistened raisins.Try other non-acidic fruits, such as tiny pieces of apples. Since ladybugs don't regularly need food, it is up to you how often you feed them.
You can add fresh fruit to the cage every few days. Make sure to remove any rotting fruit, as that is not appealing to ladybugs.
You can also add some plants to your ladybug cage. Some ladybugs enjoy eating marigolds or cosmos. Other enjoy nibbling on fresh leaves., You may want to eventually set your ladybugs free. Choose a good home for them, such as your garden. Make sure to wait until the weather is warm to release your ladybugs.Try to set them free in a new home that has lots of flowering plants and aphids. If you don't have your own garden, you could take them to a nearby park.
Early June is a good time to release your ladybugs. The weather is favorable, and this is when ladybugs tend to breed.
If possible, avoid touching the ladybugs when you set them free. Instead, you can use a paper cup to scoop them out of their cage and gently shake them onto a plant.

