 Individuals and businesses must obtain written permission from the person whose credit they are seeking. In addition to written permission, the person must also give his social security number and current address. Obtaining a credit report without the person’s permission is illegal. It can be punishable by a hefty fine or even jail time.The Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) provides sample forms for obtaining permission to do a background check and obtain a consumer credit report for employment purposes.E-Renter provides free forms for landlords, including a Consumer Reports Disclosure, which the renter must sign in order to give the landlord permission to do a background check and obtain a credit report.;
, Three national credit reporting agencies do credit checks on individuals. They are Equifax, Experian and TransUnion.Going through one of these agencies is the only legitimate way to obtain someone’s credit report. The credit report lists detailed information about employment, credit history, previous tenancies and current debts.
 TransUnion allows landlords and employers to check credit reports on rental or employment applicants. Landlords use TransUnion SmartMove.Employers can purchase a TransUnion Pre-employment Evaluation Report (PEER) through a third party hiring solutions provider.SmartMove gives landlords a quick, secure and reliable way to check a tenant's credit online. The landlord signs up for an account. For $25, the landlord will have access to a credit screening report, a deposit recommendation, a tenant risk score and a national criminal background report. For an additional $10, the landlord can also see a full credit report and a national eviction search. Once the landlord has the account, he inputs the rental applicant's name and e-mail address. SmartMove contacts the rental applicant on behalf of the landlord and requests permission to grant access to this information to the landlord.A PEER background credit check is the Pre-Employment Evaluation Report designed by TransUnion. Employers can purchase these from third party hiring solutions companies such as Command Credit or USAFact. The PEER report gives employers an unbiased account of the applicant's financial information, including credit history., Hover over the Small Business tab and choose Check Credit on a Person. You will land on a page that lets you open an account with their Experian Connect service. Once you have an account, you can get access to others’ credit information.This service works a little differently. The person whose credit you want to view can purchase a credit report for $14.95 and grant you free access to the report for 30 days.
To open an account with Experian Connect, you provide your name, address and social security number, and you choose a username and password for the account. The system will verify your identity by asking you questions from your credit history for which only you would know the answers. Once you pass the security questions, your account is opened.
Once you have the account, you can send a request to view a person's credit from your Experian Connect dashboard. All you need is the person's name and e-mail address.
Experian contacts the person on your behalf. If the person agrees, he purchases the report himself for $14.95 through Experian. Then he grants you permission to view the report for free for 30 days.
Once the person has granted you access to the credit report, Experian notifies you. You can view the report on your Experian Connect dashboard.
 Equifax offers verification services for landlords and employers. These services allow landlords and employers to verify the identity and view a credit report card for prospective tenants or job applicants.


Landlords use the service Equifax Identity Report for Landlords. This service allows landlords to verify identity and view a high-level credit summary and credit score range for prospective tenants. Landlords can request the report by inputting their own name and e-mail address and the name and e-mail address of the prospective tenant. Equifax then contacts the tenant. If the tenant agrees, the landlord is granted access to the identity report. The report costs $9.95, and either the landlord or the tenant can pay for it.Employers use Equifax's employment verification system called the Work Number. This service grants employers access to data reports for potential employees that list the person's employment history and information about their credit. To use this service, employers must prove that they have complied with FCRA and obtained written permission from potential employees to view their credit information.