 An autopsy is an examination of the body of a deceased person, carried out by a qualified pathologist. The pathologist creates a written record of the autopsy findings, including the microscopic and laboratory tests. Next of kin or other authorized individuals can then request copies of these reports. There are two types of autopsies:The hospital autopsy: This type is often referred to as a post-mortem exam or necropsy. During hospital autopsies, the pathologist use surgical techniques to perform an external and internal examination on the deceased. Hospital autopsies are performed to help answer specific questions about the cause of death and identify diseases or problems related to the patient’s death.
The forensic autopsy: This type determines the person’s cause of death, as well as the manner of death (for example, natural, accident, suicide, homicide). Forensic autopsies are also performed to determine the identity of the deceased, as well as the time of death and/or the fatal injury. The evidence collected from the body during a forensic autopsy may be used in a criminal case to prove or disprove a person’s guilt or innocence.;
, Autopsy policies vary from state to state, and country to country. However, in general, most final autopsy reports are available 30 to 45 days after the autopsy. Complex cases may take up to 90 days before the final autopsy results are complete and available.A comprehensive chart of the autopsy policy by state is available here. Some states limit autopsy reports to next of kin or individuals who have a legitimate interest in the report. Several states make autopsy reports public records, though in certain circumstances, the records can be withheld., Most states require a written request for the autopsy report. The details on the request, as well as the address for the request and the request form, can be found on the website of your state’s Office of the Chief Medical Examiner and/or coroner's office.In most written requests, you will need to include your full name, your address, your telephone number, your relationship to the deceased, their date of death, and the county in which the death occurred.
In some states, such as Iowa and Maryland, the cause and manner of death of the deceased becomes part of the public record. The remainder of the information contained within the autopsy report is confidential and considered a medical record. Next of kin can write a request for the detailed autopsy report, as well as other legitimate individuals such as treating physicians, law enforcement investigating the death, and county attorneys., In some states, for example Maryland, you can read and review the autopsy report in person by appointment at the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner, free of charge. However, you cannot copy the autopsy or take it with you without paying for a copy.


Check the website of the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner in your state for more information.
The Office of the Chief Medical Examiner will have most of the information that you need to request an autopsy report. Most large cities and counties have a coroner's and medical examiner's office

, Most autopsy reports are provided at no charge to the next of kin and other legitimate individuals. However, some states, like Maryland and Texas, require a fee for a completed, detailed autopsy report.


The fee may vary. For example, the fee for an autopsy in Texas is $0.10 per a page, and the fee for the autopsy in Maryland is $30 for family members.
 Processing of your written request will vary state by state. However, you will receive the autopsy report via regular mail. Remember to be patient as this might take some time to receive.

