 Typically, if you remarry, you will no longer want to include your ex-spouse in your estate plans, at least not in the same capacity. However, many people inadvertently leave property to ex-spouses because their wills were not updated. This can be devastating to your family. If you do not change the beneficiary of your policies to your new spouse or a child, your ex-spouse will receive the proceeds, regardless of the status of your relationship.


In some rare cases, the court may order a spouse to keep the policy intact if it's essentially a joint policy or may have one spouse maintain the policy for a minor child. Typically, whomever is the policy holder can change the beneficiaries however they want.
 Once you remarry, you need to revisit each relevant policy that has a beneficiary and change it to either your new spouse or another family member. You should check all of your accounts and your vehicle titles to ensure that your ex-spouse is no longer listed as the beneficiary.


These accounts include life insurance policies, retirement accounts, savings and checking accounts, annuities, stocks, and savings bonds.
Keep in mind that some divorce decrees impose rules on maintaining life insurance policies for ex-spouses and children as a part of alimony or child support. If this applies to you, comply with the court order.
Instead of just changing the beneficiary on your insurance policy, you might consider getting a new policy all together to meet the needs of your family. You may have different needs than you had when you first obtained your policy. You want to make sure everyone is provided for exactly how you want them to be.
 Once you remarry, you need to close or re-title any joint accounts to either you or your ex-spouse. This is necessary because when a joint account owner dies, the account automatically passes to the surviving joint owner, regardless of any heirs named in the decedent’s Will. To prevent an ex-spouse from receiving these assets, make sure that you close all of your joint accounts during the divorce.


For example, Sarah and Joe just got married, which is a second marriage for both. Sarah has an investment account, which still has her former husband, Brad, listed as the joint owner. Even if Sarah designates Joe as the sole beneficiary of her estate in her Will, the account owned by her and Brad will pass automatically to Brad when she dies.

