 Wash your face using lukewarm water and some face wash, then rinse with cool water. Gently pat your face dry using a soft, clean towel.









Consider applying some toner and moisturizer. The toner will help restore the natural pH of your skin and tighten the pores while the moisturizer will hydrate your skin. Soak a cotton ball with toner and wipe it across your face, avoiding the eyes and lips. Next, apply a thin layer of moisturizer onto your face, making sure to massage it into the skin and avoid the area around the eyes. Wait a few seconds for the moisturizer to sink into your skin and dry.;
, This will help full in any pores and make your skin appear smooth and soft. It will also help the foundation last longer. Simply dot the primer onto your face and blend it in; a little bit goes a long way.
 You can use liquid or powder, but make sure that it matches your skin tone exactly. Be sure to blend it in, especially around the sides of your face and jawline; you do not want any harsh lines, or it will look like you are wearing a mask.
 Pin-up and rockabilly models were known for their flawless complexions, so if you have any blemishes, you'll want to cover those up with some concealer. Simply pat the concealer into the blemish, and lightly blend the edges into your foundation using a small brush or cosmetic sponge. If you are using a color-correcting concealer, put that on first, then put on a regular concealer that closely-matches your foundation. Here are some tips on choosing the right color-correcting concealer:








If you need to cover any red areas, such as pimples, use a green concealer.
If you have fair skin and want to hide those under eye bags, then dab on some peach or pink concealer.
If you have olive or tan skin and need to conceal those under eye shadows, then reach for the yellow concealer instead.
 On the other hand, you can also turn a blemish into a beauty mark; many famous pin-up models had such beauty marks. Just put a dab of black or dark brown liquid liner over the blemish. Try to make it as even as possible, but do not make the mark too big.
 Sweep the brush across your powder and gently puff on it to get rid of any excess powder. Lightly dust the powder across your face, focusing on your nose, forehead, and cheekbones. This will set your makeup and prevent any shine.
 Pin-up and rockabilly models were known for their strong, arched eyebrows. If you haven't had your brows tamed in a while, now is the time to get them waxed and tweezed. You can do this either at home or professionally.
 You can use an eyebrow pencil, some eyeshadow, or an eyebrow shading kit. Be sure to follow the arch of your eyebrow and to go lighter and thinner the further away you get from your nose. This will help make your eyebrows appear stronger and draw attention to your eyes, a key point of the pin-up or rockabilly look. Do not make your eyebrows too dark, however; instead, consider following these suggestions on how to find the right shade:








If you have lighter hair or eyebrows, go one shade darker.
If you have dark hair or eyebrows, go one shade lighter. Never use black.
If you skin has a cool undertone, use an ashy color.
If your skin has a warm undertone, use a warmer color.
 Use a small, fluffy brush and blend the eyeshadow into the crease, going towards the brow bone.
 Lower your eyes, and run the brush along the eye socket. Use an angled blending brush to blend the crease in.









For more defined eyes, add some even darker brown eyeshadow to the outer crease/corner of your eye. Be sure to blend well.
 You can use any light color, such as while, ivory, or champagne. highlight. Use a soft brush, and dust it on lightly; you are only contouring, so do not use too much eyeshadow.
 This is not necessary, but it can help your eyes appear more open, especially if you have naturally straight lashes. Open the eyelash curler and position it at the base of your eyelashes. Squeeze the curler shut and hold it for three seconds. Let go and more the curler up to the middle of your lashes. Squeeze the curler again for another three seconds and let go. Lastly, curl the very tip of your lashes, again holding the curler shut for three seconds.









Do not hold the curler for more than three seconds, or you will bend your lashes instead., You can use a felt-tip liner, or an eyeliner brush and gel liner. When you reach the outer corner of your eye, flick upwards, creating a wingtip. Do not extend the "wing" too far and do not let it connect with the lower lid; you want it to blend in with your outermost eyelashes when you open your eyes.
 Use the volumizing mascara first, then once it dries, apply the lengthening mascara to the tips of your lashes. This will give you a nice, full look. To apply the mascara, dip the brush into the tube, then pull it out, dragging it along the rim of the tube; this is to get rid of any excess mascara. Hold the brush at the base of your lashes, and flick upward, blinking as you do so.









If you are going to wear some false lashes, then apply only a single coat of regular mascara.
 The eyes were a big part of pin-up and rockabilly makeup, so if you really want to make your eyes stand out, you can draw attention to them with some false eyelashes. Keep in mind, however, that applying false eyelashes may be tricky at first and require lots of practice. Do not be discouraged, however; the end result is worth it.
 Simply peel the lashes off the plastic case and pull off any excess glue. Be very gentle while handling them; the lashes are delicate and can be easily crushed.
 Hold the lash against your natural lash line. If they are too long and extend beyond your natural lash line, you will need to trim them. You can do this by snipping the excess off from the outer edge of the lash using a pair of sharp, clean scissors.
 If not, then put a drop of glue onto the packaging, and lightly run the lash strip across it. Do not apply the glue to the other lash yet.
 While you are waiting, hold the lash between your hands and bend it into a C- shape. This will "train" the lash and make it easier to put onto your lid.
 Once the glue starts to turn clear, you can put the lash on. Hold it above your eye and slowly start to bring it down onto your lid. If you have very curly lashes, you will need to bring it behind them in a sort of curving motion. Position it right against your natural lash line.
 If you bent the false lash enough, it should rest comfortably against the curve of your eyelid. If you didn't bend it enough, you will need to hold the lash in place while the glue finishes drying. Make sure that your hands are clean, then press down on the corners of the lashes. It helps if you are looking down while doing this.
 Once the glue on the first lash has dried, repeat the whole process for the other lash.
 Do this only after the glue has dried. Apply a light coat the underside of your lashes. This will help seal them even more to the false ones.
 This will smooth your lips, helping them appear fuller. Wait about five to ten minutes before applying the lip liner. If there is any excess chap stick or lip balm on your lips, gently blot it off with a tissue.
 You want a true red color. If you really want to be authentic, then use a glossy red lipstick; matte lipstick did not exist during the rockabilly era. Stay away from shimmery or glittery lipsticks.
 Trace your lips using lip liner, then fill your lips in using the liner. This gives the lipstick a sort of canvas to grip on to and help it last longer.It also acts as a sort of stain, so that if your lipstick fades during the day, it won't be as noticeable.
 Using a brush to apply your lipstick (as opposed to directly putting it on) will give you that nice, crisp line so often found on pin-ups and rockabilly models.
 Fold a tissue in half, then place it between your lips. This removes any excess lipstick. You can then reapply your lipstick and blot it a second time for an even more intense color.
 This will help the lipstick last longer. Simply pull a tissue apart so that you have two, thin sheets. Place one of the sheets against your lips, and dust it with some loose powder using a big, fluffy brush.
 The pin-up and Rockabilly makeup look focused mainly on the eyes and lips, so blush should be used sparingly and carefully. Choose a soft pink or peach color on the apples of your cheeks, and use just enough to give you a healthy glow.
 While not necessary to complete the pin-up or rockabilly look, this can help your makeup last even longer.
