 Rinse both the glutinous (sticky) rice and long-grained rice in cool, clean water. Drain the water when done.


Pour the rice into a large glass bowl and add roughly three times as much water to the bowl.
Use your hands to move the rice around the bowl while it is still submerged under the water.
Pour the contents of the bowl through a fine-mesh colander. Discard the water and save the rice.;
, Pour the cooking oil into a medium saucepan with tall sides and a heavy bottom. Set the saucepan on the stove over medium heat.


Allow the oil to heat up for 30 to 60 seconds before proceeding.
 Add the minced garlic and sliced ginger to the hot oil. Cook, stirring frequently, for about 2 minutes.


The two ingredients should become lightly toasted and notably fragrant during this time.
Watch the garlic and ginger closely to prevent them from burning.
 Place the rinsed rice in the saucepan and pour the stock on top. Stir well to combine.


Scrape the bottom and sides of the pot as you stir its contents. Doing so will minimize the risk of rice sticking to the pan.
Most lugaw recipes use homemade stock, but a high-quality commercial broth can offer just as much flavor. Some cooks even prefer to use plain water instead of stock or broth, but doing so will create a much blander taste.
 If you want to season the lugaw, you should add any desired fish sauce (Patis) and black pepper now.


This step is only optional. You do not need to add either seasoning to the dish.
If you aren't sure how much to use, start by adding 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) pepper and 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) fish paste. You can add more throughout the process as desired to suit your tastes.
 Bring the lugaw to a boil, then reduce the heat to low. Cover and cook for 30 to 60 minutes, or until the grains of rice become notably puffy.The overall texture of the dish should be very thick when finished.
Stir the contents of the saucepan frequently during the cooking process. Doing so causes the rice to release more starch, thereby creating a thicker lugaw.
If the contents of the saucepan look too thick before the rice has fully expanded, you can add more broth. Add additional broth in 1/2 cup (125 ml) measurements.
You can taste test the lugaw as it cooks, too, adding more pepper or fish paste as needed.
 Once the lugaw is ready, remove it from the heat and immediately ladle it into serving dishes. Enjoy this dish while it is still steaming hot.


If desired, you may want to garnish each serving with roughly 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of rousong or crispy "pork floss."If pork floss does not appeal to you, consider garnishing each portion with a little chopped green onion.

