 Teach your dog that responding to your commands will earn it positive attention. The positive attention must be enough to overcome whatever else was occupying its attention at the time. Thus, choose a reward that will make your dog happy and excited every time it receives it.For positive attention, when your dog responds to your command, say “Good dog” and rub its head and belly.Keep in mind that many dogs don’t enjoy being hugged or roughly patted on the head.
You could also reward your dog with a treat. Use a doggie biscuit or jerky. You could even give your dog a human snack that it likes, like cheese, chicken breast, or a bit of hot dog. However, do not give your dog chocolate, avocado, candy or any artificially sweetened foods, grapes, raisins, macadamia nuts, peaches, plums, or persimmons.If your dog is not very food-motivated, consider using a favorite toy as a reward. When your dog responds to your command, you can reward him with a quick throw of a ball or game of tug.
Another way to reward your dog is by making the release a reward. In other words, when your dog successfully completes a round of recall training, let it run about in an enclosed yard or park without a leash on.
 Dogs will get bored if they are given the same reward every time they successfully complete recall training. Vary the rewards you give your dog to maintain its interest.For instance, if your dog comes to you when called, use verbal praise to reward it. Then, the next time it comes to you, give it a doggie treat.
 After you call out to your dog with your recall word, it should turn its head to acknowledge it heard you. When it does this, give it a verbal affirmation that you did indeed issue the recall command and expect that it will return to your side. For instance, you might say, “Come on.” As your dog continues to trot back toward you, continue to lavish it with verbal praise such as, “Good dog” or “Yes, come on back.”Use a friendly and approving tone when verbally rewarding your dog before it arrives.
If your dog is clicker-trained, you can click your clicker a few times instead of (or in addition to) offering verbal praise before it arrives.

