 Sandpaper is a somewhat more direct way of purifying blemishes off your eraser. Sandpaper should be available at your local hardware store, or you might be able to find some in the automotive section or home and garden section of your local general retailer. Craft stores might also be a good place to look.


You’ll want to choose a finer grit sandpaper for your eraser purifying purposes. Grit ratings range from extra coarse (36 grit) to extra fine (320 grit). Too coarse a grit should be avoided, as it will remove more eraser than is necessary and shorten the life of your eraser.In a pinch, you might be able to use an emery board or nail file in place of sandpaper. However, gunk can get caught in the ridges of your board/file and may be difficult to remove.
 Look closely at your eraser and find the spots where gunk build-up, smear, and residue have accumulated. These will look like dark spots or smudges. These are the areas you’ll want to focus rubbing your sandpaper against. You should rub the blemishes on your eraser with light to moderate-light strokes; you won’t need to use much force to cause the shavings to come free.


You may be able to more precisely apply your sandpaper by bending it around a finger (or several fingers) and using the rounded edge to rub off the blemishes. You also might have success with using a corner or edge of your sandpaper to rub the blemishes free.
As you rub your eraser with sandpaper, shavings will come free, removing the blemishes along with them. Keep an eye on your sandpaper as you purify your eraser. If gunk begins to buildup on the surface of the paper, you should switch to a new section of the paper.
You may want to apply your sandpaper to your eraser over a garbage can. The grittiness of the paper will cause shavings to come free easily. Be careful not to remove more than is necessary. As soon as the gunk appears gone, your eraser should be clean., Specially designed pencil cases will prevent your eraser from becoming hard and unusable. But even a run-of-the-mill eraser case can keep your eraser from accumulating dust, dirt, and grime.


Specialty eraser cases can be bought at your local art store. Normal cases can usually be found in the stationary/office supply section of your local general retailer, or even at office supply stores.
You can keep a small square or several small squares of sandpaper in your eraser case to remove blemishes from your eraser as they arise. Simply take some scissors and cut your sandpaper down to a size that will fit in the case. , When using sandpaper, you should be careful not to wear away too much of the eraser while removing blemishes. Sandpaper will wear away at your eraser much more quickly than normal paper. Rubbing too hard can drastically shorten the life of your eraser.


Using a light hand to remove blemishes with your sandpaper will allow you to get the cleanest and most consistent use from your eraser. Removing blemishes will also extend the usability of your eraser, helping you to get the most out of it.

