 It’s important that you cultivate a positive self-image in the face of arthritis pain. It can be easy to get down on yourself when you’re suffering, especially if you’re struggling to do things that were once easy for you. It’s possible to challenge these doubts, though, and to accept and love yourself.Try making a list of all your positive qualities. You can also ask a loved one to help and describe what they think are your positive qualities. Post this list somewhere you’ll see it every day.
Set reasonable goals for yourself and recognize achievement. Negative self-image dwells on faults and weaknesses. Say you used to walk three miles per day but now manage one. One is still impressive! Rather than focus on what you can’t do, look at what you are still able to accomplish.
 Stay connected with friends, family, and co-workers. They will make you laugh, listen to your problems, and celebrate your victories. If you feel you need deeper connections in your life, try meeting new people by joining a group that organizes an activity you enjoy, like traveling, swimming, or hiking., Dealing with pain is one of life’s biggest challenges. It is important to develop healthy coping strategies as part of your arthritis management program. Instead of turning to unhealthy strategies like abusing alcohol or drugs, try going for a nature walk, taking a long bath, or reading a novel.Try meditation. Deep breathing and meditation can reduce pain by helping you relax and ease tension. Repetition is key – try focusing on your breath, a word, or a phrase and block out distractions. You can even try taking a meditation class.
Reduce stress. Stress and anxiety can sharpen your body’s sensitivity to pain. De-stressing by playing calm music, reading a good book, treating yourself to a hot bath or massage, or exercising can give relief from chronic pain.
Avoid alcohol. Pain makes it hard to sleep and alcohol can worsen sleep problems, which will not improve your quality of life. Using drugs and alcohol to manage pain can also lead to serious substance abuse problems.
 When you are suffering from a chronic disease, it is easy to focus on all the negative aspects of your struggle. Think about ways your arthritis has actually had a positive impact on your life.


For example, maybe your experience with chronic pain has made you a more empathetic person.
Or perhaps your experience with arthritis has made you less judgmental of others, because you now know that many people struggle with invisible pain and disease.
 Staying positive means taking time to be thankful for what is good in your life. Gratitude helps put things in perspective and can help foster a healthier sense of self. Try writing in a gratitude journal each day. You can also create a gratitude jar and place one positive thing for which you are thankful in the jar every day., Mental health professionals can help you cultivate resilience and maintain positivity when you are dealing with a chronic disease like arthritis. Talk to your health insurance provider about what types of counseling services your plan covers, and then contact a provider who might be able to meet your needs.

