 Make sure that you don't accidentally add items that you do want or you might accidentally trade it away.


If you're new to Animal Jam, do not place items that everyone can always purchase at the stores, for this is annoying and no one will want your items. Try to get your hands on items that cannot be found in stores. You can do so by playing adventures.
Note that while you cannot purchase member items, even if you do get your hands on one, members still might not want it if they can always purchase it in the stores themselves.;
, Stand in a spot where people can easily see you and click your name tag. Do not stand in front of people that are already advertising something, for this is very rude and annoying. As tempting as it might sound, refrain from doing so, even though that person might be standing in a good spot you would like to have yourself.


Avoid standing in corners or dark areas where no one will see you. Find somewhere in the open where people will be able to spot you, but avoid standing in the middle of the crowd or no one will be able to notice you or click your name tag to access your trade list.
 Then, say in either no caps or all caps: "I accept fair trades!" You could also say something similar to that and make up something catchy to attract attention, but make sure you use words that are permitted in the chat.
 You are basically scamming yourself and wasting your time. People will not give you fair trades or good items. They will simply take advantage of you and trade you something store-bought.


Even though claiming that you accept all trades might be an easy way to attract attention, it's not smart and you'll lose all your good items and have to start all over again.
 You may or may not get a lot of trades. It depends on what is on your trade list and who is interested in it. Accept any fair trades that you really like, but decline all trades that aren't fair at all.


Keep in mind that some people who are insensitive and perhaps a little bratty might get mad at you for not accepting their trade. If they start yelling at you, gently explain that their trade wasn't fair and tell them to try again if they want.
If the person refuses to listen to you, simply ignore them and continue on asking for fair trades. If they aren't going to listen to you, no matter how nice you are, it's best to let them be.
If you are mean or rude to the person, he/she might choose to report you. You do not want that. Being mean will give you a bad reputation and no one will want to trade you.
Do not accept bad trades simply out of pity for the person. This will ruin you.
 If you find that you get no fair trades or no trades at all, simply move to another area or go to a different place on the map. Keep accepting very good trades and declining bad ones and you'll eventually get rares and other good items.
 It's best to check all of the stores found in Animal Jam, even the ones made for members. Familiarize yourself with what is store-bought. That way, if a store-bought item is offered to you for one of your items that cannot be bought, you'll know whether the person is trying to cheat you out of your item or not.


Do not accept store-bought items, even if it's a member's store-bought item. No one will want the item, even the members, no matter how important it may be to you. You will be unable to use the item and nonmembers will definitely find no use in it.

