 Hounds, setters, and other hunting dogs tend to be naturally thin. Other breeds look stocky even at a healthy weight, including Rottweilers, bull dogs, and Labradors.Some dogs are very tall, lanky, and skinny. Others are large and stocky. Most recommendations for monitoring a dog’s weight are based on dogs whose body types fall somewhere in between these extremes.
You'll be able to judge more accurately if you know your dog breed's normal body shape.
 As a rule of thumb, a dog at the correct weight should not have any ribs showing when it is standing straight, but some ribs will show when the dog is curled up. If you can see the ribs when it is standing straight, the dog may be underweight. If you can't see the ribs when the dog is curled up, the dog is likely overweight.This can be difficult to judge for shaggy dogs, or for some breeds with unusual body shapes, such as English bulldogs and whippets.
 When palpating the rib cage gently with your fingers, you should be able to feel the ribs under the skin, but only slightly. If you cannot feel your dog’s ribs, it is overweight. If you can feel the ribs easily and there's little fat over them, the dog is probably underweight.You should also be able to feel the top of the breastbone by pressing lightly.
 Stand right behind your dog while it is standing up, looking down at his back. The width of the dog should get narrower from the shoulders and rib cage, as you move down the dog's back. You should be able to see the waist easily, narrowing right before the hips.If you cannot see the waist, your dog is overweight.
If the hip bones stand out sharply, take the dog to a vet. This could be a sign of a health problem.
 In younger dogs (under seven years old for most breeds, under four for giant breeds), the abdomen should be “tucked” slightly higher than the rib cage when viewed from the side. The depth of this “tuck” depends on the dog’s breed, so again, consult breed standards and view lots of pictures before performing a visual evaluation. As dogs age, their abdominal muscles weaken just as humans’ do, giving them a “potbelly” that may mislead you about their weight.Generally, when the dog lies on her side, the stomach should be even with her rib cage.
The dog's belly will look larger after a meal.

