 For this costume, you'll need to find a white or light blue singlet. This will form the base of your costume, and is a great option for young kids. The stretchy fabric of the singlet will allow children to move more freely, even while in costume. It's likely all of your materials can be purchased from a craft store, so be sure to bring your supply list:


Light blue or white singlet
Light blue or white skirt
Safety pins
Light blue or white see-through fabric
Plastic tiara (optional)
Fabric pens (optional)

, The snow and ice theme that Elsa uses in her costume can be imitated by using both blue and white in your costume.You may want a blue singlet and a white skirt, or the other way around.
 In the movie Frozen, Elsa has a beautiful see-through cape that trails behind her wherever she goes.You can give this effect to your costume by cutting a length of your see-through fabric slightly narrower than waist width if you are attaching it to the waist, and flare it slightly toward the bottom.


A waist-cape is recommended for young children to prevent any accidents or choking while at play, but older children may want a full cape. You can do this by cutting your fabric a little narrower than shoulder width and flaring it toward the bottom.
 You may have to make some adjustments when you put the costume on for the first time, but your cape can be easily made by attaching your fabric with safety pins. Along the back half of the waist of your skirt, pin your see-through fabric.


For a full length cape, use your safety pins to attach your fabric along the back half of the neckline. You may want to use very small safety pins, which will hide more easily in the folds of your cape.
 Start with the singlet and then add the skirt to it. Make sure you have smoothly tucked the singlet into the skirt so that the top is smooth and regal. Check your cape for balance and length, too. You may need to shorten the length or fluff it along the neck or waist to give it more lift.
 But before you add a tiara to the costume, you might want to do a simple, yet cute, hairstyle. You might even want to take the singlet off and add some princess themed designs with fabric pens.


Your Elsa princes costume might benefit from some snowflakes drawn on it, or maybe a few snowmen.
A little glitter on this costume can give you the sparkling appearance of a snow princess.

