 Use a hose and a scrub brush to clean off dirt, grime, and oil from your tire. Surface dirtiness can negatively impact the painting you'll be doing later, or could cause harm to your plants.


For especially dirty tires, you may want to use a moderate to strong soap while scrubbing the tires clean. Be sure to rinse this from the tires completely.
 Use a spray paint that is suitable for rubber tires and cover the outside and top of the tire with paint. Then allow this to dry for the time listed on the paint's label instructions.


Once the paint is dry, feel free to use regular paint and a paintbrush to add embellishments to the design. You might draw little suns, flowers, simple birds, and so on., The inside bottom of your tire will collect water unless holes are drilled in it. Poor drainage can cause root rot or decay, which can be harmful for your plants. Take your drill and a drill bit to create five evenly spaced holes around the bottom of the tire.


Depending on the kind of plants you'll be planting and the size of your tire, you may want more or less holes. , Use wooden boards (like 2x4's or thinner planks) to create slats in the bottom of your tires. You may have to cut these pieces of wood with a saw so they fit inside the tire. These, along with the lining, will support and hold the soil.


Lay your boards on the top of your tire. Use a pencil to mark where you'll need to cut them so they fit inside, using the tire to help estimate this.
You don't have to waste time cutting these boards perfectly. These will be hidden from sight, so they only need to fit in the bottom of the tire., Put your slats inside your tire, arranged so there's some space between slats. Then line the top of the slats with an even layer of burlap. Use scissors to cut the burlap to fit the shape of the tire, and use staples or nails to hold the burlap in place.Plastic backing or landscaping fabric will also work well for this. When using a material that you don't think will drain well, cut holes in it to facilitate drainage.
 In most cases, a general purpose potting soil will work well, but special plants may have special soil needs. Once you've added the soil, add your plants and enjoy this unique, upcycled planter.

