 You MUST get the best grades in the class. Always turn in homework- no exceptions. If you're sick and have a sibling, make them turn in your homework. This will really impress. Study a bunch, because you have to ace everything. If there is somebody who gets better grades than you, find out what they do to be so great. Create your own study plan, and balance out school and sports/activities, because "I didn't have time" is no excuse, as vampires have all night to do homework, and are also very quick at everything they do. Your teachers have to like you, so you need to be very nice to them. Also, pay attention in class, because if the teacher calls on you, you must perfectly have the answer. Raise your hand in class for almost everything, but not too much, or your teacher will get annoyed, and never volunteer to answer unless you're 100% positive you have the correct answer). However, don't volunteer after school for stuff, as Rose would never waste her time at school-she's had enough of it in her near-100 years of existence.;
, She's not very talkative, so you need to adjust to not talking much. Also, when people talk to you, talk with dignity and make eye-contact. Improve your vocabulary- constantly learn new words. Pronounce everything perfectly, and don't use slang words. Don't say "dang" and "what the fudge" either. DO NOT CUSS- this would've been considered horrid for when she was growing up.
 You need to have your own small group of friends with whom you share more than you do with others (but not too much, as close or not, Rose doesn't get too personal). However, make sure everybody admires you and would welcome you. You just have to be popular to be Rose.
 Don't bring a water bottle to school. Do not eat when anybody's watching, and don't eat everything on your tray, as people will notice that you ate then. Don't pack a lunch, because this shows you're eating.
 When you go to sleepovers, don't fall asleep until everyone else is. Also, set your watch-alarm (sorry, you'll have to get one, or some device that wakes you up besides an alarm clock) to wake you up early- way earlier before anybody else, so you can get perfectly ready. Bring a curling-iron so you can do your wavy, romantic, Rosalie-curls (because of course you do that.) Take a shower a couple hours before you go to the sleepover, so you won't have to take one there or in the morning (vampires don't shower, & you'd wake people up if you showered in the morning). Bring your makeup and do it, and brush your teeth before people wake up. Also, wash your face, apply deodorant, perfume, and lotion, too, so you'll look fresh. When everybody wakes up, you'll just be smiling with clean teeth, perfect hair, and clothes on. You'll look like you never slept. Also, it adds affect if you're just sitting up on your sleeping bag when people wake up, so it looks like you've been sitting there all night. Also, when you wake up (before you brush your teeth), eat like a granola bar you packed, so when breakfast is served, you can do what you do at lunch. If they ask, say you're "not very hungry."

, Even before and after gym. Also, look in a mirror at least 20 times a day, and every now and then when you're doing it, whisper "I'm so beautiful", or "My hair looks wonderful", or something like that, just loud enough for others to hear. You can also add something like "as always" to the end of your statement.
 You two need to act like you truly love each other (hopefully, though, it's not acting). Get physical, but if you're not comfortable with that, it's okay; you only have to be physical when people are watching, and you can only go so far while people are watching, so you're safe.
 This goes against how Rosalie is. She rides more "solo". If somebody invites you to a party, accept. However, if it's a dinner party and you KNOW you can't get by on "I'm not hungry", consider going, getting food, just doing it like lunch-eating when nobody's watching. If the person hosting it has already commented on your eating habits, it might be reasonable to say you have plans and can't go. If the person asks what the plans are, you don't have to tell them. Think about it, would Rose tell them plans? NOPE, so you shouldn't either. In fact, Rose would reply with something sassy, so do just that. Try something like "Mind your own business", or (this one is VERY Rosalie-ish) "What is it to you?"

, It is not advised you act like Rosalie Hale if you are overweight. You need to be VERY skinny. However, don't stop eating and get anorexic, because you'll look unhealthy, and that's unlike Rose. Instead, just eat healthier and exercise. You must be very fast and strong, too. Run so you'll get faster, and lift weights, do sit ups, crunches, push ups, and the such to get stronger. If you think or know somebody is stronger than you, please don't arm wrestle them.
 When you see a baby, get all sweet and soft and admire it. Compliment the mother by saying something like "What a beautiful baby you have." Then it helps to say "How old is s/he?" and get into a conversation. Don't get very deep, though, as Rose doesn't get deep. Also, don't talk about things you don't know. Now, Rose dreams about marrying a husband, having many kids, a sweet house, and a loving family, so talk about the future (but remember you don't talk much, so only talk about this if it's brought up, and it's best only to talk about it if somebody else addresses you on the subject).
 You should be able to point at a random car and say what it is. And you should be a mechanic queen. Rose is the car person of the family, and anything that's only hers, she's carries with pride. If you're at school or something and your friend says her car isn't sounding right, after school or during lunch you should be able to go out and fix it, or say the problem with it.
 At school or social gatherings, stick with your group of friends. When you go out alone, though, don't make conversation with others. Quietly stay to yourself (but make an entrance if you know what I mean). Only speak if you see somebody with a baby, and only if they're right beside you, and it won't be awkward to talk to them.
 Always look like there's something others aren't getting from you. When somebody talks to you, act as if they just broke your train of thought. Use eye-contact. Also, be very persuasive. Find ways to make your features (especially eyes & voice) be very persuasive to where you can get almost anything you want. Look at Persuade People

, Rose is exceptionally confident and proud of herself, so you must carry yourself like that. Walk with your chin up and shoulders back. Walk like a MODEL- that is very confident and looks great...very Rose-ish. When you talk, never talk like it's a question; talk like the words from your mouth is a fact. Carry your whole body with purpose. Walk with dignity, because in Rose's mind, she is the definition of "dignity", "confidence", "grace", and "beauty".
 It helps to take dance class in this category, so I would recommend that. Learn how to walk elegantly and gracefully. When you walk, sort of roll up from your heel onto your toe. Walk with your head up and shoulders back. Absolutely never slouch- when Rose was growing up, she probably never let her back touch the back of the chair, so you shouldn't either. Sit up straight and tall. Also, walk one in the front of the other (I don't mean take baby steps). NEVER TRIP.
 Always look very aware of your surroundings. Use peripheral vision. Never let anyone sneak up on you, or scare you. Don't turn sharp corners into a room, in case somebody is going to scare you or run into you. Also, brace yourself when you turn (not sharply), so that your reflexes are quick. That being said, have quick reflexes. Don't trip- watch where you walk. Really focus when you have to use hand-eye coordination, so you don't end up messing something up. You simply can't be clumsy- This is Rose's article, not Bella's.
 Try out for every school play, take classes from your local theater, and do plays there. You have to be the best actress, and, well, a good liar. Also, you must be a beautiful singer. I'm so sorry (I really am, I don't want to be mean), but you have to be a good singer. Ask your friend to be honest about your voice, and tell them that you don't mind if you can't sing (lying of course, I told you you had to be a good liar). If they say you're good, record yourself and listen- you'd be surprised at how much friends lie to spare your feelings. If your voice is good, you should probably take vocal lessons to be the best.
 Not second best, the best. This is especially important.
 Don't mention your knowledge unless asked, or it's being talked about in a discussion you're included in, though. It's great to stay up-to-date, so when somebody mentions a piece of news, you'll look very impressive when you know all about it. It also makes you look smarter, and all of the Cullens are very smart.
 It MUST have a mirror; look at yourself in the mirror every time you open the locker or pass through the halls. There should also be pictures in there, and many other cool locker things. You have to have a makeup pouch, but only apply makeup when nobody's watching. Looking in the mirror and brushing your hair when people are watching, though, is great. Use a hair pick instead of a brush, though. Of course you curl your hair in the long romantic waves, and a brush will take them out. Therefore, use a hair pick so the curls won't come out. Also, reapply hairspray if necessary about lunch time, but do this when nobody is watching. Don't forget, you have a makeup pouch; reapply you're makeup when necessary (as long as nobody is looking).
 This song is exactly Rose's life story and is beautiful. Look up on youtube the songs with the lyrics and you'll see what I mean. Download it onto your IPod, listen to it, memorize it, don't talk about it. It's okay to say you're favorite song is Beauty from Pain in a 'What's your favorite song?' discussion, but don't mention it at other times. Make this your audition song, too, for when you try out for musicals.
 Vampires don't leave things lying around- they keep it neat and tidy. Make sure your locker, purse, house, everything is neat. Have a very neat room. Rose doesn't have people over, but it's a good idea, in case you do end up having your best friend over (but don't do that often, because it's not Rose-ish). Think about it, would Esme let her "kids" just throw things around without picking them up?

, Read Classics (they're actually SUPER good). This would be what Rose read growing up and probably even after she'd been changed because it was something to hold to from her past. Honestly, they didn't have "Lord of the Rings" or books about wizards or books about whatever Warriors and Percy Jackson is about. Some of my favorite classics are Pride and Prejudice, Jane Eyre (impressive to read this), Wuthering Heights, Sense and Sensibility, and my all time fav, Gone With the Wind (this one is SUPER impressive to read, and everybody will be like "how?"). The BEST possible one you can read is War and Peace, because it's gigantic (but it could be too advanced).
 So, it could be a good idea to get a job so you can use money to buy expensive things so you'll seem richer. Just don't flounce around your job, or better yet don't even say you have one, because obviously Rose wouldn't need a job.
 Rose is very close to the Cullen coven. So be very kind to your parents and siblings. If you have or a sibling close to you in age, see if they'll start being like Alice.
 Of course, it's impossible to be "perfect", but to be Rose, you have to be un-ordinarily close. So just don't mess up, okay? Rose doesn't like it when people disgrace her name.

