 Even when using a non-prescription medication, it's wise to consult your veterinarian to ensure that your dog really does have ear mites. In addition, your vet will check to ensure that the eardrum is intact before treatment starts. This will greatly determine which treatment is appropriate.


If the tympanum (eardrum) is ruptured, drugs may pass into the middle ear and cause ototoxicity. This manifests itself as neurological disturbances such as a head tilt, horizontal nystagmus (the eyes flick from side to side), poor balance and vomiting. These effects can be serious and difficult to reverse.;
, These ingredients, which are derived from chrysanthemum flowers, belong to a group called pyrethroids. They are neurotoxins, meaning that they work by inhibiting nerve transmission in insects.Despite the way they work in insects, topical pyrethroids have a good safety margin in dogs. This is because the drug is poorly absorbed across the skin into blood. In addition, even if some is absorbed, pyrethroids are 2,250x less toxic to dogs than insects.Many different non-prescription products with these pyrethroids are available. One such treatment is eradimite, containing pyrethrin 0.15%. The advised dose is 10 drops into each ear.
 Prescription products usually contain ectoparasiticide drugs such as pyrethrins, thiabendazole and monosulfiram. Some products have a proven efficacy at killing ear mites, but do not contain recognized ectoparasiticides; their mode of action – that is, just how they work – is unclear.One advantage of prescription products is that they contain anti-inflammatories, antimicrobials and sometimes local anesthetic, all of which can be desirable to treat and soothe a sore, inflamed ear.
Ectoparasiticides are pesticides for parasites that are found on the surface of the body. Most treatment prescribed will fall into this class of medication., Following the directions on the package or of your veterinarian, apply the drops in the instructed amount to each of your dog's ears. Massage gently, leave for a few minutes to penetrate the wax, and then wipe away any excess with cotton wool. This regime should be repeated every other day until the symptoms have resolved.


Application may be necessary for a full three weeks (which represents one complete life cycle of the ear mites). However, if there is no improvement after one week of treatment the diagnosis should be reevaluated.
Not only do topical products kill the mite, but they also are anti-inflammatories and anti-biotics, meaning they'll soothe irritation and treat secondary bacterial infections, too.
 There is a theoretical risk of toxicity if ingested, such as being licked out of the ear by another dog. Because of this, it's best to keep your dog sequestered after receiving the medication until it dries.


The signs of poisoning include excessive salivation, muscle tremors, agitation and in extreme cases, seizures. Should you notice any of these signs in another pet, keep the animal in a dark, quiet room so as to minimize stimulation, and seek veterinary advice.
 When a dog scratches his ear, he may transfer ear mites to his paw. When an active infection is present it is helpful to bathe the dog weekly with an insecticidal shampoo (such as Seleen), to decrease coat contamination, which can act as a reservoir for re-infection.You may find one or more of the following wikiHows helpful:

How to Give a Small Dog a Bath
How to Give a Large Dog a Bath
How to Bathe a Dog and Keep It Calm
How to Bathe a Puppy for the First Time



