 There are numerous companies that specialize in short term business loans. A few online providers include Ondeck, Kabbage, and Fundera. Look for a company that can best accommodate your needs.
 A short-term business loan is typically a loan ranging anywhere from $5,000 to $500,000 (to be paid back over the course of three months to three years). With that amount of money, various interest rates are going to make a huge difference in the amount of money you repay. Research various lending options (such as Ondeck, Kabbage, or Fundera) and find the best interest rate., Every lender will have slightly different terms, but in general, they will require that you have been in business for a minimum length of time, that you have a decent credit score, and that your business meets a certain annual income level.Ondeck, for example, serves exclusively small business clients.
In order to qualify for an Ondeck loan, business must have been around for more than one year, meet a credit score of 500, and pull an annual income of $100,000.
 Most online short-term business loan providers make this process very quick and easy. Simply visit the website of the provider you’d like to use and fill out an online application. You will need to have information about your business ready (such as annual income) in order to complete your application. You will be notified within one business day (or in some cases, instantly) of their decision to fund or decline your request., A short-term business loan is different from a traditional payday loan. In general, short-term business loans may have repayment plans as brief as three months, or as long as three years. Some short-term business loans are repaid in small daily installments.
Be sure that you understand the terms of the repayment.
 Once you understand all of the terms of your loan agreement, and once you are approved for the loan, it is time for you to claim your funds. Some loan websites allow you to withdraw the money from a fund they create for your business, others will deposit it into your business account.