 Dry brushing is an ancient exfoliation technique designed to slough off dead skin and stimulate your body's circulation. Dry brushing every day immediately makes your skin look brighter, and if you keep up the routine your skin will begin to glow.


Choose a dry brush made from natural fibers, rather than plastic bristles. Natural bristles aren't as rough on your skin.
Brush your body using short, firm strokes from your outer extremities toward your heart. Brush your legs, torso and arms. Use a softer, smaller brush for your face.
Always start with dry skin and a dry brush. Brushing your skin while wet won't achieve the same effect.;
, Rinse off your skin with cool, not hot, water. Hot water is hard on your skin and causes it to dry out and toughen. Use warm water at the beginning of your shower to gently wash away dirt. At the end, switch to cool water to tighten and tone your skin.

Generally, you should only shower once a day for about ten minutes. Longer showers can dry out your skin.
When you wash your face, splash it with cool water instead of hot water.
Save hot baths for special occasions. They're good for the soul, but not necessarily for the skin.
 You can use a loofah, wash cloth, or exfoliating mitts to scrub your skin while showering. You also use a body scrub. Gently rub the cloth over your skin. You may want to use a separate wash cloth for your body and your face.

Make sure to clean these tools regularly to prevent the build-up of bacteria. Bacteria can cause blemishes and make your skin texture appear rough.
 Commercial body washes and scrubs, as well as many bar soaps, contain detergents that dry out your skin and leave a residue that causes it to look dull. Use a natural, oil-based soap, or forego soap and use plain water.


Try only washing areas of your body that regularly become dirty or sweaty, such as feet, genitals, and armpits. For dry areas of your skin, such as elbows, shins, and forearms, you just need water.
 Dry your skin by patting yourself dry thoroughly. Do not leave your skin damp. Then apply lotion or another healing moisturizer to your skin to seal in the moisture and protect your skin from dry air throughout the day. Try these moisturizers for shining, healthy skin:


Coconut oil. This sweet-smelling substance melts into your skin and gives it a beautiful glow.
Shea butter. This moisturizer is especially good for use on your fragile facial skin. You can also apply it to your lips.
Lanolin. Sheep produce lanolin to keep their wool soft and dry, and it acts as an excellent defense against cold winter air.
Olive oil. For those occasions when your skin needs a deep-conditioning treatment, smooth olive oil over your body and let it seep in for 10 minutes. Rinse it off with lukewarm water and pat dry.
Lactic acid lotion is available from drugstores. It leaves dry, scaly skin feeling pliable and soft.
Aloe vera gel is a natural option that is perfect for sensitive or sun-damaged skin.
 Some people have dry, flaky skin, others have oily skin, and many have some combination of the two. Know what parts of your body need special care, and make sure your daily routine takes them into account.


Treat acne, whether on your face or body, with extra care. Avoid dry brushing over acne, and don't use harsh soaps or chemicals that might exacerbate it.
Eczema, rosacea and other issues associated with dry skin must be handled with care. Use products that don't irritate your condition further, and talk to your doctor about getting a prescription to treat your skin if necessary.

