 You can gain followers, connections and fans by setting yourself up on social network sites. Depending on your market, you should sign up for different accounts. Twitter and Facebook are some of the most used by the most demographics, but Instagram, Tumblr, Snapchat, etc., also have large followings., Submit articles to newspapers, trade publications, blogs and newsletters for publication in order to establish yourself as an expert and get free advertising. For example, if you are a real estate agent, you may opt to write an article about the buyer's market in your area and offer it to local real estate magazines., A Facebook page for your business allows customers to know any relevant information about your business such as hours, locations, etc. You can also post photos. For instance, if you're a baker, you can post pretty pictures of cakes you've made. If you're the owner of a bar, you can post photos of events at your bar where people enjoyed themselves.You can also sign up for a LinkedIn business page, which will help you reach out to business partners.
 There are many companies that claim to boost your Twitter or Facebook following, but the only way to improve a genuine following is to learn the ins and outs of Twitter and Facebook. Learn about the ways and times to use hashtags. Tweet with your audience in mind. Think about what you'd likely retweet and aim for that. Remember, if J.K. Rowling retweets you, people will take notice.For Facebook, it is important that your business page be detailed, including hours, location, and a way to contact you. Your posts from that page should reflect your brand.
 This can be incredibly important for appealing to new clients and keeping old ones. If a customer comments on your product on social media, respond to them! If a potential customer asks a question, answer them! This seems simple, but failing to do so can lose you business. You'll want to respond quickly, especially if you're appealing to young people., This is a great way to get new clients and customers. For instance, if a new book with a lot of buzz is coming out and you're an independent bookstore owner, you can host an event surrounding the book. The post for the event is free, even if the event may not be.You should also post any events where your business is featured. For instance, if you are a small winery and your wine is being featured in a local competition or festival, post that.

