 Books can come in very handy when trying to explain the basics of colors and shapes to your child. There are different types of books you can use to teach these concepts, from touch and feel books, to pop-up books. Try a selection of books, or stick to the one that your child reacts to best.Make sure to establish routines at home when teaching these basics to your toddler. If your child pays more attention when you read to her before she goes to bed, then make it a habit to read to your child each night.





;
, Make everyday an opportunity to reinforce what you have read to your toddler. Tell her “Look at your dress! Isn’t it a lovely shade of RED?” or “Look at your book! It’s shaped like a rectangle (or a square!)”.


Make sure to point out everyday objects to your toddler and say what shape and color they are, whether you’re inside the vehicle passing by tall buildings (rectangular in shape) or walking in the park and see a balloon (oval in shape).






Take every opportunity you have to mention the colors to your toddler and connect them with whatever activity she’s doing such as “Wow! Those are really beautiful RED berries you got in your yogurt” or “Would you like to wear your pink shoes or yellow sandals”?







, Nursery rhymes may help your child memorize the basic shapes and the many different hues of the color wheel.



Life without Colors, All in Red, What is Pink and the ever popular ditty Roses are Red, Violets are Blue are just some of the nursery rhyme books you can read to your toddler about colors.






Consider creating your own song about shapes or colors by using a familiar tune, such as “Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star” and simply making up your own words.
 Incorporate your lessons about colors and shapes into games that you make up, or games that your child is already familiar with. For example, ask your child to point out objects that are red, or find objects that are oval in shape.


Consider playing I-Spy, with an emphasis on colors and shapes.






When your child does well at a game, make sure to give her positive reinforcement by giving her a reward, such as some extra time to play before bed.







