 The amount of zinc that you should consume from both your diet and any dietary supplements is different depending on your sex and age.You can figure out your recommended daily zinc intake by reviewing the following age and sex-based recommendations:


Women nineteen years or older should get 8 mg of zinc per day.
Pregnant women between fourteen and eighteen years of age should get 13 mg of zinc per day.Pregnant women, nineteen years and older should get 11 mg of zinc per day.Breastfeeding women between fourteen and eighteen years of age should get 13 mg of zinc per day.Breastfeeding women who are nineteen years or older should get 12 mg of zinc per day.Men fourteen years and older should get 11 mg of zinc a day., Your children require a different daily recommended allowance of zinc, so you should check to see that they are getting enough zinc in their diet. Review the recommended daily allowances below:


Children between seven months and three years of age should get 3 mg per day.Children between four and eight years old should get 5 mg of zinc per day.Children between nine and thirteen years of age should get 8 mg of zinc per day.Teenage girls between fourteen and eighteen years old should get 9 mg of zinc per day., Too much zinc can lead to anemia and weakened bones.By following the recommended daily allowance for zinc based on your age and sex, you should be able to avoid taking too much zinc. Remember that the recommended daily allowance includes both zinc from food and supplements.Check for symptoms of acute zinc toxicity. Symptoms of excessive zinc include abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhea, and nausea. You may also experience headache, irritability, anemia and dizziness.Look to see if you are at risk of zinc toxicity. If you have an acute kidney injury, you may be at risk of accumulating too much zinc in your body. If you have haemochromatosis, you may also be absorbing too much zinc. Finally, if you are exposed to a lot of pesticides, paints, rubber, or dyes in your life or work, you may be at risk of zinc excess., Two billion people around the world are deficient in zinc.However, most people in the western world get enough of this trace element. To determine if you are at risk, review the following at risk demographics:


Vegetarians may need to consume fifty percent more zinc than listed in the recommended daily allowance because the body absorbs less zinc from plant based sources.People who have digestive disorders like Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis are at an increased risk of deficiency.Alcoholics are more susceptible to zinc deficiency because alcohol reduces the amount of zinc that the body can absorb.
People with sickle cell disease are more susceptible to zinc deficiency because they need more zinc.
Zinc deficiency is relatively uncommon in the United States because it is commonly contained in the average diet., Symptoms of zinc deficiency include hair loss, diarrhea, impotence, eye and skin problems, appetite loss and various growth problems. You can review your symptoms with your doctor and they may even do a test to determine whether or not you are deficient. They can measure your levels of zinc in your blood cells or your hair.


Symptoms also include weight loss, delayed wound healing, taste changes and slow mental faculties.
Ask your doctor to order a micronutrient blood test, which determines the levels of multiple vitamins and minerals in your body including zinc.

