 Most precincts require you to be a uniformed officer before becoming a detective. A high school diploma or GED is required to begin working as a uniformed officer.Some precincts will even expect additional education or specialized police training on top of your high school education. Check with the precinct that you want to work for to see their education requirements.;
, In some jurisdictions, you'll complete a police course at a local community college or state-sponsored police class before applying for a job as an officer. In other precincts, you'll apply to become an officer first and then get sponsored by the district to complete academy training. Call the precinct or do a search online to see what the procedure is in your area and apply to the academy.


The average police academy course is 18 weeks long.At the police academy, you'll learn things like arresting and booking procedures, firearm use, stress management, communication tactics, information on laws, and police strategies., While being a uniformed officer may only require a high school diploma or equivalent degree, to become a homicide detective it's likely you'll have to complete a four-year bachelor's degree.Choose a major in a related field of study such as criminal justice, criminal administration, law enforcement, criminology, police science, forensics, or crime scene investigation.Other useful courses include law classes, computer classes, and police studies classes.Some of the best universities for criminal justice include the University of Pennsylvania, the Northeastern University School of Criminology and Criminal Justice, the University of California at Irvine, and the CUNY John Jay College of Criminal Justice.Federal agencies like the FBI and DEA require a four-year degree., Education is a career-long endeavor for most law enforcement officers and is a requirement in many police districts.Classes in new technical systems will provide you with additional knowledge that you may need to solve a homicide. Also, understanding of new and cutting edge forensic technology will aid you in your job.


You can take additional classes in communication, cultural diversity, technical studies, legal studies, and skill development., The most critical part of being promoted as a field officer to detective is passing the detective exam. While the test will differ depending on the precinct, tests like The National Detective/Investigator Test is used by many different police precincts across the country.Typically a detective exam will include questions in areas such as criminal investigations, interviewing techniques, and relevant case law.
Your district sometimes provides a study guide or preparation courses.

