 The first thing you need to do is let the air out of the tube by removing the valve stem core, using a vale stem core removing tool. Loosen the nut on your rim lock and leave the nut so that it is still threaded on generously at the end of the rim lock stud.
 Leave the nut on the rim lock as the end of the rim lock stud threads.
 Place the wheel on your wheel stand using a tire iron. Insert the iron into the seam where the tire meets the wheel. Start to lever the tire off the rims bead seating area towards the center of the rim (breaking the bead). Work your way around the wheel until the tire bead is now collapsing into the dip in the center of the rim. Turn the wheel over and repeat on the other side of the tire.


Note that some tire irons have a flat pointed end that works better for breaking a bead than the spooned end of the iron.
 Now that we have the bead broken on the tire and both tire beads are collapsed into the center of the rim, you can get a little lube on the bead area to help the removal, but it's generally not necessary. You can also install a bead buddy on one side, or both, of the wheel holding the tire beads into the center of the rim.
 Do this starting a couple inches from your bead buddy, into the rim, with the spoon side facing the tire bead. Use the rim to lever the tire bead out of the rim and hold it steady.
 Move a short distance from where you are holding the bead outside the rim in the same way you did the first tire iron and lever the bead outside of the rim


Find the point where the tire iron is least resistant to fit under the tire bead.
 At this point you should be able to remove your first tire iron and move along the rim. Normally, after the second or third time you pull the bead over the rim, you should be able to continue all the way around the rim with just one tire iron or spoon. You may have to press and hold the rim lock up into the tire, by pressing on the rim lock stem, while you work the tire off in this area.
 Please note that this is not the time to remove the tube. You may remove any bead buddy tools at this time. You should remove the opposing side of the tire in the same way as outlined for the previous side. When you get to the rim lock, you may have to again press the rim lock stem into the rim and tire, and work the bead off.


When finished, you should have both beads out side of the rim and the wheel will now be in the center of the tire with the tube.
 The rim should work out of the tire and can be set aside. If reusing your tube, install your valve stem core and check for leaks or pinches.


And there you have it! Tire is off, tube is in the tire, no fighting, no pinching.

