 Then wash with cool water to close your pores again.


Wash the vulnerable areas twice a day, but do not scrub so hard you cause irritation.
If you use a cleanser or soap, be sure it is a gentle, oil-free, water-based product. Using oily products can clog your pores making the problem worse.
Wash your hair daily to prevent oils on your hair from dripping onto your skin. If you have particularly oily hair, you can tie it back to keep it off your face.;
, Not only will they be easier to remove, but they shouldn’t clog your pores. Look for ones that are noncomedogenic. This means they have been tested to make sure they don’t cause acne.Heavy foundations, in particular, are likely to contain oils and clog pores.
Always remove your make-up before going to bed. This will prevent you from rubbing it into your pores as you sleep.
Clean your cosmetic brushes regularly to remove any skin oils or dead skin cells that may have accumulated on them. You don’t want to be applying them to your skin with your make-up!

, When tight clothing, backpack straps, helmets, or hats touch your skin, they are holding sweat and oils against it. As they cause friction against your skin, they rub the sweat, oils, dirt, and dead skin cells into your pores.Wear loose fitting clothing for sports. This will let your skin breathe better and minimize contact with the sweaty clothes.
Make sure all backpacks, helmets, and sports equipment fit properly to minimize friction.
Shower after you work out to wash off any oil, sweat, and dirt that may be on your skin. Leaving it on increases the likelihood that it will clog your pores.
 If you touch them, you are transferring oils, dirt, and bacteria from your fingers into the inflamed pore, making it worse.


Picking can cause an open wound which may bleed and then leave you with a scar.
 For some people dairy products, refined sugars, and carbohydrate-rich foods, seems to cause outbreaks.Scientific studies show that eating greasy foods does not cause pimples.Nuts do not cause pimples.Reports on the effect of chocolate on outbreaks of pimples are conflicting, with some saying that chocolate does not cause acne,and others saying that it may make it worse., Some people are more prone to breakouts when they are exposed to the sun. Use a non-oily skin moisturizer with sunscreen in it to protect your skin., Stress doesn’t cause pimples, but if you are prone to them, it may make them worse. Stress causes hormonal changes in your body and may increase the amount that you sweat. Several methods of managing stress include:


Exercise daily
Meditation
Get at least eight hours of sleep

