 Tunics are tops that are longer than traditional shirts. Instead of hitting mid-hip, the tunic traditionally hits women at mid-thigh or below. When you pair one of these loose, flowy tops with a lean, skinny bottom, you will create a perfectly proportional outfit every time.


Pick out a tunic that complements your figure. Choose a fabric, pattern, and neckline that matches your personal aesthetic. The hemline should hit at your mid-thigh—this length is ideal for showing off a bit of your legs.
Put on a pair of skinny bottoms. You can wear your favorite skinny jeans, cords, or trousers, a pair of jeggings, or even a pair of patterned or plain leggings.
You can complete this look with a pair of boots, ballet flats, or heels.
Accessorize your long over lean look with a chunky necklace or a scarf, a loose sweater or a tight biker jacket, and a fantastic bag.;
, If your tunic has a longer hemline, consider wearing it as a chic little dress. This slight variation of the long over lean look is ideal for fall and winter. Before you wear your favorite long tunic as a cute shift, make sure it fully covers your bottom.


Find a long tunic in a fabric and cut that complements your personal style. The hemline should hit below your mid-thigh.
Pull on a pair of tights. You can choose between sheer nylons, patterned tights, and sweater tights.
Complete your look with a pair of boots.
You can accessorize your look with a belt or sash, necklace or scarf, and bangles or a watch., During the warmer months, it may be too hot to wear pants, leggings, or tights under your tunic. You don’t need to pack up your favorite tunics. Instead, you can continue to wear your these tops with shorts, capris or shorts.


Pick out a lightweight, flowy tunic to wear. The material and cut should match your unique aesthetic.
Choose a pair of shorts, capris, or a pencil skirt that is clearly visible under your tunic’s hemline.
Add a pair of sandals or heels to complete the summery look.
Accessorize your tunic with a delicate necklace, a light shawl or sweater, and a casual bag.