 Wearing a bra that is too big will not make your breasts look larger. That is why it is important to wear the right size bra for you. You can visit a lingerie shop and have them measure you to help you fit a bra to your size, or measure yourself before you shop for a new bra to ensure that you get a good fit.Use a flexible tape measure, like one found in a sewing kit. Wrap the measuring tape around the top of your rib cage just below your breasts. Check the measurement and then round this measurement to the nearest even number to determine your bust size.
Measure around your body and across the nipples to find your cup size. The difference in inches between your bust measurement and this measurement is what determines the cup size. If you have less than an inch of difference, then you are an AA cup, a difference of one inch is an A cup, a difference of two inches is a B cup, a difference of three inches is a C cup, etc.
Your breast size will change as you grow and gain or lose weight. Re-measure yourself periodically when you feel you may have had a change in your breast size and need a new bra.;
, One way to increase your breast size with your bra is to look for a bra that is padded. Some bras even promise that they will make your breasts look like they are a full cup size larger. Look for a padded bra that provides the level of padding that you are looking for.


Try on a few different padded bras to find the padding level that works for you.
 Padding comes in a variety of materials, so you can also look for a bra with a specific type of padding.Foam or silicone rubber padding is common, effective and comfortable.
Gel and liquid padding was created to give a more natural breast-like feel to the touch.
Some padded bras have a pocket which allows you to remove the padded inserts if you choose.
 Some bras are more effective than others at increasing your breast size. Try to choose a bra that will give your breasts the lift and support they need to look larger. Some popular choices include:


Demi cup bras. Demi cup bras are cut lower and closer to the nipple to allow more of your breast to spill over the top. The extra exposed skin will provide more cleavage.Push-up bra. The wires in an underwire push-up bra run along the bottom of the breasts in the front of the bra. Some people find underwire push-up bras uncomfortable, but they lift and support your breasts, which can make your breasts look larger.