 This method cuts off your posts after 50 characters. This method might be good enough if you mostly post links or photos. If you want to share written posts, try a different method instead.

This method is also much easier if you have access to a computer, although it can be done on a mobile device with some workarounds.
 You can do this from a mobile phone, a tablet, or a computer. If you can't find the options described below using a mobile Facebook app, try logging in on your mobile browser instead, at http://m.facebook.com

, Click the small, downward arrow in the top right of any Facebook page. Select Settings from the drop-down menu.
 Access your Mobile settings by clicking the link on the left-hand column of the settings page.
 In order to use this method, you'll need to associate a mobile phone number with your Facebook account, and that phone must have texting enabled. Don't worry: instructions are included below that will keep your number private and spam-free, if that's what you want. First, follow these steps to enable a phone:


Click +Add a Phone. A window should open called "Activate Facebook Texts."
Choose your region and mobile carrier from the drop down menu, then click Next.
Text the letter F to the number 32665 from the phone you want to add. While waiting for a reply, you can decide whether to uncheck the options that share your phone number and allow Facebook friends to text you.
When you receives a text reply, enter the confirmation code listed into the window, then click Next.
 The Mobile settings page should now have several options listed, with a "post-by-email address" displayed near the bottom of the page. This is a meaningless string of letters and numbers ending with "@m.facebook.com." Copy-paste it into another document, or write it down.


It sometimes takes about 20 minutes for the address to show up.Try refreshing your page if it doesn't show up within a few minutes.
 By default, the phone you linked to your Facebook account can receive Facebook messages as texts. To change this, change the new Mobile settings to "Never text me" and/or "maximum 1 text per day."

, If you are on a mobile device, skip to the next step instead. If you do have access to a computer, log in to your Google+ account. After logging in, click Your circles near the top of the page, underneath the search bar. Once you're taken to a new page, click the large +. Name the circle "Facebook Posting" and add your Facebook post-by-email address as a new contact. Sharing with this circle should post to your Facebook account as well!

, You only need to follow this step if you could not follow the previous step. Most mobile devices will not allow you to type in new email addresses, so this gets a little roundabout:


Log in to the Google+ app, then touch the icon in the top right and select Settings. Make a note of which email address is linked to your account, or press Add account if you don't have one. (Gmail accounts may make this more reliable.)
Log in to that email account on your mobile browser. Make a new contact called "Facebook Posting," entering the special Facebook post-by-email address you found above.
Return to the main page of the Google+ app. Select the "people" icon on the top right (two silhouetted faces).
Select See more people and pages at the bottom of the page.
Scroll all the way down to the bottom of the page, then press Create a new circle. Name this circle "Facebook Posting" and press OK.
Scroll through your circles to find the "Facebook Posting" circle. Press one of the blue people icons, then Find people to add.
Once again, select See more people and pages at the bottom of the page.
Scroll down to your "Email contacts" section and press View all. Scroll through these and select the "Facebook Posting" contact. Add this to your "Facebook Posting" Circle. Now every time you share with that circle, your post will be shared with Facebook as well. (If you do not see this contact, you may need to wait for your Google+ app to sync with your email.)

