 This could be more mental, like sleeping enough to operate at your highest level of efficiency. It also could be quite practical, like making sure you have all your needed supplies and uniform. Try to prepare the night before, setting out your clothes and work bag in a place where you can easily access them.When you wake up, everything will be laid out for you and ready to go.
 Before each work week, you should organize your schedule for the entirety of the week. It's also beneficial to plan out each work day into a separate daily schedule. Make sure that you're comfortable not only with the work you'll have to do each way, but also with the amount of work that you've committed to for the week. If you plan realistically for your own workflow pace, then you can avoid falling behind.


Use a priority matrix to help you organize responsibilities in a simple, direct way.Any task that falls into the First Quadrant should be taken care of immediately. That way, you won't miss any deadlines. This will give you ample time to work on important Second Quadrant tasks, which you can complete at a comfortable and productive pace. This will also showcase your highest capabilities as an employee. Using this method of organization will prevent you from wasting time on unimportant busy work or forgetting about important tasks that aren't yet urgent.
 Whether you’re taking public transportation or driving, the commute can be a great time to shut out outside stress and attempt to reduce it in a healthy way.


You may want to use this time to manage loose ends in your job itself, i.e. responding to emails, but it’s often best to focus elsewhere during your commute, if you can. Listen to a podcast or journal on the train. If you hold yourself to a day of productivity, you should feel comfortable taking this time for yourself.
 Even though the work week can be long, it’s highly beneficial for both you and your co-workers if you keep up a positive energy. Your negative attitude can have a much larger effect on the group than you might think.If you tune others out throughout the day or allow mistakes to frustrate you, you'll not only be less efficient, but will also damage relationships with your co-workers, precipitating a more hostile work environment.
 There are countless ways to distract yourself from your work, especially while working at jobs that require a great deal of computer usage. From Facebook to Instagram to reading articles in the New Yorker, any excessive web surfing can really take your mind off of completing your work.If you receive an email or message from a friend online, don't feel the pressure to respond. Send them a short message letting them know that you'll get back to them when you have time, or just save your response until after work, especially if it doesn't seem urgent.
Even if you do have some downtime at work, don't fall back on these distractions. If these forces stop you from completing your work, you'll regret it at the end of your work day, spilling your job stress into your personal life. Avoid it!

, If you are falling behind, don’t push your incomplete work until the next day. It will end up piling up over time, and you’ll finish your work week unsatisfied and frustrated.


If you're attempting to get a week ahead, there are many strategies for completing extra work.Don't think about this as completing additional work in a more expedited way. Instead, imagine that you're still working at your normal pace, but simply doing work for the future. This will probably require dipping into your relaxation or social time for the present, but if you know that you're getting ahead for upcoming leisure time, you'll thank yourself later.
 It's okay to kindly refuse an offer to take on more work at your job.When you're just starting at a company or hoping to move up, you might feel the pressure to accept all offers thrown your way. If you know that you can't handle any additional responsibilities, you can be honest about this with your employer. Here are some guidelines to know when saying "no" might be appropriate:


You're already a little behind, or feeling overwhelmed by your current workload.
There aren't enough hours in the day. This might seem simplistic, but look at your current schedule to figure out if you actually have enough free hours to take on more work.
You won't be able to complete your other responsibilities if you take on a heavier load.
You aren't qualified for the tasks that have been laid out for.
The company's progress might suffer because of your inability to complete your tasks.
 At the end of the day, you should be satisfied by your work. Even if it’s a day job that doesn’t align completely with your passions, something about the job, whether it’s the work environment or the cause that your work supports, should inspire you. Never forget why you wanted the job in the first place.


If you can’t find a reason for liking your job, find a new one. It’s very hard to get yourself unstuck from a bad job, but if you aren't happy working there, then it will benefit you to look elsewhere.

