 Long hours in front of a computer screen can actually reduce the number of times you blink, which dries your eyes out. Make an effort to blink frequently to keep your eyes moist. If you’re still having trouble, artificial tears may help.If you use artificial tears that contain preservatives, do not use them more than 4 times a day. Using these tears too often can actually make your eye problems worse! If your artificial tears don’t contain preservatives, you can use them as often as you need.
Using a humidifier can also help your eyes stay moist and refreshed.
 Not drinking enough water can make your eyes feel dry, itchy, and sore. If you’re dehydrated, you won’t be able to produce enough tears to keep your eyes moisturized. If you’re a man, drink at least 13 cups (3 liters) of water a day. If you’re a woman, drink at least 9 cups (2.2 liters) per day., Makeup can clog the oil glands in your skin and cause irritation and even infection. Take extra care to remove all eye makeup, such as mascara and eyeshadow.


You can use baby shampoo or specially formulated eye makeup remover. The most important thing is to make sure you remove all your makeup every day.
 This may take a bit of trial and error, as even brands marked "hypo-allergenic" may irritate your own eyes. Try small amounts of different eye makeup made for sensitive eyes to see whether you can find one that works best for you.


If you continue to have trouble with makeup, talk to your dermatologist. S/he may be able to recommend makeup that won't irritate your eyes.
 If you have dry, red, or itchy eyes, you may find that an eyelid scrub helps. You can use baby shampoo or a mild, non-irritating, sulfate-free shampoo to give your eyelids a good scrub.Doing this can help the natural oils on your skin flow freely and provide better lubrication to your eyes.Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and warm water.
Mix equal parts baby shampoo and warm water in a small bowl.
Use a clean washcloth (a different one for each eye) to rub the solution gently across your eyelashes and the edge of your eyelid.
Rinse with clean, warm water.
Use the scrub twice a day.
 When you’re reading, light reflecting off the page or screen can cause glare, which may cause eye soreness. Position your lamp or light source behind you, or use a shaded lamp., Setting up an ergonomically correct workstation can help prevent you from getting sore eyes. Slouching over a computer desk can cause not only eye strain, but also muscle aches and fatigue.Sit at least 20-26 inches away from your computer monitor. Keep the monitor at a comfortable level so you don’t have to slump down or stare up to see it.
Reduce glare. Use a glare filter over your screen and change the lighting in your office, it possible. Old-fashioned fluorescent lights that flicker can cause eye strain and headaches. Newer compact fluorescent (CFL) bulbs don’t have these effects., If your eyes frequently get red, itchy, teary, or tired, you might be reacting to something in your environment. Common irritants include cigarette smoke, smog, and pet dander.If you get thick or green discharge from your eyes, see a doctor immediately. This might be a symptom of bacterial conjunctivitis, or “pinkeye.”, Feeling stressed or anxious can make your eyes hurt. Using relaxation techniques for even a few minutes throughout the day can help your eyes stay refreshed.Place your elbows on your workstation. With your palms facing up, allow your head to fall into your hands. Close your eyes and cover them with your hands. Inhale deeply through your nose, allowing your stomach to fill with air. Hold this breath for 4 seconds and then slowly exhale. Repeat for 15-30 seconds several times a day.
Massage your face. Gently massaging the muscles around your eyes can help prevent soreness. Use your fingertips to make light circular motions on your upper eyelid for 10 seconds. Next, make light circular motions on your lower eyelid for 10 seconds. This massage can help stimulate your tear glands and relax your muscles.Use light pressure on your face. Gently tapping on your face can help reduce eye strain and keep your eyes from feeling sore and tired. Tap your forehead gently about one inch above your eyebrows. Then, tap gently on the point where your eyebrow arches. Press gently right between your eyebrows. Next, tap your inner eyebrow, then your outer eyebrow. Finally, pinch the bridge of your nose., If you stare at a computer screen for many hours a day, wearing preventive glasses may help reduce eye strain. Some glasses that have been developed to help prevent your eyes from getting dry and sore. Look for amber-tinted lenses that can help neutralize harsh screen glare.


Gunnar Optiks has a range of glasses designed specifically for heavy-duty gamers. Their specially shaped lenses may help keep your eyes from feeling strained and drying out. The amber lenses can reduce glare., We’re surrounded by screens: computers, tablets, phones, TVs...all of these produce glare that can wear on your eyes. You may not be able to just ditch your screens, but there are some things you can do to keep them from hurting your eyes.Reduce blue light. Blue light can cause glare and may even cause eye damage if you’re exposed to it too much.Use a blue light filter on your tablet and cellphone, and reduce the backlight option on your TV. You can also purchase anti-reflective (AR) or anti-glare lenses for your glasses, which can help reduce the effects of blue light.
Purchase an anti-glare filter for your computer screen and TV. You can also turn down the contrast on your computer monitor.
Clean your screens frequently. Dust, smears, and smudges can create glare, which will cause eye strain.