 After you create the band of your hat, it’s time to start making the puffy top of the hat. To begin, take a rectangular sheet of white tissue paper and make ¼ inch (.63 cm) pleats along one of the shorter edges of the tissue paper. Make around five pleats.


Make the pleats by pinching the tissue paper between your fingers, then creasing the paper into a pleat. Make the pleats about 5 inches (12.7 cm) tall.
 After you’ve created around five pleats, lay the pleated edge of the tissue paper over the paper band you created, overlapping by about ½ inch (1.2 cm). Then tape the tissue paper onto the band by placing a strip of tape so that it covers the pleated section and some of the long paper band., Continue pleating the tissue doing five pleats at a time, taping each section to the band of paper. Continue until the pleats reach the halfway point of the band., You also need to make pleats on the opposite end of the tissue paper. Create ¼ inch (.63 cm) pleats like you did for the other end of the tissue paper, this time taping over the pleats without attaching them to anything. Make sure that the strip of tape is folded lengthwise over the edge of the tissue paper, so that it covers both sides of the pleats., Place the chef’s hat upright so that it stands on its horizontal band. The pleated tissue paper should be standing straight up in the air. Take the tissue paper and fold it downward halfway along its height, making the hat half as tall as before., Take the edge of tissue paper that you just folded over and tuck it inside the band of the hat, overlapping by about ½ inch (1.27 cm). Then tape the tissue paper to the inside of the band.Tape the unattached tissue paper by placing the hat on its side, reaching in through the open band of the hat and taping the pleats to the band on the inside.
It’s ok there are gaps on either side of the tissue paper. You will correct this later.
 You should see that there are still two open sections of tissue paper that haven’t been tucked inside the hat that form an upside down U shape. Pinch the pleats of this tissue paper together, then pull the tissue paper and tuck it inside the brim of the hat.Tape the unattached tissue paper to the inside of the hat to secure it.
 By now, your chef’s hat is complete! You may want to stick your hand up inside the hat and spread out the tissue paper to make it fluff up. You should be left with a tall, fluffed chef’s hat that is ready to wear!