 It's best to place them in a "clean-field", such as on a piece of kitchen roll, so that you can be sure you are being as hygienic as possible. You will need to make sure you have a vial of insulin, a new cartridge, and a new tubing set if you are going to change that as well.;
, Pull the plunger up and down a few times without pulling it right out to lubricate the inside of the cartridge. This will help to ensure the O-rings don't leak.
 The filler cap is specially designed to fit the top of insulin vials, so this should be nice and easy.
 Keep pushing until the plunger reaches the bottom of the insulin cartridge.
 Make sure you keep the plunger pressed to the bottom while you do this.
 The pressure that is built up in the insulin vial will push it out naturally, and once it stops you can pull it until you have drawn as much insulin as you want into the cartridge.
 They should both simply pull off: a little twist is required to remove the filler cap.
 Little "champagne" bubbles are nothing to worry about, but if there are any larger bubbles, tap the cartridge to move them to the top and then gently push the plunger to push them out. See the Tips below for more information on removing bubbles.
 This is done by twisting gently in an anti-clockwise direction. You might want to put the little protective cap on the cartridge at this point until you need it later.
 To do this, press the menu key once until the Stop sign shows and then the tick key. Follow the instructions that come with your infusion set to disconnect from your body.
 To do this, twist in an anti-clockwise direction. You should then do the same again to remove the luer-lock connection between your cartridge and your tubing set, before pulling the cartridge out.
, A warning screen will appear prompting you to remove the cartridge.
 Wait for the plunger to rewind all the way back.
 If it doesn't, press either of the arrow buttons to wind the plunger up a notch until it is level.
 If there is a gap between the plunger and the stopper at this point, you should unscrew it again and adjust using the arrow buttons until the gap no longer exists.
 The self-checks will begin.
 Then press the tick button on the Infusion Set Priming screen.
 If the priming volume is not suitable, you will need to change in the settings. Refer to the manual for this.
 When a drop appears at the end, you should press the tick button to stop the priming.
 Your pump is now ready to go until the next cartridge change!

