 Distraction is simply paying attention to something else instead of your nervous feelings. Distraction can be a very helpful tool in order to reduce negative emotions in the short-term. Some examples of ways to distract yourself from feeling nervous include: playing a game, watching television or a movie, cooking, or cleaning.
Try relaxing activities to soothe yourself such as: reading, taking a shower, taking a bubble bath, lighting candles or using aromatherapy.
Listen to music. If you have a favorite song, listen to it and get your mind off your nerves.
Use pets as therapy. Pets can be comforting in times of stress. You can cuddle with your pet. You could even practice whatever you are nervous about in front of your pet before you attempt it in real-life.
Write it down. Writing about your feelings can be very therapeutic. Instead of keeping it all in you can put it on paper and release some of the worry.;
, There is a reason actors have warm-up techniques involving their body before going out on stage. Moving your body releases tension in your muscles and can reduce your nervousness or “jitters.”Often when we are nervous our body reacts, and we may notice tension, stomach upset (also known as butterflies), or even headaches. This is the consequence of pent up nervousness in the body. When you move, some of this tension can be released in a therapeutic way.


Shake it out! Try shaking each part of your body starting with your arms, upper body, and then your legs until all of your body is shaking.
Try dancing. Dancing to music you like is a great way to relieve some of those jittery feelings from your body. You could also look up YouTube videos and try an aerobic dance routine.
Jump up and down. Move around randomly or in a silly way. Have fun with it.
 The best way to reduce feeling nervous about something is to do it, and then do it again. Practice doing what are you nervous about over and over. This may increase your confidence and reduce your nervousness.


Fake it until you make it. Pretend that you are confident about what you are doing and that you are the absolute expert in this activity (whether simply making small talk or giving a speech). Act in a way that you think a calm and confident person might act.
 If your nervousness or anxiety disrupts your daily life in that you have trouble completing your obligations or interacting socially, it may benefit you to seek professional help.


Contact a therapist, social worker, or psychologist for therapy in order to help you learn new techniques and ways to treat your nervousness.
Contact a general practitioner (medical doctor) or psychiatrist to discuss possible medications.

