 There are a variety of ways to wear tank tops with your boyfriend jeans and all of them will make you look great. Here are some options to try:


Wear the jeans with a bright colored tight-fitting tank top.
Wear the jeans with a simple black tank top that exposes just an inch of your belly.
Wear the jeans with a flouncy tank top.
Wear the jeans with a simple white tank top and a black cardigan.
Wear the jeans with a knitted white belly shirt.
Wear the jeans with a spaghetti strap tank top or a halter top.
 Your boyfriend jeans may give you a bit of a casual look, but you can dress up your outfit with a feminine dressy top that makes the pants look fancier. Here are some fantastic ideas:


A polka-dotted sleeveless button down shirt will look great with a light pair of boyfriend jeans.
Wear a long-sleeved almost-sheer button down shirt with a pair of light jeans.
Wear a pair of dark jeans with a tight-fitting black turtleneck sweater.
 There are plenty of ways to pair your boyfriend jeans with a casual top for a cute but everyday look. Here are a few tops to try with your new pair of boyfriend jeans:


Wear a loose-fiting v-neck white t-shirt and tuck the front into your jeans. Let the sides of the shirt hang down.
Wear the jeans with an everyday graphic tee.
Wear the jeans with a striped v-neck t-shirt.
Wear the jeans with a tight long-sleeved boat neck shirt.
 Boyfriend jeans also look great with a variety of sweaters. Here are a few sweaters to try:


Wear a purple knitted fitted sweater that hangs just below your waist with a pair of light jeans.
Wear a pair of dark jeans with a tight-fitting black turtleneck sweater.
For a warm and fun look, pair the jeans with a poncho.
 There are a variety of ways to pair your boyfriend jeans with a cute jacket and a shirt underneath it. Here are a few styles to try:Pair your jeans with a simple gray t-shirt under a fitted black blazer.
Pair your jeans with a tight-fitting gray t-shirt and a short and snug leather jacket.
Pair your jeans with a long white t-shirt and a cropped dark blue jacket.

