, It is completely safe to use on your hair and scalp.If you like using essential oils, you can add them to the cleansing solution during this step. A tablespoon of lemon juice will help kill any odors and prevent mildew.
It is recommended that you only use this method to clean your locks once every couple of weeks, as the baking soda can make your hair dry and brittle over time. For more regular washings, use a residue-free shampoo.
 Submerge your dreadlocks into the baking soda solution up to the roots. Soak your locks for up to 10 minutes, or longer if you’re in need of a deep clean. As your dreadlocks soak, the baking soda will strip away dirt, oil, debris and other unwanted buildup.If you don’t have the time or space needed to soak your dreadlocks, you can mix up the solution and pour it directly over your head for a quick cleanse., Remove your dreadlocks from the baking soda bath and wring out the excess solution. Turn on the faucet or hop in the shower and give your locks a quick rinse to clear away any lingering traces of the baking soda solution or foreign matter. Rinse until the water runs clear. Be sure that your scalp gets some direct exposure to the water as well.The dirt, oil, dead skin and other detritus that’s been removed from your hair will be visible in the discoloration of the water. You might be surprised how much cleaner your locks will feel afterwards!

, Pour this through your locks after rinsing out the baking soda solution. This will neutralize any remaining baking soda, balance the pH of your scalp, and smooth loose hair frizz. You can leave this in (any vinegar smell will dissipate as it dries) or rinse it out., Give your dreadlocks ample time to dry. If you’re in a hurry, use a hair dryer on the ends and shafts of your locks and allow your roots to finish air drying. Your dreadlocks should be dry before you cover them with a hat, tam or scarf. Otherwise, these items will trap remaining moisture in the locks and make it harder for it to escape.Squeeze as much water out of your locks as you can before letting them air dry or trying other drying methods.
Wrapping your dreadlocks in a dry towel can help draw water out of them at a faster rate.