 There are two types of cookies: the type that you roll out and cut into shapes, and the type that you roll into balls and drop onto a baking sheet. Choose a cookie recipe where you roll the dough into balls and drop onto a baking sheet. You can also use a store-bought, refrigerated dough instead.

Try a soft chocolate chip cookie recipe or a soft sugar cookie recipe.
 You can also use two 6-well muffin tins, as long as they are both standard sized., How you prepare the dough depends on the recipe, as each one will be a little different Follow the recipe exactly. Stop when you finish mixing and kneading the dough.

Most recipes will tell you to preheat the oven to 350°F (177°C), but your recipe may be different.
 You can do this with a large cookie scoop or with an ice cream scoop, but make sure that each well has the same amount. The cookie dough will spread out in the wells and fill them. Don't indent anything yet; you'll do that at the end., Keep in mind that the exact baking times may vary depending on the recipe that you used. The cookie cups are ready when the edges start to turn brown.

Have a small spice jar ready for the next step.
 As soon as the cookie cups finish baking, take the muffin tin out of the oven and place it onto a heat-safe surface. Press a small spice jar into the center of each cookie cup to make a well. Do this while the cookie cups are still warm; do not wait for them to cool.If you have another muffin tin, you can use it to indent the cookie cups instead. Simply place it on top of the cups, and press down on it lightly.
 Let the cups cool in the muffin tin for about 10 minutes. Invert the muffin tin, and let them drop out onto the counter. Place the cups onto a wire cooling rack, and let them finish cooling, about 10 minutes more.If a cup gets stuck in the tin, you can twist it loose or pry it out with a paring knife., Use a spoon to fill the cups with your favorite filling. Great ideas include custard or pudding, mousse, or no-bake cheesecake.For a cold, tasty treat, scoop some ice cream into each cup, then put them into the freezer to freeze and harden.