 Make sure that the water in your horse’s trough is clean and not frozen. Keep the trough clean as well by hosing it out every day., Horses eat large quantities of grass as their main source of food. In fact, horses should eat about 15-20 pounds or 1-2% of their body weight in hay every day, so make sure that your horse always has plenty of hay to eat.Make sure that the hay you feed your horse is free of mold and dust., Every day, horses can also have a ½ pound of grain per 100 pounds of body weight. Feed grain to your horse in two or three evenly spaced feedings during the day.Make sure to measure the grain portions that you feed your horse to make sure that you are giving her the correct amount.If the weather is hot, feed grain to your horse during the cooler hours of the day, such as early in the morning and later in the evening.
 Your horse’s nutritional needs will vary according to the amount of fresh grass she has consumed while out to pasture and the level of activity she has had. Evaluate your horse’s needs daily to determine whether to subtract or add from her regular feeding amounts.If your horse has been out to pasture all day and has been eating lots of grass, she will not require as much hay.
If your horse has had a hard work day with lots of riding, then you will need to provide more food to help replenish the extra calories she burned.
 Don’t feed your horse right before or right after she has finished doing something strenuous because blood flow will be diverted away from her organs and that can interfere with digestion. Plan feedings around your horse’s scheduled activity.If your horse will be doing something extra strenuous, schedule her feeding for three hours before the activity.
 If you need to change your horse’s feed, do not just switch to the new feed. Start by replacing 25% of the old feed with the new feed. In two days, replace 50% of the old feed with the new feed. Two days after that, replace 75% of the old feed with the new feed. Then two days after that you will be able to give your horse 100% new feed.


In addition to making food changes gradually, you should also feed your horse at about the same time every day. Horses perform better when they have a regular feeding schedule.
Making drastic changes to your horse’s feed or feeding schedule can lead to equine colic and founder. Equine colic is a condition that causes severe abdominal pain and may even require surgery. Founder is a condition that causes poor circulation and can even lead to the separation of the hoof from the foot. Founder is often fatal.