 You can prevent feelings of isolation and loneliness if you expand your social network. One way to do this is to open yourself and learn a new skill or topic.Taking classes or lessons gives you the opportunity to meet people that you might not meet otherwise. It can also keep you from feeling alone and unconnected to others.


For example, take a foreign language class to expose yourself to different cultures and to interact with other people.
Try something active like a team sport. This will give you the chance to get some physical activity and widen your social circle.;
, This is a way to give back and boost your community as well as support causes you care about. It also helps prevent you from feeling isolated. This is because it gives you the chance to meet people with similar interests and concerns and meet people in your community.Talk to leaders in the community like your religious leader, coach, or a school counselor about ways that you can volunteer. For example, “You might say, I’d like to volunteer, do you have any suggestions?”
When possible, volunteer to do things that will allow you to interact with other people. For example, instead of volunteering to stuff envelopes, you might volunteer to meet visitors at an event.
 One way that you can connect with others and prevent feelings of isolation is to ask someone close to you to introduce you to new people.Having a mutual friend introduce you to others can help make meeting people less awkward for you.


For example, you might tell your sister, “When we go to the party tonight, would you mind introducing me to a few people since I won’t know anyone?”
Or for instance, if you are starting a new job you might ask your HR representative or supervisor to introduce you to key people you may need to know.
 In order for you to prevent feelings of isolation and expand your social network, you’ll have to believe that you can meet new people. Believing in yourself will give you the confidence you need to introduce yourself to others and widen your circle of friends.When you meet new people, remind yourself that you are a great person who is capable of making new friends. Try saying, “I believe that I can meet new people. I don’t have to feel isolated or lonely.”
Make a list of all the reasons someone would want to spend time with you. For example, you might write, “I’m quirky, thoughtful, interesting, and a great listener.”
Give yourself a daily compliment. For instance, when you’re getting dressed in the morning, you could tell yourself, “I’m a great person and I’m going to have a great day with the people around me.”

