 Go in to the settings of every last one of your existing accounts and profiles, and customize the privacy. For any existing profiles or accounts you wish to keep entirely public, for example a Tumblr blog, make sure that your full name is not listed anywhere on the blog or page, and that the account is not associated with your name in a search from any of the main search engines (Google, Yahoo, Bing etc.).


For Facebook, open up the Privacy menu and click See more settings. Next to Limit the audience for posts you've shared with friends of friends or Public?, click Limit Past Posts. This will make all your past posts friends-only.For Twitter, open up Settings and click Security and privacy. Under Privacy, there will be a Tweet privacy option -- check the box next to this to make your Tweets private and viewable only to your followers. Repeat this process for any other online accounts you possess, including but not limited to Google+, Youtube, Instagram, Snapchat, Tumblr and more.;
, This isn't limited to just Google. You need to control the search results attached to your name in all major search engines. Search for your name with keywords such as your location and your profession (i.e. John Smith Portland, John Smith marketing consultant). Do a search using any nicknames or usernames that may be associated with your real name. Then take steps to remove any negative information.


Find any content that fits in the following categories: embarrassing or inappropriate photos, negative or inappropriate language or strong opinions, complaints about current or former employers, poor grammar or spelling, references to illegal activity, drinking, or drug use, legal challenges, blatant self promotion, inconsistencies between your resume and online presence, and any indication that a candidate lacks maturity or good judgement. These are all "red flags" to employers.Contact Google directly. Google will remove sensitive information such as financial information, your phone number, an image of your handwritten signature, or a nude or sexually explicit image or video of you that’s been shared without your consent. It can also remove copyrighted content. Google can remove the content from their search engines, but it can still be found through the direct URL, or through other search engines.
Send requests to blog owners and webmasters to remove problematic content. This is the most effective way to remove content, as the webmaster can delete the page or item entirely. Phrase the request politely, explain why you want it removed, and that you are job hunting. If the content is defamatory, libelous, or inaccurate, say so. If the webmaster in question refuses to remove the content, and it is very damaging to you, you may wish to pursue legal options. If the content constitutes slander or defamation, you can sue to have it removed. Certain types of content, such as mug shots, are illegal in certain states. , Social media profiles tend to rank highly in search engines, which means it's often one of the top results when a name is searched in Google or another search engine. Social media accounts have a strong effect on your online reputation and by extension, what impression the potential employer will have of you.


Remove anything you have posted that could reflect badly on you, even if it is now hidden behind a privacy wall. It can always be shared via social media or screenshot by people who are connected with you. Remove racist, sexist, or generally offensive posts or comments, inappropriate jokes, and unprofessional photos. Ask connections to remove anything they have posted that could reflect badly on you. This can include asking friends and acquaintances to untag you in photos or delete posts about you. Mention that it is to help you in your job search so they are motivated to delete the content quickly. If they do not do so, untag yourself and remove the content at least from your own wall or profile.
Do not simply delete all your social media profiles. An employer who searches for you will wonder why you have no social media presence. Worse, any negative item related to your name, in the present or future, will instantly become the top search result. Delete active social media profiles only as a last resort.
 In some cases, the results from search engines and the content on social media may be too damaging. If you are not able to have it all taken down, it's worth it to consider using a variation of your name as your professional name.


If necessary, change both the name on your accounts and the name on your professional content so there's no resemblance. For example, you can use your first name and middle name on personal profiles, and your first name and last name for professional purposes. There are many possible variations; the important thing is to create a distance between those two names.
If you choose to use different names, also separate your online presence into different email addresses. Many social networks have options to allow anyone to search users by email address or find users in their contact list by email address. , Taking control of your online reputation will greatly help your job prospects. Creating new content makes potential preexisting negative content less visible and harder to find.


Get your own domain name. This serves two purposes. It prevents someone other than you from presenting themselves as you, and instead firmly establishes a positive presence for your identity online. Domains cost around $15 per year or less to register. Using your domain you can then build a website, blog, or portfolio to establish your reputation online. Even a Tumblr page can rank high in search results if your name is used.
Use the established website or blog as as a professional branding tool. Post content with interesting articles or issues relating to your interests or line of work. This will help push any negative content online down in search results, and impress an employer who may be reviewing your online presence. Create new social media profiles. If you do not have social media profiles on all the most popular applications, or if your old ones were so problematic you simply had to delete them, set up new ones. Clearly brand these to your name. Customize the URL so that it includes your professional name. Add friends and attempt to grow followers, while carefully curating the content. This will greatly assist in creating a positive online reputation.