 Include the street address, city, state, and zip code in a block that is left-aligned and single-spaced.The city, state, and zip code are included on the same line, while the street address has its own line.
If you send a letter using a professional letterhead that includes this information, skip this step. Do not repeat the sender's address twice.;
, Type the date the letter was written or the date it was finished, whichever you prefer.


The date should be left aligned, just like the address directly above it.
Write the date in month-day-year format. Write out the month in text, but use numbers to write the day and year. For example: February 9, 2013.
 This will set the address nicely apart from the next section.

Use a reference line when replying to another letter, job ad, or request for information.
Follow the optional reference line with a blank line to separate it from the next portion of the letter.
 Include the recipient's name and title, as well as the name of the company, street address, city, state, and zip code.


All of this information should be left-aligned and single-spaced. The recipient's name should be written on its own line, as should the recipient's title, name of the company, and street address. The city, state, and zip code are included on the same line.
If sending the letter to another country, include the name of the country in all capital letters on its own separate line below the address.
Address the letter to a specific person, whenever possible, and address that person with an appropriate title such as "Mr." or "Ms." If you are uncertain about the recipient's gender, skip the title.
Follow the entire address with a blank line.
 A typical salutation begins with "Dear," followed by the recipient's personal title and last name. The name is followed by a comma.


The salutation should be left-aligned.
If you do not know the recipient's gender, you can address that individual by his or her full name, or proceed the last name with his or her job title.
Leave a blank line after the salutation.
 Type the subject line in all capital letters below the salutation and keep it left aligned.


Keep the subject line brief yet descriptive. Try to keep it to one line.
Note that this is not conventional and should be used sparingly.
Do not include the subject line if you included a reference line.
Include a blank line after the subject line if you included it.
 Left-align the paragraphs and but feel free to use indentations at the beginning of paragraphs.
 This section should elaborate on the purpose of your letter and should also include a conclusion that sums things up.


Type a concise body section. Single-space each paragraph, but leave a blank line between each paragraph and after the final paragraph.
 Examples of polite closings include "Sincerely," "Best regards," or "Thank you." Remember to left align the closing and follow it with a comma.


Only capitalize the first letter of the first word in the closing.
 However, leave three blank lines beneath the closing before typing your full name, followed by your job title on the line below.
 If you are including any, type "Enclosures" one line below your typed name and title and list the enclosures included.


Note that this is not necessary if you do not have any enclosures.
Single-space and left-align the enclosures section.
 If another person typed the letter and you dictated it, include the typist's first and last initial at the very bottom of the letter, one line below the enclosures.
 Hand write your name, preferably in cursive, in between the closing text and your typed name. Signing your letter by hand shows the recipient that you took your own time to send them this letter and thus that it is important.

