 You may want to heat water on the stove or in the microwave, but you have more chance of burning yourself if you heat the water in this way. Instead, run the hot water from your sink to a temperature that is just hot enough for you to tolerate.
 Fold a towel or washcloth to cover only the area you want to place the compress on., Test the towel to make sure it isn't too hot to place on your skin. Then, place it on the affected region.

Leave the towel on for 20 minutes or so, up to three times a day, until your soreness improves.
 Options include:


Have a hot bath.
Have a hot shower.
Go in a hot tub.
Go in a steam room.
Go in a sauna.
 If you are treating sore muscles with heat on a regular basis, it is important to take the following precautions:


Stay hydrated by drinking plenty of water (at least 8 cups a day). Prolonged exposure to heat can cause dehydration so it's important to drink ample water.Be careful not to burn yourself. Check the temperature of the hot towel before using or, if you are using a heating pad or hot water bottle, you should wrap it in a towel or cloth prior to use to ensure you do not burn your skin.Check your skin for blistering. If this occurs, or you experience pain, remove the compress. Your body will generally tell you when things are too hot.
 Heat helps your sore muscle(s) to relax by stimulating the blood flow to the area and diminishing muscle spasms.Muscle pain commonly occurs in over-worked muscles due to the build-up of something called lactic acid.Lactic acid is a metabolic by-product of challenging workouts (or challenging sports games), and you need to increase the blood flow to the sore muscle in order to clear the lactic acid out.Note that if you have chronically sore muscles, heat prior to working out (or prior to a sports event) can help to ease any pain you may feel during the activity itself., If you have a heating pad at home, or a hot water bottle, these can be quick and effective "home remedies" for sore muscles.If you find that you have sore muscles regularly, you may want to invest in a heating pad or a hot water bottle to avoid having to make your own hot compress with a towel and hot water every time.

