 The Mediterranean diet is known to promote a heart-healthy meal plan that also helps keep your muscles strong. It focuses on eating five small meals a day, rather than three large ones. It also emphasizes using olive oil rather than butter because olive oil is a monounsaturated fat (which means it’s a good fat).Meals are generally made up of:


Servings of lean meat like fish, grains, fresh fruits, vegetables, nuts, and legumes can help.
On this diet you can also try to reduce the amount of fatty meat and carbohydrates that you eat each day.
 Don’t let the word ‘fatty’ fool you—omega-3 and omega-6 are two fatty acids that are essential nutrients when it comes to having a healthy body. These two nutrients work together to promote good muscle health; when your muscles are strong, you are less likely to over stress them while working out, which means your CPK levels won’t be as high.


Omega-3 can be found in fish like sardines, anchovies and salmon; eggs, milk, milk products, flaxseeds, and nuts.
Omega-6 can be found in eggs, avocado, nuts, whole-grain breads, and most vegetable oils.
 As mentioned above, blood pressure and heart diseases can increase your CPK levels. You can lower your blood pressure by limiting the amount of salt you eat to approximately 1,500 mg a day. Fatty foods are normally high in salt content and are also linked to obesity, a condition that can cause serious heart issues. Try to stick with low-fat or non-fat products to maintain a healthy weight and a healthy heart.Eat low-fat or non-fat dairy products like skim milk, low-fat yogurt, and cheese.
Avoid very fatty foods like butter, gravies, and lard.
 Increasing your muscle mass can also lead to increased levels of CPK in your blood. Since eating a high protein diet can contribute to having an increased muscle mass, this should be avoided. However, do not eliminate all of the protein from your diet. Eliminating all the protein sources in your diet can cause muscle wasting since the body will try to get the protein it needs from your muscle stores. Muscle wasting entails muscle breakdown and can thus elevate CPK levels.Protein-rich foods include: Beef, pork, chicken, turkey and fish, cheese, eggs, tofu, beans, milk, yogurt, nuts and seeds.
The current recommended daily intake (RDI) of protein is 46 grams for adult women aged 19-70 and 56 grams for adult men aged 19-70. Teenage boys need about 52 grams while girls need 46 grams per day.
 Another reason for an elevated CPK level is drinking alcohol. This is especially true after an episode of binge drinking. Alcohol increases CPK level by acting on muscle tissues. After drinking alcohol, there is stress on the muscle tissues since it is exposed to an increased amount of alcohol in the body.

