 Once the den is built, it might end up as the favorite hangout spot for days or weeks afterward. The kids' bedroom or playroom is an ideal spot, but one corner of a large living room or other spare room could work. Move all valuable and breakable items out of the chosen area, to protect it from the wild den denizens.


Some houses have secret, kid-sized areas underneath the staircase, which are perfect for dens.;
, You can build the den over a bunk bed, a table, the back of a couch, or several chairs. Two or three pieces of heavy furniture are ideal, since you can create space between them.


Lightweight objects like lamps or plastic chairs will just fall over when the blanket is added, so leave those out of it.
To make the structure friendly for adults or tall children, tie a broom to the back of the furniture.
Turn chairs so they face outward, to make the den roomier.
 Move the furniture apart so the sheet is almost taut, and you'll have more room and a more sturdy structure. Some fitted sheets will stay up on their own, but you'll often need to fasten them with clothespins or tape at each corner and halfway along each side.Rough play almost always pulls the sheet down, but dens are so quick and easy to repair that this doesn't matter much.


A stack of heavy books or a few thumbtacks are sometimes necessary, but avoid them if the den is for younger kids. They will get pulled down eventually, and you don't want anyone getting hurt.
For a more permanent den, have a crafty adult mount ceiling hooks and hang the sheet from that.
 If the den feels a little small, add extra chairs and sheets, or set up a tent for an easy extension. Overlapping the sheets can form a more sturdy ceiling, but you may need alligator clips or similar tools to keep it stable.
 Lift the sheet on one side so people can climb in. Drape two small blankets over that entrance instead, so people can push them aside and crawl in.
 Add pillows, blankets, stuffed animals, and toys! To create a real palace, add a chest of games and snacks, a small television, or a miniature fridge. Then climb in and relax for thirty seconds before the first pillow fight starts.

