 Since vellum is a cloudy, translucent surface, it works great for creating classic looking titles and quotes in almost any color. Insert 8.5 by 11 inch vellum paper sheets into your printer as you would normal paper.


Open up a word processing program and type in titles or quotes. If you plan to cut the titles into smaller rectangles before affixing them to your scrapbook page, you can print many titles on the same page of vellum. Once your document with text is completed, print it out on a normal printer. Leave the sheet for at least 5 minutes before removing it from your printer tray, because vellum takes much longer to dry ink than normal paper. Cut the titles and affix them to each page.
Open a photo editing program. Choose a photo that you want to appear as an accent or shadow on your page. Print the photo out on a piece of vellum paper in the size you desire. Cut it into a smaller size and layer it onto your page with adhesive glue.
 Once you have a photo or small card you want to use, cut a piece of vellum in the same size. Place it over the image/card on your scrapbook page and connect the vellum, photo and page with metal brads or ribbon on 1 end.


You may need to use a small paper punch to make an even hole through each layer. The translucent vellum will serve as a cover that the viewer can lift to view the image more clearly.
 Use small decorative paper punches, such as hearts or stars, in an even pattern across a long narrow strip of vellum. Layer it around your photos or entire page for an artful effect, since decorative paper or photos will show through the punched area.


Save the small cut out vellum shapes for use on another page or as a confetti.
 Lay down decorative paper, then affix torn vellum to the page. Layer photographs and titles on top to create artful texture on your page.
 Place a stencil on top of a vellum sheet and draw the shape with a vellum pen. Cut out the image inside and layer above decorative paper or photographs.


You do not need to cut out the stenciled image. If you attach the vellum with brads or ribbon, you can use it as a cover and lift up from the side or bottom to view an image or page.
 Because of vellum's delicacy, it is much easier to buy vellum envelopes for scrapbook use than to try to make the envelopes yourself. Glue the vellum envelopes onto a page to store recipe cards, photos and memorabilia.
 Journaling in scrapbooks allows you to place your own thoughts and handwriting on the page. Use a vellum pen and practice on a sheet of scrap paper before writing your final draft.
 Go over the edges with a colored vellum pen. This detail will create a distinctive border pattern, which you can use to brighten and focus your page.
 Do this slowly so that it does not tear. Smooth it out slightly and glue it on the page for a textured look.
 Decide upon a smaller part of an image that you want to show and cut a square in your piece of vellum. Glue that directly on the photo to camouflage a portion of the picture and highlight a smaller section of the image.

