 One of the best ways to break up the monotony of your day is to set ambitious goals. By setting goals, you’ll challenge yourself and give yourself something to accomplish. Instead of seeing your work or activity as something to simply get through, you’ll see it as something to excel at.


If you’re in sales or a similar occupation, set ambitious performance numbers. For example, try to increase your sales by 10% over the last quarter.
If you’re at school, try to improve your grades. For example, if you’ve been making Cs on your chemistry exams, tell yourself you need to get an A. You’ll likely pay more attention in class.;
, Step out of your comfort zone and try at least one new thing monthly. It doesn’t matter what that new thing is so long as you are challenging yourself and adding interest to your life. Whether the challenge is big or small, you’ll feel like you’re embracing a new part of yourself.

Visit your local community center and take a class or learn a new skill. This would also be a good opportunity for you to meet new people, outside of your normal crowd.
Breaking up your monotony can give you a greater sense of fulfillment, pride and satisfaction.
 Try to develop a game or even a system of tracking your own progress on a given project. By doing this, you’ll keep yourself busy and challenge yourself to meet your goals.


Create a spreadsheet of your sales numbers, projects completed, or similar metrics.
Try putting together a work journal, where you can track your progress and write down any thoughts, ideas, challenges, or anything associated with your progress at work.
Students can use their day planners to record grades, time spent studying, and other indicators of academic progress., Depending on what you’re doing, you can turn your activity during the day into a competition. Whether it be work or school, you’ll add new excitement as you challenge yourself to do better than others around you.


Talk to a coworker or friend and try to set up periodic competitions. For example, see who can make the most sales in the month of February.
Talk to your supervisor or office manager about instituting office competitions or games. Many offices like to institute a weight loss competition in January.