 Does the guy seem to appear out of nowhere with flowers, or just wanting to talk? Maybe it’s because he knows you get to school at the same time every morning. Switch up your routine and see if that helps to avoid him a little better.


If you do have classes together, arrive at the very last minute -- just make sure you have a friend save a seat for you (one that’s not anywhere near him).
Don’t try to change your classes altogether. That could hurt your grades and is not the best solution in the long run.;
, If you do have to arrive at school early or stay late, make sure you keep busy so you’re not alone for long periods of time. He’ll be less likely to approach you if you’re working with a teacher, especially.


See if you can help out around the school. Your librarian could probably use some assistance shelving or sorting books (and that’s the kind of thing that looks good on your college resume, too!).
 Not only will picking up a different hobby help you surround yourself with new people and avoid the guy, but you may also find you’re so busy with a new passion you don’t really care about the situation anymore.Do your research first and make sure it’s not a group the guy is already part of.
If it’s not a good time to join a new club, see if there are any volunteer opportunities in your community you could be part of.
 A good way to change your schedule and your surroundings is to add new people to the mix. Have you noticed someone eating alone at lunch? Join them. Or is there someone who seems to understand concepts in algebra that you just don't get? Ask for help. Making new friends puts you in situations away from your admirer, and you might make long-lasting bonds in the process.


A new friend may also have good advice for how to avoid the guy.
 Popping up in the places where you know he usually hangs out sends the wrong message. Try to stay away from areas where you can usually find him.


Sometimes it’s unavoidable, like if you both play the same sport or have similar schedules. Don't skip school or give up your passions in an effort to avoid him.
If you must be in the same vicinity as each other, stay focused on the task at hand.
 No matter how brave or persistent the guy seems, your admirer is probably too shy to approach you when you’re in a big group of friends. Try to avoid being alone.


Always eat lunch with a group, and try to go to the bathroom with a friend, too.
Your friends may get tired of having to accompany you everywhere if they don’t know why you’re asking them to do it. Be sure to let them know about the situation.

