 It does not matter what type of fabric you use, as you will be using seam tape to fuse them together. You can use the same color for both pieces, or contrasting colors. You can even choose a pattern for one piece, and a solid color for the other.
 Make sure that both pieces match up perfectly. You can make the blanket as large or as small as you like, but keep in mind that most fabric rarely comes wider than 60 inches (152.4 centimeters).
 Two of the pieces need to be the same width as your fabric. The other two pieces need to be the same length as your fabric. If you can't find any iron-on seam tape, you can try using fabric glue instead. Keep in mind, however, that the glue will make your fabric stiffer.
 You will be using it later.
 Make sure that you are folding inward, towards the wrong side. Also, make sure that you are folding one of the narrow ends, not the wide. These folded parts will make the "opening" to your blanket, so that you can later "hem" it shut.
 Make sure that the folded part is facing upwards, away from you.
 Do not place any iron-on seam tape on the top, folded edge. If you need to, pin the iron-on seam tape in place. Stick the pins vertically into the fabric, with the ball/head part sticking out beyond the edge of the fabric. This way, you can pull them out.
 Make sure that the folded top edge is facing away from you. It should be aligned with the folded top edge of the bottom fabric. If you need to, pin the two pieces of fabric together.
 Set your iron to the temperature specified by packaging from the iron-on seam tape. Run it over the bottom and side edges of your blanket. If you don't have the packaging anymore, then set your iron to the appropriate setting for the fabric you are using.
 Remember the hole you left along the top edge of the fabric? Pull your blanket through that hole. The seams should now be on the inside. The folded part should also be on the inside.
 If you plan on using your blanket as a duvet cover, skip this step. Consider using a quilt batting made out of polyester; it is more likely to keep its shape than a cotton or wool one.
 Make sure that you place it right between the two folded edges. Align the top edge of the seam tape with the top edge of the blanket. Pin the tape in place, if necessary.


If you want to completely close your blanket, trim the tape down so it fits the length of the hole.
If you'd like to use your blanket as a duvet cover, trim the tape down to two pieces about the width of your hand. Place the tape at the outer sides of the hole. You will simply be making the hole smaller.
 Make sure your iron it set to the right temperature, then run it over the edges of the hole. When you are done, remove the pins.

