 It is easier to create volume if your hair is a little bit dirty. If you like clean hair, use a hair serum to give it a more hold.


If you use a hair serum, first wash your hair. Then put 2 or 3 drops of serum on your hands, and rub it so it is evenly distributed on your palms. Apply it to your hair, being careful not to put too much on any one section of hair.;
, A comb with a pointy end will come in handy here for a perfectly precise part. If you have bangs, make sure most of them are also parted to the side.


If your bangs are bluntly cut and the same length all the way across, simply tuck the longer pieces under the angle of the side-sweep. If you don’t have bangs, simply comb your hair back and be ready to tease up a storm in the front.
 You can create the beehive completely up, or make it half down.


Deciding which kind of beehive you want depends on the style that you are looking for. If you want a really big, retro beehive, then you will want to keep the beehive completely up. A half-down beehive is a little more modern and casual.
If you want to keep your beehive half down, you will have to take care not to tease your hair too far back. You may also want a curling iron for the ends of your hair.
 Let your hair fall over your face, and fluff it up, then look in the mirror to see where you want your hairdo to start.


It’s important to be confident about where you begin to create volume. For a more bold, retro style, you can start very close to your crown.
 If you have very thin or straight hair, you may want to begin with a light spray of volumizing hairspray.


To tease, bend your head forward so that your hair falls over your face. Take 1–2 inch (2.5–5.1 cm) sections of hair, starting from the middle of your head. Run a comb back and forth through each section in small, quick motions (called backcombing). This will loosely knot your hair together and give it volume.
Start at the middle (or 2-3 inches from the root) of the strand, rather than at the root. Make sure the top of the chunk of hair remains smooth, and that you’re only backcombing underneath the top most layer of hair.
 After you tease the front, go wild on the rest of your hair. Then flip all your hair back and run a brush over the topmost part of your hair, to smooth it out.


Always tease the back section after the front. It can be hard to tease the front section after you do the rest, and then you run the risk of a half-teased pouf that starts too far back.
After your smooth out the top layer of hair, you may lose some volume. Don’t be afraid to re-tease your hair as needed.
 Tilt your head back, and separate the top quarter of your hair, starting from your crown. Gently brush out this outer layer so that it is smooth.


Be careful not to brush out too much of your backcombing. This will cause the hairstyle to lose volume.
Brush upwards rather than down to keep from squashing the big hair that you've teased.
 Gather your smoothed hair and your teased hair together, except for a few side strands by the ears. Sweep your smoothed hair over your teased hair and secure it in the back with bobby pins.


You don't need to pin your hair to your head. Instead, you're trying to pin your hair together, so that it keeps its shape. If you have a lot of hair, start with one pin, then keep gathering and pinning until you have reached your desired shape.
If you sweep your hair straight back, you may flatten it. Keep it in the back, but once you've gathered it, push it towards the front of your head. Pushing it will force it upwards so that it has height and volume.
Push the bobby pins in upwards, and roughly at a 45 degree angle (as diagonal as you can) for maximum hold.
 Smooth your side sections of hair and pull them taut. Pin them in the back of your head, below your pouf.


Unlike your pouf, you should pin your side strands close to your head. Don't pin them to your pouf, or they will get loose.
Keep your hair as tight as possible to keep it looking clean. Use a brush to comb out your side strands if they've gotten very messy.
 Gather up the remaining strands at the back of your head and pull them together like you’re creating a low ponytail.Twist the ponytail upward and close to your head. When it is tight, tuck the tips into it and secure it to your head with bobby pins.


You can use a clip to hide the bobby pins or you can just shellac the back with some more hairspray.
Make sure you give your entire ‘do one final spray and use a comb to smooth down flyaways and loose strands to achieve the evenly (and overly) sprayed stylized look of the times.

