 An estate may end its fiscal year on the last day of any month, as long as the number of months don't exceed one calendar year. All trusts must use the calendar year.


If you are eligible to make an election, you must do so by filing the estate's first income tax return with the selected year end.
This has the benefit of allowing you to defer payment of tax on some income if you choose to end the estate's fiscal year just before substantial income is received.
However, keep in mind that you cannot change the estate's fiscal year once you've chosen it.
For tax purposes, distributions from the estate to a beneficiary are considered to have been made on the last day of the estate's fiscal year, regardless of when the distribution actually was made.
This distinction may have significant tax implications for the beneficiary, depending on the month you've chosen the estate's fiscal year to end.;
, The IRS has different rules regarding taxable estate income, depending on whether the trust is classified as simple or complex. Simple trusts typically distribute income every year, while complex trusts distribute income to the income beneficiary on a discretionary basis while preserving the principal and accumulating income for the remainder beneficiary.Additionally, a simple trust makes no principal distributions, or distributions to charities.
If you're administering a complex trust, you'll have to calculate the trust's accounting income. This is the income that is actually distributed on a discretionary basis to the income beneficiary or beneficiaries.
Accounting income is either defined by the trust instrument itself, or by your state's law.
 Just as with an individual income tax return, gross income for an estate includes ordinary income, capital gains, interest, and business or rental income. With a trust, income is included in gross income even if it is held for future distributions.Tax on income that is held generally must be paid by the estate. Tax on distributed income is paid by the beneficiary who receives that income.
If capital gains are added to the principal and held by the trust, they are taxed to the estate. If they are distributed, they are taxed to the beneficiary.
Generally speaking, gross income is all income received by the estate during the 12 months that constitute the estate's fiscal tax year. In the case of a trust, this is a calendar year.
For other income-producing estates, count back 12 months from the date you chose for the estate's fiscal year to end and include all income received during that time.
 An estate can earn tax-exempt income just as an individual can. While expenses attributable to taxable income are deductible, expenses directly related to tax-exempt income are not.If the estate earned both taxable and tax-exempt income, you must determine which expenses are deductible against the taxable income and which are not.
Administrative expenses, including attorney's, accountant's, or executor's fees, also must be allocated. You can choose to deduct them on either the estate tax return or the fiduciary income tax return.
Keep in mind this election is not all or nothing – you can split these expenses proportionately between the two returns in whichever way you think would most benefit the estate.
In most cases, you'll want to claim them on the return that has the highest tax rate.
Unlike most miscellaneous deductions, administrative expenses are not subject to the 2 percent floor, provided they are not unusual or unlikely.
 An estate or fiduciary generally is entitled to the same sorts of deductions that an individual could take from their own gross income. In addition to deducting state, local, or real property taxes paid as well as miscellaneous itemized deductions, estates and trusts also can deduct administrative expenses and estate expenses.Most miscellaneous itemized deductions, as on an individual return, are subject to the 2 percent floor – meaning they cannot exceed 2 percent of the adjusted gross income (AGI), which is computed generally the same as it is for an individual.
Be sure to gather and retain receipts for any expenses you've deducted from the estate's income tax return, just as you would for your individual tax return.
 Deductions for amounts attributable to things such as administration expenses are taken out of the estate's income for the purposes of determining how much of that income can be taxed – but they still are considered income.


Generally, you want to add to the taxable income any deduction, including the personal deduction, that was originally subtracted from gross income to arrive at the taxable figure.
You also must add any tax-exempt income. Even though the income is tax-exempt, it still is considered distributable.
 Take the figure you have after adding back your deductions and subtract capital gains as well as stock dividends or similar amounts that are allocated to the trust's principal rather than distributed to beneficiaries.>Although these amounts do represent income for the estate, they are not defined as distributable since they are added to the principal and not distributed to beneficiaries.
On the other hand, capital gains that are distributed to beneficiaries, or that are considered income by the trust instrument or by state law, should be added back in.
One-time distributions of stock dividends, or extraordinary dividends, also typically are not considered distributable net income and should be subtracted from your figure.
If you are unsure whether dividends or other amounts should be added to or subtracted from the estate's taxable income to find an accurate DNI, consult a tax or finance professional.
 The DNI figure determines how much the trust or estate can deduct for distributions, as well as the amount each beneficiary must include as income on their tax return.By starting with the figure for the estate's taxable income and adding or subtracting the appropriate amounts, you should be left with the estate's DNI.
Your income distribution deduction will not be any higher than the DNI – although it may be lower.
Likewise, this amount represents the maximum amount beneficiaries must account for on their individual tax returns.
If you arrive at a DNI figure that is lower than the amount of distributions actually made to beneficiaries, you may need to redo the calculation. Since you have to report actual distributions, your DNI should be equal to or higher than that amount.
 Once you've entered the correct figures for the first 12 lines of Schedule B, there are two different calculations you must complete to determine the possible amount of the estate's income distribution deduction.Subtract the tax-exempt income distributed from your total distributions. Enter the amount you get on Line 13 of Schedule B.
Subtract the adjusted tax-exempt interest from the DNI. Enter this amount on Line 14 of Schedule B.
 To find the correct income distribution deduction that applies to the trust or estate, you must look at the amounts you entered on Lines 13 and 14 of Schedule B.The smaller of these two numbers will be your income distribution deduction. Enter this amount on the applicable line of Form 1041, the fiduciary income tax return.
 You must fill out a K-1 form to file with the IRS and provide to each beneficiary who received an income distribution from the estate during that year. The amount on the form for each beneficiary must match the amount of money distributed to that beneficiary, and the total cannot exceed the estate's DNI.Think of a K-1 as similar to the W-2 an employee would receive for wages earned during the year.
If distribution was discretionary, you don't have to file a K-1, because the trust or estate is responsible for paying the tax on discretionary distributions, not the beneficiary.

