 This is the type where if you play a coin, you get a certain amount of money. If you play two coins, you get a much bigger amount of money. And if you play three coins, well, you'd be practically robbing the bank if you won.


Betting more doesn't increase your chances of winning, so it's fine not to bet max on this type of game. This kind is fairly straightforward in that if you bet a small amount, you'll win a small amount; bet a large amount, you'll win a large amount -- but it doesn't effect the number of times you win.
Look for machines that don't have much of a discrepancy between the coins if you're looking to save your money. If one coin gets you 2000 on the jackpot, and 2 coins gets you 5000, but three coins gets you 45000, you may want to walk away. Imagine what would happen if you bet one coin and hit it big! You'd be sulking all the way to the buffet.
 Not only is that alliteration, but it's true. If you're on a buy-a-pay, always bet the max. One coin may buy you the center line, two coins will buy you a diagonal, and three coins gets you the whole 9 yards. This also works with symbols. Again, imagine yourself betting one coin and seeing 7-7-7 come up in a diagonal! If you do choose this machine, it's best to go big or go home.


In other words, this machine doesn't increase the amount you win if were to bet more, it just increases the amount of winning combinations or places you have access to. You're literally buying what will pay you. And no, if the machine hits but you didn't pay for it, the machine still counts that as a payout -- it won't make up for it in its 93% payback (or whatever it may be).
Buy-a-pay slots are recognizable by the layout of their pay tables. Notice, for example, that a Double Diamond slot has the same symbols shown for one coin or two coin play. All symbols are active regardless of coins played. But look at Bally's Flaming 7s machine, and you will see the bars listed for one coin and the 7s listed for two coins. For the sevens to be active, you must play both coins per play. If the 7s come up with only 1 coin in, you do not win. As we have mentioned before, learn so you can earn!

Some video machines work like this, but those get their separate section.
 If you see a whole bunch of people at a row of machines with a giant display board above them that's turning into quite the spectacle, that's a community progressive game. These types of slots have a jackpot total that grows each time the machines are played. All their machines are linked up to each other's and the first person to hit the jackpot gets a percentage of all the play, not just their own.Just like on the buy-a-pays, you wanna bet the max on this type of game, too. If you don't bet the max, you won't be winning the jackpot. You can get smaller cash prizes, but the jackpot won't have your name on it. So if you do spend your time at this machine -- which, in its defense, can have ridiculously large jackpots -- be ready to turn out your pockets.
 These are otherwise referred to as "multi-line" games and they work similarly to buy-a-pays. You get to choose how many lines you'd like to buy and how many credits you'd like to spend on each line. At a penny slot, you could spend 1¢ on the center line and take a spin. It probably won't pay you anything, but you could do it. Some machines have up to 500 lines that you can bet on, and you can usually bet somewhere between a penny and a dollar per line (depending).


Consider your position. If you are playing a video slot with 100 paylines at $1 per line, your minimum bet is $100 per play. You are now playing a high-limit bet on a $1 slot. For greater payback percentage, increased ratings as a player and more personalized attention, you may wish to move over to the high-limit machines.
You do not need to bet max on this game, but you should bet all the lines. That way, not a turn will go by where you see a winner but don't get it reflected in your winnings (because you didn't bet the line). The machine doesn't care which lines you're betting and won't adjust its payout rates accordingly, so bet 'em all to catch 'em all.
Video games are far and away the most popular slot as of late. That's because they offer bonus rounds, scatter pays and special events fairly regularly. In addition to the fun and varied animation, it gives you the sense that you're actually playing a game and may have a chance at winning.

Okay, so video poker may be more popular, but that's another beast entirely. If you'd like to take a stab at this world, wikiHow has resources for that, too.


Winning combinations will criss-cross, use diagonals, Ms, Ws, squigglies, curly-cues, and other directions, depending on the game. Even if you think you're not winning, you might be and when you think you're winning, you may not be. Just take in the pretty pictures and try to keep your head above water. And then saddle up for a bonus round and put those free spins to work.
 Now that you know the different variations of play, the casino is your oyster. Find a machine that's open and settle down for what will hopefully be a long spell. Insert your player's card (even if you're not using it to access cash -- you'll get points this way) and then either insert cash or a previous payout ticket. Then it's all shiny lights and buzzes from there!


Follow the prompts on the screen or read the directions above it. If you get confused or the machine doesn't seem to be working, call an attendant (there's a button on the dash that will do this for you -- the machine will light up, notifying them) to help you.
When you're ready to leave, hit the "Cash Out" button. This will print you a receipt that you can then take to a Casino ATM or to the cashier's box. Once obtained, remove your player's card and hit the patterned carpeting. What time is it, anyway?

, Though casinos are hot spots for hedonism, that doesn't mean they're not subject to maintaining a certain amount of class. In general, the etiquette rules of any given casino are fairly logical:


If you see a jacket on a chair or a chair is pushed up against a machine, it's taken. Don't use it. You'll just end up in the middle of a confrontation when the person gets back from the bathroom.
Don't play more than one or two machines at a time. And if the casino is even remotely crowded, only play the one. Don't ruin someone else's good time with your insatiable appetite for handle-pulling.
If you see someone get a jackpot that should've been yours, don't fuss: There's no such thing. Each computer is going through thousands of combinations every minute and the likelihood that you would've pressed the button at that exact one-hundredth of a second are incredibly minute. Worse than the odds of you walking away with a padded wallet!