 This cycle was invented to reduce the creasing of clothes and other items.;
, Don't jam the clothes into your washing machine. They need room to spin around; the closer the clothes are compacted during the washing cycle, the more they are likely to come out creased, squashed and probably inadequately cleaned.
 Don't mix heavy and light clothing and fabrics. The heavy ones will press onto the light ones and crease them. So keep dainty blouses away from denim overalls.
 Taking away all the moisture encourages wrinkling. Stop the dryer cycle a little earlier if necessary and bring clothes in from outside while they are still slightly damp. Or, if your dryer has a permanent-press option, use it because it is injecting a cooler air flow through the clothing towards the end of the cycle, thus cooling down the clothes and reducing the possibility of wrinkles.
 Don't overload your dryer, leave it about 1/3 to 1/4 empty. This will result in evenly dried clothing, as well as less wrinkling.
 If you use a dryer, fold clothes as soon as the cycle ends, while the clothes are still warm. This is a neat trick that will act almost like the warmth of an iron in preventing creases. Even if you only fold them into the clothes basket for ironing later, this will massively reduce the time spent ironing as creases will be few and far between.
 Whether you dry using a clothesline, a dryer, or a line in your laundry, use plastic hangers to hang the wet clothes up. Give the clothes a good shake first to remove water and budding wrinkles. Hanging allows the wrinkles to drop out and reduces the need for a thorough iron should you still have to iron the item.
 There are some things that really do not need to be ironed unless you're a fanatic. Think of which things you don't really mind un-ironed: underpants, socks, sheets (you can still do the pillowcases if you must for show), bras, throw rugs, etc.
 Nowadays many different fabrics are wrinkle-free. However, be careful of what method makes the clothing wrinkle-free - avoid those that are chemically treated.
 Each person in a household should be responsible for ironing his or her own clothes after the age of twelve. This lessens the load on the chief ironer and is a fair approach to household chores. It also teaches non-ironing spouses, partners and children about self-responsibility and they soon learn how to lessen the load!

, A trick of the trade among fashion retailers, steamers give a clean, crisp look in about a quarter of the time with no damage to any fabric what-so-ever. A cheaper alternative is to use a plant mister to spray any wrinkled areas you find with water, and hang the clothing until it is dry.
 Give your clothes a very brief run through the shower, put on hangers, shake well and hang until dry (useful while traveling).

