 While it is definitely possible to booty pop in heels, it may be a good idea as a beginner to wear comfortable shoes with traction or good grip to help you balance.


It might also help to practice in front of a mirror so you can watch your hips as they move.;
, This will help you control which direction your hips are moving., Turn your toes out to a 45 degree angle.
 Pretend you are sitting down in a low seat behind you, in a low squat.


Make sure your knees are over your ankles and there is no pain in your knee joints.
 Press with your thumbs to move your hips forward.


Move your hips forward by pushing your hip bones forward with your thumbs three times.
 Now that you’ve got the forward movement down, push your hip bones so they push backward.


Push your hip bones backward with your fingers three times.
 Push your hips forward three times and then push your hips backward three times.


Make sure you remain in a low squat and your toes are turned out.
 Now that you have the basic hip movements down, it’s time to try booty popping with no hand support on your hips.


Get in your low squat and place your hands on your thighs.
Push your hips forward three times and then push your hips backward three times.
If you want to emphasize each pop with a “boom!” or “bam!”, go for it.
 When you twerk, your hips should be moving to a quick tempo to get a good shake to your hips and really make your booty pop.


Get down in your low squat, with your toes turned out and your hands on your thighs.
Arch your lower back and stick your booty out so your hips are moving upward. Don’t start with your back caved in or your hips tucked underneath you.
Pop your hips forward and then pop your hips backward to a quick tempo or count of 1,2,1,2,1,2.
 Once you feel comfortable with the basic booty pop, or twerk, put on some music to try out your new moves.


While you can twerk to almost any song with a steady beat, it may be best to get in the with electro/dance tracks, as well as hip hop/dance tracks that have beats made for booty popping.Start with a song with a medium fast tempo and then once you feel comfortable twerking to the beat, move on to a track with a faster tempo.
It may help to practice by turning to the side view in the mirror so you can watch your hips move backward and forward.
Get down in your squat, arch your back, place your hands on your thighs and follow the beat to pop your hips forward and backward, forward, and backward.
As you continue practicing the booty pop, remove your hands from your thighs and hold them out in front of you. Try to pop on double time, moving your hips faster to a song with a faster beat.

