 If home treatments does not improve or heal your ringworm, or if you have ringworm of the scalp, see your doctor. Your doctor can develop a treatment plan and heal any underlying or related conditions you may develop from ringworm, including a skin infection.Your regular doctor or a dermatologist can diagnose and develop a treatment plan for ringworm.Your doctor will conduct a physical exam to check for signs of ringworm and will also likely ask for a health history, including factors such as if you’ve been exposed to any people or animals with ringworm.You may find it difficult to heal ringworm at home if you have a weakened immune system or diabetes and may need to see a doctor., Your doctor may likely be able to diagnose ringworm simply by looking at it. She may order additional tests to help confirm a diagnosis and formulate a treatment plan.If your case isn’t clear cut, your doctor may take some skin scraping to examine under a microscope. This can help her identify the fungus and more definitively diagnose ringworm., Depending on the severity of your case, your doctor may prescribe an anti-fungal cream. More powerful than over the counter creams or lotions, prescription anti-fungal creams may help alleviate your ringworm more effectively.Make sure to follow your doctor’s instructions when using a prescription anti-fungal cream.
 Many doctors prefer to prescribe oral medications for ringworm. Make sure you tell your doctor about any medical problems you have, any allergies, any medications you take, and if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant. Take these pills as directed by your doctor to most effectively treat your ringworm.The most common anti-fungal oral medications are terbinafine, itraconazole, griseofulvin, and fluconazole.Oral anti-fungal medications are usually taken for 8-10 weeks and are available at most pharmacies.Make sure to follow the indications on the prescription for maximum efficacy.
You may experience some side effects from these medications including: diarrhea, nausea, headache, and indigestion.Tell your doctor if you have any side effects that are more than mild.
If you have a ringworm on your scalp, your doctor may suggest pairing an oral anti-fungal with anti-fungal shampoo.If you have ringworm on your nails, your doctor may suggest pairing an oral anti-fungal with an anti-fungal nail paint.Your doctor may take blood tests before, during, or after your treatment course.

