 Each one of us is given gifts and talents. Some may have more talents than others but we all have at least one. We also each have resources, abilities, and passions. Let’s take a brief look at how these lead to discovering why you are here and what you are to do with your life (purpose).


Take a blank sheet of paper and fold it vertically (in the center) and then horizontally (in the center). This should give you four quadrants.
In the first upper left quadrant (at the very top) write the word TALENTS.
In the second quadrant write the word RESOURCES.
In the third quadrant write the word ABILITIES.
In the fourth and last quadrant write the word PASSIONS. We call this the Unique TRAP.;
, Examples:

A gift to play an instrument but never have taken one music lesson.
A gift to speak in public without any fear or apprehension.
Paint great works of art without any training or mentoring. These are truly amazing to most of us. We would say that you have a talent.
 A resource is anything that you have access to; such as your home, car, cash, bank, cell phone, office, job, clothing, food, storage, garage, extra bedroom, collection, computer, Internet, friends, family, and associates. All and more of these can be used in fulfilling your purpose. If used properly they can make you rich as well. If you sat down and made a list of all your resources you would be amazed.
Begin looking at everything that you have access to as a resource. It will change your life.
We have access to both private and public resources. Public resources are libraries, roads, public education centers, and government. In many countries there just is no excuse for not actualizing purpose. Our private and public resources are vast.


Can you type?
Can you use a computer?
Can you write? Then you can write a novel or screenplay.
Can you drive? Someone had to teach you or at least let you use her car to learn.
Can you cook? Then is there a national catering franchise waiting to be born?


So you don’t know how to write a business plan you say. Someone within your Resource List of resources does; even if that someone is the librarian who shows you where the book is located on the shelf.
 Is it helping the elderly or teaching a child to learn? Is it music, art or sports? Is it reading, writing, or meditating? Is it negotiating the deal?
Discover what gets your blood going. It is something that you almost crave. What is that thing that you might be willing to gamble everything you have to do, to be, or to experience? What is it? Discovering the “IT” is to discover your passion.

Passion is the single most powerful force to drive you to true purpose. It is that part of you that connects you with oxygen. It is the fuel that burns in your veins. It is the nitro that ignites your power to live. Think about it.
 Quietly meditate on them for a moment.


What is the “common thread” or “familiar theme” running through all of these?

Is music that common thread?
Is compassion for people that familiar theme?
Is boating or water sport your thing?
Is it children?
Is it fashion?
Is it ministry?
Is it politics?


Discover the common thread and you are halfway to discovering your purpose. There is more work to be done. You then must determine if you have developed each of these to the fullest of your ability. If not, set out a plan to increase your knowledge, understanding, and resources in the area of your strengths.
 We can see this person has something about baking and/or writing in every quadrant. It is very possible that with some courses or extra training they could become a great baker because they have the talent for it, the resources for it, and the passion for baking cakes.


Perhaps they may come to write articles or even a book about unique cake recipes and cake design from around the world. For them it is no WORK but ART. This doesn’t mean it will be easy. It simply means they will benefit from every moment of it because they are fulfilling purpose.

