 The types of nose bleeds rely on which part of the nose the bleeding comes from. In anterior nose bleeds, bleeding arises in the front part of the nose. You can also have a posterior nose bleeds, where bleeding originates in the inner part of the nose. Nose bleeds can also be spontaneous with an unidentifiable cause., There are many causes for nose bleeds. When you get one, you should assess which of the causes is most likely the reason you got your nose bleed and avoid the situation if at all possible in the future. You can get a nose bleed because of self-induced trauma, mostly as a result of nasal picking. This is the most common cause in young children. Other causes include substance abuse of drugs such as cocaine, blood vessel disorders, blood clotting disorders, and trauma to the head or face.


Environmental factors such as low humidity, which is common during the winter, can induce mucosal irritation and bleeding. The incidence of nasal bleeding increases in colder weather.
Infections of the nose and sinuses can cause a nose bleed. Allergies can also cause mucosal inflammation, which leads to nose bleeds.
In some special cases, migraine headaches in children have also been proposed as a causative.Trauma to the face can also cause a nose bleed to occur.
 If you get a nose bleed, you should avoid certain situations and actions which may make it worse. Do not lean backwards. This may cause blood to run down your throat, which could induce vomiting. You should also avoid speaking and coughing. This can irritate the nasal mucosa and re-bleeding can occur.


If you have to sneeze while your nose is bleeding, you should try to expel the air through your mouth so you don't further hurt your nose or cause more bleeding.
Do not blow or pick the nose, especially if the bleeding is decreasing. You can dislodge formed blood clots and bleeding can reoccur.
 There are certain situations when you need to visit a doctor. If the bleeding is severe, more than a few drops, lasts more than 30 minutes, and reoccurs frequently, you should see a doctor.You also need to seek medical attention if you become extremely pale, fatigued, or disoriented. This can occur as a result of significant blood loss.


If you have difficulty breathing, especially if blood passes down your throat, you need to see a doctor. This can lead to irritation and coughing. There is a chance of infection as a result, which can eventually cause breathing issues.
You should always see a doctor if the nose bleed began as a result of severe injury to the nose.You should also see a doctor if you have a nose bleed while you are taking medicine that prevents blood clotting, such as warfarin, clopidogrel, or a daily aspirin.