 Some people are incredibly independent and dislike taking help from others; in fact, some people even find it insulting. Be aware of their feelings on you helping them before going too in-depth with helping. When in doubt, just ask.
 It is a nice gesture to simply take care of a task for someone, but in some cases, they might need or want help with a specific thing.Ask their if there is anything in particular with which you can help.
Consider helping with a variety of tasks, including things such as household chores, grocery shopping, completing work-related tasks, doing DIY projects, and home renovations.
Your help could also come in the form of emotional help. You do not always need to physically help their with something; being there for emotional help and support is important, too.
 Know your own limitations with whatever tasks or projects they need assistance.


Avoid offering to do something that you do not know how or do not have the skills to do.
Even taking a couple of small, easy tasks off their to-do list is better than no help at all. Do what you can.
 Help them by researching a different method to accomplish a task or by thinking of different strategies to a solve a problem. Every person thinks about situations uniquely, and your different perspective has benefits to them.


For example, your partner might be trying to repair a drawer, but she is having trouble. Take some time to look up the specific problem with the drawer and methods of fixing it to show her.
Another example includes when they are having a problem with another person. Perhaps they can only think of confrontational, reactive ways to solve the problem. Maybe you could help by offering calmer, more proactive solutions.
 They might not need help on a project from beginning to end, but you can let them know that you are there for help whenever they need you.


Especially in situations of moral support, they might want to solve the problem on their own. However, they will appreciate knowing that you are there to talk and/or listen.
In some cases, you may just get in their way by being around and trying to help all the time. Know when to step away and help only when she asks for it.

