 You'll never know the regular look of your hair until you give it a good soak in the shower. Once you get out and dry off, you should have a better indicator what you'll look like. With each new hairstyle, you should try applying different products (like conditioner and mousse) and drying it different ways. Gel is helpful if you're trying to make it spike, and the way you blow-dry your hair can even help determine how it will set throughout the day.
 Adding volume is usually associated with longer hairstyles, but even short hair can benefit from added lustre. Treating your hair with a dime-sized dollop of mousse is a quick and simple way to give your hair volume.If your current hair routine doesn't include something for volume, consider looking into it for your new hairstyle.
 Headbands with short hair are arguably most closely associated with the gamine style from the 1920s and 30s. Adding a headband to your wardrobe is a good move if you're going for a more vintage look.
 Makeup is and always should be considered optional, but many find it to be especially effective in the case of a short hairstyle. Short hair will bring added emphasis to your face, and giving your eyes more vibrance with the help of mascaras or eyeshadows. Think of your hair as a frame or your face; look at yourself in the mirror, pick out what features stand out the most, and emphasize them further., A hairstyle is but one aspect of your overall look, and dressing to be consistent with your hairstyle will leave a stronger impression on people. Casual short hair on women is sometimes seen as tomboyish; playing into that conception can be seen as cute, but you can choose to dress very feminine if you're looking to work against it.Aim for tighter-fitting clothes, as bagginess doesn't work near as much with short hair.
 Trimming your hair regularly is a must if you're interested in having a short hairstyle. Depending on the length and the style you're keeping it at, a couple weeks of natural hair growth can change (or hinder) the look you're going for. Give it frequent attention, and develop a firm eye for how you think your hair should look., Now that you've got a new hairstyle, it's time to show it off to the world. Keep in mind, however, that no amount of style can act as a sufficient replacement for believing in yourself and sporting some confidence on the side. Confidence can be a tricky thing for a lot of people, but it doesn't have to be for you. Take a long look at yourself in the morning and know that you rock that hairstyle. If there's anything you're still dissatisfied with, you can always change it.


If you are worried about looking less feminine with short hair-- don't. Hair length has little to do with femininity. It's all about carrying yourself in a way that lets people know that you love being you.

