 The fist thing you'll need to do before you build your light box is choose what size box is right for your needs. This is because most light boxes are made from actual boxes. If you plan to mostly photograph small items such as flowers, collectible porcelain, or toys, your box can be relatively small (around 1' cubed); for larger items like kitchen appliances, a proportionally larger box will be needed.


Generally speaking, make sure the box you choose will be roughly twice the size or more of the objects you plan to photograph. This means a bigger box is usually a safer bet, but a bigger box will also take up more space. Plan according o your needs and limitations.;
, By far the easiest way to make a light box at home is to start with a heavy corrugated cardboard box. You can construct a light box from more durable materials, but unless you plan to pack it up and haul it around a lot, there isn't much of a point to doing so. In addition to your box, you'll need a box cutter, a ruler, tape, and bright white printer paper.


If your box is significantly larger on each side than two pieces of printer paper set side by side, you'll need bigger material for making the box white. A thin, clean white cloth, such as a crisp new bedsheet, will work; bright paper in a specialty size or projector screen material can also be used.
 Begin by cutting the lid flaps off the top of your box.


Use your ruler's width to define a margin of space along every edge of one side of your box.






Then cut out that side of the box, leaving your margin intact.






Leave the other three sides and the bottom of the box uncut.
 Turn the box so that the side you just cut open faces the ceiling, and the top of the box faces you. This is the proper orientation for your light box. Lay sheets of printer paper, slightly overlapping, on every inside surface of the box and tape them securely using rolled tape pressed underneath them. The inside of the box should be completely white.
 To hide the back bottom corner and create a seamless, featureless background for your photographs, you'll need to add a curved sheet of paper over it. For smaller boxes, just set a sheet of printer paper in the back so that it goes partway up the back wall and partway across the floor of the box, as though it was “sitting.” Don't fold it; let it bend naturally. Tape it loosely at the top.


For larger boxes, bright white posterboard or a similar material at your preferred level of gloss is ideal.






If you'd prefer a non-white background, the backing sheet can be whatever color you want. It won't be securely attached to the box, so you can change it out whenever you like.
 Now that the box is constructed, it needs to be brightly lit. Smaller boxes can use flexible desk lamps; larger boxes may need clip lamps or larger flexible lamps. Angle two lamps so that they're shining directly down into the light box, one from each side, each facing its opposite wall. Turn both lights on and set an item into the box for a test photo.


Use the brightest bulbs available to ensure the brightest possible light for your shots. Adjust the lamps so that there are no shadows on the ground around your test object.






For larger boxes, a third overhead lamp may be added. Be sure to experiment and make sure it doesn't cast harsh shadows.

