 While most coughs go away after a few weeks, some may be warning signs of an underlying condition. You should go see your doctor with the first development of a cough if you or a loved one experience a sore throat, high fever, barking or whooping cough, or postnasal drip, which is a condition that feels like mucus running down your throat. These could be a sign of infection. Your doctor will perform a quick physical exam that involves using a lighted instrument to look at your throat, ears, and nasal passages, gently palpating your neck to check for swollen lymph nodes, and listening to your breathing with a stethoscope.


You should contact your doctor immediately if you've previously been diagnosed with allergies, asthma, bronchitis, heartburn, or gastroesophageal reflux disease. Coughing can aggravate these conditions.
Contact your doctor if you are taking ACE inhibitors for a heart condition and experience a persistent cough. ACE inhibitors can cause a cough, and this can be a sign of intolerance to the drug. Your doctor may be able to switch you to a different medication for your blood pressure if necessary.
Smokers may experience coughing more frequently and should go see the doctor if the cough lasts longer than three to four weeks.
Get emergency medical care immediately if you cough up blood or if you experience any difficulty in breathing., Your doctor may run a few test to see exactly what you have. If you have a reddened throat or pustules in back of your throat, she may perform a throat swab, during which a sterile swab is rubbed in the back of your throat to get a sample of secretions. She will check these secretions in the lab for streptococcal bacteria, which is the cause of strep throat. She will also check for a viral infection. This test can take a few minutes to 48 hours to process., Your doctor may recommend getting a chest X-ray if you experience symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, chronic cough, or fever. A chest X-ray is a quick, a painless, non-invasive test that creates pictures of the structures inside your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels. Although a routine chest X-ray won't reveal the most common reasons for a cough, it may be used to check for lung cancer, pneumonia, and other lung diseases.


An X-ray of your sinuses may reveal evidence of a sinus infection.
Let your doctor know if you're pregnant or may be pregnant. In general, women should avoid all X-ray tests during pregnancy., Your doctor may refer you to an ENT specialist, also known as an otolaryngologist, who can check your throat for signs of viral or bacterial infection. A specialist may also be needed if your cough may be due to an underlying cause relating to the ear, nose, or throat (such as sinusitis). An ENT specialist can also perform a nasal endoscopy, a procedure that uses a fiber optic scope to look at your sinuses for nasal polyps or other structural problems.


This is only needed if you have a nasal infection. He may also suggest an endoscopic sinus surgery if your condition warrants it.
You should tell your doctor about any other respiratory conditions you may have.If your doctor believes you have an infection in your lungs, you should be referred to a pulmonologist.

