 If you have a favorite line from the Harry Potter books, you can easily use it to inspire your own Harry Potter themed mug. For this project, you will need a white mug, and a few Sharpies in varying colors.Using a Sharpie, write your favorite quote from the books on the mug. Let the mug dry overnight before baking it for 30 minute at 350 degrees.
Place the mug in the oven before it heats up and allow it to cool down in the oven before removing. Skip this step and you may find cracks in the mug.
Possible quotes for your mug include: “I solemnly swear I am up to no good,” “Always” and “Felix Felicis.”

, Every year, Harry goes to Diagon Alley to stock up on potion supplies, but you can make your own potion bottles in just a few easy steps. For this project, you will need miniature bottles, cardstock paper, decoupage glue, a magic marker and a rubber band.Tear the cardstock into small pieces. On each piece, write a potion ingredient in magic marker (ideas include frog, dragon’s blood, tears, etc).
Place a small amount of decoupage glue on the back of each cardstock label, then affix the labels to the bottles. Wrap a rubber band around the labeled bottle to help the glue set.
Allow the bottles to dry, then play with them or display them as you wish.
 If you have a white t-shirt, some black paint and a paintbrush, you can create your own Harry Potter t-shirt featuring the Deathly Hallows.Place a piece of cardboard in between the layers of the t-shirt. This will keep the paint from seeping through to the back.
Paint the outline of a triangle on the t-shirt. The triangle should take up most of the space on the tee. If the triangle is not dark enough, go over it again with another coat of paint.
Paint a line from the top of the triangle to the bottom of the triangle. Darken the line as needed.
Draw a circle inside the triangle to complete the image of the Deathly Hallows. Darken the circle as needed. Allow the t-shirt to dry before wearing.
If you prefer not to freehand the image, you can also look for a template online and use the template to create your painting.
 Harry Potter's owl, Hedwig, was one of his most loyal friends, and now you can easily make an owl friend of your own. For this project, you will need one small paper plate, two large paper plates, orange paper, two shades of brown paint, wiggle eyes, glue and a brown felt tip pen.Paint the small plate and one of the large plates dark brown. Paint the other large plate light brown. Let the plates dry.
After the plates have dried, draw a series of wavy lines across the light brown plate. These will serve as the owl's feathers.
Cut the large dark brown plate in half. Glue the two halves of the dark brown plate diagonally over the light brown plate.
The dark brown halves will serve as the owl's wings, and there should be an opening where you can see the light brown plate and the owl's feathers.
Glue the small brown plate to the top of the wings to serve as the owl's head.
Use the orange paper to cut out feet and a beak for your owl. Attach the feet to the bottom of your owl and the beak to your owl's face.
Glue your wiggle eyes onto your owl's face and display your owl.

