 When your stomach hurts first thing in the morning, you may need to try to eat something that isn't going to upset your stomach even more. Food rich in starch, such as rice, potatoes, and oats, can help calm your stomach. Starches don't sit in your stomach for a long period of time and they don't stimulate acid reflux, which can make your stomach feel worse.


Try eating a bowl of oatmeal, a bowl of rice, or grits. This can help sooth your stomach and hopefully make your stomach ache go away.You can also try dry toast. Avoid eating jams, jellies, or butter on the toast. Those things may cause your stomach to react and make your ache much worse.If you are feeling extremely nauseous, you can try saltine crackers. They are really basic and there isn't much to them. Eating them helps absorb stomach acid and relieve aches.;
, Improper digestion is a common cause of stomach aches. In order to get your digestion moving again, you can eat yogurt to get it going. Try a type of yogurt with live cultures to help flush bad bacteria out of your system, which will help alleviate your stomach ache.


Yogurt also helps with indigestion, which can also contribute to stomach pain.Greek yogurt with a little bit of honey is a great breakfast to help ease your stomach and get your day started.
 Applesauce is a great food to eat when your stomach is upset. it can sooth your stomach because it is starchy and has low acidity. It is also easily digestible. If you are suffering from diarrhea, it can help ease your symptoms. Try a small bowl of it for breakfast to help alleviate your stomach ache.


It is also high in fiber, which can help with a stomach ache related to constipation.
 Morning stomach aches may be caused by a general case of an uneasy stomach. Two of the best things for an uneasy stomach are milk and bread. While the components alone may irritate your stomach, making milk toast has the added benefit of the coating qualities of milk and the absorbing qualities of the bread without irritating your stomach. To make this, warm 1 cup of milk in a saucepan and pour it into a cereal bowl. Toast 1 piece of break and put a little bit of unsalted butter on top. Crumble the toast into the milk and eat slowly.


Make sure your milk is not boiling. It will make it hard to eat.You can also use cornbread instead of toast. Crumble the cornbread into cold or warm milk and eat it like cereal.
 Bananas have been used for generations to soothe stomachs. They contain potassium, which helps with dehydration and irritated stomachs. They also have natural sugars, which can help relieve any hunger pangs related to early morning stomach aches.


The plus side is that they are not too sweet, which can often cause stomach aches to get worse., Although bland foods are commonly suggested when you have a stomach ache, you can try some papaya for breakfast to help alleviate your stomach issues. It is rich in the enzymes papain and chymopapain, which help lower acidity and break down proteins in your stomach.


Papaya will also help with constipation, encourage digestions, and ease indigestion.
 Although the name is kind of vulgar, this diet plan actually works to help alleviate stomach troubles. The abbreviation stands for cherries, raisins, apricots, and prunes. The diet suggests you eat these fruits due to their high levels of fiber. The increased fiber will help with your digestion, help flush out your system, and make you feel better.


You can also eat these fruits dried. Make sure you get the versions with no added sugars. The extra added sugar can end up aggravating your stomach more than helping it.
Taking soluble fiber or pills may also help.

