 After you deliver your message, the Jarl will instruct you to talk to Farengar Secret-Fire, his court wizard. Farengar will explain that he is looking for the Dragonstone, and he will direct you to go to Bleak Falls Barrow. This will result in a quest marker leading to Bleak Falls Barrow popping up on your map.If you have completed the quest “The Golden Claw,” chances are you might already have the Dragonstone in your inventory. This is because the quest will take you through the exact same path required for the “Bleak Falls Barrow” quest. You will also be unable to sell or transfer the Dragonstone out of your inventory, ensuring that it will stay on your person until you give it to Farengar at the end of the “Bleak Falls Barrow” quest.;
, One of the quickest ways to find Bleak Falls Barrow is to go south from Whiterun. This route involves finding a footpath from the base of the northern wall of the mountain all the way up to Bleak Falls Barrow—presenting the fewest threats along the way. The more commonly used route though is the one from Riverwood, which involves crossing a bridge north of the village and then turning northwest along a winding path leading up to the barrow. This route, however, will pit you against hostile forest animals (usually wolves) and a few bandits near an abandoned tower along the way.


Be careful as you approach the barrow, as you will encounter around a half-dozen bandits near its entrance. The wide open space of this area will give their archers plenty of opportunities to stick you with arrows, so fight near the pillars to give you cover as you handle the bandits that close in on you with melee weapons.
 When you first enter the barrow, you will notice a lot of skeever and human corpses around you. Sneak forward, and you will overhear bandits talking about someone named Arvel and how he ran off with a golden claw of some sort. If you have not started “The Golden Claw,” this quest will start right now. Neutralize the bandits and proceed deeper into the barrow.
 Moving forward, you will eventually encounter a torch-wielding bandit who will run forward into a puzzle room. Let him pull the lever, and he will be killed by a dart trap. Now move forward and examine the symbols around you—one on the ground, two on the wall. Note the animals on the pillars and rotate the pillars so they face you. From left to right, these symbols will be Snake-Snake-Whale. Pull the lever and continue onwards.Be careful while descending the spiral staircase, as skeevers will start swarming you. Stay on top of the staircase to bottleneck their attacks and make it possible to deal with them one at a time.
 You will eventually reach an area filled with cobwebs, with someone calling out for help. Cautiously move forward into the room, where someone is caught on a web, and a giant Frostbite Spider will drop down to confront you. Kill it and talk to the trapped man, who turns out to be Arvel the Swift.


If you are having difficulty fighting the spider, beat a hasty retreat through the door you used to enter the room. The spider will not be able to pass through the door. Heal up, and use magic or ranged weapons to wear the spider down from afar. Just remember that the spider can still spit poison at you though. Dodge to the sides when it rears up, as this is the sign that it will spit a glob of poison at you.
 Talk to Arvel to interrogate him about the whereabouts of the claw, and he will agree to show you how it works in exchange for cutting him down. Use a melee weapon or your magic to strike the webs binding his arms and legs. Arvel will drop down, and he will promptly run deeper into the barrow in an attempt to escape you. He will eventually be cut down by the draugr waking up from their undead slumber or will run face-first into a spike wall after stepping on a pressure plate. Neutralize the draugr and search Arvel’s body to find the Golden Claw. Once you have the Golden Claw, proceed deeper into the barrow, dealing with the traps and the draugr within.
 You will eventually encounter a locked door with rotating rings around the keyhole. Open your inventory, select the Dragonstone, and inspect it. Rotate it so that the claw faces you, and take note of the symbols you see on it: Bear-Moth-Owl. Rotate the rings around the hole of the keyhole to match this combination, and it will open up, gaining you entrance to the Sanctum of Bleak Falls Barrow.
 Entering the Sanctum will lead you to a wide, open room with waterfalls and a prominent wall with strange script on it. You will hear chanting that will grow louder as approach the wall. Get close enough, and your screen will darken while one word on the wall will glow brightly, causing you to learn a Word of Power from the Word Wall. Once you have learned the Word of Power, the coffin behind you will break open as a powerful draugr boss emerges. Defeat this draugr and loot its corpse to find the Dragonstone.
 You don’t need to run all the way back to exit the barrow. Just follow your quest marker to find a hidden exit, which will lead you outdoors and allow you to fast-travel back to Whiterun or Dragonsreach, the latter of which will lead you closest to Farengar.
 Continue following your quest marker, and you will encounter Farengar talking to someone named Delphine. Listen to their discussion to learn more about the return of the dragons, and talk to Farengar to give the Dragonstone to Farengar and finish the “Bleak Falls Barrow” quest.You may want to make a stop at Riverwood to return the Golden Claw to Lucas before heading back to Farengar. He will reward you with some gold for doing so and will also give you better prices for buying or selling goods, perfect for unloading the loot you just gained after running through Bleak Falls Barrow.

