 Find a spot in the bar that will be passed by as many people as possible. You don’t want to stand in the corner and be aloof. Make yourself the center of attention by putting yourself somewhere you will be noticed.
 Make yourself look like the most popular person in the bar, and pretend to know everyone. If you appear to be well connected, women will be more likely to notice you.Greet everyone, “Hey man, what’s up?”
Give high-fives to people as they pass by.
Toast glasses with random people as they walk by you.
 As soon as you lock eyes with a woman, be ready to approach her. Talking to a woman as soon as you see her will show her you are confident.
 Don’t demand to buy her a drink, and be pushy; however, you should offer to pick up the tab when she is ready for the next round.If a woman is with a group, offer to buy a round for everyone to show that you are considerate of others.
Being generous with money may help her to see that you are generous in other areas as well.
 Don’t throw yourself at a woman, or she’ll think you are too needy.


Be vague about whether you like her initially.
Allow her to think that maybe she wasn’t the right girl for you.
Don’t smother her for the entire night, or she’ll get annoyed.
 You’ve set the stage as confident, generous, and possibly interested; now is your chance to finish the drill. Compliment her on something she’s wearing. "I really like your earrings," or "That dress looks amazing on you."
Bring up a topic from your earlier conversation, and tell her you can’t stop wondering about it.
Ask a follow up question to continue talking.
 If she’s interested you will get a phone number or a way to contact her. Depending on the mood you may be able to move quicker. , Dinner implies meeting on another night. If you casually offer to have breakfast, it will let her know that you are interested in starting a relationship right away.


”This may be moving quickly, but I’d really like to cook you breakfast. Do you like pancakes?”

, Hopefully she sees you as a well connected, generous guy who thinks that she is the best woman in the bar. If you haven’t been pushy and have made a good impression, there is a good chance she’ll agree to leave with you.

