 Many people recommend adding cut flower feed, or half a crushed aspirin, to your vase water to give the flower additional nutrients.


Change the water every 2-3 days.
Pinch off the flowers as they fade away, including the swelling at the base of the flower where it attaches to the stem.
This will encourage the next flowers on the stem to open.
 ‘Deadheading’ is a garden chore that involves removing the spent or withered flower heads from a flowering plant after the blooms are past their best.


This can improve the plant’s appearance by removing unsightly spent blooms from the plant.
This is especially true for gladiolus, as the new flowers form on the same stalk as the old ones.
Removing the spent flowers presents the new ones better on the stalk.
 Gladiolus should be inspected about twice a week so you can keep up with deadheading the spent flowers.


Remove each flower as it begins to wilt; don’t delay until the seed head begins to form.
To deadhead your gladiolus, only remove the individual bloom from the flower stalk not the entire stalk, unless no new flowers remain on it.
You can easily just pinch off the spent blooms with your fingers.
Take care to remove not just the shriveled petals but also the swollen bit at the base of the dead flower, where it connects onto the main flower stem.

This is the bit that forms the seed.
 Once every flower is spent on your gladiolus stalk, take a pair of garden shears or secateurs and cut it off at the base, close to the main body of the plant near the ground.


Refrain from cutting back any foliage at this point.
 It’s important to leave the foliage on the plant to die away naturally because this helps the plant gather the energy it needs to return the following year and bloom again.


Once the foliage turns yellow and dies away, it’s okay to trim it back.
This indicates the plant has taken all the energy it needs.
 The plants will appreciate watering and mulching, as this keeps moisture in the soil.


Try putting a 3 or 4 inch (7.6 or 10.2 cm) layer of well-rotted manure or some leaf mold around the base of the plant.
This will also keep weeds down and help protect the plant if you are leaving it outside over winter.
 Gladiolus can survive outdoors in zones 7-8, but will need winter protection.


To do this put down a nice pile of hay or straw over the plant in the fall after the foliage has died back.






Gladiolus will need winter protection in colder climates than this.
You can lift the Gladiolus corms over the coldest months and store in sand or peat in a cool dry place where the temperature remains above freezing.
Then plant them out again in the next spring once the frosts are over.

