 Sickle cell anemia can be passed on by birth if one parent or both parents have the sickle cell gene. If you inherit the sickle cell gene from one or both of your parents, you will carry the sickle cell trait (SCT). You may not develop any of the symptoms of sickle cell disease, but you can pass the trait on to your children. Your doctor can perform a blood test to determine if you carry the sickle cell gene.If you are aware there is a sickle cell trait in your family or your partner’s family and you are pregnant, you and your partner should get tested for the sickle cell trait. This will help to determine if your unborn child is at risk of the condition.
There is a 1 in 2 chance that your child will have the sickle cell trait if both you and your partner have the trait. However, there is a 1 in 4 chance your child will develop sickle cell anemia if both you and your partner have the trait.;
, The sickle cell gene is more common in individuals from Africa and India as well as Mediterranean countries, the Caribbean islands, Saudi Arabia, and South and Central America.In the United States, the gene is more common in individuals of African American descent.
 If you find out you carry the sickle cell trait, you may talk to a genetic counselor while you are pregnant or before you try to get pregnant. A genetics counselor can explain the risks of having a child with sickle cell anemia as well as treatment options and preventative measures you can take.You can get a referral for a genetic counselor through your primary care doctor or your OB-GYN, if you are pregnant.
 If you or your partner carry the sickle cell trait and you are pregnant, you may ask your doctor to test your unborn baby for the disease. Your doctor can test your unborn baby by using a fetal blood draw. This test will tell you if your child will be born with sickle cell disease.If your unborn baby is diagnosed with sickle cell disease, you may discuss terminating the pregnancy with your partner. This is a personal choice and should be done with care.
Early diagnosis of the disease is important, as it allows the parents to learn more about the disease and be prepared for treatment of the disease once the baby is born. Proper treatment of the disease, especially in the early stages of life, can improve the baby’s chances of survival during childhood.

