 Focusing on your breathing and taking deep, relaxing breaths is one of the easiest ways to calm a nervous stomach. Most people, when they are nervous, have a tendency to take shallow, rapid breaths that speed up your heart rate even more, pumping more adrenaline to your body and fueling your anxiety.Learning to calm your breathing will help you breathe more efficiently, reduce the effects of adrenaline, and calm your nervous stomach.


Try breathing in through your nose, then exhaling through your mouth.
 Aromatherapy uses essential oils, which are derived from various herbs, fruits, bark, and flowers, to positively affect your mood.Lavender and lemon are two of the most popular oils used for relaxation and stress relief. You can either keep these scented oils in burners throughout your house, or you can also purchase aromatherapy massage oils with lavender or lemon for personal use. You can either take light sniffs of the oil or apply the oil to pulse points on your body, like the wrists.
 To help offset a nervous stomach, there are specific foods that contain enzymes and other properties that can relax the digestive tract. If you are really nauseous and don’t feel like eating at all, seek these ingredients out in the form of a mint or lozenge so you can just let it melt in your mouth:Honey is soothing and helps coat the stomach lining.
Mint and peppermint, which contain properties that relax smooth muscles like the stomach.
Ginger and candied ginger, which contain pyrochemicals that help fight nausea.
1 teaspoon of baking soda dissolved into 1 cup of hot water. The sodium in baking soda draws out digestive juices into the stomach, which then aids food’s passage through the small intestine.
Papaya, which contains protein digestive enzymes that have anti-inflammatory properties.
 This is also known as progressive muscle relaxation. When you are feeling tense and your stomach is in a knot, try standing still with your eyes closed. Assess where you feel the most tension in your body, and focus on letting this tension go. Take deep breaths as you relax your arms, your legs, your back, your neck, your torso, and your stomach. Focusing on your body instead of your thoughts can help calm you down. Doing this technique repeatedly can also trick the body into releasing this tension throughout the body, including the stomach., While you never want to take medicine if you can avoid it, sometimes a nervous stomach can be so extreme or persistent that it becomes necessary. If the non-medicinal techniques aren’t working for you, there are some medications that can help calm the stomach. Common over-the-counter examples include:Tums
Pepto-Bismol
Rolaids
Alka-Seltzer
Emetrol
Mylanta
Similac

