 If your dog’s whining is a behavioral issue, training can help address it. The first step is to avoid reinforcing their behavior. Never respond to whining by either scolding or acquiescing to their demands.Communicate the fact that you are ignoring them by calmly but firmly folding your arms and turning away from your dog.Even if your dog is expressing a legitimate need, it’s best to wait to address it until they have stopped whining. Otherwise, you’re teaching them that whining gets results.
 Your pet will figure out that whining does not get them anywhere if you only engage with and attend to them when they’ve stopped whining and settled down.Remember, this includes even negative attention. It’s far more effective to ignore your dog than to yell at them.
 If your dog could use additional reinforcement through training, have them practice being quiet. Each time they start whining, ask them to sit. Once they’ve sat down and stopped whining for at least five seconds, give them a treat.Gradually lengthen the amount of time that your dog has to be quiet before you reward them with a treat.
 While it’s often difficult to hide your enthusiasm for your pet, keeping your “hellos” as short, calm, and understated as you can will help minimize their whining. Resist greeting them with excited exclamations, praise, and affection; your dog will eventually pick up on your tone.Treating your greetings in a mellow, matter-of-fact manner can also help ease any separation anxiety that your dog may feel when you’re away.
 If your pooch is prone to noisy displays of excitement, try distracting them with another task when those situations arise. For instance, if they get excited when visitors arrive, make them sit and wait for a treat while you usher in your guest or give them a favorite toy to play with., If your dog whines out of submission, you can address their behavior by making them feel a bit more dominant. An easy way to do this is through regular one-on-one play sessions. Interactive games, like fetch, tug, or agility training, can go a long way towards diminishing your dog’s whiny submissiveness.Obedience classes that use positive rewards systems can also help boost your dog’s confidence.

