 Often, you will receive a schedule, buy your gym outfit (at some schools you can just wear whatever workout outfits you already have), get your handbook, and much more. If you get to meet your teachers, try to make a good impression. If not, you might not have a good first day.


Know where your classes are. Try to find what floor, class, hallway, or side of the school your classes are in.





;
, If that is what happens, then calm down. Just make sure you do not get on the teacher's bad side. If you do good in their class they will more likely like you!

, (Books,Folders,Pencils,etc)
Do you have your schedule?
Gym clothes?
Is your back-to-school outfit on your dresser, hanging on closet/door?

, Know if your combination is 21, 17, 23 or 23, 17, 21. Try making a math equation, such as 23-21=17. It may be incorrect, but if someone is trying to find your combination, its better to be "The girl who can't subtract" than "The girl who got her stuff stolen."

, If you are bringing lunch, use a lunch box instead of a brown paper bag, just so you don't waste.
 Many schools don't allow kids to carry their backpacks because it takes up a lot of room. And besides, a heavy backpack can be bad for you, so it's best to avoid them.
 Something as simple as being well nourished in the mornings can make a big difference on your happiness and overall success in school.
 There are lots of things you can do to make the first day an easier one., If you're late for one or two classes on the first day, it's understandable. Don't stop and chat unless you're completely sure you can get to class on time. Get your books and head to class. Stop at your locker for a minute if you need to. Depending on your school depends on the time you have between classes. So don't stay in the hall too long, or else you may get in trouble.


Get a pass by your teacher to stop by your locker. This way, you can get your stuff and not be in trouble for being late.






Find shortcuts to get to class. Maybe if you go through the middle staircase, you can get to second period quicker!






Don't stop and talk! This is no excuse to be late.






Don't let slow people make you late for class! If people are being slow, give them a shove while saying, "Excuse me." Don't push or hit them, just lightly push through.
 Be kind, friendly, and patient. Many people want to be your friend based on who you are, not what you look like.
 Don't get your teacher mad. Some teachers mean what they say, and play no games.


Taking your time, talking, or being unprepared can give you supervisions! Supervisions are detentions! You don't want detention on your first year!







, Procrastination leads to stress and poor grades, so it's a better idea to start your homework 30 minutes or so after you get home. Avoid being around distractions like the TV, your computer, or your cell phone while you're doing homework. Feel free to take short breaks while you're working, but be diligent about getting back to work once the break is over.
 While it's tempting to spend time on the computer before bed, you will sleep less if you do this. Instead, find a good book and wind down by reading.
 Give your parents details about your day when they ask (or even if they don't!). Help out around the house—offer to do dishes, set the table, or take your dog for a walk. The good behavior will pay off when you ask to do things with friends.
 Remember that the number of boys you date or the amount of makeup you wear won't make you popular, and more importantly, it won't help you do well in school. And try not to cause drama either. It will make you look like a bad friend.


Avoid gossip as well. Nobody likes to be friends with the girl who's in everyone's business, and in every conversation. And not in a good way.






Don't get into other people's business. Its not your business!







, If you constantly feel as though you're your friend's shadow or vice versa, work to even the playing field or find a new group of friends.Try to keep a small group of best friends, maybe 2-4 will be good!

, Take a little time each day to relax by yourself. Get to know yourself—middle school is a time when everyone is changing, and you're more likely to love those changes if you are working to know yourself.
 Some girls are going to try to get you to change for their needs. Don't Forget, that your true friends will accept you for who you are. So don't try to change for other people, because if you mess up and get people mad at you, it may affect the rest of your middle school year., Most of all, learn to appreciate living in the present while being focused on your future. This is a skill worth cultivating., You don't have to wash your hair that often, but washing your body will help mitigate acne and body odor. "Clean and Clear In-Shower Facial" is a great product to use to wash your face.
 Don't overdo it—you want your makeup to look natural, not trashy. All you need is some mascara, maybe some natural color eyeshadow, and blush! It will look beautiful and natural!. But don't forget to wash it all off before bedtime! Makeup can create pimples and zits from getting into your pores!

, This sounds like a no-brainer, but bad breath can hinder any semblance of a social life.

