 Every state has different requirements, so find out what your state’s requirements are before you do anything else. You can visit the official website of your state or you can call the appropriate department. (Call your state capitol and tell the operator you want the phone number of the department or office that regulates adoptions for your state.) Departments that handle the regulations regarding adoptions may be called differently in some states. Usually, the department is called the Department of Public Welfare, the Department of Human Resources or the Department of Child Services. Once you are connected to the regulating department, ask for these documents:


A copy of the state adoption law.
A list of all licensed adoption agencies in your state, both public and private, profit and non-profit. The list should include addresses and phone numbers, if possible.
A list of all licensed abortion clinics, Right to Life Centers, Planned Parenthood organizations, and any other agencies that do testing for pregnancy and provide pregnancy options counseling.
Any other publications they have on hand that will assist and guide you through the adoptive process.;
, (Have a paper and pen ready to record the answers.)


What kinds of adoptions are permitted in our state? Are both for profit and non-profit agencies allowed?
Are there special requirements I must meet if I arrange adoptions through a non-licensed agency or group?
Does our state require a home study to be done? If so, does the home study have to be conducted before adoption proceedings are initiated?
Does our state have any regulations regarding race, cultural or religious backgrounds of prospective adoptive parents?
What are the specific regulations about funding the medical expenses for the birth mother? Are there specific expenses that are not allowed for payment?
Does our state allow international adoptions?
Does our state have a list of potential adoptive parent groups?
What are the regulations regarding special needs children?
Are there special requirements I must meet if I arrange adoptions through a non-licensed agency or group?
Does our state require a home study to be done? If so, does the home study have to be conducted before adoption proceedings are initiated?
Does our state have any regulations regarding race, cultural or religious backgrounds of prospective adoptive parents?#*What are the specific regulations about funding the medical expenses for the birth mother? Are there specific expenses that are not allowed for payment?
Does our state allow international adoptions?
Does our state have a list of potential adoptive parent groups?
What are the regulations regarding special needs children?

, In order to facilitate adoptions, you need to find children who need to be adopted. Check out the following associations:


State Medical Association. Ask if they have an approved list of medical practitioners, such as obstetricians and general family practitioners. When you are ready to open your agency, you can contact your list of doctors and tell them you would like their help in locating children who are in need of adoption.
State Department of Education. Find out if you can get a directory of the schools in your state. You can then contact the counseling department in these institutions to see if they are working with children who need an adoptive family.
State School Nurse’s Association. School nurses are often the first officials who are aware that a teen is pregnant and seeking an adoption agency.
State Department of Health. Ask for a comprehensive list of all licensed family planning clinics and maternity homes.
 A good business plan starts with a complete mission statement that describes the goals of the organization. Once you have developed your mission statement, write your business plan based on the objectives you have set forth, including your annual budget estimates and your marketing plans

, Go to their websiteand thoroughly review their guidelines and recommendations. The CWLA publishes standards for adoption service providers. Before embarking on an adoption agency startup, review CWLA materials to make sure you are prepared to design an agency capable of exceeding the industry's minimum standards.
 Interview the owners, if possible. You may want to conduct your visits and interviews in adoption agencies that are not located in your state. Some business owners are more willing to be open if they don’t feel threatened by impending competition. It’s also important to know who your local competitors are. Be sure to find out where all the adoption agencies in your local community are located., In today’s world, you will need an attractive website, and you should put a lot of thought and care into how your website is perceived. For many people, a website is their first point of contact when they are considering adoption.
 All businesses should have efficient work office flow, but adoption agencies must also be sure to have privacy and security controls in place due to the sensitive nature of the business.
 There’s no doubt that starting your own business is tough, so after reviewing all the steps above, you may want to think about taking an easier route. Buying an established business will save you a lot of time and you will already have an established customer base.

