 The flip side of disciplining your child for bad behavior is making sure that you reinforce good behavior. Make sure that you praise the things that your child does well, good behavior he displays, and when he avoids doing things that you have disciplined him for previously.You can reinforce good behavior with verbal praise, physical affection, gifts, and treats.
 The emotions that you show help your child figure out proper responses for everyday occurrences. When you smile, your child knows that thing making you smile is a good thing. You can use your emotions as a way to teach your child that some behaviors and actions are bad.To do this:


Smile, laugh and exaggerate your happiness to show your pleasure when your child does something good.
Show tiny emotion when your child does something wrong, and explain why you are not reacting happily to what he has done. Your child is more likely to not repeat an action when the response is not intriguing.
 Using logical explanations about responsibility can go a long way when trying to help a child with bipolar disorder understand that something he has done is wrong. Remind your child that he is not to blame for his mood swings, but that he is responsible for how he acts and treats other people.


Sit down with your child and calmly explain that he is responsible for what he has done and will have to face the consequences, such as not getting a new toy because he broke the last one during a fit.
 As stated above, consistency and feelings of control go a long way with children that are dealing with bipolar disorder. They also tend to become bored more quickly because they become wrapped up in their changing emotions. Creating a structured, healthy environment for your child will help him to feel in control and less stressed, both of which are factors that can lead to mood swings.You do not need to schedule every second of every day, but giving your child a rough outline of each day can help. For instance, meals at specific times each day, followed by an hour of play and then a nap. You will have to create a specific child depending on his daily activities.
 Along with a schedule, you can also create rules with your child that he can use as a guide for his behaviors and actions. Bipolar children often have a hard time focusing, so giving him rules that he can refer to when he needs to will help remind him what is and is not okay to do.


You should outline the things that your child can do, and the things that are considered ‘bad’. At this time, you should also discuss what will happen if the bad behavior occurs. Write all of this down, and ask your child to carry the piece of paper with him at all times.
 Just like adults, bipolar children need to decompress and release the tension and aggression that has built up inside them. Activities like sports are a great way for your child to let out his excess energy. Exercise also releases endorphins, chemicals that make you feel happy.


Ask your child to pick a sport that he is interested in trying and then sign him up. Allowing him to pick the sport will help him stay interested in it.
 While discipline is a necessary part of raising a child, you must always make sure your child knows that you love and support him. While he will have moments of meanness that cause you frustration, it is important to remember that it is his condition that causes him to be this way. Show him your unconditional love, in the face of ‘bad’ behavior.

