 Cash back credit cards allow users to earn points on qualifying purchases. These points are determined using a percentage of net expenditures, which are total expenditures minus any refunds. Points may be awarded differently for different types of qualifying purchases. In most cases, points may also be used for other benefits, like airline miles or gift cards.


Cash back may be received at the end of a period of time, once the cardholder reaches a points threshold, or at any point, depending on the card agreement.;
, Cash back credit cards are broadly split up into categories based on how cash back points are earned. All cash back cards earn points based on a percentage of net expenditures, but do so at different rates and may offer separate rates for a certain purchases. The following are the major types of cash back cards:


Flat rate. These cards offer a flat cash back rate for all purchases. The leading cards of this type typically offer 1.5 percent back.
Variable rate. These cards offer points at different rates based on the type of purchase. For example, grocery purchases may earn 2 or 3 percent back, while other purchases earn you only 1 percent. These cards are only useful if your spending habits align with the higher-earning categories.
Rotating rate. These cards offer high cash back rates on purchase categories that change each month. For example, a card might earn 5 percent back on gas purchases in May and then 5 percent back on entertainment purchases in June. Other purchases might still earn a flat rate, like 1 percent.

These cards are only useful if you have the time to keep track of the current month's high-rate category and adjust your spending accordingly., All major credit card providers offer some type of cash back credit card. Start by seeing what type of cards, if any, your current bank offers. Then, check with large credit card providers like Capital One, Citi, American Express, and Discover. Some popular cash back cards include:


BankAmericard Cash Rewards Card.
Discover it Cashback Match.
Capital One Quicksilver Cash Rewards Card.
American Express Blue Cash Preferred.
Citi Double Cash Card., Different cards focus on different type of purchases and offer higher rewards for those purchases. For example, some cards offer greater rewards on travel expenses like airfare and foreign transactions. Look for cards that match what you spend the most money on. For example, if you primarily spend on gas and groceries, look for a card that rewards these purchases with 2 or 3 percent back.You should also consider how much you would actually use the cash back features. If the cash back features are for travel and you don't travel more than once per year, having the card will likely not be worth it., Some cards offer a points bonus or a cash reward if you spent a certain amount in an initial period. Look for a card with a signup bonus that you can earn using your regular spending habits. Just make sure that you're not overspending to reach the required number of points; that would defeat the purpose of earning the bonus., Check in the fine print to make sure you can receive the cash back in the form that you want. Many cards offer cash back as a statement credit, a gift card, or simply a check. However, some are more restrictive. For example, some cards only allow earned cash to be placed in a qualified retirement account. Make sure before getting a cash back card that you can receive the cash back in the form of your choosing., These bills might include gas, electric, cable, and telephone bills. Enroll the cash back card for automatic payments to these bills if possible. If you choose not to, set aside one or two days every month to pay your bills with the card. Doing so will help you remember to pay these bills., This should be noted in your credit card agreement, or you can contact the credit card company and ask. Common high-percentage cash back categories include gasoline, groceries and household goods.


Some cards pay a higher rate for fixed categories, but others may offer rotating high-rate categories that change every few months. Remember to register for these cash back rewards each month if your card requires you to do so (as many do)., Many cards cap your qualifying cash back purchases in certain categories to a certain dollar amount each year or month. If you find yourself regularly hitting this limit, considering switching cards to maximize your cash back potential. You should also look out for cards that exclude purchases at certain establishments from cash back rewards. For example, some cards may exclude purchases at retailers like Costco or Sam's Club from earning cash back rewards. Make sure your card includes retailers that you will be shopping at frequently., Most credit cards allow you an interest-free grace period for new purchases if you pay your balance in full. However, eventually this period will run out. Interest expenses can quickly eat into your returns from your cash back rewards. To avoid running up a huge credit card bill and incurring lots of interest, record your cash back card purchases in your checkbook ledger and pay the credit card bill in full every month.If you must carry a balance, use whichever of your cards has the lowest interest rate; cash back is a drop in the bucket compared to interest charges.
 It may be tempting to reach the next threshold and earn cash back by buying something that you don't need. This is exactly why card providers offer cash back rewards in this way. Doing so will usually result in your having less money in the end than you would have by not reaching the points threshold. Only spend what you would normally spend and let the points pile up without thinking about it.For example, if you are $50 short of a $25 reward and buy something costing $60 to reach over the threshold, you have bought something you don't need and have effectively lost $35.
 If you have to return a purchase made with your cash back credit card, consider getting store credit for your return rather than a credit back to your card. This will allow you to keep the points that you earned on the purchase. However, don't pursue this option if you don't shop at the store frequently and will not use the store credit.
 For example, some cards allow you to request a rebate check once your cash back balance reaches or exceeds a set amount. You'll need to understand when you can access your cash back rewards if you want to receive them., Some cards allow you to set up features in which your cash back rewards will be automatically returned to you or deposited in your account. Check with your card provider and ask if your card has any of the following features:


Automatically applying the rebate to your balance as a statement credit.
Automatically sending you a check at the end of the year, or once you reach a set rebate amount.
Automatically depositing your rebate directly into the bank account of your choice., You should also check the fine print to see how the cash back rebates are paid, how may rebates you're allowed to claim within a calendar year, and what happens to any unclaimed rebate balance at the end of the year. You should also stay on top of changes to the card agreement by signing up for email notifications. Cash back terms may change at any time., Most cards have rules about using earned points within a certain amount of time. If you don't, they will expire and can no longer be redeemed for cash back. Others have points that expire if you don't use the card for a certain amount of time. Make sure to redeem your cash back points within the time frame so that they don't go to waste.Points may also be taken away if you miss payments on your credit card., In order to avoid letting points expire, try redeeming your current cash back allowance at the same time every year. For example, you could use your cash back rewards for holiday gifts, your spouse's birthday, or your own birthday each year. This way, you take full advantage of your earned points each year., Some cards allow you to use your cash back balance directly for purchases. For example, a card might offer the ability to use your points to shop at a retailer like Amazon.com. This will allow you to quickly use your points balance for regular purchases, without waiting for a statement credit or a check in the mail.

