 Each league has its own rules that govern when players can be traded to other teams within the league, and what procedures must be used.In most professional sports leagues, players have substantially fewer reasons to terminate their contracts than clubs do. For example, in Major League Baseball, a player can only terminate his contract if the club doesn't pay him, and only then if the club still doesn't pay him within 10 days after receipt of written notice.
An MLB club, in contrast, can terminate a player's contract if he fails to conform his personal conduct to the league's standards of good citizenship and sportsmanship, fails to keep himself in peak physical condition, or fails to exhibit skill or ability sufficient to qualify him for continued membership on the club's roster.
Often these criteria, including the assessment that a player lacks sufficient skill or ability, are subjective assessments made by the club's management. As such, an MLB standard player contract can be terminated by a club based on management's opinion.
 One of the more common procedures used is to have the club that currently has the player request waivers from other clubs who want and have the ability to sign the player the club wants to transfer.This procedure is used by MLB clubs and is outlined in the MLB standard player contract.
A club that wants to terminate a player's contract must request waivers from all other MLB clubs. Waivers are requested from each team in order from the lowest-ranked team in the standings to the highest.
If another club wants the player, it may claim assignment of the player's contract. These claims are valid for two business days.
 Typically a player must be notified either before or soon after the club issues a request for waivers that the club intends to transfer the player's contract.Under MLB procedure, if the club receives a claim from another club, it must notify the player that waivers were requested for the purpose of terminating his contract, and that his contract was claimed by another team.
Once a baseball player receives notice that his contract has been claimed by another team, he has five days to decide whether he wants to transfer to the new team or be released.
During the five-day period, the player can choose to terminate his contract by providing written notice to his club.
If he fails to provide notice to his club that he wants to terminate his contract, his contract will be assigned to the new team.
 Once a team has been chosen and has accepted the player, the original contract is terminated and the player must sign a new contract with his or her new club.If the waiver period ends and no team has claimed the player, his contract is fully terminated.
Baseball has two trade deadlines: July 31 and August 31. Players traded after July 31 must go through waivers. Those traded after August 31 cannot be included on any postseason roster.
 Standard player contracts and collective bargaining agreements typically require a player to report to the new club immediately after the contract is assigned.All obligations between the club and the player under the contract cease on the date of termination, except that the club must pay the player any income he has earned to that date, as well as any moving allowances.
The NFL's standard player contract does not require use of the waiver system. Rather, a player's contract can be assigned to any other team in the league at any time.
The new team agrees to take over the contract on the same terms and pays the player's travel expenses to report to the team.

