 A leather jacket will naturally break in over time from the minor day-to-day stresses of simply wearing it. If you want to break your jacket in as quickly as possible, make it a part of your outfit every day!


Note that activities that cause you to move, bend, and put gentle stress on the jacket break it in more than those that don't. For instance, wearing your jacket on a day you go on a hike will wear it more than a day you're stuck typing at a computer.;
, You don't only have to wear your jacket when you're out and about. In fact, wearing it when you ordinarily wouldn't (like when you're lounging around the house) will break it in even faster. Be careful about wearing it for rough or messy activities, though — nicks, stains, and tears can be difficult to fix on a leather jacket (though, with the right approach, it's still possible.)Wearing your jacket for the following activities (and others) will break it in faster:


If you really want to make the most of your time, you can even wear your leather jacket when you're sleeping to break it in for an extra eight hours each day, as long as it's not too uncomfortable to let you get to sleep.
 Depending on the type of hide they're made from, leather jackets can be surprisingly durable. To break your jacket in quickly, you can try giving it wear-and-tear from activities besides being worn. Here are just a few things you may want to do to break in your jacket faster:Bunch it up and use it as a pillow or backrest.
Wrap it around you as a blanket.
Tie it up in a bundle and play ball with it.
Carry things in it, using the sleeves as handles (do not use especially heavy objects)
Use it to help you gently stretch your arms and legs

, Some (but not all) leather care resources suggest using abrasives to wear down especially rough or stiff spots on the leather jacket.If you want to attempt this method, work slowly and stop to check your work often. Leather is harder to repair than other fabrics, so gouging or otherwise damaging your leather can leave it with a permanent mark.


Opt for a gentler abrasive, like mild steel wool, high-grit sandpaper, or a nylon abrasive pad. Using something harsher, like rough sandpaper, can cause more wear than you intended.
The high-wear spots on the joints (elbows, shoulders) and around the seams are good targets. Keep in mind, however, that this method will actually wear away at the leather.
 It's easy to forget that leather is made from an animal's skin — if it dries out, it can stiffen and even crack (just like human skin.) If your leather jacket is stiff, cracked, or flat-looking, a little conditioner can help soften and protect it, making it more comfortable to wear as a side effect.


Leather conditioner can be bought at specialty shops and online for fairly cheap (usually $15-$30 per liter.)Good brands include Pecard, Lexol, Leather Honey, and others.
Be sure to use a conditioning product that's suitable for your jacket's type of leather. Leather generally comes from one of four sources, each with its own texture: cattle, lamb, goat, or horse. Conditioners are usually formulated specifically for certain types of leather and not for others. Lighter fashion lotions are usually best for softer lamb and goat skins, while heavier all-weather conditioners are often best for cow and horse skin.

