 Instead of just eating cold, leftover pizza, heat it up on your waffle iron. Take one large piece of leftover pizza and fold it in half lengthwise, so the toppings are contained. If any toppings or cheese are oozing out, use a knife to trim them away. Put the pizza on a hot waffle iron and cook it until the outside of the pizza is crisp. Carefully remove the pizza and eat it while it's hot.You may need to cut your pizza into a smaller piece, depending on the size of your waffle iron.;
, Cook up a pan of scrambled eggs like you usually would. While the eggs are gently cooking, tear up a piece or two of leftover pizza into small bites. Stir the pizza into the eggs and finish cooking the eggs, so they set.For an elegant way to serve pizza and eggs, stir the pizza bits into a pan of beaten eggs to make a frittata. Place the pan under the broiler to finish cooking the eggs.
 If you have a lot of leftover pizza, lay the pieces in the bottom of a casserole dish. Whisk together eggs, milk, and cheese. Pour the mixture over the pizza and sprinkle it with more cheese. Bake the pizza casserole until the eggs are cooked.Consider adding diced onions, peppers, and mushrooms to the pizza bake.
 If you simply want to reheat last night's pizza and eat it for breakfast, skip the microwave. Instead, heat a skillet to medium-low and lay a slice of pizza, so the toppings are facing down. Cook the pizza for a few minutes, so the cheese melts a little and then flip it over. Cook the crust side for a couple of minutes before you eat the pizza.If you're worried the pizza will stick to your pan, you can start by cooking the crust side first. Just add a few tablespoons of water to the pan and stick the lid on. This will hep crisp up the crust.
 Take a large piece of leftover pizza and cut out a circle from the center. Place the pizza and the circle in a pan over medium heat and cook it for several minutes. Crack one egg into the hole and let it fry for a minute. Put the skillet in the oven and bake the pizza egg in the hole until the egg is set.This works best with pan-style or deep dish pizza. Avoid making it with a thin-crust style pizza.
 While marinara or pizza sauce is the standard base for most pizzas, you can use salsa for a fresh taste on your breakfast pizza. Salsa works well with many breakfast pizza toppings (like eggs and hash browns). You can use a chunky salsa, so you get large bites of onion, pepper, and tomato or use a smooth salsa, if you'd rather focus on the toppings.If you prefer, you can use a basic cheese sauce instead of salsa or marinara sauce.
 Instead of using pepperoni or Italian sausage, get a pizza with thick cut bacon for a true breakfast flavor. Thick cut bacon will give a meaty flavor to the pizza. You can also use ground breakfast sausage. Try to find one that uses maple flavoring.You can use standard bacon, but it may crisp up quickly. Keep an eye on the pizza, so the thin bacon doesn't burn.
 Adding hash browns is an easy way to make your pizza great for breakfast. Just thaw some frozen shredded hash browns and scatter the hash browns over the breakfast pizza. They'll crisp up as the pizza bakes.


You can also make a hash brown crust instead of using dough. Just combine hash browns with eggs and cheese. Pat this mixture into a circle and top it with your breakfast pizza toppings.
 While bell peppers can be used on standard pizza, they also taste great with other breakfast ingredients. Just slice red, orange, yellow, or green bell peppers into thin strips or large chunks. You can also open a jar of sun dried tomatoes packed in oil. Drain the oil and lay the strips of sun dried tomato on the pizza.You can use fresh cherry or grape tomatoes cut in half. Avoid using large tomatoes, since these may be watery which will make your breakfast pizza soggy.
 You can easily scramble a pan of eggs and top your breakfast pizza with them. For a classic style, crack whole eggs on the pizza right before it's ready to go in the oven. The eggs will cook gently and just set. This will give you soft-cooked eggs on your breakfast pizza.If doing soft-cooked eggs, ensure that the whites are cooked and the yolks are just set. They'll run as you cut into them.
 While any type of cheese will work well on a breakfast pizza, create a new flavor by using a soft cheese. For example, you could dollop and spread fresh ricotta or soft goat cheese. This is a great way to get extra protein and the cheese pairs well with sharper flavors (like bacon and bell peppers).You could also use softened cream cheese as a base or creamy topping for the breakfast pizza.
 If you want a truly unique breakfast pizza, add some of your favorite breakfast items onto the pizza. Sausage gravy makes a great topping or you could even use it as a base for the pizza. Use a gravy that has large chunks of sausage, so you get some meat in every bite.For a vegetarian version, you could use your favorite mushroom gravy.

