 Maybe your partner has been clear that they want to cuddle, or maybe you’re taking the initiative to start your snuggling. Regardless, it is best to start slow. Don’t jump into cuddling - literally, don’t jump on them, no matter how impatient you are. Place a hand on their shoulder, back, or on their waist to show your intent. Rest it there for a few minutes or give a light rub.


Make sure that your intentions for cuddling are clear. You can place a hand on their shoulder, but that doesn’t necessarily mean you want to cuddle with the person. Caress their arm instead to make sure they understand what you are leading into.
Remember that cuddling is often a stand-alone activity, and doesn’t necessarily translate into foreplay. Start slow and work till you're comfortable, not with the intention of progressing things past the cuddle stage.;
, So you’ve done the basics, and are ready to proceed into real cuddling. Before you make the transition though, keep in mind important environmental factors. Is it hot out? Because you might have to limit the amount of physical contact you have in order to avoid turning into a swamp monster. Are you on a couch or a bed? Or something else entirely? The amount of space you have to sprawl will change the cuddling positions you can perform., You’re about to be held down in a hug for quite some time, so make sure that you’re comfortable first. If you plan on doing some long-term cuddling during a movie or before bed, change into comfortable clothes or grab a cozy blanket. Although you might be resting on the other person, having a pillow present might be a good idea too.
 The PG kind; rub your partner's back, legs, or arms in a sensitive and endearing fashion. This may or may not be the same as light massage. The goal here is to make the other person comfortable and interested in further cuddling with you. When you have transitioned into true “cuddling,” you may choose to continue the light rubbing to prolong the positive feelings you both get from it.

