 Before you try to reach out and pet an unfriendly or abused dog, you need to give the dog a few moments to become used to you and sniff you. Keep your hands at your sides and do not maintain eye contact with the dog.When you are trying to get along with the dog, you want the dog to feel comfortable throughout the entire process.Back away and end the interaction if the dog ever begins to display signs of aggression.
 Once the dog has had an opportunity to become acclimated to your presence, you can hold out your hand for them to sniff. Dogs use scent to become acquainted with new people and to learn things about them.This will be very important in any future interactions with the dog, since they will remember and recognize your scent.


Move your hand out slowly. An abused dog may be hand shy, since they may associate human hands with being abused.
 Avoid petting the dog on the top of their heads, and try to pet their backs, or gently under their chins. If they move backwards and away from you, do not try to still touch them.Move your hand very slowly when you go to pet them and do not make any sudden movements. Be very gentle when you pet the dog and keep your hand relaxed rather than stiff.


Do not try to touch the dog if they do not seem receptive, interested in you, or show any signs of aggression. It may take a few interactions before the dog feels comfortable enough to let you touch them, especially if they have been physically abused., Keep your voice low and quiet while you are talking to the dog. You can say reassuring things like, “What a good puppy,” or “You’re being such a good girl.” These reassuring phrases can let the dog know that you are relaxed and calm, and that it is safe for them to continue interacting with you.Never raise your voice or yell at the dog. An abused dog may associate raised voices with the abuse they have suffered and become agitated or afraid. This is not the type of response you want to elicit, so avoid making loud noises.
 Only offer the dog a treat if the owner says that it is okay. Food is a good way to build trust and a relationship with the dog. When they begin to associate you with treats, which most dogs enjoy, they will link you with something that they like. A small treat can go a long way in building trust and a relationship with a dog., Building a relationship with an abused or unfriendly dog takes time and repeated positive interactions. When you have a positive interaction with the dog, remember what you did and what the dog responded positively to. For instance, if the dog was very receptive and enjoyed getting a treat, you can remember to bring treats with you the next time you see the dog. A healthy relationship with the dog is built on mutual trust and respect for each other’s boundaries.


As the dog becomes more comfortable with you, you can try to engage in new ways. For example, once the dog is more comfortable, you could pet them on their head or try to play a game like fetch with them.

