 Your employer should file this form at least 45 days before the expiration date on your Form I-94 to ensure your application is processed before your current visa expires. There is a $460 filing fee, with possible additional fees depending on your visa classification., The documents generally include things such as a copy of the contract between the employer and employee, description of the employee’s job duties, and proof of the employee’s academic credentials. The various other documents required will depend on the visa classification being extended. You can find the requirements for your visa on the Form I-129 Instructions.
 You can use one Form I-539 for your entire family. It should be filed at the same time as your Form I-129, so that the two forms can be examined together. Your family will need their Form I-94 and valid passports. The fee is $370. For more information, see the Form I-539 Instructions.
 If you fail to send in a duplicate, the processing of the application may be delayed., This Request for Premium Processing Services costs $1225 and ensures that your application will be processed with 15 days of the date that USCIS receives it., For some renewals, you will need to have fingerprints taken. The USCIS will inform you in writing when to go to you local Application Support Center for a biometrics services appointment. Failure to go to this appointment may result in a denial of your application., The USCIS may request to interview an applicant as part of the review process. They may also request originals of copied documents or additional information. Failure to provide the necessary information or to appear for an interview will likely result in a denial of your application., When your application is received by the USCIS, they will mail you a receipt with a number that you can use to check the status of your case or to register for automatic case status updates.If USCIS approves your employer’s petition, they will be sent a Notice of Action, Form I-797 indicating the approval. You will need the receipt number form this form to apply for your visa.
 There is no way to renew a US visa. You will have to apply for a new one. You will need to upload a photo with the correct format as part of the application process. You can check to see if you must submit an application fee here. Your family can apply at the same time under the same visa category.
 If you are renewing your work permit, you will probably be able to skip the interview and fingerprinting process. You qualify if:You are applying for an H1, L, E1, or E2 classification visa.
You are renewing an unexpired visa in the same classification as before.
Your name has not changed.
H2, E3, and T visa classifications require interviews for renewals, as do L blanket applications (when an employer applies for general permission to transfer employees). These applicants will need to schedule an interview appointment.
 You will submit the following to the appropriate consulate or embassy:A completed “drop-box” letter, generated with your DS-160 application.
Your current passport, valid at least 6 months beyond your period of stay in the United States.
Form DS-160 confirmation page.
Application fee payment receipt, if applicable.
Your previous visa.
Two correctly formatted photographs taken in the last 6 months.
A copy of your I-797.
 You will need:Your current passport, valid at least 6 months beyond your period of stay in the United States.
Form DS-160 confirmation page.
Application fee payment receipt, if you are required to pay before the interview.
Your previous visa.
One correctly formatted photograph taken in the last 6 months.
The receipt number from you approved I-129 petition or I-797 notice of action.
If you are included in an L blanket petition, you must bring Form I-129S to your interview.
Additional information as required, including proof of intent to return to your home country at the end of your stay.
 Once the decision has been made, you will be notified as soon as possible.

