 If you are using a Sunpass for a single vehicle, the mini Sunpass transponder will work well for your needs. If you have multiple vehicles or a vehicle with more than two axles, you will need a standard Sunpass transponder.Sunpasses may be shared between family members. If you have several members of the family who will regularly pass tolls, the full-size will best suit your needs.;
, The greatest difference between the two types of Sunpass is portability: the mini is a sticker affixed permanently to a single windshield, while the standard pass is able to move from vehicle to vehicle. If you need to move your Sunpass, avoid the mini.


The mini is ideal for a single traveler or people who share a single vehicle.
The mini is also $20 cheaper than the standard Sunpass, which makes it the more economical choice.
 If you anticipate a lot of usage, you may qualify for special discounts. If you anticipate a lot of usage between multiple vehicles, purchasing the standard size is the best option.Some routes provide yearly passes, while others provide frequent user discounts. Check with your local routes to determine what discounts may be available.
 If you are just visiting Florida and want a Sunpass to cut down on tolls, check with local car rental companies. Many have deals on Sunpasses to draw customers in. Choosing to go this route may wind up being less expensive than driving your own vehicle.If you already have a standard Sunpass, you can also use a rental car, but must record the rental car’s license plate number.
 Not all retailers offer both the Sunpass and Sunpass mini, so knowing which one you choose will weed out which locations you are able to purchase from.


If you are purchasing directly from the state, you can decide on either pass. If you are unsure which is best, Sunpass customer service can help determine what makes the most sense for your needs.
 The most straightforward way to purchase a Sunpass is to visit a state store or turnpike. Purchasing a Sunpass in these areas is great if you are unsure what your needs are, as you can discuss your lifestyle and travel habits with the vendors.This option is best for individuals who are not familiar with the Sunpass system.
 Pharmacies such as CVS have been authorized to both sell and reload Sunpasses, making it as easy as a trip to the pharmacy to enjoy the convenience of pre-paid tolls.
 AAA is another authorized retailer. This one is particularly helpful if you have AAA insurance, as you can kill two birds with one stone and pay your bill while purchasing or refilling your Sunpass., You can also purchase Sunpasses online, though you will need to either have the pass shipped or pick it up from an authorized retailer. This is a convenient option if you don’t need your Sunpass immediately, as you can purchase from the comfort of your home and await delivery.This option is fairly painless, and requires you to complete a basic online application and payment form.
 If you are not comfortable using online forms, you can also purchase a Sunpass through the mail or through a fax. This functions much in the same way as purchasing online, in that you must then wait for your pass to be shipped to your home.This is a great choice for older men and women who are not comfortable or familiar with technology, but still want to purchase from home.

