 There are a number of relatively new antiviral drugs that your pediatrician may recommend under some circumstances. These antiviral drugs may be recommended for children with severe flu or who are hospitalized because of the flu. These drugs may also be recommended for those children at high risk of complications, such as babies under age two and children with asthma, heart or lung disease, cancer, or diabetes. These are ideally given within the first two days of showing flu symptoms. Your doctor may first wish to test your child for the virus with a nasal swab. The following drugs have been approved in the US:Oseltamivir (Tamiflu®): This can be given to children two weeks of age or older. It is also approved for prevention of influenza in children one year of age or older. Oseltamivir can be taken as a pill or a liquid.
Zanamivir (Relenza®): This medication can be given to children seven years and older. It can also be given to children five years and older in order to prevent the flu. It is not recommended for people with underlying respiratory problems, heart disease, and asthma. Zanamivir is delivered using a special inhaler (Diskhaler®).
The most common side effects for Oseltamivir are nausea and vomiting while the most common side effects of Zanamivir are diarrhea, nausea, sinusitis, nasal signs and symptoms, bronchitis, cough, headache, dizziness, and ear, nose, and throat infections.
 According to the FDA, you should not use any over-the-counter cold and cough medicines for children under the age of four years. For older children, call your physician.There is evidence that indicates that these OTC cough medicines really aren’t as helpful as people believe them to be. There is a risk of serious side effects.
 It is best to allow your child's body to fight off a fever under 102 degrees Fahrenheit on its own. However, you may need to give your child a fever reducer if your child is uncomfortable or if the fever is over 102. To reduce a fever, you can give a child older than six months old ibuprofen or acetaminophen. Ibuprofen and acetaminophen can also help with any aches or pains your child has.You can give acetaminophen to babies under six months old, but contact your doctor if you are not sure about how much to give.
Don't give aspirin to any child under the age of 19 with the flu.Alternatively, you can bathe your child in lukewarm water to bring the fever down and make your child more comfortable.
 Talk to your doctor about a vaccination against the flu for you and your children. The CDC recommends that anyone over the age of six months should be vaccinated.Two flu vaccines are available for children. One vaccine covers three flu virus strains, while the other covers four strains. However, the specific vaccines change each year and may contain different numbers and types of strains.
Children over the age of two may be able to use a nasal spray vaccine; however, it is unclear whether or not the spray is effective. Discuss this with your doctor or pharmacist first and see what they recommend.

