,, Unscrew the spark plug and with a thin metal scrapper, scrap off the carbon. A close gap makes the engine easier to start but there is a resultant loss of power. The smallest pocket knife's blade could be used as a scrapper. Clean the carbon off the spark plug, replace if necessary. Spark plug do not have to changed frequently, as long as the gap keeps getting readjusted. The messy, time-consuming task of decarbonization keeps an engine going at optimal capacity., Use the metal scrapper or a small pocket knife., Eventually the engine will have to be decarbonized., Tools and Equipment: a ratchet set with and extension, paint brush, wire brush, assorted screwdrivers and a shallow pan to hold the solvent (kerosene, paint thinner, or some water soluble solvent are good choices).,, Remove all carbon. If the piston ring(s) is worn, replace it. It easier to clean the piston when it is removed. Whatever the case, be careful when sliding the ring over the piston, the ring breaks easily. The gasket between the cylinder head and the rest of the engine will not have to changed each time the engine is disassembled. If the gasket breaks, replace it., Look at the size of the four cylinder head nuts, they are small. Evenly tighten the nuts and have it seated evenly so there will be no leakage and to avoid warping the cylinder head. Do not apply excessive pressure when tightening the nuts, a torque wrench is not necessary. It is easy to break the rod (with threading on both ends) that the nut fastens on. If the rod does break, it will break at the threaded area. When the rod breaks on the other end it will have to replaced and may shear off to the extent that a vice grip will not be able to grasp it and twist it out. So,if the four rods with the threaded ends looks worn out, replace them., Disassemble and decarbonize the muffler is fast, because it is hardy and work on it can be rough and fast., Here also, do not overtighten the bolt and break it. If the bolt is worn, replace it, the cost of a bolt is trivial compared to the trouble of having to deal with a broken bolt., Gasket seals makes the gasket for one time use only. Any leakage can be seen by a carbon trail, so if there is no carbon trail, do not use a gasket seal. Bigger gaskets cost money.