 While you will likely want to share the inside of your home with family and friends, you may be uncomfortable inviting strangers into your home, especially if you have valuables strewn throughout. You can choose to have your party inside, but when inviting a lot of unknown people, it is safer to host it in your front or back yard, or a designated park or picnic space.If you do choose to have your party outdoors, make sure you have necessary protections against bugs and temperatures. In summer, consider using outdoor fans and mosquito candles, while in winter, you can rent small outdoor space heaters.
 Unlike a housewarming party, which invites guests from all over, a getting to know you evening is specifically for neighbors. Drop off your invitations personally, taking a moment to introduce yourself.The simplest way to get to know your neighbors is to knock on the door and say hello. Introduce yourself and your family, if applicable, and offer your invitation, while telling them a little bit about what to expect from your party, such as, “It’s just a small gathering to meet our new neighbors. Feel free to drop by.”
Most people are available between 10 and 2 on Saturday mornings, or between 5 and 6 on weekday evenings. Drop your invitations off during one of these times.
Keep an eye out. If you have not yet introduced yourself and see your neighbor outside working on the lawn, take advantage of the opportunity to say hello.
 You don’t want to make your new neighbors feel as though they are hoodwinked into attending your party. Create a casual atmosphere as you invite them, and in the written invitations. This will allow them to feel a bit more freedom in their decision to come to your affair or stay home.


The easiest way to create a low-pressure party is to create it as more of an open house. In an open house, guests are free to drop by a leave anytime within the allotted time period, without the pressure to arrive at a certain time, stay the duration of the party, and leave.
 An informal event such as this one necessitates informal dining options. Rather than a four-course meal, or even a sit-down meal, have finger foods and a few drink options available for your neighbors. This is another instance when you can invite a potluck-style mix of food. When you deliver your invitations, you can say something like, “Feel free to bring your favorite dish or snack.” If you go this route, don’t count entirely on your neighbors providing food--instead, treat any neighbor’s offerings as a pleasant surprise.
 Your neighbors will most likely have children who may be bored by an adult party. Consider having a few small game stations at your party. You can set up a table with board games outside, or you can use traditionally outdoor games such as horseshoes and cornhole. Whatever games you decide on, make sure you invite your guests to play them and demonstrate by playing them, yourself., Although the purpose of your party is to get to know your neighbors, your neighbors will likely want to get to know you, too. Be prepared to not only make small talk, but to also answer questions about where you come from, where you work, what you like to do, etc. Provide them with any information you feel safe and comfortable indulging.Be gracious if neighbors ask too many questions. In some situations, you may have to politely decline an answer, or steer the conversation in another direction. If this is the case, remember to be kind; after all, you will be living in close proximity with the people at your party.

