 Notice warning signs that you're getting mad and might let your emotion get out of control. Pay attention to an increase in heart rate or pounding heartbeat. You may also notice clenching your fists, clenching your teeth, or tension in your neck or shoulders. People respond differently to anger, so pay attention to your unique signs.


When you notice the physical signs that you're becoming angry, try to calm yourself and create a mental space so you can calmly respond to your anger. This will keep you from simply reacting and possibly harming someone.;
, Stop yourself as soon as you notice physical signs of anger. This will help you regain control over your emotional reaction. Pay attention to the angry thoughts that begin going through your head and the physical signs of anger. As soon as you notice your breathing increase or your adrenaline surge, just stop whatever it is you're doing.If you are interacting with someone, try to step away for a break. You can say something like, "Please excuse me, I need to step away for a moment." If you're in the middle of an argument, you can assure the other person you will talk later by saying something like "I'm having trouble focusing right now. I'd like to take a 15-minute break, and then come back and continue this discussion when I feel calmer."
Stop is the first step in the acronym STOP which stands for Stop, Take a breath, Observe, and Proceed with awareness. This anger management technique helps you regain your control when you notice yourself getting carried away by anger. , Breathe deeply into your belly, inhaling through your nose and then exhaling slowly through your mouth, until you feel your heart rate slow down. Take as many breaths as you need to calm yourself down. Pay attention to yourself, your body, and your surroundings. Become aware of yourself and the world again. Observe yourself in this moment and notice your anger. Observe the reasons that you're angry in the first place.For example, you may observe that your hands are clenched in anger. Open and close them several times to unclench them. Pay attention to your surroundings to calm your anger.
Taking time to breathe will help you relax and avoid acting impulsively in anger.
 Once you've created some mental space to express your anger, decide what actions you want to take. You can choose to walk away from the situation, address the situation at a later time when you are calmer, or practice more relaxation and breathing to help calm yourself down. You can also choose to remove yourself from the situation and deal with your anger privately. Most importantly, you can choose to not react to your anger with aggression or by hurting someone.Realize the power you have over the situation. You can be in control of your own thoughts and behaviors., Avoid confronting someone in the anger of the moment. Once you've calmed down, approach the person you're upset with and explain how you're feeling. You shouldn't accuse, yell, or demand an apology of the other person. Instead, simply tell the person what you're feeling and why. Speaking calmly and clearly will help your communication stay effective and respectful, and won't put the other person on the defensive (which would shut down communication).


Try to use "I" statements instead of "you" statements. This will prevent you from sounding accusatory and hurting the other person.For example, if your friend is late to pick you up and you miss the start of the movie you were seeing, avoid saying something "you"-focused, such as "You were late and you made me so mad!" Instead, focus on your own feelings and communicate clearly, without being accusative or angry: "When we didn't make the movie on time, I felt irritated because I'd been looking forward to seeing it. I'm frustrated because it seems like we often have trouble getting to things on time when you drive. Can we talk about this?" Notice how this focuses on your own feelings and responses and uses qualified language such as as "seems like" to avoid sounding judgmental.
 Take 10 minutes every day to focus on breathing. Sit in a quiet place, place your hands on your belly, and breathe deeply. Breathe and become aware of your body. Notice places you are holding tension in your body and imagine your breath being directed into the tension. Notice what you hear and how every single part of your body feels. Practicing this simple breathing exercise every day can help you de-stress, oxygenate your body and brain, and with regular practice, it can become a buffer to reacting in anger.Taking the time to do daily breathing exercises helps improve your body's reaction to stress so that you don't "fly off the handle" as soon as you encounter a negative stimulus. It also improves your ability to self-regulate, or handle your emotional levels and responses.
You can set a timer on your phone or clock so that you won’t be distracted while breathing.
 Sometimes anger is a reaction to feeling powerless, or out of control. Start a journal listing the real life stressors that you are dealing with right now, such as relationship issues, employment frustrations, financial stress, parental stress, world and political concerns or worries, health problems, or anything that makes you feel worried, anxious, or out of control. Write down ways you can make changes in your life to feel more in control.


Writing things down gives you a way to examine and process them. If your feelings involve others, writing them down gives you a way to explore these feelings in private first, without telling the other person the first thing that comes into your head. This will help you avoid hurting others when you're working through your anger.
Remember that you can control how you react to events. If there are stressors outside of your control, you can still decide how you're going to react, even if you can't change the situation., Green environments such as parks, lakes, or gardens can have an overall calming effect. Try to get out into a green space as much as you can, even if for only ten minutes. Let yourself get lost in the great outdoors, and as you walk, imagine your anger and stressors flowing right out of your feet into the ground.The world is a big place, and sometimes a change in perspective about the little things that can make you angry can be very helpful.
 When you notice yourself thinking a negative thought, write it down in a journal. Make this a running list of all the times you're angry at someone or yourself. Then, change, or reframe, the thoughts into less harmful statements. With time and practice, you'll be able to view yourself, your life, and others in a more gentle caring way.For example, say you spilled your coffee on yourself right before leaving for work. An angry reaction might be: "I can’t believe what an idiot I am. I always ruin everything, nothing ever works out for me, I hate everything." Instead, change your statement to: "I’m just a person who makes mistakes."
Remember to do this for others, too. For example, if your server is running late with your dinner, you might have a negative, angry reaction such as "This server is so stupid. She can't do anything right, even getting me my meal." Take a moment to remember your common humanity with her and extend her compassion: "She is probably swamped and is doing the best she can. I can be patient."

, Anger is really a defense mechanism to help you feel protected when you actually feel insecure or frightened. Feeling rejected by others can trigger feelings of hurt and anger. Learning to reframe situations will help soothe these feelings so that you don't become angry and lash out at others.Focus on noticing how these incidents make you feel and thinking about other ways to interpret them.


For example, if you've just experienced rejection from a potential romantic partner, the hurt in you might say: "Of course she rejected me. I’m stupid. I’m a loser. I hate myself." This totalizes you, which is unfair to yourself. Generalizing about yourself (or others) based on a particular experience is a common cognitive distortion, or "thought trap."If you allow your hurt feelings to fester, they may become anger, especially if you believe that your treatment has been unfair.For example, you may begin to think, "How dare she reject me when she doesn't even know me? That's so unfair! She's a terrible person."
Instead, acknowledge that you feel hurt by this rejection, but don't allow it to take over how you define yourself. Honor yourself: "Being rejected really hurt. I'm disappointed, but I was brave and put myself out there for someone I was interested in. I don't know why she rejected me, but this one instance doesn't define me as a person. I can try again with someone else."

, Make sure you are taking time to laugh, relax, and have fun. Go see a movie, get together with a friend that always makes you smile, enjoy your favorite foods, watch a comedy, stand up, or TV show that makes you laugh, make a special night out with your friends or partner. Be vigilant in making time to lighten up and enjoy the little things., Just make sure that you don't rely on humor so much that you dismiss deeper issues causing your anger., If you're angry because you believe someone has wronged or hurt you, you need to choose to let go of the anger and resentment you feel. This doesn't mean that you are suddenly all right with whatever caused you pain, but it does show that you're not going to hold a grudge or take it out on another person. By forgiving the other person, you not only let go of the anger without hurting someone, but you take control of the situation by choosing to not be a victim.One reason it can be hard to forgive is that we often focus on "fairness." Recognize that you are not forgiving someone for his/her benefit -- you're doing it so that you don't have to carry the burden of anger around yourself. Forgiveness doesn't mean you excuse the action or say it was right.You may also feel worried about forgiving someone if you believe that s/he will hurt you again. Expressing your concerns with the person whom you want to forgive can help you feel better about offering forgiveness., For most people, anger can be triggered by specific thoughts, situations, or incidents. Keeping an anger journal can help you determine what situations and experiences trigger your anger so that you can work on managing it.In general, anger triggers fall into two broad categories: feeling that you're in danger of being harmed, or feeling that you have been harmed or done some injury.A common trigger thought is that someone has not done something they were "supposed" to do (or has done something they were not "supposed" to do). For example, if you get cut off in traffic, you might feel angry because the other driver has violated the rules of the road.
Another common trigger thought is that someone is causing you harm, damage, or inconvenience in some way. For example, a computer that constantly loses internet connection or someone bumping into you are not generally big deals, but they might provoke anger if you feel like you have received harm in some way.
When you experience angry thoughts, note down the thought and emotion. Also take note of what happened just before, and how you responded to it. This will help you learn what is triggering your feelings of anger.
 If you feel you've been hurt or slighted, avoid constantly thinking about the event or argument. Avoid dwelling on what made you angry by learning to let go and looking at the event so you don't feel like you've been victimized. Accept the anger and then reframe or move on from the event. In this sense, you're retraining yourself in how you choose to cope with things that frustrate you, which might take time.For example, imagine you had a partner in the past who broke your heart, which still angers you. Write about how angry this makes you feel, take a deep breath, then reframe the event. Reframing could be as simple as accepting that the break up happened, you were hurt, you will heal, and you will move on.
 Low-self esteem can cause feelings of anger, so you need to change how you think about yourself. Consider how angry you may be at yourself. Rather than beat yourself up about your negative qualities, start to be aware of your positive traits. Remember to acknowledge that all humans make mistakes. Forgive yourself for your mistakes and note things that you feel you need to improve.You can write in a journal, practice breathing, and reframe your mindset to start seeing yourself in a more positive light.
 If you've unsuccessfully tried to manage your anger and aggression, you may want to seek outside help. Consider meeting with a mental health therapist who specializes in anger management therapies. Or, find a support group. It may help to realize that you're not alone and that others are also struggling with anger and aggression. Get help if:You feel out of control
Your anger has caused significant problems in your life
You've hurt someone
Your anger frightens you or others
Your anger interferes with your personal or employment relationships
Friends or family are concerned about your destructive tendencies
You take your anger out (physically or verbally) on children, your partner, or your friends

, Talk with your therapist about trying a therapeutic treatment that addresses the cause of your anger. Your therapist might work with you using one of the following therapies:


Dialectical Behavior Therapy: This therapy combines behavior change, meditation and mindfulness to help you regulate your emotions, become present in your life, and take control over your behaviors.Cognitive Behavioral Therapy: This therapy will help you discover core issues that might be causing your anger and aggression problems. Being aware of these issues will help you change your behavior and thought patterns.Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction: This therapy uses meditation, relaxation, and physical techniques to help lower stress levels. This can make you calmer and less emotionally provoked.Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy: This therapy challenges your irrational thoughts and beliefs by comparing them to actual events which can make you realize the harmful consequences of these ideas. This awareness will help you change negative behaviors, thoughts, and reactions into healthier beliefs., If you find yourself frequently angry with someone, like a romantic partner, this may be a signal that you need to change the relationship in some way. Maybe you need more space and independence or would like to redefine your boundaries.Or perhaps you need to be clearer in your communication about your needs and desires.


Explain to the other person what changes you'd like to make and why you're doing it. For example, you might say, "I've been angry lately because I feel like I never have any time to myself. I think I need to take Friday evenings for myself so that I can unwind and more fully enjoy the time we spend together on weekends."

