 In an emergency situation, sometimes your only option is to physically force a door open. Be aware that this will ruin the door frame, the lock, and often the door itself. It's also physically dangerous compared to the other methods, so only use it as a last resort.









Stand in a solid stance. Squarely face the door with your feet roughly shoulder-width apart, knees slightly bent. If you can, brace your hands or arms against walls, furniture, or anything else that isn't likely to move when you shove it.
Lift your dominant leg at the knee. Lift your knee straight up and let your lower leg be pulled along with it. Keep your foot facing the door. Don't turn sideways or do anything else fancy.
Kick the lock on the door with the bottom of your foot. This type of kick is sometimes called a “snap kick.” Snap your leg straight out in front of you so that the flat of your foot strikes the door where the locking mechanism is set.
It is safer to kick the door. Your feet are designed to absorb a great deal of force, and your shoes act as additional armor. DO NOT hit the door with your shoulder; you're more likely to dislocate it than you are to open the door.
Continue kicking until the lock breaks from the frame. Given enough time, this will work on nearly any wooden door.
If you don't begin to see results within a few minutes at most, it may be that the door or frame is reinforced. Rest and work in alternating periods so that your kicks don't become weak.
 If for some reason you'd prefer to use a battering ram on a stubborn door rather than simply calling a locksmith, a reasonably effective one can be made from a hand pile driver, the type used to drive posts into the ground.









Purchase your manual pile driver. It should be a few feet long, with longish handles on either side.
Fill the driver all or partway with cement. Be sure to let the cement dry completely before using.
Use a side-tossing motion to drive the ram into the door at the lock mechanism. Swing the ram back across the front of your body with both hands as you stand perpendicular to the door, then lean and strike towards the door with the ram. Most doors should break within a few hits.
Bear in mind that the door will in all likelihood be completely ruined and require a replacement.

