 In some schools, there are rules surrounding whether or not students are expected to shower after exercise. Before doing anything to encourage a teen to shower at school after exercise, make sure that you familiarize yourself with the school’s stance on the matter.For example, though it may be common to have a “shower inspection” after gym class in some schools, other schools may prohibit such inspections. Some schools may not allow showering at all.
 If you are a gym teacher or a coach, you can give your students a talk about what you expect from them at the beginning of the year. If your school doesn’t prohibit you from doing so, you can tell your students that you do expect them to shower after gym class and what the consequences of not showering will be.


When you talk to your students about showering, you may want to explain that when you say shower, you don’t mean 15 minutes spent washing every inch of their body. A shower after class is simply meant to rinse off the sweat, and shouldn’t take any longer than a couple of minutes.
You might also point out to students that showering in front of others may seem a bit awkward at first, but you will get used to it. Remind them that everyone feels self-conscious at first.
 Most students feel very nervous and awkward showering in front of others, at least at first. While this is to be expected, there are some cases where a student may have a legitimate reason why they don't want to shower in front of their peers. Whether or not you agree with this reason, it is important to listen to what the student has to say, and be sensitive when responding to these reasons.


For example, the student may have an issue with their body that makes them feel very anxious about taking off their clothes in front of others. There may even be a religious reason they feel they should not shower.
Tell students that they should come talk to you in private if they have a reason that they don't want to shower. If they have a reason, then try to make alternative arrangements. For example, allow them to wash with a washcloth or wear a bathing suit in the shower if they wish.
Whether or not you agree with the student's reason for not wanting to shower, you should try to be sensitive. Don't tell them something like, "That's a stupid reason." If the student came to you it means they trust you to listen without judgment. If you react negatively, that student will likely lose their trust in you and will feel even more self-conscious about their reasons for not wanting to shower in front of others.
 Your students might be aware of the consequences of showering when it comes to being smelly or looking unkempt; however, they may not be aware that poor hygiene habits can also lead to skin infections and even to infectious diseases such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)., One reason teens may not be showering could be that they feel they don’t have enough time to shower and get dressed before they have to be in their next class. Girls especially may feel that they need more time to get dry and dressed. If you expect them to undress, shower, dry off and then get dressed again, you’re likely going to need to give them more than 5 minutes in-between classes to do all of that, especially if 20 or 30 students will have to share only a few shower heads.


If your students are worried about getting their hair wet because they won’t have time to style it the way they like afterward, then suggest that they simply don’t get their hair wet while showering. If they have long hair, they can bring a shower cap, or simply put their hair up in a loose bun, and then let it down when they are done.
 If, for some reason, the students can’t/won’t shower or don’t have access to showers, consider other methods of removing sweat and staying hygienic. Showering is perhaps the best way, but that doesn’t mean there aren’t alternatives that may help the situation if you can’t get the teens into the shower after exercise.


For example, teens could use a wash cloth with a bit of soap and water to deal with the smelliest parts (e.g. underarms). Students might also consider using disinfectant wipes. Though this may not be ideal, it could help the situation if showers simply aren’t an option at your school.
Don’t forget to remind students to bring a stick of deodorant to use after exercise. Using deodorant whether or not they take a shower is a good idea.

