 Knowing just what cards and how many are up for grabs is key to recognizing when you should act and when your opponent probably will. Throughout the game, you'll see which cards they're going for -- if you're throwing them what they want, they'll surely make their move.


If the discard pile is full of low cards, you may not want to take it. They're worth so few points in the long run that it may not be worth it.
You could always force your opponent to take the deck, in a manner of speaking. If you have a card you know they need, throw it down. Can they resist picking up the giant pile of subpar cards? Probably not.
 These are great cards -- they have a lot of value. But if you're nearing the end of the game, the last thing you want is to be stuck with them in your hand. They have a lot of value in the negative direction if you don't lay them on the table. And you'll end up kicking yourself if you could've played them.


If you think your opponent is about to go out (or you're nearing the end of the deck and you've established the game will end), get rid of them. It's better to do what you can now than be stuck with hundreds of points to get docked later. Quite obviously, this is one of the reasons the concealed Canasta is so powerful.
 You may feel proud and want to show off the points you're accruing, but this isn't the best strategy. Laying down your cards is literally showing your hand -- your opponents have a better way of hurting you, by withholding the cards you need. And once more, a surprise attack in Canasta is always best.


This may keep you from using wild cards when you wouldn't really need to, if you just gave it more time. Other players are likely to throw down cards you need, allowing you to use your wild cards elsewhere.
 For one reason or another, they just took the pile and now are holding 25 cards in their hand. Great. Now it's your time to get the heck out of Dodge. The number of points in their hand will automatically negate whatever points you don't have sitting on the table.


As long as you have one Canasta, you're good. But if you don't, sorry -- not an option. You must have one Canasta before you go out (or when you go out).

