 The "inner glow" that people find beautiful in others will only be genuine and durable if you have a truly beautiful personality. Have a heart that is in the right place, rather than play-acting. If your self-esteem has taken a battering lately, build it back up. Spread kindness, love and consideration for others in place of wallowing in self-pity and comparison.;
, Learn to really hear what others have to say and be genuinely interested in their lives, stories, and hopes. People always respond well to people who care and there is great subtle beauty to be found in being heard.
 Beauty regimes should not take up all of the time but should be straightforward, easy and effective. Invest in quality over quantity - a good hairbrush, a good hair smoothing implement, good makeup, good hair products, etc. When you find something that works, stick with it and keep using it rather than trying too far afield.
 Rely on a base color, such as black, white, brown, pink, etc., and a single pattern. Quality is always better than quantity. Spend money on clothing items that will last and still look lovely, rather than shelling out cash for cheap styles that will wear out quickly or fade out of fashion fast.
 Learn ways to show appreciation of others that don't include stooping to manipulative or unloving behavior.
 Be kind in every circumstance, even if it means holding your tongue.
 If you are at work, be professional. If you are visiting friends, be a good guest. Consider your circumstances in the way that you react to your environment.
 Build up good relationships with other people and be willing to depend on others when need be. Don't be afraid to ask for help- people will appreciate the fact that you can be genuine. Make sure, though, not to infringe on the good-will of your friends unnecessarily.
 People find it beautiful when someone is satisfied in life and has a list of interesting hobbies that he or she participates in actively.
 Nobody likes beauty without brains.
 Learn what makes your friends act the way they do, so that you can be a better friend toward them. You can also learn a lot about people this way, and a knowledge of the way that people function and how to treat others well is essential to being beautiful because it will make you a more aware and considerate person.
, Don't let others take advantage toward you, but be as considerate as possible of people, even if they would injure you. You can't fight fire with fire.
 Smiling may be a small act, but it can have lasting results on other people, because happiness can be contagious!

, Your body language says a lot about you. Learning to be graceful can help you to appear subtly beautiful.
 When you visit a friend, you could do the dishes or offer to clean up. If you attend a work meeting, check and see if there is some way that you can assist management. Try to do more than just "show up" somewhere- leave an impression on people that you actually enjoyed your time and care about the others that were present.
 Grab a manners guide if you need to, and brush up on what behavior is appropriate in a particular social setting.
 Putting out the effort to actually spend time with people is subtly beautiful because it shows how much you care, and that you are willing to prioritize people.
 These "little touches" are subtly beautiful because they show that beauty is important to you, and that you want your environment to reflect how you feel inside.
 Everyone has unique gifts: find out what yours are and develop them! It is subtly beautiful when people aspire to reach their potential.
 Don't worry about other people's judgements of you. You are free to be exactly who you are!

, Having something that you are passionate about to work toward can make you more radiant and give you more direction.
 Maintain a "glass half-full", rather than a "glass half-empty" mentality. Identify what is good in your life, and be thankful for those blessings. Don't complain about everything that is wrong with your life situation, but do look for ways to improve your life and the lives of those around you.
 How you treat time shows other people your priorities. Those who value using time wisely can be subtly beautiful.
 Beautiful people care about what's going on around them, not just themselves.

