 Girls don't want to be with a guy who can't talk to them. Think of the things you are confident about (playing a sport, an awesome anime collection, your obsession with skateboarding) and talk about that. Displaying confidence is one of the sexiest things a guy can do.


Make sure not to overdo it. You don't want to seem like a stuck-up know-it-all. If the teacher tells the class to be quiet shush people but not her and do it quietly or she might not like it!.;
, If you start flirting up a storm all of a sudden, the girl you are interested in might think you're a fake or have changed personalities for no good reason, which is weird.
 When you see her in the hallways, smile at her;just a quick smile then look away. Say hello and ask how she is. DON'T ignore her!!

, Ask her about herself. Girls love to talk about themselves ask if you have any thing in common. If she has facebook, chat with her. If she doesn't say something like "there's no good chat on my computer" there is a good chance she likes you.
 But, don't just add her as a friend on facebook or contact on IM. Message her first and do something like commenting on her profile. This could be a great way to start a conversation before an actual face-to-face one.
 For girls, friendship is important. If she needs help, see how you can help her. But, make sure not to overdo it and help her too much. Then, she won't appreciate you and might just use you. Try not to set yourself up for that. If you see her at the movies or mall, go talk to her.
 Girls love to be complimented.
 The truth is, if she likes you even in the slightest bit, your corniest jokes will seem funny, and your dumbest antics sweet.
 Don't hang around her all day or be too available. This gets annoying. Spend time with your own friends and make sure she knows that you have friends. Leave her guessing. It's a big turn-on. If you are playing a game, don't ask if she wants to join but when she looks a couple of times and then looks at the girl you're playing with go up to her and ask her to join. Don't just shout over a table or something.
 This is called breaking the touch barrier. If she jumps and shies away, don't try it again for a while. If she shows signs of encouragement in the future, give her a light nudge on the arm or shoulder.If you sit next or opposite you check if she flops her shoes ok,then take your shoes off and with the tips of your toes touch hers and if she looks at you and keeps her feet there then go further, maybe go more on the foot. If you sit next to her that might be harder so try with your arm put it on her seat behind her back, or when your giving things to her touch her hand.
 Keep your options open and keep things moving. There will definitely be girls out there waiting for a cool guy like you. Maybe she just can't go out on her own so make sure you know that first or just try again later or flirt with other girls for a reaction!

