 Internal rhyme is when you have smaller rhymes hidden in the middle of lines. You still have your normal end-line rhymes, just with a bit more flavor in the middle. For an example, check out this MF Doom line off "Rhinestone Cowboy:" "Made of fine chrome alloy / find him on the grind he's a rhinestone cowboy."


A good way to start with internal rhyme is to cut your lines in half, treating a rhyming couplet like 4 short lines instead of two longer ones.
Internal rhyme doesn't have to be regular, like regular rhyme. Even one or two in a song can have a wonderful effect.
You can even have internal rhyme in the same line, like another MF Doom line, "never will he boost loose Philly's with the bar code.", Check out the Red Hot Chili Pepper's "Californication," which rhymes a majority of lines with the title word, "Californication." Because so many of the lines rhyme with this one, singer Anthony Kiedis doesn't even need to rhyme the 1st and 3rd lines of each verse with anything -- giving him "free" syllables in each verse.


Another strategy is to rhyme the last line of each verse with the last line of every other verse. Check out "Simple Twist of Fate."

, Lyrics are poems put to music, and there is a lot to learn from the thousand-year-old art form. The following tricks can be slid into any lines to put a professional, deeply satisfying sheen on your songs:



Assonance is when you use the same vowel sound multiple times, such as "awesome apple" or "evidently envious."

Alliteration is just like assonance, but with consonants. Examples include "slippery slope" and "washed out water polo women."

, Not all songs need to have deeper meanings, and many shouldn't. Even worse, some songs try too hard to push deeper meaning and just end up confusing or meandering. That said, a well-placed metaphor can turn a song from a catchy tune to a powerful, personal, and impactful song:



Metaphor is when one thing is implied to stand in for another, like the song "Firework" by Katy Perry. She doesn't literally mean that "you're a firework," she means that you contain a beautiful interior life waiting to explode into the world.

Simile is a more direct metaphor using the word "like" or "as." "She was like a rose," for example, implies that she is beautiful, but may be dangerously thorny.

Synecdoche is when a small part represents a bigger whole. For example, "the pen is mightier than the sword" actually means that "ideas are stronger than violence," not that pens literally beat up swords., The most impressive lyricists know that audiences have come to expect many of the rhymes in popular music -- "we/she/he/me," "love/dove," "go/so/low/blow." -- and they lose their power to pleasantly surprise us. The songwriters who stand the test of time continue to surprises us with longer and more intricate rhymes.


From "Tombstone Blues:" "My advice is to not let the boys in" // "You will not die, it's not poison." Very few other people have rhymed "boys in" with "poison.", The best lyricists in the world know that a song rarely comes out perfectly in one go. Paul Simon even claims that it takes 50 sheets of paper, all with scribbled lyrics, for him to complete just one song.A good songwriter knows they must keep working on songs long after the first think of the idea.


Keep the old copies of your drafts, that way you can always return to an old version if you want to try something new and it doesn't sound great.
Use gigs and shows to test out new songs in lyrics. Where did they feel good and where was it awkward to sing through? What sections did people seem to like?, A song heavy on philosophy isn't a bad thing, but you need concrete images to help your audience visualize the ideas. Turning back to "Blowin' in the Wind," note how Dylan couches each big societal woe in a real image -- a mountain crumbling, a man walking, a lonely dove, etc. -- so that the song places a literal image in the audience's head.Details, images,and specifics will almost always go better than broad generalities.

