 This should be between 150 and 250 words and on a new page. It is a description of your paper that focuses on its purpose, processes, outcomes and conclusions. The abstract should be on its own page right after the title page with the heading "Abstract" centered at the top. No bold, italics, or underlining is necessary.Don't forget your header! For this page, it's your title and page number.
In your abstract, be sure to include all the extras: your research topic, questions posed, information on participants, methods, results, analysis of data, and extra tidbits on your conclusion. You may also find including implications to be an interesting perk; what future work on the topic do you see looming on the horizon?You may also want to list keywords from your paper in your abstract. Type Keywords: as if it were the beginning of a new paragraph and subsequently list your keywords. This will let researchers (or otherwise) looking for topical material find your work in databases., This is, in short, your paper. The rest is formatting mumbo-jumbo that is required of you. In this section (on a new paper directly after the abstract), include the same header and page number, restate your title, and begin your work.


Once more, everything should be double-spaced and the paragraphs indented in on the first line.There are four main sections to the body of an APA style paper: introduction, method, results, and discussion. Title each section in bold font, centered; that is, not including the introduction -- the introduction's title should be the title of your paper, in regular font. Your professor should outline in class the basics of these sections. Each subject will have different requirements.

For methods, center Method wherever it falls on the page. Include Participants, Materials & Procedure, and Correlations (and whatever other subheadings you see fit) as sub-headings that are flush left and bold.
For the results section, center Results wherever it falls on the page. No subheadings or sections are necessary.For the discussion section, center Discussion wherever it falls on the page. No subheadings or sections are necessary.