 As you read through or listen to the song, imagine yourself in different scenes doing everything the lyrics are saying. This will help you to remember the lyrics because you can visualize what’s happening in the song and what will happen next.

For example, if one of the lines in the song is, “let’s go party, it’s Saturday night,” you might picture yourself in your bedroom on the weekend with some fun music on, picking out a snazzy outfit, getting ready to go out., Just like with any artistic form, meaning isn’t always obvious. While you’re reading or listening to the lyrics, really focus on what the writer is trying to communicate and what exactly is going on in the story that’s being told. Memorization is a lot easier when you’re learning something with meaning that is a part of a whole rather than just a bunch of empty, random words.


If you can’t figure it out, you can always look up the song’s meaning online.For example, in “The Scientist” by Coldplay, there’s a section that reads: “Questions of science / Science and progress / Do not speak as loud as my heart. / Tell me you love me / Come back and haunt me / Oh, and I rush to the start.” While studying just these lines, you could come to the conclusion that in this song, the narrator may have made a mistake in a romantic relationship, can’t focus on their work because of it, and wants to go back and handle the situation differently., Similar to other art forms, songs usually express some emotion. As you listen to the song or read over the lyrics, try to pick out the emotions that are being expressed and connect with them by letting yourself experience those emotions while singing the words.If singing a song about breaking up, for example, you might hone in on the loneliness and sorrow you would feel if the song was about you.
If singing a song about standing your ground when someone is hurtful, you might imagine yourself in a powerful, determined state.
 It’s even harder to know what you’re singing about and learn song lyrics when the song isn’t sung in your native language. Look up a translation of the song online and read through it in your own language so that you can better understand what it’s about.

You can even copy down the translated version if that helps you remember what each part of the song is saying.Try using a music translation app such as Musixmatch Lyrics Finder.