 Many automotive badges are held on with a simple adhesive, but some utilize clips or rivets that pass through the body of the vehicle and can leave holes behind. The way the badges are fastened will determine how you go about removing them. If your badges include clips that fasten to the body, removing your badges will require body work that includes filling the holes and repainting that component of the body of the car (at minimum). This should be done at a professional body shop. While you can determine if there are clips or rivets used as you remove the adhesive, you have to remove much of the badge first to see if it is.You can often find out how your badges are attached to your vehicle by conducting an internet search. Try searching something like, “how to remove badges on a 2004 Mustang GT.”
Your vehicle’s repair manual should indicate how the badges are fastened in order to replace them if they are damaged.
Removing the trim on the interior of the body component will allow you to see if there are clips passing through the body of the vehicle.;
, Removing adhesive is much easier when it has been warmed up. One easy way to do so is to fill a thermos with hot water to pour over the badges. Make sure the water is hot enough to be steaming, but not boiling, as that can damage the paint on the car and burn you. Pour the hot water onto the body of the car, just above the badge. This will allow the water to contact some adhesive as well as to warm the rest of the adhesive through the badge. If you don’t have a thermos, you can use any type of water container as long as you get it to the badge before it cools.
Boiling water may damage the paint and could burn you. Use hot water, but not boiling.
Softer adhesive will let go under pressure and can more easily be separated from the body.
 You may also choose to spray an adhesive remover all along the edges of the badge. Adhesive remover can be purchased at most office supply or big box retail stores and can help when removing the badges as well as the adhesive that remains on the body after the badges have come off. Look for an adhesive remover you can spray on like Goo Gone or a similar brand. Spray the adhesive remover along the edges to allow it to seep between the badge and the vehicle, but don’t spray too liberally in the surrounding area. Adhesive remover will also remove the wax and possibly even the clear coat on the paint it comes into contact with.Adhesive remover will also come in handy when getting rid of the adhesive residue stuck on the body of the car.
Be careful not to get any of the adhesive remover in your eyes or mouth when spraying it.
 Plug a household hair dryer into a nearby outlet and turn it to its highest heat setting. Turn the hair dryer on and use it to apply steady, even heat to the badge you intend to remove. Swipe the dryer back and forth a few inches above the badge until the adhesive begins to soften. If the badge can move or twist under pressure, it means the adhesive is now soft enough to begin removing the badge.Make sure to heat the entire badge evenly so all of the adhesive attaching it to the vehicle softens.
Try to wiggle the badge with your fingers to see if the adhesive is loosening.

