 Talking to everyone simply requires that you check all the areas in your town (shops, homes, outdoors, etc.) until you have found and spoken to each one of your citizens.


How to talk to each citizen is described in the following steps.;
, In order to talk to a citizen, you just need to be standing next to him or her and press the “a” button. You can talk to a citizen with or without a tool (such as a shovel), but if you gauge the distance wrong you might end up smacking them with your shovel instead of talking to them, so be careful when walking around with tools.
 When talking to a citizen, they will greet you first and then you will have two options: to ask “how are you?” or to say “nevermind”.


Answering with “nevermind” will end the conversation, which will still count as having talked to that citizen for the day, but is missing out on the opportunity to befriend them further.
 Often, responding with “nevermind” will result in the citizen reacting as though you’ve slighted them, but Animal Crossing characters are quick to forgive. If you accidentally hit “nevermind”, you can still initiate a new conversation by pressing “a” again. Pick “how are you?” this time instead and it will be like nothing ever happened.
 Sometimes, when you ask a citizen how they’re doing, they’ll respond with a few lines about how their day is going. Other times, they may ask you for a favor.


Citizens ask for a range of favors: they may ask you to fetch a type of fruit, insect, or fish; they may also ask you to return something that they borrowed to another citizen. The tasks are all relatively straightforward and if you forget what you are supposed to do, you can always go back and ask that citizen what they asked for.
 While it is advised that you try to complete the tasks when you can in order to increase citizen approval and net rewards, you can decline. If you say no, the citizen will seem disappointed, but again, Animal Crossing characters are quick to forgive and they won’t hold a grudge.

