 This is an easy way to unwind before you go to sleep and reduce any feelings of stress. You can do this exercise with music on low volume in the background to create a relaxing environment.Sit somewhere comfortable, with no distractions.
Inhale for 3 seconds, using your diaphragm.
Exhale for 2 or 3 seconds.
Inhale again for 3 seconds, and exhale again for 2-3 seconds. Repeat this 10 times.
Close your eyes after the 10th repetition. Concentrate on your breathing. Try to create a steady rhythm to your breathing. Sit for five to ten minutes, until you feel calm and relaxed.;
, Often, bruxism is caused by stress. So one way to cure your bruxism is to do relaxation techniques like meditation before you go to sleep.Lie down on your bed or on the floor. Rest your hands besides your body and close your eyes. Breathe a few times, inhaling and exhaling slowly.
With your eyes closed, focus on your body. Start with your arms. Move your concentration down your arms. Then, focus on your elbows. Move down to your palms. Feel how heavy and flat they are.
Move your focus to your legs. Think of how long and heavy your legs are. Move down your legs, to your toes. Feel the pressure your heels make on the floor.
Move slowly up through your shins and focus on your thighs. Then, move over to your pelvis and up to your stomach. Continue to breath.
Move up your stomach to your face. Focus on your chin, your mouth, your cheeks, your ears, and your forehead.
Once you complete this exercise, you may fall into a deep sleep.
 Don’t drink coffee or caffeinated tea after dinner. Opt for herbal tea or hot water with lemon. You don’t want to stimulate your body before sleep, as this may lead to poor sleep and teeth grinding.It’s also a good idea to avoid drinking alcohol and smoking in the evening. These can work as stimuli and lead to poor sleep as well as teeth grinding.
 If you have a bedmate, ask them to note any grinding or clicking sounds you make during sleep. This will be good information to pass on to your doctor or dentist and help with treatment for your bruxism.Talking with your sleep partner before bed will also help to relax you and reduce stress. You will likely get a good night’s sleep if you take the time to communicate with your partner before bed.