 You’re not obligated to go to every party or night out you get invited to. Be selective about which invitations you accept. By balancing social activities with solitary time, you’ll enjoy socializing more and avoid burning yourself out.You can politely turn down an invitation by saying, “Thanks for asking me, but I’ve already got plans for that night.”

, If you’re nervous or just need some moral support, ask a friend to accompany you to an event. Your friend can help you break the ice with strangers and avoid that awkward feeling of not knowing anybody in the room., It’s hard to feel anxious when your muscles are relaxed. If social situations make you nervous, learn some techniques for letting go of tension. You’ll feel more at ease when you’re relaxed, and other people will subconsciously feel more at ease around you, too.Deep breathing exercises are a simple and effective way to calm down when you’re feeling tense.
Another way to relieve tension in a social situation might be repeating a mantra in your head. Try something like "I am the picture of calm" or "I can successfully navigate social situations."
In addition, avoid closed-off body language that drives people away like crossing your arms or orienting your body away from the speaker. This sends the message that you want to leave. Instead leave your arms at your sides, make occasional eye contact, and turn towards the person you're speaking to.
 When you meet someone new, take some of the conversational pressure off yourself by shifting the focus to them. Ask questions about their work, family, or hobbies. Most people love to talk about themselves, and they’ll feel flattered that you want to know more about them.Ask open-ended questions that require more than a yes or no answer.
For example, you could ask a new acquaintance, “What was your favorite part of your trip to New Zealand?” or “Why did you decide to move here?”

, There’s no rule that says you have to stay until the end of an event. Know your limits and don’t wear yourself out. It’s fine to gracefully excuse yourself if you feel your batteries running low.Make up an excuse ahead of time if you feel awkward about leaving early. For instance, you could tell people you have to feed your pet or get up early for work the next day.

