 Wet the car of bike, scrub it down with a soapy brush, and rinse it. If it’s a car, wash the windows afterwards (not before, or they’ll get splashed!). Since a car is larger than a bike, charge more for washing it.


Always ask the owner what products and sponges/brushes/cloths they will let you use on the car. Some people are very particular about this and worry about scratches, teardrop surfaces and other problems that can be caused by using the wrong items. Don't assume anything––ask first!;
, Wash windows, sweep floors, hose down driveways, dust furniture, or anything else they ask you to tidy up.


Always ask the owner what products they wish you to use. They will probably give you their own products for use.
 Dusting furniture, vacuuming, sweeping floors, and scrubbing windows are all good ideas. Negotiate the best deal you can, maybe one fourth what they might charge for professional service. Remember, these are extra chores on top of what you should normally do to help support a clean household.
 Only do this if you're old enough to handle a lawn mower safely. Charge different fees depending on the size of the yard. Advertise your availability to the neighborhood.


Find out exactly which part of the yard needs mowing and to what height.
Ask about pets and have them put away before you mow.
Ask about anything you have to be extra careful to not mow over, such as a flower bed or a hard-to-see plant.
 All you need is a rake (and maybe big trash bag).
 Make sure you have the right equipment and be careful not to slip on the ice.
 Dogs love the attention and exercise, and it often really helps out the owners to have someone walking their pet. If you walk a dog, be sure to keep it out for as long as it needs. Dogs will not like a 30-second walk.


Be old enough to walk a dog. Many dog experts consider it is not safe for children to walk a dog by themselves, as it can be difficult to break up dog fights or to foresee problems with the dog in time to stop accidents or trouble with the dog. This might be a good one to do with an older sibling.
Know how to handle a leash or harness properly in order to get a dog to heel. Know all of the commands for each dog walked and practice them before even trying to walk the dog. If the dog fails to obey you before you leave the house, it won't obey you while you're out walking it.
 Make sure that you treat the animals well, as in cleaning up after them and feeding them the correct amount. Don’t leave cleaning the litter box or food dishes until the day before your neighbors come back! Take care to find out what the right amount of food is before the neighbors leave.


Get all relevant contact details from your neighbors, to ensure that they can be contacted in any emergency or even for basic questions, such as where the additional food supply is.
 Before you take up any babysitting jobs, make sure that you are at least 11 years old and are certified for babysitting by the Red Cross. You can never be too prepared, so look up more tips about babysitting tips right here on wikiHow.
 Just water their plants and clean. It's fun and profitable.


Get all the contact details from your neighbors in case of an emergency or question. Email is easy and fast, as is texting.
Ask the neighbor to show you exactly how to lock their front door and any quirks with locking it. Be absolutely sure that you can lock it after each visit, as you don't want to be responsible for burglars breaking in because you failed to lock up properly.
 If you can paint nails neatly and nicely, ask for $5 for each set you paint. You can even do something exciting like paint watermelon nails.
 Bottles, cans, and newspapers are recyclable. Ask your parents if they are able to help you to bring unclaimed recyclables to the nearest recycling plant so that you can earn the money. You must do all the collecting, cleaning and placing into transport boxes though––don't expect your parents to do all of that. Not only is this good for the environment, but it's also good for your piggy bank.
 Set your sale price so that you can buy at least two for every sale you make (for example, sell lollipops for 10 cents if you buy them for 5 cents). Sell chocolate bars to your friends and neighbors. Bring your parents with you to be safe, if you're selling door-to-door.


If you travel to school on a bus with lots of other school children, you could buy sweets in bulk and sell them for a reasonable price on the way to and from school.
 You could have a garage or yard sale. Put fliers everywhere. That way people will come to your sale!

, Make lemonade, then open a lemonade stand.
 Have your parents help you cook!

, Make sure they're clean and in good condition.
 If you have been collecting LEGOs or action figures and don't play with them anymore, sell them on websites such as eBay. Ask your parents to help you set a reasonable price and be honest about the condition. (For example, if your toy doesn't have a scratch on it, you can say it is in good condition. However if it has bite marks on it, don't say it is in good condition.) If your toy hasn't even been opened yet, do not open it: collectors pay even more money for them if they are New In Box.
 Don't try to make them on your own. Be sure to get your parents help in making them.


Ask your parents help you to research the law on selling food for pets in your area.
 If you have a farm (or a friend who does), offer to sell them.
 Ask your parents to help you set up a garden, then plant easy veggies like beans and peas and sell them when they’re ripe. You’ll make money and have a fun project, too!

,


Make jewelry. Try making leather bracelets or beaded necklaces. Sell them to your friends for about $2 to $5, but don’t sell it at school or you might get in trouble.
Make paper beads. Paper beads are cheap and fun and once you’ve made a few of them, you can sell them in little baggies.
Make sock rabbits. If you know how to sew or can get help from your mom or dad, learn how to make these so you can sell them to your friends or sibling’s friends.
Make fairy wings. If Halloween or a costume party is coming up, make these and sell them to other kids.
 Talk to the newspaper making company or retailer. You can collect their newspapers, and go to every house to sell them. Of course, it will take a lot of time and energy, but after you see the money you make, you'll be glad., If you are an able computer user, use your talent for profit. Ask your parents or grandparents if they know someone who needs a tutorial.
 Know a friend or relative who needs a cool slideshow? Offer to put one together for $10 or $20. Make sure to put in all the pictures and features they want.
 Ask your grandpa for $5 to make him a basic profile, add a profile photo, and invite his friends to his page.
 Know someone with a digital camera who doesn’t know how to get the photos off it? Ask for a few dollars to do it for them – or train them on how to do it!

, Always have a smile! Be sociable because people love to buy things off someone after having a nice chat with the seller - it really brightens their day!

Always make sure to thank customers for their business and their time even if they didn't buy anything.
 Think about how much it would normally be and then charge less, but remember to account for the time you worked and the cost of your materials.

Return money if you promised to do a job but couldn't get the job done. Honesty is the best policy and will really impress your customers.
 Make up some flyers and stick them to the neighbor's front door, but don't be intrusive. Do not ever demand that a neighbor, family member, friend, or anyone else let you work for them. You won't get good business if you do that.

Know that not everybody wants what you're offering. Be patient, and if they decline your services, be polite and move forward!
Ask around to see what jobs are open first. If the town already has tons of dog walkers and car washers, try something else.
 Do not pretend that you are good at doing something when you are not. This will only disappoint people and may even annoy them.

Always ask people what they want you to use when cleaning things for them. People often have their own preferred cleaning items and processes.
 If you are not old enough to knock on other people's doors or to do anything, talk to your parents first. They may be willing to accompany you or to help you out with things you can't yet do. They may also be willing to teach you how to use certain items safely, or how to do things that will help in your income-earning endeavors. Don't give up but don't be unrealistic either––your parents or an older sibling will help you to work out what's possible for your age and abilities.