 The most recognizable difference between these cameras is that a DSLR will often have detachable lenses and most point and shoot cameras do not. (Except the Nikon V1).


For Professional results that clients will be happy to pay for, consider using a Canon 5D Mk III or a Nikon D810.;
, Before you start charging for your services, it is important that you can produce a high quality pet portrait for your clients.,, These can consist of both outside pet photo shoots, as well as at the clients home. Photographing pets at their own home is a great way to ensure that they are relaxed and natural. A familiar park, beach or location can make for some wonderful outside pet portraits, particularly when photographing dogs. It is essential that pets are comfortable throughout the shoot, and what better way to ensure their happiness, then by using a familiar location, and the best part - you save on studio hire., You need a controlled environment for taking pictures even if it's a makeshift space with a backdrop.


Studios with windows allow the use of natural light. You may want blackout blinds or heavy curtains so that you can manipulate the lighting.
 Try to keep wires together, or covered (most workplaces will use rubber cases or fasten cables to the wall. You need to ensure that you can comply with Health and Safety, after all.
 Most animals will be irritated or uncomfortable with overly bright rooms, and will make for bad photos. In this case, use soft-boxes.
 This will prevent "Lens flare" on your photos and will help eliminate any unintentional shadows.


Some studio lights that you can buy in pairs will have an infrared sensor between them, and when faced diagonally opposite each other, they will connect and work together (useful for firing a double-flash.) You can buy a cable that will insert on the hot-shoe of the camera (above the flash unit. This will prevent the pop-up flash on your camera from working from time to time.)






If you are working with natural lighting you will have to think this one over.
 Typically, because most pets aren't the best-behaved in the world around strangers or in new places, they'll have an urge to explore, and if you're photographing dogs, you may want to be careful that they don't take the time to mark your studio as their spot by urinating on your backdrop. Cats (unless you're shooting a full male cat) will just roam around and explore for a while.
 Give them treats (if it's okay with the owner) and make sure that you have gained the animal's trust as much as you can. If you need to, you can book meeting sessions beforehand where you introduce the animal to your environment and get to know your subject. This can take days or weeks, depending on how much time you have and are willing to spend on it.
 If you are working with dogs, Try to get them to lie down, normally a dog will relax into a more natural pose when he/she is happy, maybe panting, sticking their tongue out or lapping at their owner.


This gives you good photo opportunities where there is a natural look to your photograph.
 Be careful because the look you are going for will depend on the mood of the animal.


When a cat is happy, or excited, their eyes will dilate, and the cat will look like a playful kitten. (Note, if you're photographing a kitten, you may want to only use one studio light because you could hurt the pet's eyes as they're probably still developing.

Sometimes a cat will dilate their eyes to let more light in, also, if this is the case, you may want to try reducing some of the lighting or play around with the power of the lights, or simply just not use a flash, or the other way round.
 This is a must-do rule in any portrait, and you may want to utilize this in any way you see fit. (See Portrait photography for examples and guides.)

, Get to know the pet owner, keep them talking, and when they take breaks in their sentences, or are listening to you talk they are usually smiling or paying full attention to the camera (assuming you're behind it. If not, tell them to think that they are doing an interview, and the camera is the target of the speech, be careful not to over-do this or you will make your subject camera shy.)


You can utilize this with a Remote Shutter (also helpful to avoid camera shake.)

,


If you are shooting in film, it may take you several more hours, or multiple shoots, if you are just starting out.
,, Rules are there to be broken in life! (Think wisely on laws, though.)

,,


Be sure to check on the job what your subjects are comfortable with if you are being paid especially, as the last thing any hard working photographer wants is to get all his hard work thrown back in their face and get zero-pay.
