 In order to be attractive, you MUST be clean. Shower every day and wash your hair at least three times a week. Also, brush your teeth often to keep your breath fresh and your smile white.;
, Keep it tangle-free and clean. Straighteners and curlers can be harsh and damaging, so use a heat protecting spray and only use heat around twice a week.
 If you are over the age of twelve, shave your legs every two days and pluck your eyebrows into a feminine arch. You may even want to wax your bikini line if you are planning to go swimming, but remember, this is not absolutely necessary.
 Drink a lot of water and eat healthy food, because then it makes you healthy and prettier looking. Also, use acne cream for pimples and wash your face well with a good soap. Use cleanser often. Use lotion to keep from looking dried out.
 All you really need is concealer, mascara, thin eyeliner, neutral eyeshadow, blush or bronzer, and a lip product.
 No matter where you are going, for school or whatever, DON'T DRESS DOWN! Read fashion magazine and buy more fashionable clothes, and it doesn't mean expensive... you can wear jeans, but make sure you still look fabulous!

, Don't overdo, but it's always nice that you wear pretty earrings or bracelets. If you wanna look classic, wear pearl earrings...if you want something more diva-like, wear hoop earrings.
 This is a 'must'. If you started to look good, the best way to make people drawn for you and your looks, is to show confidence...even if you don't feel confident, fake it until you feel confident enough...that means good posture, head high, looking at people in the eyes and walking like you own the place, with a little bit of a sexy sway in the hips! Then people will see you as confident and will be interested in approaching you.
 Don't go with silly conversations like "what class you'll have?" or "what do you like doing?"... that's just the usual boring get-to-know-you chit chat that feels awkward... just start to introduce yourself, and tell funny stories about yourself, and talk naturally, so people will see you as a nice person to talk to. Just that.

