 Reconciliation begins with asking for forgiveness. Apologize with sincerity and start the healing process. This is often the hardest step because it means that you have to take responsibility for your actions and face the issue.A sincere apology means that your head and heart are aligned to make a focused intellectual and emotional decision to accept responsibility, even if it was unintentional.
Sometimes it’s a good idea to write down your apology. First, because it will give you a chance to choose and practice saying the right words. Second, it will give you time to think about if you are seriously sorry or not for what has happened. After that, you can decide whether or not you want to offer a sincere apology.
Say something like, “I understand that I hurt you and I want you to know how truly sorry I am for what happened between us.”
Be present in the moment. In other words, apologize somewhere appropriate, put all electronic devices away, and make eye contact. Keep your apology short, simple, and sincere.;
, Taking responsibility for your actions is an important step in starting the process for forgiveness. Accept your role in the issue and imagine how you would feel if the same thing happened to you.A sincere apology is a selfless act that demands that nothing be expected in return. Remember, you are not “giving” an apology; rather, you are seeking forgiveness.
Avoid apologies that blame the other person. For example, “I am sorry you feel that way,” or “I regret that you got so angry about…” These kinds of apologies do not take responsibility and actually place some responsibility on the person you are apologizing to.
Taking responsibility also demonstrates your maturity, something a woman would admire in a man. Instead, of blaming or minimizing your role, say “I messed up and I am so sorry that I hurt you.”
An apology such as “In the future I will…” demonstrates that you will continue to work on making things better between you. In this case, it will enable you to make a meaningful gesture without the perception of buying forgiveness.
 It is best to follow an apology with a gesture, not before. This is a tricky proposition because a woman might think her forgiveness is being bought. Therefore, make a sincere apology first and then make sure the gesture conveys that you learned your lesson and won’t repeat the issue.


Your intentions should always remain clear with a meaningful gesture. Regardless of the gesture you choose – making a card, buying her favorite coffee, or sending her a song or flowers that conveys an apology – make sure you highlight your intentions.
This is a no strings attached apology. In other words, nothing should be expected in return nor should you expect to be forgiven completely.

