 Since you're already presumably using your mobile device to browse Instagram in the first place, it can be convenient to a have a go-to resource for figuring out who's unfollowed you recently on the very same device. Unlike the sites above, this method requires you to download an app, but once you've downloaded the app, it'll be at your fingertips whenever you need it. Below are just a few app recommendations for common mobile platforms:


For Apple iOS devices, Followers on Instagram Free by Sepia Software LLC is a highly-rated app that (like its name suggests) is completely free.
For Android devices, Follower Tracker for Instagram by 2 Creative Monsters LLC is one great, accessible solution out of the several available on the Play Store.
For Windows Phone devices, UnfollowSpy by publisher Elliott Forde offers a wide range of options for both Instagram and Twitter.
 When you find a suitable app in your mobile devices app store, download it (note that the suggestions above are all free.) Wait for the app to install, then open it.


For example purposes, we'll use the Follower Tracker for Instagram Android app recommended above. Most Instagram monitoring apps will be very similar, so feel free to follow along if you're using a different app.
 As with the online methods in the section above, any mobile app that tracks your Instagram followers will need your login details to be able to access this information, so supply your username and password when asked after launching the app.


On the next screen, if you are prompted, give Instagram permission to access your account information. The app will not access your list of followers without your permission, so this is necessary to use this method.
 Once you've gotten the app to work, the rest is a piece of cake. Simply click the "Followers Lost" button to see which users have stopped following you since you first ran the app. Like with the online methods above, the app will only start keeping track of your Instagram followers once it's installed, so you will only be able to see who stops following you going forward.


Note the "Clear" button in the top corner of the screen — pressing this will reset the Followers Lost list.

