 If you see a warehouse full of circuit boards in your future, consider buying a station that includes higher quality versions of a soldering iron and desoldering pump. The station should allow you to choose a temperature appropriate for each project. This is especially useful when handling surface-mounted circuit boards (i.e. most of them), so you can avoid damaging heat-sensitive components.
 The brute force approach with an ordinary heat gun is a fast way to recover a board, but will almost certainly fry your components. If you want a more accurate approach, you'll need a hot air rework station. This includes a small, high-temperature heat nozzle so you can quickly melt the solder with lower risk to the surrounding components. This expensive, bulky tool is recommended only for people who plan to desolder frequently, and who have some salvage boards to practice on.Vacuum up the melted solder using a desoldering pump or the vacuum nozzle on the rework station.
 Each pincer on these "tweezers" is actually a soldering iron. Just pinch each pin on a surface-mounted resistor, diode, or other small component to melt the solder., A few companies make a special kind of solder that melts at low temperature, sold specifically for desoldering. When you melt this onto existing solder, it creates an alloy that lowers the melting temperature. This ensures that the solder stays liquid for longer, making it easy to remove using a pump or braid., If you have a surface-mounted component attached with many pins, desoldering one at a time will be slow and difficult. Instead, you can melt the solder on one side all at once, and use a fine wire to lift the pins up before the solder hardens again:Apply flux and new solder across the whole line of pins, melting the old solder together.
Use a desoldering braid as described above to remove most of this solder.
Strip the end of a fine, enameled copper wire. Tin this end (that is, coat it in a layer of solder).
Insert the wire underneath the line of pins, then solder the tinned end to the last pin to fix it to the board.
Tug the wire upward while you heat the closest pin with the soldering iron, until the pin detaches.
Repeat with each pin. Try not to pull too hard or at too steep an angle.

