 Look for a flaky variety of canned cinnamon rolls so you can easily unroll them. Open the package and remove all of the cinnamon rolls. Carefully peel unwind each cinnamon roll and lay them flat so that the filling is facing up.

Try to place them next to each other so you can quickly spread filling over the dough.;
, If you'd simply like more of the classic cinnamon roll filling, dice butter into very small cubes and scatter it over the unrolled dough. Sprinkle enough brown sugar to cover the dough. This will make more of the gooey filling. Or you could spread a different filling over the unrolled dough. Consider spreading one of these:Chocolate hazelnut spread
Jam
Honey
Pumpkin puree with maple syrup
Lemon curd

, You can also add some delicious textures to the filling of canned cinnamon rolls. For another classic variation, add chopped pecans or walnuts. You could also scatter dried fruit (like raisins or dried cranberries) for a chewy bite. For decadent cinnamon rolls, sprinkle mini-cinnamon or mini-chocolate chips. You could also spread apple pie filling over the unrolled dough.

Keep in mind that if you use a lot of extra filling ingredients, it may become difficult to wrap the dough back into a cinnamon roll.
 Classic cinnamon rolls rely on standard spices like cinnamon, nutmeg, and cloves. Give your canned cinnamon rolls a unique flavor by brushing the dough with a bit of rose water, orange liqueur, or scotch. You could also try one of the following flavor combinations:

Almond extract and chocolate chips
Chopped dates and walnuts
Ground cardamom and pearl sugar
Ground ginger and chopped pistachios

, Since the icing packet or can that came with your cinnamon rolls probably isn't enough to cover the cinnamon rolls, you should make your own icing. If you'd like to keep a similar icing flavor, just mix a few tablespoons of melted butter with about 3/4 cup of powdered sugar. Add a few splashes of milk to get the right consistency. Or mix up one of these icings:Softened cream cheese with powdered sugar and a splash of orange juice
Brown sugar heated with bourbon and butter
Espresso powder and powdered sugar mixed with milk

