 There’s no rule as to when it’s okay to start dating, it’s up to you (and your parents). If you’re ready and comfortable, and your parents are okay with it, it might be the right time. The important thing is not to feel pressured to start dating when you don’t want to., Do you like him? Is he nice to you? Do you get along with him? Are you attracted to him? Do you get butterflies in your belly when he’s near? Before you start dating a guy, this may be all you have to go on. But it’s a good starting point. If you have a good feeling about him, and you’re ready, it’s worth going out on a couple of dates to get to know him better., Between the changes that happen to girls and boys during puberty, girls actually have it a little easier. There’s a big time period when puberty can start for girls, but once it starts, it finishes up pretty quickly. Boys, on the other hand, can continue to grow and change into their 20s. This means that teenage boys are constantly feel awkward and disoriented. This is made especially worse if a boy finds himself growing at a rate slower than his friends.Boys experience a chance to their voice box in their teenage years, which will eventually make their voices deeper. But their voices, while this process is happening, may sound weird to them. They may be uncomfortable having a conversation with you simply because they’re embarrassed about their voice.
This may not be something you want to think about, but one of the major changes a boy goes through in puberty is to his penis. The increase in size to his penis and scrotum, and the increase in hormone levels, can result in a lot of unwanted erections. Simply having a dirty thought about a girl might cause one. Unfortunately the boys can’t always control this, which may make them very uncomfortable about you.
Boys begin to demonstrate more mature social skills around the age of 17. Before this, they may still be somewhat immature and childish. Because girls mature faster, they may find boys somewhat annoying until their mental maturation catches up.
 When a guy asks you out, it doesn’t mean he instantly becomes your boyfriend. Start off with one date and go from there. Dates can be anything you want them to be - going to a coffee shop, theatre, restaurant, sports event, etc. Whatever you decide to do for the date, it should be something you both enjoy.If the first date goes well, go on a second date, and so on. If the date doesn’t go well, that’s okay, maybe you weren’t meant for each other.
 Some teenagers feel the need to date in order to get one-on-one attention, possibly because they have low self-esteem or self-confidence. Others feel the need to date in order to feel like they have control or power over someone else, or because they need the boy in order to gain some sort of status among their peers. None of these are good reasons to start dating.If these are the only reasons you can come up with as to why you want to date a boy, then it might not be a good idea to date him. You would just be using him in order to gain something for yourself, which isn’t fair to him.
 Whether you decide to go ahead and date a boy, or you’re just friends with one, remember to be yourself. Any boy who wants you because you’re pretending to be someone else, doesn’t actually want YOU. And even if the relationship works out at the beginning, it won’t be able to last. Eventually your true self will surface - you won’t be able to pretend to be someone else forever.You don’t have to date someone of equal intelligence. If you’re smarter than them, that’s okay. If they’re smarter than you, that’s okay. Don’t pretend to be dumb to make the boy feel better about himself - he’ll feel worse about himself when he finds out you’re only pretending.
 When you first start dating a boy you may feel like you’re in love with him right away. It’s possible that its true, but it’s also possible it’s infatuation or attraction. Sometimes it will last, sometimes it won't. If it doesn’t last, it could be because real life interferes with your ideal view of each other. Annoying habits become apparent, and character flaws become obvious.Real love takes time and effort. And you will not end up in love with every guy you date.
Love, in a relationship, involves attraction (physical chemistry), closeness (emotional connection) and commitment (dedication to each other)., A healthy relationship lasts, even when the annoying habits of each person become apparent. A healthy relationship also includes: being respectful of each other, and each other’s time; learning to give and receive; being able to share all feelings, good and bad; being able to listen to each other and support each other’s ideas and needs.If you feel any of the items of a healthy relationship are missing between you and your boyfriend, talk to him about it. If you’re able to resolve the issue, that’s an excellent sign the relationship has staying power. If you’re unable to resolve the issue, it may be time to move on.
 Not all relationships work out. People may grow apart gradually, or they may determine rather quickly that they weren’t meant for each other. Regardless of when you or your boyfriend determine it’s time to move on, don’t consider your relationship a waste of your time. Every relationship you have is a valuable learning experience.Any relationship has to meet the needs of both people involved. If your boyfriend isn’t meeting your needs, or you aren’t meeting your boyfriend’s needs, it’s time to move on.
Breaking up isn’t fun, and you will likely feel horrible, but these feelings will eventually go away. Don’t sacrifice your long-term happiness for short-term bliss.

