 Ultimately, the dissertation is structured how your advisor and committee decide. Ensure you understand what your field and your department require in a dissertation. You may also want to read approved dissertations from past students to gain a better understanding of how to structure a dissertation in your field.Find out if there is a word limit, and which parts of your dissertation (e.g. references, tables, abstract) are included in the word-count.
Determine which material should be included or excluded. There may be specifics on what is acceptable.
Ask which materials are less important in the committee’s opinion, and should be demoted from main content to appendices.
 The title page may be specific to your university, maybe even your department or discipline. In general, however, it should be in all capital letters, with centered margins. Exclude page numbers, but the following attributes are usually a part of the dissertation title page:


The dissertation title is at the top.
The dissertation statement or purpose, which includes the degree for which the dissertation will be submitted, follows the title.
The name of the person submitting the dissertation, and the date of submission, are the final pieces., The abstract should summarize the dissertation and explain why the research is significant. Include your study’s background first. Next, breakdown both the methods and findings of the research. Finally, clearly explain all conclusions to the research. Each section should have enough words to provide sufficient information, but the overall length of the abstract should be no more than 350 words.Because the abstract needs to be a high-level summary, avoid using quotes or references in this section. The only exception is if you base your dissertation upon another’s work. In that situation, it’s appropriate to mention the work upon which yours rests.
One recommendation is to include a note or two devoted to each portion (e.g. introduction, methodology, conclusion) of the subsequent dissertation., On the page following the abstract, thank those who made your dissertation possible. Sometimes this section acknowledges only a handful of individuals; sometimes it’s more than a page long. From inspiring people to proof-readers, all manner of people can be thanked in whatever method desired.


The dissertation acknowledgements are not necessarily mandatory, but they provide a great opportunity for the writer to really thank those who have influenced and aided in the arduous dissertation process., Following the acknowledgments, start the content page(s) on a new sheet. Include both the sections of your dissertation and its sub-sections. It should also include the acknowledgement page. Center the words TABLE OF CONTENTS at the top of the page.
Make sure you right align the page numbers.
 Sometimes a bibliography is used, where all references, even those uncited, are listed.There are multiple possible structures in which the sources can be cited. Be sure to clarify beforehand whether your references should be in APA, MLA, Harvard, or Chicago style., The point of appendices is to include material that may not directly tie into your research, or information that has been referred to in the results of the dissertation. The appendices should be supplementary in nature, and not superfluous. Exceedingly large items like questionnaires and robust tables are perfect appendix inclusions.


Appendices aren’t typically included in word counts. Be sure to ask the committee or your advisor to clarify.