 Keeping tabs on your blood pressure, cholesterol levels, and blood sugar can help to keep you in good health. Blood pressure, cholesterol, and blood sugar are major factors in the development of heart disease, but you can keep them under control by having them checked often.Blood Pressure. Have your blood pressure checked every two years. You may need to get checked more often if your numbers are high or if you are at risk of high blood pressure.

Cholesterol. The information about cholesterol has become more detailed and is based more on smaller lipoproteins than on overall cholesterol. Therefore, ask your doctor to check your CRP, or C-reactive protein, levels. Elevated CRP levels are linked to inflammation of the arteries, which is linked to heart disease.A simple blood test can check your CRP levels.

Diabetes. The recommended age to begin screening for diabetes is 45, but you should ask your doctor when you should started having screenings based on your medical history and risk factors. Even prediabetes is now being treated by doctors as a risk factor for the development of diabetes and for cardiovascular disease as well., Metabolic syndrome — which refers to a cluster of risk factors that increase your risk for heart disease, stroke, and diabetes — is becoming more common as more people live a sedentary lifestyle.Risk factors include excess fat around the waistline, a high triglyceride level, high blood sugar, or high blood pressure.Combat metabolic syndrome by tackling any risk factors you may have. Exercise and change your diet to lose weight if you have abdominal obesity. Limit alcohol, manage stress, and follow other guidelines for a heart-healthy lifestyle., Recent studies are showing that inflammation is a hugely overlooked risk factor for atherosclerosis. The best way to currently test for inflammation is to have your doctor check your CRP levels.Inflammation may be caused by loss of muscle mass, cancer, inflammatory diseases (like rheumatoid arthritis or lupus), metabolic syndrome, and injuries to the artery wall, often caused by oxidized LDL cholesterol, smoking, high blood pressure, and high blood sugar., Smoking is a major contributor to the development of heart disease and it is the leading cause of preventable deaths. If you smoke, do everything that you can to quit. Ask your doctor about smoking cessation programs and medications that may help make quitting easier.One study showed that smoking for two years increases one’s risk of death from cardiovascular disease by 36%., Drinking alcohol in moderation may offer some benefits to your heart, but drinking too much can harm your heart health. You should have no more than one drink a day if you are a woman and no more than two drinks if you are a man. (Men over the age of 65 should only have one drink per day as well.) Any more alcohol than this can increase your risk of developing heart disease.


If you often struggle to stop at just one drink, discuss your options with your doctor.
 If you have a history of heart disease in your family, then you should make sure that your doctor knows about it. Your doctor may recommend extra precautions to help prevent you from developing heart disease and to help you maintain good cardiovascular health.

