 You typically will be told orally and in writing why you were rejected. You should take out your letter and read it to see exactly why the consulate rejected your immigrant visa application. The grounds for denial will determine whether you can seek a waiver.


In a few limited circumstances, you might not have received a denial letter. For example, if you were rejected for criminal reasons, then the consulate might not provide a written reason., Not everyone denied an immigrant visa can apply for a waiver. However, waivers may be available if you were rejected for one of the following reasons:health-related reasons
false claims about being a U.S. citizen
prior unlawful presence in the U.S., such as overstaying a visa
criminal inadmissibility
fraud or misrepresentation

, Your denial letter should tell you how to apply for a waiver. You should follow the directions. If you have misplaced your denial letter, then contact the U.S. consulate where you had your interview.
 You will increase your chances of obtaining a waiver if you work with a qualified immigration attorney. The attorney can help you draft any necessary documents and can work with the consulate to clarify why you were denied a visa.


Find an attorney in your country that is familiar with the U.S. immigrant visa process.
 If you were denied a visa for unlawful presence, then you may seek a provisional waiver before you leave the U.S. to have your consular interview. This will shorten the amount of time that it takes. It also gives you confidence that you will qualify and receive the waiver., You may have to complete Form I-601, which you can download from the USCIS website. You should also get a copy of the instructions. If you don’t want to download the form, then you can get a copy by calling 1-800-870-3676.


Insert requested information by typing or printing neatly using black ink.
Make a complete copy of the form after finishing.
You must pay a $585 filing fee. Make your check or money order payable to “U.S. Department of Homeland Security.”Call 1-800-375-5283 to find the most up-to-date fee information.
 If you were denied an immigrant visa for fraud, misrepresentation, or unlawful presence, then you can seek a waiver if you can show that your spouse or parent who is a permanent resident or U.S. citizen would suffer extreme hardship if you were denied a visa. You will need the following documents to help make your case:documents that establish your relationship to the U.S. citizen or permanent resident relative
any document that shows extreme hardship, such as evidence of health-related issues, financial stress, and declarations from family members
character reference letters
any proof of your rehabilitation, such as community service, education, or treatment

, The consulate probably will schedule you for another interview if USCIS approves your waiver.You should review your application and the materials you provided in support of the waiver.
 You may file an appeal within 30 days of the denial of your waiver to the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO).Your denial letter will provide additional information, including deadlines that you must meet.You should meet with an attorney to start the appeal process.

