 You will need between one and one and a half lb. (0.5 to 0.7kg) of tomatoes per quart jar. Multiply the vinegar, water and salt needed by the number of batches you are going to do.;
,, Quarter larger tomatoes.
 Add your water, vinegar and pickling spice.
 Remove it from the heat source when it has boiled.
 You will pour the dry spices into the bottoms of each jar. The following are good spice blends for green tomatoes:


Combine dill seed, black peppercorns, bay leaf and garlic cloves for dill pickles, as instructed in the ingredient list.
Combine one tsp. (2g) yellow mustard seeds, one tsp. (2g) celery seeds, one tsp. (1.8g) coriander seeds, one-half tsp. (1.15g) black peppercorns and one-half tsp. (0.8g) whole allspice per jar for a basic pickling spice blend.
Combine one tsp. (2.3g) black peppercorns, one tsp. (2.3g) Szechuan peppercorns, one tsp. (2g) brown mustard seeds, one-half (0.9g) tsp. coriander seeds and one-half tsp. (0.9g) red pepper flakes for spicy pickles.
Combine one tsp. (2g) curry powder, one-half cup (47g) packed brown sugar, one-fourth tsp. (0.5g) cumin seeds, one-fourth tsp. (0.4g) whole allspice and three-fourths inch fresh ginger root sliced into corns for curried pickles., Fill the stockpot with enough water to cover the jars with an extra one-inch (2.5cm) of space. Sterilize your jars by placing them in the boiling water canner, on a rack, for 10 minutes.


Increase the time they rest in the water by one minute for every 1,000 feet (304.8 m).Purchase new, sterile lids and rims every year. Set them aside in a clean place until your jars have been filled.
,, Use chopsticks to stir the tomatoes a little to remove air bubbles.Leave one-fourth inch of headspace.Use a funnel to pour the warm brine liquid neatly in the jar.
 Place the lids on the glass and tighten the rings.
 Lower them down into the boiling water bath. Allow them to boil for 10 to 15 minutes, depending upon elevation.
 Place them on the counter to cool completely for several hours before storing. The tops of the jars should pop when the vacuum seal has formed. The tomatoes will last for one year in a cool, dark place.

