 A housing choice voucher is commonly called a “Section 8” voucher. With this voucher, you can rent a unit in the private housing market. Local public housing agencies (PHAs) receive federal funds to administer the program and are responsible for sending rent to landlords.You can find the appropriate PHA by visiting the Department of Housing and Urban Development website and clicking on the state where you want to live.On the list for your state, look in the column labeled “Type.” You will see either “Both,” “low-income” or “Section 8.” Look for PHAs that are listed as “both” or “Section 8.”

, Only U.S. citizens are eligible for vouchers. To qualify, you must meet income requirements based on your family size. Generally, your family’s income cannot exceed 50% of the median income for the county or metropolitan area where you choose to live.For example, if the median family income in a county is $35,000, then you can’t be over $17,500.
 You should call or stop in. Schedule an appointment and meet with a staff member who can help you fill out an application. You will generally be required to provide the following information:your name and current contact information (phone, email, mailing address)
your ethnicity or race
your Social Security Number
your sex
whether you are disabled or not
the same information for members of your family (name, date of birth, sex, Social Security Number, etc.)
income from all sources, such as wages, military pay, pensions, Social Security benefits, SSI, welfare, child support, unemployment, self-employment, investments, and other sources
the current cash value of your checking and savings accounts
the current cash value of stocks, bonds, and other investments
the current value of any real estate
whether you are homeless or disabled

, If you are approved, then you will probably be put on a waiting list unless the PHA is able to immediately help you.Sometimes, you qualify to leap-frog over others on the waiting list. For example, if you are currently homeless, then you may be moved ahead of other people on the list.
 You are responsible for finding an apartment or house to rent. There are many databases online that you can use to find landlords who accept Section 8 vouchers. You can also call a landlord and ask if they accept Section 8.

