 To ensure that the oven is hot enough when you’re ready to bake the cookies, it’s important to preheat the oven. Set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully heat., Add 2 cups (454 g) of butter that’s been softened to room temperature and 1 cup (200 g) of sugar to a large bowl. Use an electric mixer to cream the two together on medium speed until the mixture is light and fluffy.You can mix the cookie dough in a stand mixer if you prefer.
You can mix the cookie dough by hand, but it will take longer.
 Once the butter and sugar mixture is light and fluffy, add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract to the bowl. Blend it in on medium speed until it is fully incorporated.You can substitute the beans scraped out from half a vanilla bean for the extract if you prefer.
 After you’ve mixed in the vanilla, gradually add 3 ½ cups (438 g) of all-purpose flour to the bowl. Mix the batter on medium until the flour is fully incorporated and a soft dough forms.To make the mixing easier, add about 1 cup (125 g) of the flour at a time. Mix after each addition so the flour is fully incorporated before adding more.
 When all of the flour has been mixed in, add 2 cups (113 g) of crushed potato chips and ¾ cup (95 g) of chopped walnuts to the dough. Use a rubber spatula to stir them in until they are fully incorporated.To avoid strange flavor combinations, use plain potato chips in the cookies.
You can substitute other nuts, such as pecans or almonds, for the walnuts if you prefer.
 Once the potato chips and nuts are mixed in, use a tablespoon (18 g) to drop rounded spoonfuls of the dough onto ungreased baking sheets. Make sure to place the cookies at least 2-inches (5-cm) apart.The cookies will spread during baking, so it’s important not to crowd them on the baking sheets.
 After you’ve placed the cookies on the cookie sheets, set them inside the preheated oven. Allow the cookies to bake for 10 to 12 minutes or until they are golden brown., When the cookies are finished baking, remove the cookie sheets from the oven. Let the cookies cool on the pans for 2 to 3 minutes before transferring them to wire cooling racks to cool completely, which should take about 20 minutes.The recipes makes approximately 4 dozen cookies.
Store any leftover cookies at room temperature in an airtight container. They should stay fresh for 2 to 3 weeks.

