 If you feel like another child is getting into a lot of trouble and you have to spend considerable time with them, focus in when they’re doing things well. Catch them being kind, sharing, or following directions. Reinforce these behaviors by giving verbal praise. You should also point and and reinforce the child's positive traits to help build confidence in the right areas.Say, “You did a great job putting on your seat belt without being told. I’m really proud of you.” You can also say, “Wow, I’m really impressed you picked up all these toys without being asked. I’ll let your parent know you did a great job.”
When giving a report to the parent, bring up the positive and negative behaviors.
 Especially if the child’s parent is a friend of yours, it’s important to treat their child impartially. Disciplining another child can damage friendships, especially if you have not discussed what is and is not acceptable between friends. If you’re intervening with discipline for an interaction between your child and another child, be cautious in how to move forward. Don’t immediately take your child’s side. Listen to both children, especially if you did not see the fight. Also, don’t make comparisons such as “Be more like this child,” as this can hurt the other child.Say, “Tell me what happened. You go first, then it’s your turn.”
When it comes time to talk to the parent, talk about the process. Say, “I asked both of them what happened, and they both said that Charlie hit first.”

, If a child has a major meltdown or behavior outburst, let their parent know. However, don’t have this discussion in front of the child. Be open to hearing feedback from the parent and ask them how they’d like future behavior to be handled.Say, “Your child had some problems today that I wanted to mention to you. This is what happened.”
Ask, “How would you like future problems to be handled?” This allows parents to provide ideas on how to handle certain problem behaviors that you may not work with regularly.

