 The principal sign of a heart attack is an uncomfortable feeling in your chest. It could feel like pressure is being put on your chest, that it is being squeezed, or that it feels particularly full. It might go away only to come back shortly thereafter.While we imagine that a heart attack comes on as an instant, intense pain, often it is a duller pain that slowly grows into a feeling of discomfort more than pain.
Sometimes you might feel very little at all. This is particularly common for people who suffer from diabetes but can occur in other patients as well.;
, A heart attack will often be accompanied by a numbness, aching, or tingling in your arm. This occurs most commonly in the left arm, but it can appear in the right arm as well., Being unable to breath well is also a very common symptom of a heart attack. Sometimes heart attack victims will even experience shortness of breath without numbness or chest discomfort., Heart attacks are major events that disrupt a number of biological processes. That means that there is an array of symptoms, some of which are shared with more common ailments. Don’t assume that because you feel like you have a case of the flu, something worse isn’t happening to your body. Other symptoms include:


Cold sweatsNausea
Unusually pale complexionVomiting
Lightheadedness
Anxiety
Indigestion
Dizziness
Fainting
Pain in your back, shoulder, arms, neck, or jaw
Feelings of dreadSudden fatigue (especially in women and older men), It can be difficult to distinguish between heartburn and a heart attack. If the pain persists for at least three minutes or is accompanied by some of the other side effects listed, assume that you are having a heart attack. It is better to be safe and take action., People often do not want to worry their loved ones, but it is imperative that they know what is going on if you suspect that you are having a heart attack. The situation could worsen to the point that you are unable to respond effectively. Inform them at the first signs of a heart attack so they can begin caring for you.


If you are not around friends or family, try to inform anyone else who is around of your condition. It is important that someone knows what is happening to you.
 Aspirin is a blood thinner and can help in case of a heart attack. You should chew it, instead of swallowing it, because chewing it will cause it to reach your bloodstream more rapidly. Do not substitute the Aspirin for another painkiller.A standard dose of approximately 325 mg should be sufficient.
Evidence suggests that coated, enteric aspirin, which allows for slow absorption of the drug, is still beneficial to those suffering from a heart attack. There is reason to suspect, however, that un-coated aspirin are probably more effective.Do not take aspirin if you are allergic to it, have stomach ulcers, recent bleeding or surgery, or another reason for which your doctor has told you not to take aspirin.
Other painkillers like Ibuprofen, opioids, and Acetaminophen do not share the same properties and should not be administered in case of a heart attack., To increase your chances of survival, call 911 within 5 minutes of when you first develop symptoms. Three minutes of even light chest pain is a good indication that what you are experiencing is, in fact, a heart attack and that you should seek emergency medical attention.If you are also experiencing shortness of breath, numbness, or severe pain, call immediately. The sooner you call the better., If you are behind the wheel, get off the road. You could lose consciousness and endanger the lives of others. If there are other people around you, do not ask them to drive you to the hospital. It is best to be taken by the EMTs.


Response teams can get you to the hospital more rapidly than your family. They also have equipment in the ambulance that will allow them to treat you before you make it to the hospital.
The only instance when you should drive to the hospital is when you are unable to reach emergency support through 911., If you have been prescribed nitroglycerin, take it when you feel symptoms of a heart attack. It will open up blood vessels and reduce chest pain., Anxiety will increase the amount of oxygen that your heart demands. This will make it more likely that you will experience severe complications. Lie down and try to rest.


Take full, deep breaths to improve oxygen flow and calm yourself down. Do not take short, quick breaths or hyperventilate. Breathe in slowly and comfortably.
Remind yourself that help is on the way.Repeat soothing phrases like “Help is on the way,” or, “Everything will be alright” in your head.
Loosen tight or restrictive clothing., CPR is imperative if you lose your pulse. Ask around for someone who is willing to perform CPR. If no one knows it, find someone who is willing to be coached on by the 911 operator.


If the person giving you CPR does not know proper form, it is generally best that they refrain from giving mouth to mouth. They should stick to chest compressions, pushing down on your chest at a rate of about 100 compressions per minute.There is no evidence that self administered CPR during a heart attack is effective. By the point that CPR is imperative, you will already be unconscious., Exercise is a great way to increase lower bad cholesterol and improve heart health. Focus on cardiovascular exercise, like running, biking, and circuits.


You should aim for 30 minutes of moderate aerobic exercise 5 times days a week.
Alternatively, you can do 25 minutes of vigorous aerobic exercise 3 days a week with two additional days of strength training., Olive oil, nuts, and fish are sources of good cholesterol that will help protect your heart. Alternatively, avoid foods that are high in saturated and trans fats. Processed foods are a major source of trans fats., Smoking tobacco strains your heart and puts you at greater risk of heart attack. If you have heart problems, you should aim to quit smoking altogether., There are now a variety of medications that can help to manage bad cholesterol and protect your heart. Have your cholesterol checked regularly and, if you are at risk, ask about medications that can help protect you.


There are several class of drugs that help with heart health. These include Niacin, Fibrates, and Statins., If you have experienced a heart attack, your doctor will typically recommend that you take a daily dose of aspirin. Your doctor might recommend a dose of anywhere from 81 mg to 325 mg, though lower doses can be effective. It is important to follow your doctor's suggestions precisely.


If you sudden stop your aspirin treatment, it is possible that you will experience a rebound effect that will significantly worsen your condition. Do not suddenly stop treatment without being told to do so by your doctor.