 This is a great way to raise a lot of money. Get people to donate extra items (the kind of stuff that lies around collecting dust in the garage) and hold a giant sale. Be sure to advertise the rummage sale so that lots of people will come. With donated items, you’ll be able to raise lots of money very quickly and remaining items can be returned or passed on to charities or thrift stores.;
, Forget the bake-sale. Baking items are expensive. Instead, set up a hot dog station. Ask for donations of large quantities of hot dogs, buns, and condiments from local grocery stores or restaurants, or you can buy these yourself from wholesalers like Costco. Advertise your event well or set up in a space that gets a lot of foot traffic and begin selling dogs. Don’t forget to let people know what you’re raising the money for and what stores might have helped you put it together!

, Get you and your volunteers together and sell vouchers for handymen services. You can mow lawns, change light bulbs, unclog drains or toilets, or paint a small room. You can sell these vouchers door-to-door or through your place of business. The elderly and single parents will especially appreciate these services.
 Collect together recipes from various members of your community. Edit the recipes and put them together as a cookbook. Sell printed copies (which you can get donated or for cheap from a local print shop) in physical form or get someone to put together an ebook, which can even be sold online.
 Get a local photographer to donate their time and equipment and have your business or church host a family photo day. Everyone can come and pay a low fee to have their picture taken and then provide prints (which can be donated by a local Walgreens or other print shop) or provide the digital files for families to get their own prints.
 A percentage of any purchases you or your friends make on Amazon, Target, Best Buy, or other online retailers will be donated to your cause. Check with each online retailer to find out what the requirements are, as well as get advice on how to really succeed.

