 This will allow at the salt and sugar to become evenly distributed throughout the flour. If you do not have a food processor, then put everything into a bowl and stir it briskly with a fork. You can also use plain flour instead of all-purpose flour.
 Start with ¾ cup (180 milliliters) of water; you will be adding the rest later, depending on how dry the dough is. Most food processors should have a spout at the top where you can pour ingredients through without taking the lid off. After a while, the dough should start to come away from the sides of the food processor. If the dough is still too dry and has floury clumps in it, add the rest of the water, one tablespoon at a time. Do this until the dough clumps together and comes away from the walls of the food processor.


If you do not have a food processor, make a hole in the middle of your flour mixture, and pour the lemon juice and water in. Stir it with a fork until the dough clumps together.
The lemon juice will help make the dough more elastic and easier to roll out.You won't taste it once you bake the pastry., The square should measure 6 inches (15.24 centimeters) on each side. Do not make the square too thin.
 This will make the dough easier to work with later. During this time, you can start preparing the butter.
 Make sure that the butter sticks are touching each other and that the flour is spread evenly across them.
 Keep doing this until the flour becomes ingrained in the butter. Once you are done mashing, remove the top parchment sheet.
 The square should measure 8 inches (20.30 centimeters) on each side.
 Leave it there for one hour. This will allow the butter to cool back down and become more manageable later.
 You want to end up with a square that it is about 11 inches (27.94 centimeters) on each side.
 Unwrap the butter and position it so that the corners are touching the flat sides of the dough square. Then, lift the corners of the dough and fold them towards the middle of the butter, creating a square-shaped packet.
 Do not make it too thin, and make sure that the rectangle is three times longer than it is wide.
 Life the bottom third up and bring it just past the middle of the rectangle. Press it down. Next, lift the top third and bring it down onto the rest of the dough, creating a square.
 You can turn it to the left or right. If the packet does not turn easily, the dough likely soaked up the flour. Gently lift the packet up and spread a thin layer of flour onto your work surface. Set the packet back down and try turning it again.
 Roll the dough out into a rectangle and fold it into thirds again. You are doing this to create thin layers of dough and butter.
 Let it there until it becomes firm; it should take about 20 minutes depending on how cold your fridge is.
 After you roll, fold, and rotate the dough two times, put it into the fridge for 20 minutes, then roll, fold, and turn it two more times.
 At this point, you can start using your dough in your recipe.

