 The iPhone has very limited emulation options, especially if your device is not jailbroken. The emulators that you can install have to be installed through Safari instead of the App Store.
 There are several emulators available for iPhone that can be installed without jailbreaking. The availability of these emulators varies depending on whether or not Apple has revoked the necessary certificates.
 This will display the emulators available to download.
 You'll want to find emulators that can be installed using the "Signed" method. The most popular emulators that this works for are GBA4iOS (Game Boy Advance), NDS4iOS (Nintendo DS), and PPSSPP (PSP).
,, Another screen will open with additional instructions.
 This will minimize Safari and return you to your Home screen.
 Tap the Settings app on your Home screen. It looks like a gray gear.
 You'll find this at the top of the third group of options.
 You'll find this towards the bottom of the menu.
 If you installed multiple emulators, you may see multiple entries here. You'll need to do the same for each of them.


If you don't see anything listed here, the app has not finished installing yet. Check your Home screen and try again once the app is done downloading and installing.
 The Name will be a generic-sounding company name. These are dummy companies set up with certificates that allow you to install the app without the App Store.
 Don't worry about your data. These emulator apps will not be able to access your personal data without your consent.
 There are a variety of websites online that host ROM (game) files for the emulators that you've installed. Just search "system rom" or "game rom" to find the ROM files you want.


It is illegal in most areas to download ROMs of games that you do not physically own.
, This will appear after you tap the download link for the ROM file. For example, if you tapped a download link for a GBA ROM, you'll see the Open in GBA4iOS link. Tapping this link will add the ROM to your emulator's game list, so you can quickly select it in the future.


If you don't see this, tap "More" and then tap your emulator.

