 As you start to get tired, you are more likely to hold your shoulders in a tense position. Not only will this make running even more of a challenge, it will also make you look tense and uncomfortable. If you want to look good, focus on keeping your shoulders down and relaxed.


It is easy to do this without realizing it, so try to remind yourself every now and then to see if your shoulders are starting to creep up. You can do this by lifting your shoulders up to your ears. Then, on an exhale, let your shoulders relax as much as you can. You don't need to do this every 5 minutes, but try to be conscious of your shoulders.;
, If you are not in very good shape, or if you are getting tired, you are likely to let your feet drag lazily. However, if you want to look like good while running, you should focus on picking up your feet. You don’t have to lift them high into the air. Instead, just focus on keeping your feet energetic.


Doing this will help make it look as though you have lots of energy during your run, and will make you look like you are really enjoying your run.
 When running, many people have a tendency to scrunch up their face into a grimace. Running can be very challenging, so this facial expression is understandable. However, if you want to look good, try to keep your face relaxed, and your expression friendly.


It will help if you keep your breathing as consistent and steady as possible. Take deep breaths in, and then try to breathe out in a controlled way.
 It may be tempting to take very long strides to look as though you are running faster. However, if you want to look good while you are running, you should keep your stride a bit shorter. You don’t want take baby steps, but don’t try to stride out as though you are a gazelle. Not only will you look silly, you will also be wasting energy trying to do this.


It is recommended that you have around 180 foots strikes each minute. This means that your feet touch the ground about 180 times in 60 seconds. You can see if you are getting around this number by counting the number of times each foot hits the ground for 15 seconds, and then multiplying that number by four., Heel striking is a common mistake that runners make. This occurs when you let the heel of your foot hit the ground first, rather than the ball of your foot. If you want to look good running, try focusing on getting the ball of your foot to be the place where your foot first contacts the ground.Not only is this good for your running technique, it will make you look better while you are running.


By doing this, you will appear relaxed and more energetic.
 Many people tend to let their arms flail around when they are running, especially if they are tired. When you are running, keep your arms bent at 90 degrees, and let them pump back and forth naturally. Try to keep them going only backwards and forwards, rather than letting them drift outwards like chicken wings. Not only does this waste energy, but it also looks a bit silly.Conserving energy will also help keep you looking fresh during your run.
 The majority of running clothes come in very bright colors in order to make you more visible on the road. While these colors may be pretty, they might not always be the most flattering for your skin tone.


For safety reasons, its a good idea to have at least one article of clothing that stands out, either because it is very brightly and boldly colored, or just because it is a lighter color, such as white or lavender.
 Running in an old pair of worn out shoes can be painful, and those old shoes probably don’t look that great anymore. If you want to look good (and be comfortable) while running, you should invest in a good pair of running shoes. It is probably a good idea to choose the shoes in a more neutral color so that they won’t clash with your different running outfits.


You could also try to purchase all of your running clothing in the same colors. This way, you can also purchase the shoes to match your outfits.
Don’t forget socks! Many running stores sell socks specifically made for running. These socks help keep your feet cool and comfortable. If you want to look good while running, opt for ankle socks that won’t show too much above the top of your shoe.
 Running in a pair of worn out shorts or a pair of baggy sweatpants will not help you look good. Therefore, you should look for running pants or shorts that are tight and stretchy. Not only will they help keep you cooler by wicking away sweat, they will also make you look good.


If you are self-conscious about your legs, and know you won’t feel comfortable wearing skin-tight clothing, then look for running pants that are a bit looser. However, don’t just skip straight to the baggy sweats. They may be comfortable, but they aren’t flattering on anyone, regardless of one’s body size.
Running tights come in a multitude of colors and patterns. Although you should buy whatever makes you happy, it may be easiest to purchase all of your running tights in a more neutral color such as black or grey. This way, you can choose just about any color top you want, and it will always match well with your pants.
If you choose grey pants, be aware that this color may show sweat more readily than other colors such as black. If you are worried about sweat stains, stick with black, which will hide sweat.
 Rather than choosing an old t-shirt, opt for a fitted running t-shirt or a tank top. Many of the big sports brands make very stylish tops that also wick sweat away from your skin helping you keep cool, and thus, looking good.


If you are self-conscious about your size, you can also look for looser running tops, as these are becoming more popular these days. These shirts will not cling to your skin, and will be more flowy.
Make sure to choose tops in colors that flatter your skin tone.
 Regardless of your bra size, you should wear a sports bra. Not only will this keep you more comfortable, it will also be more flattering.


If you have never been fitted for a sports bra specifically, it may be good to visit a sports store, where they can help show you different fittings, and types of sports bras. This is especially important if you are a woman with large breasts, as running can be very uncomfortable, and even dangerous, without the right bra.
 Many companies make underwear specifically for sports. These underwear can help keep sweat contained, and help you avoid wedgies, which don’t look good. Some shorts and running pants also come with built in underwear, which means you don’t need to wear underwear at all.
 A good pair of sport sunglasses can be a life-saver on a bright day. It will also keep you from squinting into the sun, which will give your face a scrunched look. Many companies make sunglasses designed to stay in place during sports. These glasses come in various shapes and sizes, so there is bound to be something that will suit your face well.


Avoid wearing regular sunglasses when running. More often than not, these sunglasses will simply bounce around while you are running, or they will slide down your nose. Not only will this be annoying for you, but it probably won’t look good either.
 When you get dressed to go out for your run, take a second to look in the mirror. Do you like what you see? Will the outfit you’re wearing help you feel more confident during your run?


It’s important to take a quick look in the mirror. Sometimes we think an outfit looks great when we lay it all out, but somehow it doesn’t flow as well once we put it on.
 When you go outside, you should always wear sunscreen to protect your skin. Remember that the sun’s rays can still harm your skin, even on an overcast day.


Make sure to apply it to your face, the tops of your ears, and any skin that will be exposed while you are outside.
You can look for a body moisturizer that includes an SPF in it. This way, you will be moisturizing and protecting at the same time.
If you want to add a bit of glow to your sunscreen, mix a bit of shimmery powder into your sunscreen before applying it to your skin.
Don’t forget your hair! While it may not be ideal to put sun cream directly on your hair, there are hair products on the market that contain an SPF to protect your hair as well.
 Unless you have very short hair, you will want to do something with your hair to keep it out of your face. If you have bangs, it is best to pin them up so that they won't end up a sticky, sweaty mess. You can do this by, for example, folding them back to create a little poof, and then using two bobby pins to hold the poof in place.


If you have very long, straight hair you can brush your hair into a sleek ponytail. This will help keep you cool, and make you look fresh. You could also consider braiding the ponytail to keep it more contained.
If you have curly hair, pull your hair up into a messy bun, and use bobby pins to pin any unruly curls into the ponytail.
Sport headbands can also work great for helping keep your hair sleek, and out of your face.
 Keep it simple though. The idea with looking good while running is to make it look effortless, as though you just naturally look good. If you have a full face of makeup on, then it will look like you are trying very hard. Avoid wearing a bright lipstick. Instead, opt for a lightly tinted balm if you want to add some color to your lips.


Look for lip balms that have an SPF to help keep your lips protected.
You can also put on a waterproof mascara.
If you want to apply eyeliner, look for one that is waterproof, and stick to lighter more natural looking colors. You should also stick to a thin, natural line around your lashes. You don’t need to do a winged eyeliner when going out for a run.
If you feel that you need a bit of coverage on your skin, look for a tinted moisturizer. This will help keep your skin looking natural while also providing a bit of coverage to help with any blemishes.
Avoid wearing foundation. When you are running, you are going to sweat. If you choose a full coverage foundation, chances are you will sweat it off, and there will be streaks all over your face.

