 Pull the "bottom" of the triangle part of the hanger away from the hook like a bow and arrow. You should now have something roughly square-shaped.;
,


If you're having difficulty bending the wire, try using a pair of pliers to get a better grip. If you have a vice, you can also grab one part of the hanger in the vice and pull the other side.
 Pull them as tight as possible to get a flat, drum-like surface. Gather the extra slack around the hanger's hook. Use tape or rubber band to hold the slack and keep the stretched portion tight.
 You want it about an inch or two away from the mic. It should not be touching it.It should sit between your mouth and the mic when you're recording. There's no "right" way to do this — anything you can do to get the new filter to stay in front of the mic is fair game. A few ideas are below!


If you like, you can straighten out the hanger's hook and bend it into a wide curve, then tape the end to a spot on the mic stand behind the mic. Bend the wire as needed to get the screen in exactly the right spot.
Use a clamp to hold the filter to the mic stand. You can get small, cheap clamps from most hardware stores for just a few dollars.Tape the filter to a second mic stand and position this in front of the first.
Keep in mind that some mics are designed to take in sound from the top, while others are designed to take in sound from the front. You want the filter directly in front of the recording surface of the mic.
 Now, you're ready to record. Turn on your recording equipment and stand or sit so that the filter is between you and the mic. Your mouth should be a few inches from the filter. Break a leg!


Listen to the way your "P," "B," "S," and "Ch" sounds come out on your recording. You shouldn't hear any "clipping" with these sounds as long as your volume levels are configured correctly. By contrast, not using a pop filter can leave your recording riddled with distortion. Click here for a good, semi-technical guide to clipping (and how to avoid it!)