 On a computer preferably, so later you can search them for specific topics or dates. Try to add the following information to the entries: date, time, location, weather, temperature (how it feels) people present, good things, bad things, what you ate, what you did, (try to write down things that are common, like you just washed your hair, these make the entry more lifelike), what you feel (love, nausea, etc...), thoughts, ideas, things you're looking forward to and those you don't.;
,,, Make recordings of important communication (vocal or other) that you feel will make a great change in your life.
 Or at least make a note of it's name and what it means to you. ('I was wearing this on my first date'... etc)

,, Like matchboxes from hotels, or salt package from the aircraft you travel with. Seashell from the shore, or sand with seawater in a bottle... Anything that reminds you of where you've been, and how it felt like.
 (Don't forget to make notes about important details.)

, Even better, buy them all on DVD or download from iTunes or from 'your favorite download site' Make pictures of yourself being a fan. (Like painting your nails black, or wearing your favorite Batman socks in elementary school)

, You might need it some time later. (Attach a note to each one of them, so you'll know who it belongs to, and why you have it)

, (Every other type of geek/freak like myself, be creative! Keep things about your developing hobby, and keep some statistics about your skills. 2001 - toast with butter. 2004 - Grill roasted rack of lamb in red mole.)

, Try not to freak them out though.
 Try to point out what the occasion about, and who is there, and the things that you would like to remember about them later.
 (And how commercials multiply). Save snapshots of webpages you visit. Occasionally back up your bookmarks in your browser.
, You do a lot of things daily that - later in your life - will or might change. try to record these any way you can. It will be a HUGE step in reliving the past later. Here are some ideas, if you don't get my meaning:

, Speak while you're at it! Do laundry, clean, make a video while you wake up and do your usual morning tasks. Before you go to a trip overseas, or after you arrive. When you decide something big. Record a family gathering, or anything at all. Try to be natural, but don't tape a whole afternoon doing nothing.
 Digitize everything. Scan the notes, scan the printed pictures, get negatives developed and scan them too. Digitize video footage, and sound files. Take pictures of the items you collected.
 (Like by date or by location, or by who it is about)

, This makes it possible to search pictures/videos/sounds later.
 Hard drive and DVD or two separate computers, or anyway you see fit. Just make sure all this work won't be erased by a lightning strike to your house, or a flood.
