 During your recovery period, avoid engaging in strenuous activity for at least a week after your surgery. Engaging in strenuous activity too soon can lead to injury and compromise the integrity of the surgical incisions.


Make sure that you do not schedule any important appointments or strenuous activity within two weeks of your breast augmentation surgery.
Do not engage in any activity or exercise that requires you to use or engage your upper chest muscles. This includes activities such as jumping, running, swimming, tennis and horseback riding.'
In particular, you should not swim or soak in water for three to four weeks after surgery. This can interfere with the healing process of your scars. If you do swim after this waiting period, be sure to change out of your suit (or bikini top) quickly, or put on a dry one, so that you are not soaking your still healing incisions.Do not push, pull, or carry anything heavy for at least one week after your surgery. Ask your doctor what is a weight you can safely pick up and carry., After a breast augmentation surgery, a supportive bra (such as a sports bra) becomes your best friend that helps you adjust to the new size of your breasts and aids in the recovery.


Use an unlined sports bra during the first few weeks of your recovery period, as underwire can irritate your incision site.Visit a department store or lingerie shop to get specially fitted for a sports bra to support your new breasts.Although you may need to replace all your old bras, you should wait at least one month before shopping for new traditional bras and stick with the sports bra., Over-the-counter pain medications (such as acetaminophen) will help you manage your pain and discomfort after the surgery, but check with your doctor first to make sure it's okay to take them. In some cases, your doctor may also prescribe prescription pain medication for the first few days/weeks.


Whether you opt for over-the-counter or prescription medications, make sure that you take all medications responsibly and according to directions.
It is generally recommended to avoid aspirin-containing pain medication for 10 – 14 days after surgery, as it can thin the blood and increase bleeding.
Anti-inflammatory medications can also help with inflammation and swelling.
You may also want to ask your doctor about an injectable, time-released medication called Exparel, which can help manage your pain over a longer period., Recovery from breast augmentation surgery takes time and lots of rest. Besides avoiding strenuous activities, you should also allow yourself to take it easy for the first few weeks.While you can return to work within a few days of your surgery, it is advisable to wait one to two weeks to return to work and regular activities., Postoperative appointments are an important part of a successful recovery from breast augmentation surgery. Make sure you go to all your scheduled appointments.


Postoperative appointments typically take place during one day one to two weeks after the surgery.During the appointment, your doctor checks for signs of hematoma and irritation of the flesh as well as for any other complications., After the initial recovery period and your post-surgery checkup, ask your doctor whether you should start applying moisturizer over the breasts and the incisions.


The implants can cause your skin to stretch. By applying shea butter, you may promote proper healing and prevent stretch marks.
 Besides your breasts being sore after the surgery, the incisions are also vulnerable and you should not put any added strain on them. Thus, it is recommended you sleep on your back for a few weeks after the surgery.


During your post-surgery checkup, ask your doctor if it is safe to sleep on your stomach again; however, you may still opt to sleep on your back or side if your breast tissue continues to be sore or it is uncomfortable to sleep on your stomach.
 After the stitches have been removed, a light manual massage helps break up any scar tissue that might form after the surgery. Massage may also help your implants to reach their proper position and may help your body to adjust to your new implants faster.Before you start any massage regimen, consult your doctor and ask if it is safe.
Gently use your hands to massage your breasts for 20 minutes at a time twice, using the opposite hand to massage the opposite breast.Only do the massage regimen if there is no pain or discomfort. If you experience pain during the massage, stop immediately.
 Make sure you know the warning signs following your surgery. Contact your doctor immediately if you suffer from any of the following symptoms:


Fever (greater than 100.4°F or 38°C), pain, skin discoloration, inflamed tissue, and smelly wounds are indications of infection and require immediate treatment.Shooting pain, uneven lumps, and deflated breast tissues are possible signs of failure from the implants and should be inspected by your doctor as soon as possible., Breast implants typically last for several years, even lifetime, but you should be aware of certain factors that can impact the integrity of the implants. Keep the following factors in mind:


Menopause, pregnancy, and hormonal changes can cause your breast tissue to change, leading to changes in the appearance of your breast implants.Weight loss can also cause the composition of your breast tissue to change, meaning you need to have some sort of surgery for correction.