 Being autistic means you are neurologically different from other people – your brain is "wired" differently. This different wiring may mean you face challenges, but it also means you have strengths most people don't have.Many autistic people are extremely loyal and honest. If you have these traits, a relationship with you will have tremendous value to other people because they'll feel they can trust you.
Some autistic people have much better memories than the average person, and are able to recall passages they read nearly verbatim months later. This "super power" can be a tremendous asset in many fields.
To identify your own super powers, think about ways that other people have complimented you in the past.
In particular, if someone has said "Wow, I wish I could do that!" they probably are talking about one of your super powers.;
, Different personality traits are valued in different careers. Your particular super powers may be ideal for a particular line of work. You can use this strength to overcome any weak points you may have.For example, if you have a strong memory and an ability to focus on repetitive tasks for hours on end, you would probably make a good computer programmer.
Focusing on this ability and emphasizing it can help you overcome other challenges, such as if you have difficulty making a strong impression in social interactions or job interviews.
 Most autistic people have special interests – topics they research and study intently. You can use your special interests to enhance your strengths and lay the groundwork for success.Your knowledge of your special interests is a strength that you can use to your advantage, whether you're seeking employment or trying to make new friends.
Be willing to share your expertise with others or help them out with tasks related to your special interest that you've already mastered.
For example, suppose web design and animals are two of your special interests. You could combine these two interests by volunteering to help your local animal shelter redesign their website to assist in getting the animals there adopted.
 When you're young, other kids may make fun of you or consider you weird because of habits or personality traits related to autism. These traits are part of what makes you unique and special. As you grow older, take ownership of these traits and have pride in them.The people around you, particularly older people, often find various quirks or idiosyncrasies charming or refreshing.
As you make an effort to fit in socially, keep in mind that nobody wants you to become an automaton. There's nothing wrong with being different.
Not being like everybody else makes you more noticeable and sets you apart. When you're younger, you might not see this as a good thing – you may wish you could just blend in like everybody else.
However, as you get older, it's these noticeable things that help you stand out from the crowd and get tapped for opportunities that might have passed you by if there was nothing unique or memorable about you.
 When you were younger, you may have had difficulty figuring out exactly what it was that made you lose control. However, as you get older you'll get better with figuring out what bothers you.Much of what you figure out will come from trial and error. The more experience you have in different environments or around different people, the more you'll understand about how you respond to sensory input.
For example, many autistic people are triggered by fluorescent lights. If this is true for you, it can vastly affect the types of work where you would find success.
Many offices are lit by fluorescent lights, and you'd have significant trouble in that environment.
 What many people view as aggression or bad behavior is really a reaction to being overstimulated by your environment. If you can pinpoint the warning signs that you are approaching overstimulation, you will be better equipped to remove yourself from the situation before you cause problems.The warning signs will differ from person to person, and the things you notice probably will be particular to you.
It could be as obvious as feeling like you are getting a headache, or it could be something as relatively minor as your eyebrow twitching.
If you're not sure how to tell until you're already past the point of overstimulation, take a situation in which you've just had a meltdown (or a shut down) and think back to what you were doing and how you were feeling a few minutes before.
 Your friends and family love you and want you to succeed. If you ask, they can help you understand how you come across to others and give you tips on how to improve so you fit in better.When you talk to your friends and family, encourage them to be open and honest with you.
Explain that you have no way of knowing if something you normally do is rude or inappropriate unless someone tells you.
Keep this in mind, and try not to get hurt or offended by anything they say. What they are telling you comes from a place of love. They want to help you, and you want their help.
Ask them for advice on how to redirect the offensive behavior. Have them tell you what the "rules" are for behaving in social situations.
 Many social interactions are predictable. You can teach yourself scripts so you know how to react properly in common social situations and how to interact with others in a productive way.For example, memorize that whenever someone says "how are you?" you respond "I'm well, thank you. How are you?"
With practice, you can create scripts on the fly when faced with a new situation. For example, if you're going out to eat, the hostess probably will speak to you when you enter the restaurant.
Typically the hostess will say "hello," then ask how they can help you. Your script might be "I'd like a table for four, please."
If you make a mistake, just move on – don't make a big deal out of it. Everyone makes social mistakes, even non-autistic people. Typically, these things are quickly forgotten.
 Manners are a form of social scripting that everyone uses. These books can teach you what's expected in a wide variety of social situations. Etiquette provides certain rules of behavior, and if you follow these rules, it's unlikely anyone will fault you.You also can find self-help books on family and personal relationships, as well as how to interact in work environments.
Reading these rules can help you develop rules of engagement that will help you respond appropriately in various interactions and make a better impression when speaking to authority figures such as teachers, professors, or work managers.
 If you go out to a place where people congregate, such as a park or café, you can observe how other people interact with each other. You may want to bring a notebook and pen so you can take notes.Watching strangers can be more beneficial than watching friends because you don't know anything about them.
This enables you to observe without any preconceived notions of what a person means, why they're acting in a certain way, or what their motivations are.
Pay attention to how people move and how they interact with each other physically as well as verbally. This can help you better understand body language.
 As an autistic person, it can feel comfortable and safe to stick to your tried and true routine. However, stepping outside your comfort zone from time to time will help you understand and improve upon your weaknesses.Keep in mind that if you try something and you don't like it, or it makes you feel extremely uncomfortable, you don't have to do that thing again.
Always have an exit strategy planned if you set out to try something new, just in case it proves to be too much for you to handle.
For example, you may want to have a friend agree to text you at a certain time and check up on you to see if you're okay or if you need a ride home.
 Many traits that present a challenge in one situation could be considered a benefit in another. Identify the situations in which your limitations can be used to help you advance.For example, many autistic people are extremely detail-oriented. In situations where it's necessary to look only at the big picture and not get caught up in petty details, this can be problematic.
However, if you work as a copy editor for a newspaper, it's your job to be extremely detail-oriented, to find the misspelling or incorrect punctuation mark that everyone else missed.
Similarly, not having very good social skills typically is considered a challenge to be overcome. However, in many technological fields it can be an asset.
Some tech companies even prefer hiring autistic coders because they can do relatively repetitive work for hours on end without needing to socialize with their co-workers.
 Many special interests translate directly into careers. Find out what kinds of jobs people do that are related to your special interest, and decide which of those jobs seem like something you could do.Typically, you've put a lot of time and effort into your special interests, and you know a lot about that particular topic.
If you decide to get a college degree, you may even discover that you actually know more than your professors. Generally, it's a good idea to keep this to yourself. Use research papers to let your knowledge shine, rather than interrupting in class every few minutes.
Your autistic traits can be a benefit in many jobs. Look at job descriptions or read articles about the particular demands of the job to see if it's something you might like.
 Even if you have limited social skills, the internet makes it relatively easy to connect with people in your field of interest and get help and advice on how to move forward in your chosen profession.If you see someone you want to talk to about your goals, career plans, or special interests, track down their email address.
In many cases you can find someone's work-related email address online, or you can get it by calling their office.
Compose a brief email introducing yourself and explaining that you're interested in their field. Provide information about yourself, including samples of your own work if you have them available.
 When you send a professional email, give the person time to respond. People don't like to be hounded, and you'll turn them off if you start pestering them with emails every day. Instead, look for another way to reach them.Don't be offended or upset if you don't get any response, and don't take it personally. Many people are incredibly busy and may not have time for what they consider to be "random" messages.
If that happens, persistence may pay off. Find a way to the person through someone else. Talk to others you know in the field and see if anyone knows them who can offer an introduction for you.
If you contact them again through someone they know, your email won't fall into that "random" pile that they ignore.
 Many autistic people have fairly rigid thinking and thrive in situations where there are explicit rules and clearly defined expectations. Unfortunately, many work environments in the adult world are less hierarchical and more open-ended.You also can make charts or schedules on your own that you can use to provide structure even where none is given to you, or create your own rules in your head.
For example, if your boss only gives a new project if you specifically ask, you might create a rule for yourself that "when I am done with a project, then I must ask my boss for another one."
If you find yourself struggling in a job to understand what's expected of you, or if you need more structure to your day, ask a supervisor or manager for help.
 As an adult, you typically will be expected to advocate for yourself if you need additional support or assistance. Many people have misconceptions about autism, and may be afraid that working with you will be a problem.Often people assume that someone who is autistic has severe impairments. When you present a different picture, they may be confused or think you're just making excuses.
If you've progressed far as a teenager or adult, you can expect disbelief from some people. For example, a manager might say "You can't be autistic! You look me in the eyes!"
Calmly and kindly explain to them that autism is a developmental delay – it doesn't mean autistic people can never do those things, just that they need to do more work.
Offer articles or other materials that explain the autism spectrum and the many strengths of autistic people.
 Meeting people and making friends is difficult for many people – not just those who are autistic. Find people who share your interests and build friendships and connections by engaging in that interest.Look for a local club or interest group that is centered around your special interest. For example, if your special interest is trains, you may be able to find a steam locomotive enthusiast group nearby.
Depending on the type of special interest you have, you also may be able to find volunteer opportunities helping nonprofit organizations.
These opportunities are a good way to meet like-minded people and build relationships. They also can give you experience interacting with other people in relatively scripted situations.
For example, if you have a special interest in animals you might volunteer with a local animal shelter. These organizations are almost always looking for good volunteers, and you'll get to interact with animals as well as with other people who love and care about them.
 Attempting simply to "be successful" is a vague goal that can doom you to failure because it provides you with no guidance. Establish concrete goals for yourself and reward yourself for making steps toward them.First, decide what success means to you. "Success" doesn't necessarily mean you become a billionaire – it can mean any number of things to different people.
For you, maybe "success" would be having your own apartment, or getting a particular job.
Write that ultimate goal down on a sheet of paper. Then figure out what you have to do to reach that goal.
 An ultimate goal doesn't include concrete steps for reaching it. The goal itself may be so big, or seem so far away, that it's intimidating even to think about.However, each ultimate goal can be broken down into several smaller goals. Keep breaking the ultimate goal down until you get to a level that seems doable for you. Success will come when you add them all together.
For example, if you want to move into your own apartment, you need to save up the money for a deposit, find an apartment you like, and fill out an application. If your application is approved, you can then move into your apartment.
Make your first goal "save up money for a deposit," actionable by creating a goal to save $25 each week for six months (or however long you need to save up to get enough money).
Create a calendar to mark your progress towards your goal, and draw a smiley face or use a sticker for each week you succeed. When that goal is complete, move on to the next one. You'll be achieving your ultimate goal sooner than you ever thought possible.

