 The camera application icon shows a black picture of a camera on a gray background with the word “camera” underneath. There are two ways to find this icon:


One way is to look for it on your home screen by swiping left or right on the screen.
The second, and faster way, is to slide your finger from the bottom of the screen upwards. When a gray panel appears, you will find the camera icon on the bottom right part of the panel.;
, To launch the Camera application, just tap the camera icon once and the application will be opened.
 Before trying to take any picture, make sure that the camera mode is on “Photo,” otherwise, you might take a video shot instead.


To make sure that you are on the right mode, look for the shutter button on the bottom part of the screen. The shutter button is the big white circle on the middle part of the bottom of your iPhone screen.
Above that shutter button, you will find the words “Video,” “Photo,” “Square,” and “Pano.” These words are in white except for one, which will be in yellow. The highlighted yellow word is the camera mode that you are in. If the mode “Photo” is not in yellow, swipe your finger from side to side until you have highlighted the Photo mode.
 After selecting the Photo mode, you can now select the subject, or subjects, that you are going to take pictures of. With your iPhone, there are two ways to capture pictures: with the front camera and the back camera.


The back camera is the commonly preferred camera because it has a higher resolution (8 megapixels) than the front camera (VGA resolution). The back camera can be found in the upper left corner of the back of the iPhone. To take pictures, just point the back camera towards the direction of your subject until you see your subject in your iPhone camera screen.
The front camera, although lower in resolution, is still preferred when taking selfies, or shots with you as the subject, since you will see yourself in real-time before you take your pictures. The front camera is located in the upper part of the iPhone in the form of a small round camera lens. This is where you must direct your eyes, not on the screen, when you are taking your pictures so that your eyes and face will not be facing somewhere else in your shots.
 Now that you are ready to take Burst Mode photos, all you need to do is to press the shutter button. Pressing the shutter button once will take a single photo of your subject. Holding down the shutter button will make your iPhone take multiple pictures using the Burst Mode.


For older models of iPhones, such as the iPhone 4 or iPhone 4s, you can take 2–3 pictures per second only, but for newer models like the iPhone 5, you can take up to 10 shots per second.
If your iPhone audio setting is in General mode, you will actually hear the shutter sounds just like what you’ll hear from a DSLR camera.
 If you are finding it difficult, or frustrating, to take pictures using the shutter button on the iPhone screen, not a problem! Use the volume buttons instead.


The volume buttons are the two protruding buttons on the left side of your iPhone with the positive (+) and negative (-) signs.
To take your Burst Mode photos, just choose your subject and aim your camera lens towards it. Then press and hold either of the two volume buttons and the Burst Mode will be activated.
Again, if your audio setup is in General mode, you will still hear the rapid shooting sounds while taking your multiple pictures.
 If you are using the newer models of the iPhone, such as the iPhone 5, there is an easy way to manage pictures that you have taken using the Burst Mode. First, you will need to go to the Photo application so that you can choose and discard the pictures that you have taken.


If you’re still inside the Camera application, you will see a thumbnail of the last picture that you have taken on the lower left corner of the screen. Tap on that thumbnail once and you will be directed to the Photo application.
If you have already closed the Camera application, just look for the Photo application on your iPhone screen. The Photo application’s icon is a multi-colored flower and has the word “Photos” underneath it. Tap on the Photo icon and you will launch the application.
 Inside the Photo application, you will see that the photos you took using Burst Mode appear as stacks. Tap on the option “Select” at the bottom and you can now browse through the pictures.
 Tap the blue check marks on the photos you’d like to keep and tap on “Done” in the upper right hand corner of the screen when you’re finished. Those pictures with no check marks will be discarded after you tap on “Done.”


For older iPhone models, however, you will have to find the Photos application, launch it by tapping on it, and then manually select and delete the pictures that you’d like to discard.

