 Your child will find it difficult to learn empathy just by talking about it. Therefore, it is recommended that you try to teach by example and actually show your child what being empathetic means.


Show empathy to your child by expressing concern and sympathy when they hurt themselves or are feeling sad. You could say something like "Please cheer up. It makes me sad to see you sad."
If they see this behavior in you, they are more likely to display empathy in their dealings with others, first out of habit and then out of genuine emotion.
 Let your child know that you always listen to them and that you appreciate their opinion on things. In this way, your child will not only learn to value themselves, but also learn how to appreciate other people's opinions.
 Do they like the same games, do they have the same hobbies, are they scared when watching horror movies? In this way, they will learn how to identify the similarities between their own and others' feelings in certain situations, making them more empathetic.
 Present your child with a problem from someone else's perspective and encourage your child to put themselves in that person's shoes.


For example, if there is a girl playing all by herself in the playground, ask your child to imagine how he would feel if he were her. Would he want someone else to ask him to play?

, Use the following phrase to teach your child about the importance of being a good listener:


“You have two ears and one mouth. That's because you're supposed to listen twice as much as you speak.”
Encouraging your child to be a good listener will help them to identify more with others and make them more empathetic.
 This could be something as simple as helping his dad with the gardening, or going to visit his grandparents.


However, if he really wanted to do something good, he could participate in a charity activity, like a bake sale or a fun run.
These kinds of activities will help your child to develop a sense of responsibility towards others and to gain a sense of satisfaction from helping those around him.
 Although you want your child to be empathetic and kind to others, he should not let other people walk all over him either. He should know that his feelings are also important and be able to stand up for himself when necessary.

