 You can even write them down if you want. Don't write a whole sentence; the last thing you want to do is read from a script! Write just a few words to remind you of what you wanted to talk about.If you don't have any thing in particular you want to talk to your friend or family member about, here are some ideas:


Read the newspaper or watch the news and see what's happening around the world. That way you can talk about some current events.
Talk about a movie or show you've both seen that you liked or disliked and what you both think about it.
Share a funny or interesting incident that happened to you, either recently or a long time ago.
Ask them about any noteworthy happenings going on in their life right now or recently.;
, Casual phone calls can vary greatly in length, and who you're talking to is a big factor in that. If it's someone you haven't talked to in a while, or who you don't get to see often, that probably necessitates a longer conversation. If it's a friend you see every week, you probably don't have much to catch up on, so the call won't need to be very long.


The benefit of knowing ahead of time roughly how long you want this call to be is that you can avoid ending the call too short or staying on too long, by preparing topics of conversation appropriately.
 If you don't have too much to say, let the other person talk most of the time, and simply keep the conversation going. Don't interrupt when the other person is talking, let him/her have his/her say. A big part of having a successful causal phone conversation is simply good listening skills.It can also help to have some questions ready to ask, especially when the conversation falls silent. Some possible questions include:

How was your day?
How's work been going?
How was your weekend?
Have you been working on any projects recently?
Seen any good movies recently?



, You don't want to wear out a pleasurable chat. The goal is to hang up the phone with the other person thinking, "what a nice chat I should call him/her again sometime."When to end the call can usually be felt by noticing more frequent pauses in the conversation and that you've run out of interesting topics. The personality of the person you're talking to, and how often you see and/or talk to them, are both going to be big factors in how long the conversation will go on.
Once you get the feeling that the conversation is coming to a natural ending point, end the call gracefully, similarly to if you were talking to someone in person and had to leave. The structure of the calls end should look like: a positive statement about the chat, optionally add what you're about to do next, next let them know you'd like to talk again, and finally say goodbye. For example: "It was good to talk to you. I've got to go prepare dinner, but let's speak again soon. Goodbye." Of course, in between each statement, let the other person respond first.

