 The metric system has a variety of units of measurement - you have probably heard of meters (which measure distance) and grams (which measure mass), etc. These base units are sometimes either too small or too large to make practical measurements. In these cases, it's necessary to use units that differ from the base units by a power of 10 - in other words, measurements that are 10 times larger or smaller, 100 times larger or smaller, and so on. In these cases, we add prefixes to the name of the unit to signify how much bigger or smaller it is than the base unit. The most common of these prefixes, from "1,000 times larger" to "1,000 times smaller," are:


Kilo - 1,000 times larger
Hecto - 100 times larger
Deca - 10 times larger
Deci - 10 times smaller
Centi - 100 times smaller
Milli - 1,000 times smaller
A handy trick for remembering the basic metric prefixes is the mnemonic "King Henry Died Until Drinking Chocolate Milk," (or, if you prefer, "King Henry Doesn't Usually Drink Chocolate Milk"). The first letter of each word corresponds to a basic metric prefix, in order of largest to smallest, except for the "U" in "Until", which corresponds to "unit," or the metric base units (meter, liter, etc.)

, If you're unfamiliar with metric units, it can be helpful to list the metric prefixes on a line in order of largest to smallest. Put "Kilo" at the far left end of the line and "Milli" at the far right end. In the middle of the scale, between "Deca" and "Deci," put the base unit of the dimension you're measuring. In other words, if you're measuring distance, write "meter," if you're measuring volume, write "liter," and so on. This line gives you a simple visual reference for how your units relate - whether the units you want are larger or smaller than the units you have, and how much larger or smaller they are.
 Look at your line of prefixes. Find the prefix that corresponds with the units you took your initial measurement in. Next, find your desired units. Are they to the right or to the left of your initial units? If they are to the right, you are converting from a larger unit into a smaller one. If they are to the left, you are going from a smaller unit to a larger one.


For example, let's say that we want to know how long a 10-kilometer race is in centimeters. On our line of prefixes, we would see that "centi" is to the right of "kilo". Since our desired units are to the right of our initial units, we know we're converting from a large unit into a smaller unit.
 Metric units of measurement differ by powers of 10 - 10, 100, 1,000, and so on. Thus, converting from one metric unit to another is always accomplished by multiplying or dividing your initial measurement by the appropriate power of ten. Look at the arrow you've drawn from the units you have - the units your measurement has been taken in - to the units you want to convert to. The number of spaces under your arrow gives the power of ten by which your two units are related.


For instance, in our 10-kilometer race example, we see that our arrow from "kilo" to "centi" jumps over five spaces. This means that kilometers and centimeters differ by a conversion factor of five powers of ten, also written as ten to the fifth power, 105, or 10 × 10 × 10 × 10 × 10 = 100,000. In other words, centimeters are 100,000 times (or 105, etc.) times smaller than kilometers. Thus, you know that there are 100,000 centimeters in 1 kilometer.
 Converting from a large unit to a smaller unit means you should multiply your original measurement by the amount that its units differ from the desired final units. Remember that this number should be a power of ten given by the number of spaces under the arrow you drew in the steps above.


Sometimes, especially in schoolwork, it's not enough to simply give the correct number. You'll also be asked to show how you converted your initial unit label to its final form. In simple conversions like we're dealing with here, just label the units of your initial measurement as you normally would, then label your conversion factor with the fraction (desired units)/(units of your initial measurement). The units in the denominator will cancel with the units of your initial measurement, leaving your answer in terms of your desired units.
In our 10-kilometer race example, we would simply multiply 10 (our initial measurement in kilometers) by 105 (or 100,000 - the number of centimeters in a kilometer). See below:

10 km × 105 cm/km =
10 km × 100,000 cm/km =
= 1,000,000 cm. There are 1,000,000 centimeters in our 10 kilometer race.
 Converting from a small unit to a larger unit is essentially the opposite process as the reverse - instead of multiplying, you'll need to divide. Take your initial measurement and divide it by the amount that its units differ from the desired final units - again, this should be a power of ten.


Alternatively, you can multiply by the inverse power of ten to get the same results. For example, rather than dividing your measurement by 103, you would multiply it by 10-3. Both operations are valid and will give the same answer.
Let's do an example problem. Let's say we want to covert 360 centimeters to decameters. Since "centi" and "deca" are three spaces apart on the line of prefixes, we know that decameters are 103 times larger than centimeters. We would convert by dividing as follows:

360 cm / (103 cm/dam) =
360 cm / (1,000 cm/dam) =
= 0.36 dam. 360 centimeters make 0.36 decameters.




