 Setting goals and achieving them on your own can be a challenge. Do not be afraid to reach out to others for support, such as a counselor or a therapist. Look for a therapist or counselor who has experience working with people who are blind or have a visual impairment. Discuss your struggle with setting goals for yourself and work on this issue with your counselor or therapist.If your optometrist or ophthalmologist informs you that you are visually impaired or legally blind, they will likely refer you to a low vision specialist. This person can help you adjust to your diagnosis, connect you with resources for support, discuss your needs and concerns, and help you remain a fully functional and independent person within your community.
Ask your primary care doctor to refer you to a counselor or a therapist you can work with on setting and achieving goals.
If you are struggling with specific goals, such as how to find a job as someone who is blind, you may talk to a career counselor who has experience working with people with disabilities.
 You can also seek support from someone who understands what you are going through, such as someone else who is also blind or has a visual impairment. Reach out to friends or family who are blind and ask them for advice on setting goals. Discuss any struggles you may be having with them and support each other.For example, you may ask a friend who is blind or visually impaired, “How do you stay motivated to set goals?” or “How do you create goals for yourself and work to achieve them?”

, There are numerous organizations that advocate and support those who are blind and visually impaired. These organizations can help you find employment, vision rehabilitation, emotional support, and provide resources to help you live the life you want. Try the following organizations:

Envision: http://www.envisionus.com/

The National Federation for the Blind: https://nfb.org/

The American Council of the Blind: http://www.acb.org/

Vision Aware: http://www.visionaware.org/default.aspx

The National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped: http://www.loc.gov/nls/


, Look for a support group for people who are blind or visually impaired in your area. You can also sign up for a support group online. Having a small group of people who can understand what you are going through and working through issues together can help you stay motivated and feel supported.


Ask your primary care doctor to refer you to a support group. Your counselor or therapist can also recommend a support group.

