 You should have had extensive contact with your client before depositions are scheduled, so review your impressions of him or her. Decide what kind of witness your client will make.Your evaluation can drive your preparation. If your client is shy and nervous, then you might need to do extensive preparation to put your client at ease.
By contrast, a sophisticated client who has given depositions or trial testimony before might need less hand-holding.
 A client who hasn’t given a deposition before will probably be nervous. Unfortunately, a nervous client will not be at his or her best during the deposition, so one of the first things you need to do is try to alleviate their anxiety.You can make your client more comfortable by doing a practice deposition. Schedule a couple hours where you can play the role of the questioning attorney. At the end, you can review your client’s answers and talk about how they can improve their presentation.
If you don’t have time to do a mock deposition, then look for videos your client could watch. Sometimes just seeing a videotaped mock deposition could relieve anxiety.
 Opposing counsel is deposing your client for a reason. Try to step into their shoes and figure out what they hope to get from the deposition.Generally, a lawyer has three goals in a deposition:To uncover helpful information. Some information might only be in the hands of your client, such as what he or she did the morning before an accident. Look at the written discovery and find gaps that opposing counsel will want to fill.
To lock your client into a story. Some disputes are obviously “he said, she said” disputes where two people have opposing memories of what happened. The lawyer wants to lock your client into a story so that the they can prepare for trial knowing what your client will say.
To catch your client lying. If your client lies, then this information could be introduced at trial to attack your client’s credibility.
 You will want to show your client copies of important documents, so go through all of the discovery to date. Look at documents produced, interrogatories answered, and request for admissions that have been served.


Create a binder of the most important documents. You can review them with your client during your mock deposition., Other witnesses might have given a deposition before your client. Review this testimony to check what was said about your client. You want your client’s testimony to be consistent with other documents and testimony, so you need a good sense of all of the evidence in the case.However, perfect consistency might not be possible. A witness might have stated that she saw your client run through a red light. If your client is sure he did not, then you obviously can’t have your client agree with the witness.
 In addition to putting your client at ease, a mock deposition lets you refine your client’s answers to questions you anticipate being asked.Try to make the deposition as close to the real thing as possible. If you think opposing counsel might be an aggressive questioner, then ask a few questions in a similar style to get your client comfortable.


Always review your client’s answers for clarity and consistency. Remember not to give your client the answers. Instead, refresh their memory by reviewing relevant documents and other witness testimony.
Try to schedule your mock deposition for the day before the actual deposition.
 During the deposition, you can’t coach your client. You can object to questions, but you can’t tell your client to slow down or to stop guessing. To prepare your client, you should draft a tip sheet for them to take home and review. The sheet should contain the standard tips for giving an effective deposition:Don’t guess.
Always tell the truth.
Ask to confer with their attorney if they want.
Ask that questions be clarified or rephrased if they don’t understand them.
Think before answering.
Don’t ramble or volunteer anything.
Don’t get drawn into bickering with opposing counsel.

