 If you have something on your mind that's bothering you, it will be hard to relax and enjoy yourself. At the very least, make a list of the things to be dealt with later, so that you don't need to worry about forgetting.;
, Ask that they don't use the bathroom you've chosen for the duration of your spa evening.
 You don't want to be interrupted during your evening.
 If you enjoy music, you may like to create a relaxing playlist of music to listen to. Light some scented tea lights. Prepare your towels and pajamas. This will prevent running around to find a clean pair of jammies after relaxing.


If you want wine, chocolates or anything else while in the bath, organize these too.
 Wash your hair and shave. Wash your face, too. By getting these basics out of the way, you're free to relax rather than focusing on cleaning yourself.
 Adjust the temperature to your liking. Add bath salts and essential oils and maybe even bubble bath. Get a bath pillow or a rolled-up towel and prop your head on it. The bath is not meant to cleanse, but mostly to relieve tension, so if you need to wash your hair, shave, etc. It's better to do this before you begin. If you don't, you'll feel stressful throughout the spa.


Put on a face mask. If you want, put some teabags on your eyes to reduce under-eye swelling.
Put on lip balm.
Get a deep-conditioning hair mask and let it sit for the remainder of the bath.
 Lie back and read a book, have a glass of wine and some chocolate, or simply relax. It's all about relaxation.


Candles for the bath are much more relaxing and better than having a bright light in your eyes.
(Dipping your head underwater is optional)

,, Smooth on some sweet smelling body lotion. Put on your soft, clean jammies or other comfy clothing.
 This is optional.
 Search on wikiHow or Google for some great face mask recipes. Leave on for about 15 to 20 minutes. Read a book or magazine while you wait. Wash off with warm water and apply some moisturizer.


Use your toner and moisturizer on your face.
 The steam from the shower and bath have loosened your hair follicles, so pluck your eyebrows and any other areas that need plucking.
 Remove all nail polish from fingers and toes. Soak your nails for a few minutes.
 Push back and nip your cuticles.
 Paint two coats of polish to nails, allowing dry time between coats. Do nail art if you wish.
 Allow to dry.
 Make some popcorn or other snacks, curl up with a blanket and enjoy. You may want to give yourself the manicure or pedicure while you enjoy the movie.
 Grab a book and turn on some nice music. Make sure you turn off the music before you fall asleep though.
 A very relaxing one is to count the seconds each breath takes.
