 When making new friends, the best way to start is to look at the places you already know. You probably have people in your everyday life that you haven't really met or talked to. To make a new friend, you need to seek out those people you haven't talked to yet. It's important to think outside the box. You may not have talked to someone because you didn't think you would like them, but to make new friends, you need to be open to a wide variety of people.Remember, people aren't always what they seem. You may think someone may not make a good friend just by looking at them, but you don't know what that person is like until you get to know them.;
, Making new friends means opening yourself up to new possibilities. You have to change things up. Try sitting somewhere new at lunch for instance. Sitting with a new group of people is ideal, but even just sitting in a different part of the cafeteria can make a difference.You could also try a different hang out spot. If you usually hang out in the library after school, try moving to the gym or the courtyard, for instance.
 Joining a sport can help you make friends. You'll be on a team where you have to work together to play a game. Working together can help you make friends, as you're all working towards a common goal. Your school should have a wide variety of sports available.You could play basketball, volleyball, or soccer.
You don't have to join a sport at your school. Your community should also have sports and other athletic activities for kids your age, including dance.
 Clubs are a great place to meet new people. You'll find people there who like something you do already, whatever the club is about. See what your school offers. Don't decide by what's the most popular. Instead, join one that sounds interesting to you. That way, you'll find other people there with common interests.You could join a chess club, art club, marching band, or school choir. It doesn't have to be a club or even something associated with your school. You could join community clubs or classes, too.

