 Instagram is one part Imgur, one part Facebook. The site, which allows users to upload photos from their mobile device's camera, is built around its community and is designed for sharing photos with other users. One of Instagram's most famous features is its easy-to-use filter system — users can simply take a picture and scroll through a list of pre-made visual filters to give their photo a unique, dramatic look.



Pros: Large, active community, simple, easy-to-use interface, designed with mobile users in mind.

Cons: Non-mobile options very lacking. Not good for sharing outside of social networking sites.

Use for: Sharing photos with your friends and family directly from your mobile device.
 Instagram is designed to be used through the Instagram app on your phone. This means that, before you use it, you will need to download the app, which is available for free on iOS, Android, and Windows Phone. Once the app is installed, simply sign in with your Facebook account.


Note that you can also create an account via your browser, though this is less common.
 To upload pictures with Instagram, you have two options: you can use Instagram's camera function to take a picture directly in the app, or upload a picture from your phone's storage. See below:



To take a picture, tap the button in the center of the bottom of the screen to turn on the camera. Point and shoot like you normally would.

To use a saved picture, tap into the camera as above, but then tap the button in the bottom left that looks like a 3x3 grid of dots. Pick the photo you want to upload from the list.
 After you choose your picture, you can add filters and captions to give it a distinct style. Simply scroll through the list of filters to pick the one that you want, then tap the check mark. On the next page, add a description or hashtags (see below) as you see fit.


Note also that Instagram pictures sometimes need to be cropped so that they're a perfect square.
 Hashtags allow other Instagram users to find your images by searching for the tags associated with your image. Using high-traffic, interesting hashtags will help get your image viewed by more people. To give your image a hashtag, simply write the tag preceded by a hash sign in the description of the image. For example, on a picture of a pool party, you might include the hashtags #summer and #fun.


See our hashtagging article for more information.
 Once you're satisfied with your image, you can submit it to your Instagram account by clicking the the check mark in the top right. Alternatively, you can also share it with your friends on other social media sites. Simply click any of the "Share" buttons at the bottom of the screen to cross-post your Instagram submission to the indicated site. You may need to provide your log-in credentials to complete this process.


Note that the social sites listed at the bottom of your photo submission screen will vary depending on which sites you have associated with your phone.
See our Instagram guide for more detailed information on using Instagram.
 Tumblr is a hybrid photo-sharing/blogging platform with a moderate-sized but growing community. Tumblr allows users to post pictures, gifs, and even videos. However, many users use Tumblr as a place to blog about their lives or their passions, opting to use visuals only to support their written content (or not at all.) Thus, Tumblr is a great choice for people looking to tell their life's story with their images (and/or words.)



Pros: Offers combined blogging/photo-sharing platform. Customizable profile pages.

Cons: Not useful for traditional photo storing needs. User base can be somewhat confrontational.

Use for: Blogging/scrapbooking.
 Pinterest is unique among social networks in that its format is much more like a catalog than the typical "feed" structure used by Instagram, Facebook, etc. This unique format has certain advantages: Images uploaded to Pinterest can be "repinned" by other users, causing them to be shared with these users' page visitors, where they can be repinned again, and so on.



Pros: Easy to share and re-share content, higher-than-normal potential for viral spread of content.Cons: Non-conversational community, not a substitute for traditional image-hosting services.

Use for: Sharing photos of your interests, viral content, etc.
 Facebook is the most popular social network in the world by far, but there's a reason it appears last in this section. While there's no beating the breadth of Facebook's user base, its image-hosting tools are surprisingly lackluster compared to other options in this article. Facebook does allow you to upload photos, tag your contacts, and share them with your friends and family, but its options for managing albums and organizing photos are somewhat counter-intuitive and its interface pales in comparison to quick, easy solutions like Instagram. Thus, Facebook is good choice for people who are most interested in the social aspect of uploading images — not features or ease-of-use.



Pros: Largest community in the world, good social options.

Cons: Lacking in features compared to newer options.

Use for: Keeping your friends and family up-to-speed on your life.

