 There are few more common, and more awkward, social moments then the debate between a hug and a handshake. One of the best indicators is someone's hands. If they extend their right hand towards you you can be pretty sure they want a handshake. However, if their hands move out, opening up their torso, there is a good chance they're expecting a hug.
 If you end up stuck between a hug and a handshake, simple wrap one arm around the lower back for a one-handed hug. Lean in so that one of your shoulders touches his, but don't feel like you need to really embrace him if you don't want to. You can keep some distance, or angle your body away from him to keep things casual.


This is a great way to end an awkward "what should we do" moment. Just wrap the arm, hug quickly, then stand back.
 There is no reason why you can't stick your hand out or simply move to a hug if you want. Without fail, the guy will adapt to you, so just take the initiative and move in however your feel comfortable. Just make eye contact and go for it-- there are very few guys who do not enjoy a hug from a woman. That said, there are times when you're better off sticking to a handshake, such as:


Buisness or professional settings.
The first time you meet him.
When you are unsure about his boundaries
If you do not know/feel unsure about local or international customs.
 This can demonstrate a sense of ease or camaraderie. For example, you start with a quick wave, a high-five or a fist bump. This sets a casual, platonic mood between you and him. You could start with a high five before drawing him into an embrace, or you could playfully give him a light punch or fist bump on the shoulder.If he smiles, makes eye contact, and seems at ease, you can always move in for a hug when you say good bye.
A quick wave and a smile from a distance is often a good way to gauge if they want a hug. If he responds warmly, just move on it.
 If you know someone is a "hugger," or you just don't feel like a hug is appropriate for any reason, take charge and stick your hand out early. Make eye contact and smile, then give a firm handshake. In the rare case that a guy seems extra persistent, you can try to guide his hand to yours with your free hand, making it extra clear that you want no more than a handshake.


If you really, really, don't want to hug them, give your best smile and say something like "It's great to see you, let me shake your hand."