 Select a longer table for a larger room because a small table will be dwarfed in the space. Similarly, use a small table in a small room. And find a table that will accommodate all of the elements you want to use to style your table.For example, if you have several large coffee table books or other decorative items you want to show off, find a table that won’t be overwhelmed by your books or other items.;
, Get a small coffee table with a glass or see-through wire base to create an illusion of space in a small room. Improve traffic flow in your room by using multiple small tables. These are also easier to move to another room if you need the space.Maintain the sense of space when you style a small table. For example, only place a handful of smaller decorative items, like framed photos or decorative boxes, on the table.
To create balance with multiple tables, put a single focal point on each table. For example, arrange books on one table and a vase of flowers on another.
 Get a glass topped coffee table to show off an interesting or lovely rug. Keep minimal items on the table or stack items in the corners so your rug can show through. Match the colors of items on your coffee table to your rug to help it stand out.Try putting a striking pair of candlesticks or a long, skinny vase with just a few flowers on the table. This will create some visual interest without detracting from the rug.
Create a sense of harmony by pairing a round rug with a round coffee table., Match the style of the coffee table to your decor. Find a table that complements other furniture in the room. For example, match a sleek, modern decor, with a glass or chrome coffee table or find a rustic coffee table to match a rustic decor.

Find a length that complements the size of the furniture. For example, if you have a long couch, match it with a longer coffee table that is almost the same length.
Match the wood in a coffee table to other woods in the room. For example, find a teak table to match teak consoles or a birch table to match book shelves made from birch.

