 As soon as you think that you or someone you know may have measles (see: How to Diagnose Measles), make an appointment with your doctor to receive a proper diagnosis. Describe your symptoms and try to schedule your appointment as soon as possible. Follow any instructions given by the doctor.


These will almost always include a recommendation to stay home and avoid contact with other people. Measles is very contagious, so isolation is key to preventing an outbreak. Read "Preventing the Disease's Spread", below, for quarantine strategies.
Be aware that your doctor may ask you to take special precautions when you come to the office, like wearing a mask or using a back entrance, to prevent the spread of measles.The rest of the instructions in this article are not intended to replace the guidance of a doctor or a trained medical professional. When in doubt, always defer to your doctor's advice.;
, Measles is often accompanied with a fever that can peak at 104°F (40°C).Use over the counter (OTC) pain relievers like ibuprofen and acetaminophen (paracetamol) to help keep your temperature at a manageable level. Follow the directions on the bottle for the correct dosage and timing.


As an added bonus, these pain medicines will also help to relieve the aches and pains associated with the measles virus.

Note: Do not give aspirin to children due to the risk of the deadly Reyes' syndrome, a rare condition that can cause serious conditions in the liver and brain., Almost everyone who gets measles will require plenty of rest to recover. Measles is a serious viral infection that takes much of your body's energy and resources to fight. On top of this, the symptoms of measles can leave you feeling more drained and fatigued than you normally would. Be sure to allow for plenty of sleep and restrict all physical activities while you are sick.


Many sources recommend a week or more of "time off" after the rash first develops, especially for children., The facial rash that causes measles can produce conjunctivitis — a condition involving inflamed, watery eyes.This can make people with measles sensitive to light. Use heavy curtains on windows and keep overhead lighting dim when suffering from conjunctivitis to ease your irritated eyes.


While you won't generally want to leave your house when you have measles, if, for some reason, you are forced to, try using a pair of shades to protect your eyes.
 As noted above, the eye condition conjunctivitis often accompanies measles. One of the most noticeable symptoms of conjunctivitis is an increased production of discharge in the eyes. This discharge can cause the eyes to become "crusty" or even stuck shut (especially after sleeping.) Remove the crustiness from the eyes by dipping a cotton ball in clean, warm water and wiping from the corner of the eye outward. Use a separate piece of cotton for each eye.


Press very gently when you are cleaning your eyes — since your eyes are already inflamed, they will be extra-sensitive to pain and damage.
 Humidifiers increase the amount of moisture in the air by evaporating water to create vapor. Running a humidifier in the room with you while you are sick will keep the air moist, which can help soothe the sore throat and cough that accompany the measles virus.


If a humidifier is not available, just place a large bowl of water in the room to increase the ambient humidity.
Note that some humidifiers allow you to add a medicated inhalant to the water vapor. If your humidifier lets you do this, pick a cough suppressant, like Vick's.
 Like many illnesses, measles drains your body's supply of moisture faster than it normally would deplete, especially if you have a fever.For this reason, it' very important to stay well-hydrated to keep the body strong enough to fight the infection until you feel better. As a general rule, clear fluids, especially clean, clear water, are best for sick people.

