 Consulting firm Nielsen Norman Group says web users spend 80% of their time looking at information above the middle of page fold. It can be placed on top of the text and will be the first ad the user will see once the page is loaded. The best measurement for an ad in the top fold is 728x90. 728x90 fits perfectly on top of a browser page and is hard to ignore.;
, The top right side of the page is also a smart place to place your ad because this is the side where a user’s eyes typically head first. Plus, it would make sense that you’d place your text on the left page and the ad on the right to continue the text. Place an 300x250 on the top right of your page, it should go along with your content, and again won't be ignored.
 Place at least one ad in between the text, these ads are known to generate high ECPMs. The logic here is that the user won't miss the ad because he is already reading the page.
 Rich media has the perfect name, because it describes the essence of its own format. Rich media maximizes revenue and can improve your site’s overall eCPM. Rich media such as pop ups, pop unders, Stay Ons, Lightbox ads, and Sliders have been proven to generate more revenue. Types of rich media:


Stay Ons: Banners that remain fixed to a visitor’s screen even when they scroll throughout the page. It yields great results but can also be closed with a click.
Lightbox Ads: These banners look like a box of light on top of a darker background, thus it’s the first thing a user sees when entering a website. These ads are known for high conversion rates because of their high visibility.
Sliders: Slider ads slide up from the bottom of the screen. They remain static on the screen even if the user scrolls up and down, which demands attention.
 While there are certain areas on a website that work better than others, it’s important to experiments with the placement of your ads because different positions could mean different outcomes for different types of ads. The key is to try different positioning until you find the one that generates the highest revenue.

