 Start by baking your cake. Bake the cake in a rectangular pan. You will use the rectangular cake for the base of your Peppa Pig cake.


The base cake can be any flavor you want. Chocolate, yellow, and white cakes make good basic cakes that go well with icing. You can bake a cake from scratch or from a box. This is entirely up to you.
Make sure to let the cake completely cool before continuing.;
, To cut your cake into the shape of Peppa Pig, you need to make a stencil. Cut the paper stencil out and place it on top of the cake. This will be used to shape the cake. There are two ways you can make a stencil:


If you have access to a printer, search the internet to find a Peppa Pig coloring template. There are many available that are large pictures of the character on a white background. Make sure the picture you print out is large enough to fit most of the cake.If you can't print out a stencil, take a plain sheet of paper and trace the picture of Peppa Pig from your computer screen. Or, if you can hand draw, draw the outline of Peppa as you look at the image on the computer screen.You can make a cake from any character from Peppa Pig, including George Pig and Mr. Dinosaur.
 Use a sharp knife to cut the cake around your paper stencil. Try to get the edges as close to the stencil as possible, but it doesn't have to be perfect. You will place icing around the edges.Use toothpicks to secure the stencil if it won't stay.You can cut Peppa's ears separately from the extra cake you cut away if you are having trouble cutting around the ears at the top., If you are using regular icing, either buy icing in two different pink colors, or buy white icing for food coloring. If you buy white icing, you will need to get Peppa's skin a light pink and the dress darker pink. You can also make the dress red. Strawberry icing may work really well for Peppa's skin.


When using white icing, put a small amount of pink gel food coloring into the icing and mix together. Make sure you have two separate bowls for the two different pinks. For Peppa's skin, you need a light pink color. For her dress, you need a darker pink color.
Spread the light pink on the head section of the cake, and then spread the darker pink on the dress. Try to get the icing as smooth as possible.
 Place the light pink icing in a plastic bag. Cut off the tip or use a decorating tip. Carefully draw a curly tail, two arms, and two legs on the cake plate.
 Mix a small amount of icing that is a shade darker than Peppa's skin. Place the icing in a bag, and either cut the top off or use a drawing tip. Outline the edge of Peppa's face, ears, eyes, and nose. Make two nostrils and a circle for her cheek.


Use a picture to guide you on Peppa's facial features if you need.
 To make the eyes, fill the inside of the pink eye outlines with white icing. Then use a black icing pen to make a blob in the middle of the eyeball.For the mouth, use the same icing you did for the dress. Place it in a bag, cut off the tip or use a decorating tip, and draw a smile on Peppa's face.
 If you are using fondant icing, start off by kneading the icing until it's soft. Then add a few drops of red food coloring or pink gel food coloring. Knead the icing until you have a pale pink color for the head. Then do the same thing to a section of the icing for the dress, making sure it is a darker pink.


Place icing sugar on the counter or cutting board. Put the icing on there and use a rolling pin to roll the icing out into a flat disc.
Carefully place the light pink icing over the head. Cut the excess off, leaving enough so it covers the sides. Then place the dark pink fondant over the dress part. Cut the excess off that edge. Make a cut along the neckline so the two icing layers match.
Before you place the icing on the cake, brush a light layer of jam on the surface of the cake to keep the icing from slipping.You can also buy precolored fondant, which may be easier than coloring it yourself., Use the light pink icing to make the arms, legs, and tail. Use your hands to roll out tubes of fondant icing that will be the tail, legs, and arms.


Use water to attach the fondant tail, arms, and legs to the dress.
 For the outline of Peppa's face, make a small amount of pink icing that is just a shade darker than her skin. Then, roll the icing into long, thin tubes. Use these long tubes to outline Peppa's face, ears, eyes, and nose. You also want to make two nostrils and one cheek., To make the eyes, make two circles with white fondant. Place them on Peppa's face, then outline them with the eye outlines you just made. Use a black icing pen to make a blob in the middle of the eyeball.For the mouth, use the same icing you did for the dress. Roll it into a tube that you can shape into a smile.


Use a picture to guide you on Peppa's facial features if you need.
 You can finish by adding the age of your child if this is a birthday cake, decorating the cake plate, or anything else.

