 Value the time that you have in life. While it is great to help others and most people like to be helpful, it can be draining if you feel like you're leaving no time or attention for yourself. The more time you give away to help others the less you have for your own personal care and needs. It is okay to say “no.” You may often say “yes” by default to the demands of others, never realizing that you have a choice. You don’t have to agree to every request thrown your way. Before agreeing to new responsibilities, ask yourself a few questions.

Is the request solely for someone else’s benefit, or your own? Will taking on this task push you closer to a goal? Does this request serve your ultimate purpose? Will taking it on make you feel better about yourself in some way?If not, politely decline. Say, “I appreciate you offering, but I will have to say “no.” I have a lot on my plate at the moment.”;
, Don’t live according to other people’s agendas; live by your own. You can become less busy immediately by clarifying your priorities. Each month, set aside time to pinpoint one or two major goals. Then, divide those goals into feasible weekly and daily tasks.Add these priority tasks to your to-do list and star them. These tasks should receive most of your attention. Other non-essential tasks will get done if you have the extra time at the end of the day or week.
By following this method, you will feel more satisfied because each day you will have accomplished the tasks that are most meaningful to you. Plus, by focusing primarily on your priorities, you can free up more of your time for leisure., Are you one of those people who glorifies your ability to multi-task? If so, stop it today. Multitasking opens you up to more mistakes and doesn’t give you the opportunity to fully apply your attention and efforts to one task at a time. Instead, start batching.Group similar tasks together and work on those for a period of time. Then, switch over to a different batch of similar tasks.
For example, if you need to run errands like dropping off dry cleaning or picking up groceries, do these tasks in the same time period. Then, handle administrative tasks like sending emails or making phone calls at the same time.
 Many tasks on your weekly to-do list don’t necessarily need your special attention. You may be a person who has trouble divvying up tasks, but to improve your mood, you need to learn how to share your workload.At work, pass on certain tasks to others who are extremely gifted in a chosen area. For example, if you need to craft a memo, ask a team member with superb written communication skills to write the first draft.
At home, ask your spouse or co-parent to help pack the children’s lunches or drop the dog off at the vet. Allow those around you to help you. Drop the notion that things won’t get done right unless you do them.

