 Deep, diaphragmatic breathing can interrupt that reaction and help you to relax. To practice diaphragmatic breathing, lie on your back on your bed. Leave your knees bent by placing a pillow beneath them for support. Place one hand on your chest and one below your rib cage to monitor the movement of your diaphragm. Take a slow, deep breath in through your nose. Notice your stomach pushing your lower hand out (the upper hand should remain still). Tighten your stomach muscles, and exhale the breath through pursed lips making sure that your chest is not moving. Repeat.


If you are in a group situation, excuse yourself to the bathroom or another private area to practice deep breathing.
You can breathe in this rhythmic way for 5 to 10 minutes about 3 or 4 times per day when you notice yourself feeling anxious or disconnected.
 Having feelings of depersonalization can cause you to think you are crazy, to feel as if you are not in control, or might even make you feel like you will faint or stop breathing.Combat any negative thoughts with positive statements, such as:


I’m going to be ok. I will relax.
Feeling like I’m not real isn’t dangerous; I’ll be fine.
I don’t like these feelings, but they will go away.
I am present in this moment.
 Your hobbies may include playing the guitar, scrapbooking, or collecting antiques. Whatever it is that relieves your stress, try to do it often, particularly when you find yourself experiencing more anxiety or depersonalization. This will prevent moments of severe anxiety and will help lessen the instances where you feel depersonalization.


Practice stress management daily whether that means taking time out for quiet or pulling aside a few minutes everyday to take part in an activity you enjoy.
 Because depersonalization is commonly associated with anxiety and depression, exercise is a great way to relieve feelings of being “un-real.” Exercise boosts your confidence, releases tension, and helps manage stress levels.Engage in daily walks, begin a jogging regimen, or find another type of physical activity that relieves your stress.


Scientists have found that a neuropeptide called galanin, which is released during and after exercise, protects the synapses in the prefrontal cortex and helps our brains with emotion regulation and stress resilience., Maintaining a regular sleep regimen of about 8 to 9 hours per night is significant for relieving anxiety and overcoming the resulting depersonalization that can occur from it. The link between sleep and anxiety/stress is a two-way street, in which not managing one causes a problem in the other. Practice good sleep hygiene to ensure that you get the amount of sleep required to fend off feelings of depersonalization.Avoid caffeine or alcohol as they both can trigger anxiety and keep you up at night.
Establish a winding down routine nightly that includes relaxing activities such as reading, listening to soothing music, or meditating.
Reserve the bedroom for sleep or relaxation only. And, cut off all electronics at least an hour before bed.

