 Life is full of disappointments, but kids won’t take them so hard when parents start out with realistic expectations. Setting the bar unreasonably high can promote perfectionism, or worse, cause your child to avoid new challenges altogether. Be sure to communicate that you expect your children to do their best, not that they must always be #1.If you are not sure about is normal for children in your child’s age group, try talking with other parents or talk with a mental health professional. You can also read books or check online for information.
Set a rule in your household that everyone should always attempt to be better than the person they were the day before. This is a realistic way to encourage kids to strive without overly focusing on extreme successes.
For example, it may be unrealistic to expect all your kids to be straight-A students. Instead hold each of them up to their personal best. Examine past report cards, and challenge them to improve from where they were before. Challenge them to find useful ways of becoming better like getting a tutor or downloading software to help them practice academic skills.
 Oftentimes when kids face failure, adults move quickly into problem-solving without being sensitive to their feelings. Show empathy for your kids by acknowledging the emotional experience they are going through.You might say, “Jason, I can see that you are deeply hurt that you didn’t get the lead role in the school play. I’m sorry that this is happening to you. Do you want to talk about it?”
After you have validated their emotions, it may also be helpful to suggest activities that may help them to deal with disappointment, such as watching a funny movie, hanging out with friends and/or family, or taking some time to be alone.
 When parents and teachers are constantly berating kids about what they’ve done wrong, it’s easy to develop the notion that not always being right makes you a bad person. Aim to have more positive interactions with kids than negative ones. If you must be hard on a child, acknowledge their strengths in the same discussion.Don’t shame your children for making mistakes. Instead sandwich any feedback between two positive statements. For instance, you might say to your daughter, “You must be upset about your test scores. You are so bright. I think if you study on the mathematics portion a bit more, you’ll do well next time. I love you and I’m proud of your effort so far.”

, Dealing with disappointments is hard for adults, too. Be a good sport when you fail and set an example for your children. Don’t engage in self-pity or best yourself up. Be kind to yourself and demonstrate your faith that things will get better.


Remind kids to treat themselves as they would a friend. When kids have compassion for themselves, they are less likely to get caught up in mistakes. Plus, self-compassion builds stronger resilience for future setbacks., Some kids have a tough time leaving their comfort zones. If your child struggles with social anxiety or have an extreme fear of change, a professional therapist can help.Your child may be struggling with an undiagnosed anxiety disorder. With therapy and gradual exposure to feared activities, they can learn to expand their horizons and take more risks.

