 It’s important to remember that your parents have more life experience than you; therefore, they know more than you. In fact, there’s a saying “Father knows best.” So, no matter how much you think you know, your parents will know more and will know what’s best for you. By paying attention to your parents, you are letting them know that you care about hearing what they have to say. There are some things that you can do to show your parents that you’re not only listening, but you’re actually hearing them.


Give your parents your undivided attention. You are demonstrating to your parents that you’re open to communicating with them and you respect what they have to say.
Don’t try to talk over your parents while they are talking. This is a sure sign that you’re more interested in talking rather than listening.
Don’t be rude by talking back to your parents or by interrupting them with rude remarks. Making rude comments creates tension and things can quickly escalate.
Avoid pouting, whining, throwing a tantrum, or making gestures and faces to indicate your irritation with your parents.
Don’t ignore your parents when they are talking to you or asking you to do something. By ignoring your parents, you’re showing them that what they have to say doesn’t really matter, which may cause them to become agitated and upset.;
, Once you reach a certain age, you may think that it’s okay to do what you want to do instead of what your parents ask you to do. Remember that they are your parents and not your friends. If they ask you to do something, make sure that you do it even if it doesn’t make sense to you or you don’t feel like doing it.


Make sure that you do your chores. It’s best if your parents don’t have to keep asking you to do your chores. If you know what you have to do, whether it’s daily or weekly, make sure that you get it done.
Don’t be lazy. One of the best things that you can do for your parents is to be helpful. Not only is it important to do your personal chores, but you can offer additional help with things like yardwork, putting the groceries away, preparing meals, doing the laundry, walking the dog, and washing the car.
 It’s common to think that your parents are wrong and you’re right. Even if you are right, you don’t have to prove you’re right by arguing with your parents. There’s a saying “You don’t want to win the battle and lose the war.” It’s okay to disagree with your parents, but by constantly arguing with your parents, you run the risk of shutting down future communication between you and your parents.


Be patient throughout your conversation with your parents.
Avoid raising your voice by calmly stating your point of view.
Allow your parents an opportunity to share their point of view.

