 Safety programs help reduce injuries and can create big savings. The easiest way to create a safety program is to review safety programs for other businesses. You can search online and use it as a guide for drafting your own. Search for a program specific to your industry.


You might need to pay a couple hundred dollars for a sample plan.You can also hire a consultant to help you develop your program. Ask another business if they’ve used a consultant, and call for a quote. Consultants usually charge about $100 per hour.
Should you hire a PEO, they can also help you develop a safety program.
 Some insurance policies include help with developing a safety program.Review your insurance policy or call your carrier and ask if they provide help.
 The Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA) has consultants who can help you create a safety plan. The program is free for smaller businesses.The consultant walks through your facility and identifies hazards, then provides you with a written report.


To find your nearest OSHA office, visit https://www.osha.gov/dcsp/smallbusiness/consult_directory.html. You can search by state.
The consultant won’t report any safety hazards to OSHA. However, they may report you if you don’t follow through on their safety recommendations.
 You can’t implement a successful safety program unless management is onboard.Hold meetings and address any concerns they may have.


Costs may be one concern. However, you should point out that studies show each dollar spent on safety reaps about two to six dollars of savings in return., You can instill in your employees the importance of safety by discussing new safety measures in regularly-scheduled trainings. Be willing to answer any questions employees have and stress the importance of safety.


Provide training when you first hire employees or transfer them between departments. Also provide training when you implement new processes or uncover new hazards.Remember to discipline for any violations. Employees won’t take your safety program seriously if they can violate the rules and not be punished.
 Not every incident results in an injury. However, you should investigate all of them.You may realize that you need to improve or otherwise change your current safety program to address the hazard.


As you investigate, remember to tell your employees that you aren’t searching for someone to blame. Instead, you are trying to find out all the facts so that you can identify the cause of the incident.
Remember to monitor results. If incidents continue to occur, then you likely haven’t properly address the problem.
 The longer your injured employees stay out of work, the more your insurance carrier will have to pay them. Another way to lower your premiums is to get injured employees back to work as soon as possible. Accordingly, you should create a return-to-work policy.


You can find sample policies online to use as a guide for your own.A key component of any return-to-work policy is transitional work. You can modify someone’s schedule or adjust a job to accommodate the worker’s injury. For example, if an employee has reduced mobility, you can have them temporarily do computer-based tasks.
 If an accident should happen, you should immediately get the employee medical attention so that they can minimize any injury. Once the employee is stable, file reports with your workers’ compensation board.Avoid delay. Your state law will give you a deadline for reporting the injury and you shouldn’t miss it. Ideally, you should report as soon as possible.
You should also mail a copy of the report to your insurance carrier.

