 Paint is usually the cheapest option for a wall covering.Paint is available in a variety of colors, as well as in several different finishes, including matte, satin, semi-gloss and high gloss. You may purchase washable paint for easy clean-up. It’s also easy to change if you find you don’t like the color or just want to try a new look.


Additionally, paint can be used in an artful way to create a variety of decorative wall finishes called "faux finishes." Examples of faux finishes include marbleizing, stone and faux leather.
For a bathroom, try gloss or semi-gloss finishes for easy to clean painted surfaces.Ask the paint specialist at your local home improvement store for advice on which type of paint meets your room’s needs. Different brands have different recommendations.
 Many people enjoy the look created by printed wallpaper, and it can be easy to create visual interest in your room. While it can be costly and hard to remove, wallpaper can be a good investment.Choose prints that work in the room. A large print can be overpowering, while smaller prints are easier to work with in spaces that have a lot of windows and doors. If you have low ceilings, a vertical print can look wrong.Consider using wallpaper to create accent walls or to make a small space special.
Don’t use regular wallpaper in a bathroom. If you must have the look of wallpaper, try a vinyl covering instead. Vinyl coverings work like wallpaper but are moisture resistant., While wood paneling may make you think of outdated brown paneling, you can create attractive walls with modern wood paneling. For example, white paneling can look great in a bedroom, and you can try creating a wainscoted look in your kitchen, dining room, or hallways with paneling. Paneling comes in an array of finishes and styles and can create a classic, durable finish for a wide variety of design aesthetics.


If you use wood in your bathroom, make sure it has a water-resistant coating., Ceramic tile is a popular choice for bathrooms and kitchen backsplashes because it offers a sleek, easy to clean, waterproof surface. While it’s expensive to install, it is durable and long-lasting.If you choose ceramic tile, make sure it is made for walls and not floors. The two types of tile are different.
 If you like the look of wallpaper or want to add a texture to your walls, vinyl can be a great option. It’s durable, easy to clean, and comes in a lot of fun prints. While vinyl may seem like an odd choice, once you look at your options you’ll see that it’s similar to putting up wallpaper.You can find several different faux finishes in vinyl that can create your favorite aesthetic. For example, you can find faux-exposed brick that you can easily install yourself because it has an adhesive backing.
 While fabric wall coverings are more common in commercial places, they can create richness inside your home. If that’s the look you prefer, then fabric might be the choice for you.


Using fabric can be costly, and it can be hard to clean if it gets stained.
Since it muffles sound, fabric can be a good option for loud spaces such as entertainment rooms or the hallway.
You can find acoustic fabric to coat your walls to muffle sound, or you can attach regular fabric to your walls just as you would wallpaper.