 If it is a shower for two boys, two girls or one of each, the themes can be selected from here. Also decide on whether it will be co-ed or not. Sit down and have a discussion with the mother-to-be and see what her preferences are.


How many people does she plan to invite?
Where does she want the party to be held?
What time is good for her?;
, Be sure to include any special instructions, such as adults only. Don't forget the start and end times. Also include a copy of how the guest can view the baby registry, if this is relevant.
 Bring a cell phone or camera, as well as a tape measure. Take 365 degree pictures of the location and take any measurements you may need for setting up tables and so forth. You will also need to know the height of the space, if you have any tall or hanging props. If the location is outside, take note of where bushes and trees are for hanging décor.
, Depending on what time of day and season the shower will take place (and the mom-to-be's preference of course), you can begin to plan the menu. Finger foods are most common and generally the easiest to create. Other easy foods include salads, cupcakes and baked goods purchased from a reputable bakery.
 One area for the food, one area to eat the food, an area near the entrance for guests to place their coats, purses and gifts (also makes it easy to haul the gifts out after opened). You will need designated locations for advice to be written for the mother-to-be, an area for the attendees to sign that they were there and an area for any games that might be played.
 Games are a great way to pass the time. Have no less than three games and no more than five. Some people do not enjoy games but want to be polite and play them in order to participate, but try to let such people do something else if they're not keen.


Estimate how much time each game will take to ensure that you are not running over time with the schedule.
For each game you play, you will need a small gift for the winner!

, As you plan the events of the shower, create a master schedule so that you can smoothly transition from event/game to event/game in the shower. Include enough time for mingling/socializing and eating.
 As you get the RSVPs back and know how many people are expected to attend, you can prepare or let the cater plan the food accordingly. Don't forget to include the baby shower cake or cupcakes.
 The day before the shower, call the location manager, and catering company to firm up plans and make sure all is going according to planned. Assemble everything that needs to be or can be assembled ahead of time.
 On the day of the shower, get yourself completely ready (that way you don't have to go home and waste another trip back and fourth).


Pack everything into your car and take it to the location. Haul it all in and assemble what's left to be assembled.
Put décor up. Hang pictures of the sonograms, baby pictures of mom and dad and all other decorations such as balloons, streamers, table cloths and center pieces.
Remember during the gift opening session, to take note of who buys what so that the mon-to-be can send out thank you cards after the shower.
 It will be remembered for a lifetime. Enjoy!