 Spot clean spills on your chair immediately so they do not set and become stains. Use a soft cloth and blot up the spill. Never rub or scrub your cloth into the spill. Blotting up the spill will lessen the chance of staining and prevent the spot from spreading.Use furniture polish to clean spills on leather or vinyl chairs.
Consult with a professional if you’d like to clean a valuable or cherished heirloom chair., Check the tags on your chair to see what is recommended for cleaning it. Understands the codes that you might find on your furniture. Codes “W” and “WS” mean you can clean it with water or a water-based solution. “S” means that you can use a water-free cleaner, like dry-cleaning solution. “X” means it requires professional cleaning, though you can vacuum and brush it.Consult a professional if you have a chair without a tag, like an antique.
 Make your own cleaner if your chair’s fabric can be cleaned with water or a water-based solution. Mix ¼ cup (59 mL) of mild dish soap and a cup (240 mL) of warm water. Stir the soap and water until it is foamy. Dab the soap and water on any spots or spills. Be sure to blot up any excess soap and water.


Don’t rub soap and water into spots or spills, because it can potentially stain your upholstery.
 Clean spots and spills with 3% hydrogen peroxide. Use a soft cloth to apply the hydrogen peroxide. If you don’t have 3% hydrogen peroxide, dilute 1 part 35% food-grade hydrogen peroxide with 11 parts water to get it to 3%.To dilute 35% hydrogen peroxide, mix 1 and ¼ tablespoons (18.48 mL) of 35% hydrogen peroxide to ¾ cup plus 2 and ¾ tablespoons (220.66 mL) water to make one cup (240 mL) of 3% hydrogen peroxide.
Spot test your upholstery with your hydrogen peroxide before using. Test the spot in a location that can’t be seen, like the underside of the chair.
 Use a soft cloth to blot some white vinegar directly on the spot. You can dilute the vinegar with equal parts water for a more gentle cleaner. Let the vinegar soak into the spot for about 15 minutes before you blot it dry.Spot test the vinegar before using it.
 Anytime you get your upholstery wet, let it dry before sitting on it. Don’t allow anyone to sit on the chair while it’s drying. To speed up the process and ensure everything is dry, keep all cushions separate while they dry.Also keep any non-upholstered parts of the chair dry while you clean with any liquid. This will prevent rusting, corrosion, or warping of metal or wood parts.

