;
, With one caveat. If you are eating out, be sure to ask her if she is vegetarian.
 Most Buddhists do not do these things. Buddhism teaches "avoidance of Intoxicants" so your Buddhist girlfriend may also avoid other foods, drinks or activities she identifies as intoxicating.
 Throw away the fly spray. In her eyes, if you kill insects you are a mass-murderer...and Buddhist girls do not tend to like mass-murderers. In general.
 This will make her happy. And you may learn something. Either way, the process is likely to deepen your relationship.
 Like any religious girl, chances are she has moral ideas about relationships, which may or may not prohibit pre-marital sex. Buddhism explicitly prohibits 'illicit sex'. How she interprets this will vary according to her culture, upbringing, tradition of Buddhism and personal beliefs.
, Remember that not all Buddhists are the same, and just because you read it in a book doesn't mean it holds true for her. This could be especially true for culturally bound Buddhist etiquette and sect-specific observances. It is not polite to ask a Theravaden girl if she recites the Lotus Sutra, for instance. You certainly won't impress her by talking about Mahayana ideology if she is Theravadin.
 If you are Muslim, she agrees very much with giving zakat, or alms. If you are Hindu, Siddartha Gautama - the Buddha - was born to a Hindu family so Hinduism and Buddhism have much in common. For example, your girlfriend also wants to attain moksha (liberation). If you are Christian, 'treat others as you would yourself' and 'forgive your enemies' are her tenets, too. There is much more common ground than difference: both of you want to become better human beings.
, She doesn't worship idols, but they have deep symbolism for her, and that needs to be respected.
 Chances are, she respects them.
 If you don't find this beautiful, don't date a Buddhist girl! She may also do this in the evening. This is to be expected.
 If you start to take her Buddhist practice seriously, she may well laugh at you.
, Renunciation of worldly ties goes hand in hand with most styles of Buddhism. Let her.
 Handle it diplomatically. Somme examples: "Why don't we study the Dharma together at home today?" or "You can learn Buddhism just as well from a walk in the park."

