 Stamina requires balance, and cross-training will help you gain this. Swim 2-3 days a week, then exercise in other ways for the rest of the week.


Choose exercise activities that you love. Tailor your exercises to activities that you enjoy so you will want to try harder. Increasing your stamina will be much easier if you love what you do.
Long-distance running is an especially helpful cross-training sport for swimmers because of it builds endurance and cardiovascular health.
 Carbs will provide energy to burn during practices, and protein will help you gain more muscle. Eat a meal at least 2-4 hours before swimming or a snack at least 30 minutes before to avoid cramps.Bring food with simple carbs (like pretzels, honey, or fruit) to eat directly after your workout. This will help you replenish your energy and raise your blood sugar.
For protein, go for quality over quantity. Instead of protein shakes and red meat, go for a diet with lots of whole eggs, milk, fish, and soybeans.
 Aerobic training works your cardiovascular system and strengthens the muscles pumping blood to your heart.Plan on including 1-2 aerobic cross-training exercises a week. Examples of aerobic exercises include running, cycling, kickboxing, and hiking.


Swimming is an aerobic exercise, so if you're short on aerobic cross-training one week, count your swim practices as aerobic days., Anaerobic training involves intense workouts that improve strength and build your overall muscle mass.Having more muscle will help you during endurance swimming exercises, so try to include 1-2 anaerobic cross-training exercises a week. Examples of anaerobic exercises include squatting, sprinting, and high-intensity interval training (HIIT).


For a balanced workout schedule, include a balance of aerobic and anaerobic cross-training days. Both have different benefits and can help you strengthen separate parts of the body., Weight training increases your muscle endurance and will allow you to use oxygen more efficiently when you swim. If you weight train, you will be able to to gradually build stamina in the muscles you focus on.Spend time using free weights, machines, or performing strength-training exercises once or twice a week.
 Work one day of rest into your schedule each week so your body has time to recover. If you train every day, your overall intensity will decrease over time due to exhaustion. Moderation is important in everything, even stamina training.


On rest days, go on a walk, leisurely bike ride, or yoga class.
Get plenty of rest the night before your workouts. Aim for between 7 and 8 hours of sleep a night.

