 Structure is an important ingredient for maintaining balance in life, particularly in chaotic times. While you may not be able to control various circumstances, you can control your bed time. Aim to wake up and go to sleep at the same times each day.A regular sleep schedule helps your body fight stress and anxiety. Getting to bed at a decent hour and waking up early ensures that you feel well-rested and capable to face whatever the day throws your way.
Strive to get 7 to 9 hours for maximum benefits. Shut off those electronics an hour before bed to help you unwind. Making your bedroom comfortable by lowering the temperature and the lights will also help you get good quality sleep.;
, Your diet is yet another tool you can use to give you fuel to take on life’s unexpected trials. Eating well gives you energy, a great mood, and improved cognitive skills to handle stressful situations. Make sure you eat nutritious meals and snacks throughout the day.


Give yourself the best chance of selecting healthy foods by preparing ahead. Use your Sunday or another convenient day to prep home-cooked meals for the week ahead. Include fruits and vegetables rich in stress-relieving antioxidants and high-fiber carbs like sweet potatoes. Avoid processed foods loaded with salt and sugar. Stay away from caffeine, too., When things are chaotic you can re-center yourself and reduce stress by setting aside to do things that are enjoyable. Whether it’s 10 minutes in the morning when you first wake up, or an hour at night before bed, take some time for you.Activities for relaxation may include gentle exercise like yoga, meditation, or simply going for a walk in the woods.Activities for fun might consist of having a movie marathon with your best pal, engaging in a hobby like painting or bowling, or reading the latest science fiction thriller.
 Chaos can make you lose site of the big picture and feel like your entire life is spiraling out of control. Take back the reigns by committing to goal achievement in spite of any uncertainty present in your life. Plus, adding a goal-oriented activity into your daily routine can help you feel more positive about your future.


Look at your major life goals and pick one small task you can do daily to help you reach them. For example, if you have been hoping to lose 50 pounds, don’t focus on the end result. Instead pay attention to what you can do each day to get there. For instance, you can eat a healthy breakfast or exercise for 30 minutes each day.
Set small goals for yourself as well. For example, instead of focusing on running one mile without stopping, you might focus on running for one minute without stopping. Then, increase the goals by 30 second increments each time you achieve one.

