 Whether your teen is struggling with feeling anxious or has an anxiety disorder, establishing a safe place for your teen to confide in you will help you help your teen cope with anxiety. Your teen should know you're there for him or her at all times. Let your teen know that you're always available to talk and will support him or her unconditionally.Teenage years are a time when many children seek independence. Teens may feel alienated and pressured if you ask a lot of questions about their mood or social life. Try to provide support without pressuring your teen to share information with you he or she wants to keep private.
Refrain from interrogating your teen. Instead of asking about what is bothering him or her, say something like, "If you need to talk to me about anything, I'm always here to listen." Allow your teen to open up to you at his or her own will.
Your teen may shut you out at first. Anxiety and feelings of sadness and stress are hard to talk about at any age. However, be persistent and let your teen know that you love him or her and that you really want to help. For example, you might say something like, "I understand that this is difficult to talk about, but I love you and I want to help.";
, Having a process for making decisions may help your teen to deal with anxiety by making tough decisions seem more manageable. Work through problems with your tee to help him or her develop and improve problem solving skills.


Help your teen work through problems by teaching them about the problem-solving process. There are different versions of the process, but they generally boil down to the following six steps:

Identify the problem.
List the options and possible outcomes of each. (Both positive and negative outcomes, including potential effects on others.)
Compare the options.
Choose the best option.
Make a plan to follow through with the option.
Reflect on the problem and its solution. What worked? What would you change?For example, your teen might identify a poor test grade as the problem, then list options such as “ask for extra credit” and “study harder for the next test.” Your teen might decide that studying harder for the next test is the better option since it will be more likely to bring up his or her overall grade. Your teen might decide to study harder and set up a study schedule to stay on track. Then, your teen might reflect on how she prepared for the previous test and make connections between her poor grade and lack of preparation.
Teens will also need to learn the difference between things that are within their control and things that are out of their control. If something is not within your teen's control, help your teen refocus onto something else that will be more productive. For example, if your teen is upset because she did not get accepted to her first choice for college, then you might encourage her to focus on the colleges that did accept her.
 Anxiety and stress can be sources of embarrassment. There is a lot of stigma surrounding mental health issues, and many people are afraid to address how much they struggle with managing emotions. If your teen talks you about his or her anxiety, listen without judging.The most important thing is that your teen feels comfortable communicating with you. You do not need to offer advice or feedback. You simply need to listen and understand.
Show your teen you hear what he or she is saying. Say something like, "I understand you're worried about your social life" or "A lot of teenagers stress about college." Do not try to talk your teen out of a bad mood. Tell your teen it's normal to be sad or anxious sometimes.
Do not try to talk your teen out of how he or she is feeling. Even if you know the anxiety is irrational, it's not always helpful to point this out. Your teen probably knows a lot of his or her anxiety is baseless, but may be unable to shake the feeling. Do not criticize or pick apart your teen's line of thinking. This can alienate your teen, making him or her less likely to communicate in the future.
 While anxiety can reach a point where it's harmful, it is a normal part of life. Let your teen know that it's okay to feel sad, anxious, and stressed sometimes. Even if your teen's worries are irrational, acknowledge them. Do not try to talk your teen out of a bad mood, as this can make your teen feel that you're dismissing how he or she feels.If you're unsure of what to say, it can help to reiterate what your teen has just said. This can show your teen he or she has been heard, and encourage him or her to explain more if you don't fully understand. For example, you can say something like, "I'm hearing you're feeling stressed because of going to college in a few years."
Emphasize that feelings of anxiety are, to an extent, normal. Life has ups and downs, and your teen should know it's okay for him or her to be sad or unhappy some of the time. Reassure your teen it's okay to feel anxious.
 Oftentimes, teen anxiety is labeled in a way that feels dismissive or demeaning. Avoid referring to your teen as "shy" or "nervous." Instead, try to phrase things in a positive way. Your teen is trying to overcome emotional difficulty. Try referring to your teen as "brave" or "a fighter" instead. This can reduce feelings of shame your teen may be experiencing due to his or her struggles with anxiety., If your teen is struggling with an anxiety disorder, then he or she may occasionally have panic attacks. Panic attacks are moments of extreme and sometimes sudden panic, in which a person may sweat, hyperventilate, and show other signs of distress. If your teen is having a panic attack, takes steps to help.Reassure your teen things will be okay. Say things like, "We'll get through this" and "You're going to be okay." Panic attacks are scary, but they're rarely dangerous. Some people who experience panic attacks feel like they're going to have a heart attack or faint due to the fight or flight response in the body triggered during a panic attack. Let your teen know that the physical response can be alarm, but it will not cause him harm.
If you have ice or something cold on hand, have your teen press this into his or her hand. The sensation can distract from the panic.
Have your teen engage in deep breathing. Deep breaths can help ground someone during a panic attack. You can also try distracting your teen by stimulating his or her mind. Have your teen engage in a simple day-to-day activity, like taking a shower or grabbing something from the car.
Benzodiazepines are a type of fast acting anti-anxiety medication that you use as needed throughout the day. These pills tend to take effect within 30 minutes to an hour. If your teen has been prescribed any medication of this kind, you may want to offer your teen his or her medication to help quell a panic attack.Keep in mind that benzodiazepines can be highly addictive. You may want to keep them locked in a cabinet to prevent your teen from taking them too often.
 Some types of anxiety that your teen may experience are normal, such as asking a crush out on a date, giving a presentation in front of the class, or moving to a new place and going to school for the first time. If your teen has an anxiety disorder, then he or she might always feel anxious or become anxious about seemingly small matters. It might be difficult for your teen to relax. Your teen may have an anxiety disorder if he or she:feels anxious or worried most of the time
finds that anxiety interferes with daily activities, such as going to school or spending time with friends
has irrational fears that he or she cannot seem to overcome
avoids going certain places or doing certain things out of a fear of experiencing anxiety
experiences sudden onset of panic, such a fast pulse or cold sweat

, Anxiety is often a symptom of an underlying mental health problem, like depression or generalized anxiety disorder. If your teen's anxiety does not seem to go away on its own, you should seek out help from a professional therapist.You can find a therapist by asking your regular doctor for a referral. You can also see what therapists in your area are covered by your insurance provider. Make sure any therapists you find is willing to treat teenagers.
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) has shown to be very effective in treating anxiety disorders. CBT focuses on talking through problems, recognizing negative thought patterns, and engaging in exercise aimed and changing the way a patient thinks and behaves. You may want to look into therapists who practice cognitive behavioral therapy in your area.
 A wide array of psychiatric medication is used to treat anxiety disorders in teens. Medication is usually avoided in teens, as it can be habit forming and comes with a variety of side effects. If your teen is severely depressed, a doctor or therapist may suggest medication. The decision to take medication is personal and difficult. You should talk through this choice with your teen, your teen's doctor, and your teen's therapist.There are a variety of medications available to treat psychiatric issues in teens. Your teen's specific medication options depend on his or her diagnosis and medical history. All medication comes with a risk of side effects. Make sure you ask your doctor or therapist about all potential side effects before putting your teen on medication.
Talk therapy alone is often effective for teens suffering from anxiety. However, if your teen's anxiety is severe and debilitating, medication may be recommended. If your teen is on medication, he or she should be carefully monitored by doctors and mental health professionals to watch for poor side effects. In many cases, medication is an effective means of treated anxiety disorders in teens.
 Your teen may benefit from talking to other people his or her own age about anxiety, depression, or other mental health issues. Ask your teen's doctor or therapist if there are any support groups in your area for teens. Many teens feel embarrassed or alone if they suffer from mental health issues. Your teen will benefit greatly from knowing he or she is not alone.
 In rare cases, anxiety disorders and depression can lead to thoughts of suicide. If you worry your teen is suicidal, it's important to seek immediate medical attention to make sure your teen does not harm him or herself. Signs of being suicidal include:Talking about committing suicide
Romanticizing death or talking about death frequently
Writing stories, poems, or songs about death
Giving away valued possessions
Seeking out weapons, pills, or other dangerous substances
Engaging in reckless behavior
Engaging in self harm

, Your teen's physical well-being can play a big role in how your teen feels emotionally. Help make sure your teen eats healthy and gets enough physical activity in throughout the day.Stock your fridge with healthy foods and serve nutritious meals throughout the week. Keep fruits and vegetables on-hand for snacks. Make meals rich in whole grains and lean proteins like fish and poultry. Avoid having beverages high in sugar or caffeine in your home, as both of these substances can lead to an increase in anxiety.
Encourage your teen to get in some physical activity each day. Consider taking a nightly walk together as a family. Have your teen join a sports team or sign up for physical education courses in school. You can also enroll your teen in a yoga course, as yoga has been known to help reduce anxiety for many.
 Sleep is often a major concern for teenagers. Between seeing friends, homework, and extracurricular activities, your teen may not be getting enough sleep each night. A lack of sleep can make anxiety worse. Talk to your teen about good sleep habits, and help him or her establish a nighttime routine.Encourage your teen to go to bed and wake up at the same time each day. The body will adapt to a regular sleep/wake cycle and your teen will begin to feel tired at bed time and energetic in the morning if he or she has a regular routine.
You may want to set a rule in your house about the use of electronics. The light from cell phone and laptop screens can be stimulating, resulting in your teen having difficulty sleeping. It can be helpful to have your teen power down his or her cell phone and laptop close to bedtime each night.
 If you want your teen to learn how to cope with anxiety, try to model positive behavior yourself. Show your teen effective ways to deal with stress in day-to-day life. Your teen can learn from you how to cope.Remember to be positive throughout the day. When you're in a stressful situation, try to practice positive self-talk and self-love. For example, say you forgot about a deadline at work. If your teen sees you're stressed about this, say something like, "I know I screwed up, but everyone makes mistakes and this is an opportunity to learn."Set aside time for yourself each day. Your can show your teen how important downtime is by giving yourself some rest and relaxation at the end of the day. For example, you can make a point of having a cup of tea every night after dinner.Learn to say no. Teens are often anxious due to over-commiting themselves. If you're very busy one week, let the dishes sit in the sink overnight. If you don't time to be on this year's PTA board, let someone take the reins., When you're feeling anxious or stressed, it's important to stay connected with others. Make sure your teen makes time to hang out with family members and friends despite struggling with anxiety.Allow your teen to have friends over. Provide a warm and hospitable environment for your teen's social circle. Let your teen know it's okay to invite friends over as long as his or her friends are respectful of house rules.
Make sure your teen spends time with the family. Try to have a sit down family dinner at least a couple times a week. If you're going to see relatives in town, bring your teen along.
Encourage your teen to open up to others about his or her stress and anxiety. It can be helpful to open up to others and ask for support during times of stress.
 You can help your teen a lot by encouraging him or her to have a positive outlook on life. Try and get your teen to feel positive about the future. Encourage him or her to pursue passions and interests. Support your teen's wishes and dreams, letting him or her explore ambitions for the future. Many milestones of teenage years, like going to college and completing high school, can cause anxiety. Try to get your teen to view such milestones with excitement instead., You should help your teen think of ways to relax when he or she is feeling stressed. There are a variety of coping mechanisms you can help your teen practice to help keep anxiety away.Deep breathing, meditation, yoga, and other exercises that keep you grounded in the present can be great ways to combat anxiety. Consider taking your teen to classes that teach these techniques, or finding guided meditation or yoga routines online.
Distractions can be a helpful way to cope with anxiety. If your teen is feeling stressed, encourage him or her to find fun distractions. Offer to play a board game or card game if your teen has had a long day. Find a relaxing movie or TV show to watch with your teen.
Encourage your teen to write out his or her worries. Journaling about anxiety can help get troubling thoughts of your head.

