 This is the first time meeting your potential employer, so it's important to make a good, polite, and friendly impression. Make sure that when your interviewer comes into the room you stand up. Be sure to smile and be sure to reach out for a good, proper handshake, which should involve a firm, but not aggressive, grip and two solid shakes.Say hello, smile, and make good eye contact.


Make sure that your hand pumps are not too aggressive and that your grip is not too tight, as this can give the impression that you are needlessly controlling or a bully.
Similarly, do not give a weak or totally limp handshake (sometimes referred to as a "dead fish" handshake) as this gives off the impression that you are timid, weak, and uninterested. It can also communicate that you don't really want to touch the interviewer, which is insulting.
 Standing or sitting tall with your head held high and your shoulders back reflects inner confidence, power, and status. Meanwhile, slouching can look anxious or sloppy. Your legs should be spread far apart and centrally balanced when standing so that you don't look like you might want to run away.
 While it's important not to stare and you may be shy, it's expected that you should maintain good eye contact. This shows that you're paying attention to them and not thinking about something else. Try making sure that every time you look at someone, you can take note of the color of their eyes to improve eye contact.
 Twitching or dancing feet, hands that don't stop moving (aka fidgeting), and making extremely wide gestures can make you come across as nervous or agitated.Try to keep your gestures while talking smaller, and particularly when you are silent remain as still as possible.
 Frowning communicates negative feelings, and even an unsmiling but not frowning face may indicate that you are tense or struggling. Smiling is friendly and will help you build camaraderie with your interviewer because it is contagious; it also shows that you're upbeat and happy to be present.You might even find that smiling will help you feel better.

