 Here is what former marketing executive and current U. S. Congresswoman Marsha Blackburn had to say about the subject: "Everyone has a transferable commodity-knowledge. Sharing your unique expertise and making introductions for someone creates a lasting legacy.";
, If the experience is painful, and telling about it might dredge up the uncomfortable past, then you will need to factor this into the decision.
 Is there a surfeit of information on your subject already available to the public? If so, it makes little sense to add to the clutter. However, if it is difficult for the public to learn about things that you know--and are willing to share--you have another strong reason to write that book.
 Do you read widely? there are some people who claim to not read much at all, and they mutter something about how they might well write a book. Why? Would it not be like someone who hates golf and cannot play the game well deciding to teach golf to others? Keep this in mind: Good writers are good readers. Samuel Johnson, the great philosopher and lexicographer noted, "One must spend time in gathering knowledge to give it out richly..."

, Will you be intellectually honest? This is a question that many fail to ask, and few ever answer. If you are going to just write a diatribe, then you are adding to clutter, not knowledge. In fact, more than likely, you are writing nothing but propaganda. Do the world a favor--if that is your mental set--and do not write a book. On the other hand, if you are looking for truth, honesty and accuracy, your book will find an honorable place on bookshelves.
 Do you plan to allow your child--your book--to be an orphan? Are you going to write your tome, and then just let it sit on shelves gathering dust? Or will you promote your book, find a way to get it out to readers? A book that just sits there without readers might as well not have been written--much like a conversation spoken to a mirror.
 Focus on your ambition. Is the notion of writing a book a concept that just will not go away? Does it continue to nudge you? Even shake you up? Have you ever dreamt about the task? Then your subconscious mind is screaming at you to share yourself with a grateful world!

