 Nutrition is very important while you're growing in order to reach your full potential for height, stay at a healthy weight, and have well-being overall. Eating well means eating a variety of foods so that you get as much protein, carbohydrate, fat, vitamins, and minerals as you need for healthy growth.Fresh fruits and vegetables and healthy protein like chicken, fish, beans, egg, and tofu are great foods to help you grow.


Teen athletes should eat a real meal between school and sports practice rather than lots of sugary, low-nutrient snacks. You will perform better, be stronger, and stay healthier with the nutrition from two dinners than from just snacking.Snacking throughout the day is normal when you're growing, but instead of potato chips and soda, snack on leftovers from last night's dinner, a smoothie, a sandwich on whole grain bread, hummus, eggs - foods high in protein and low in sugar.
 Iron, zinc and calcium are especially important for young men and women going through rapid growth phases, and dietary requirements for these increase when you're a teenager.Teens should get 1,200 milligrams a day of calcium, which is found mostly in dairy products. Low iron causes anemia which can make you feel tired and weak, and you need zinc to help you grow and develop sexually.Almost everyone should take a daily multivitamin in order to get all those other nutrients your body needs.


If you're vegetarian you need to replace the nutrients in your diet that you're not getting from meat. Zinc and iron, for instance, are both found in meat, fish and poultry; however, beans, seeds, nuts, and leafy vegetables are good alternatives for vegetarians.Vegans might need vitamin supplements to get the nutrients they require.
Getting enough iron is especially important for girls once you start to get your period, because the blood loss of menstruation can lower your body's iron supply. The recommended daily iron for girls ages 14 to 18 or who are menstruating increases to 15 mg/day.Because everyone has a different diet you should talk to your doctor about what you eat. They can help you determine if you need to change your diet, or take vitamin or mineral supplements.
 As your body grows and matures, doing enough physical activity will help you develop. Playing sports and being active will increase muscle strength, protect your joints from injury, and make your bones stronger.Being active now will also help you develop healthy exercise habits for when you're older.


Strength training can be especially good for kids and teens, like doing push-ups and using light free-weights, but ask an adult to help you learn proper technique to stay safe and prevent injury.Growing kids and teens should exercise for at least one hour every day, if possible.
 Kids ages 6 to 13 should ideally get between 9 and 11 hours of sleep every night, and teenagers need at least 8 to 10 hours.Getting enough sleep is necessary to function at your best - whether it's playing a sport or musical instrument, doing homework, or even getting along with friends and family. Make sure you get enough sleep by trying to have about the same sleep schedule every night, and making sleep a priority.
 Serious spurts of physical and mental growth happen in your adolescent and teenage years, and your brain is literally changing during this time. Drugs and alcohol can not only cause health problems and get you into trouble, they can inhibit your brain and body from growing properly at this important time.Drugs decrease your brain's ability to work well right now, and also prevent healthy growth and development for your adult years, affecting things like memory, perception and learning.Drinking alcohol can stunt your physical growth by delaying puberty, making your bones weaker, and even causing your arms, legs, and overall height to be shorter.You're more hard-wired to become addicted while your brain is growing so much, which can affect you for the rest of your life.

