 Your teacher may receive many emails each day, so it's important to be clear about who you are and why you're sending the message. Include your name. Include the name of the class, especially if your teacher runs multiple classes. If you are emailing about a specific assignment, write the title of that assignment.Check the course syllabus: the teacher may have already suggested an email subject format that he/she prefers.


The subject line might be: "Russian History Research Paper" or "Calculus advice." Use your name along with a contextual identifier, such as, "Billy Jones (6th period chemistry class)."
If you are in a very large class—say, a college lecture in which the professor doesn't know you personally—then write the name of the class. For clarity, you may even include the title of the assignment or project that you're emailing about.
 Start with "Dear Mr. Smith", "Hello Mr. Smith," or just "Mr. Smith,". Feel free to be a bit more casual if you know your teacher especially well. Nonetheless, try to err on the side of formality.Do not simply begin with "Hey," or "Hello." Most formal emails begin by respectfully acknowledging the name of the recipient. Do not call your teacher by his or her first name unless he/she has asked you to do so.This formality still applies if you are a parent emailing a teacher on the behalf of your child. As an adult, the teacher may be your peer. In a school context, however, you should still treat the teacher with the respect that he or she is used to.
 Make sure that your message is well-written and grammatically correct. It's important to make a good impression, especially if you're asking for a favor. You might get a bit more casual with your language if you're on good terms with the teacher. If things are tense, you should use a formal tone.


Do not use emojis or chat acronyms in your message. Err on the side of formality, even if your teacher is laid-back and casual – and even if your teacher uses emojis herself!

, Make your email quick and to-the-point. Don't waste your teacher's time. Begin by explaining why you're sending the email. Ask any questions that you need to ask. Keep your message to five sentences or fewer, unless you have a very detailed question.The first line of your email (after "Dear Mr. So-and-So,") might be: I'm emailing to ask you about the homework that you assigned for this Monday. It might be, "I was hoping to ask for an extension on the big research paper." If you are emailing on the behalf of your child, then the first line might be, "I am Billy's mother, and I'd like to talk about his grade in your English class for this past semester."
If you are asking for a favor or a letter or recommendation, then you may want to flatter the teacher a bit. Play up the positive aspects of your relationship with a given teacher. However, if you are apologizing or trying to recover from a mistake, you should probably keep your tone respectful and to-the-point.
 Thank your teacher for reading the email, and sign your name in a formal way. Preface your name with "Thank you," "Regards," "Your Student," "Best," "Much obliged," or another traditional and respectful closing. Write your name on the line below the closing words. For instance: Thank you. Sincerely, Kevin Baker.

