 If you had to put together one outfit that made you feel comfortable, attractive, and confident, which pieces would you choose? How would you describe the style? Is it vintage-inspired? Is it modern or edgy? Whatever it is, aim to buy and wear things in this style since it’s what you feel best in., Regardless of what your favorite style is, you can find unique items to match it at thrift stores or consignment stores. You’ll never risk running into someone wearing the exact same shirt as you. And you’ll be able to find more interesting things than what department stores are selling.Listen to your shopping instinct. If something unique catches your eye, and you like it, buy it! Just make sure you don’t get cold feet later – wear it at least once.
 Avoid any clothing that has a brand name or logo printed on it. Your clothes won’t look unique if they say “Gap” across the front or have the Victoria’s Secret “Pink” moniker on the bottom. Select shirts with no writing on them at all, unless it has a fun saying that you really like., Try your hand at fashion design. Take a sewing course to learn how to create a dress out of fabric you love. Or do some no-sew designing by cutting up a tank top or t-shirt in an interesting way and then layering it over another shirt. Homemade clothes give you a sense of pride as well as individuality.You can also dye clothes to make them more interesting, or add iron-on designs from a craft store.
 Don’t fall into the trap of thinking any aspect of your clothing needs to be fashionable. If you love the way leopard-print pants look with a striped shirt, then wear them together. If you love wearing all black, cover yourself in black from head to toe. Being an individual means risking some odd looks from others, but it also means you get to show off your personality., Don’t hide the fact that you love collecting rocks, building tables, or doing Tai Chi. Even if all of your friends play football or attend a ballet class together, if that doesn’t interest you, don’t do it. Tell them about what you do and why you love it. Maybe they’ll want to come along to try it out, and maybe they won’t. Either way, it’s okay that you don’t have all of the same hobbies., If you like a certain type of music that isn’t popular with your friends or doesn’t get played on the radio, listen to it anyway. Don’t be afraid to play your music in the car when you pick your friends up. If they ask you about it, don’t get shy or embarrassed, just explain what you love about it.
 Let your bedroom, office, desk, or locker show your personal style. Go crazy with paint color on your bedroom walls, and display an item you collect, like coins or action figures. If you have your own desk or office at work, put up posters or pictures of you doing your favorite hobby.


Buy special decorations for lockers or dorm rooms that don’t damage the surface when removed, such as removable wallpaper.Put up cork boards or dry erase boards for posting your favorite inspirational or funny quotes.
 You can have friends who are just like you or who are the complete opposite of you. Just make sure they encourage you to be yourself and don't make you feel bad about the things you like. The right friends will make you want to express your individuality rather than squash it.Test it out by sharing something personal with a friend: a secret ambition you have or one of your biggest fears. If they call it stupid or ridicule you at all, it may be time to find some new friends.
 If you don't agree with what everyone else is saying, speak up. Maybe you don't like the way everyone is making fun of someone, or maybe you have a political opinion different from a friend’s. It's ok if you happen to agree with everyone else, but if not, don't be afraid to speak up. Just make sure you do so respectfully.For example, if everyone loves eating at a certain restaurant, but you don't like the food, simply say, "It's not my favorite."

, How do you naturally speak when you're talking to yourself? That's how you should talk to everyone else. Don't dumb yourself down around some people and try to sound smarter around others. Use words you're comfortable with rather than slang terms you don't like or long words you don't understand.If you like using slang or impressive vocabulary words, that's ok too. Just be sure you're speaking that way for yourself though, not to sound like someone else.
 If you lie about how you feel, you aren't letting people know who you really are. Focus less on what someone’s reaction will be, and think about how this will help someone understand you better.For example, if someone asks you to go dancing, and that's something you don't enjoy doing, tell them that. Then offer to do something else with them so they don't take it personally.

