 You'll not only save battery life doing this, but you'll save plan minutes, too.;
, Using the phone this way reduces the burden of powering the phone by the internal battery alone. Most phones require a minimum amount of battery power to work this way though - so if the battery is drained completely, it may not work.
 Locate the options or settings page to adjust the length of back lighting time, and/or reduce its brightness to a usable but low level.
 Locate the options or settings page to disable the Bluetooth radio if you do not use these devices (BT headset, external GPS, etc.) with the phone.
 When in a particular country, set the cell mode to only the local frequency bands. For example, many people in the United States can save power by switching to 1XEV mode.
 The GPS makes use of an additional dedicated radio and processor to calculate your location. These specialized hardware components consume additional power that is in excess of the cell phone's power requirements.
 Like the GPS function, the WiFi capability also relies on an additional dedicated radio and other hardware that must be powered when "on". If not actively browsing the Internet or updating your software, disable Wi-Fi mode.
 Using the phone for games, listening to audio, watching video, etc. consumes more battery power than if the phone were simply powered up in standby (waiting for a call).
 This includes web browsing, email and streaming of any audio or video content.
 The longer the phone is in an active state, the more quickly the battery will be depleted.
 Cell phones adjust output power up and down as needed to maintain contact with cell towers, even in standby. The greater the distance between the tower and the phone; the more power used by the cell phone to maintain contact. This translates to rapid battery discharge when in deep fringe areas.
 As stated above, the phone still uses power, even in standby. The standby state is one that allows the phone to be quickly located on the network when called. Shutting the phone off completely will stop draining battery power.
 This is very simple and will give you at least an additional eight hours of battery life, and is particularly important if unable to recharge overnight. To do this go to "options," then "auto on/off" and choose the time when you know you will probably be in bed by. The other thing left to do is set the "on" time (when you usually wake up by.)

