 The healthiest way to make popcorn is with an air popper. It is an appliance that just uses hot air to heat the kernels and pop them, so you don’t need to use any butter or oil. That means your popcorn has fewer calories and less fat than microwave popcorn or popcorn that’s popped in oil or butter in a skillet.Air poppers are relatively inexpensive, usually ranging in price for $15 to $35. If you eat a lot of popcorn, purchasing one may be a good investment.
Using an air popper is easy, but always consult the instruction manual. In most cases, you only need to pour some corn kernels in the popping chamber, place a bowl under the popper’s chute, and turn it on. The popper usually takes several minutes to finish popping a batch of popcorn.;
, If you don’t want to invest in an air popper, you can air pop your popcorn in your microwave. Put approximately 3 tablespoons (36 g) of corn kernels into a brown paper bag and fold the bag closed. Microwave the bag on high for approximately 1 minute and 30 seconds or until all of the kernels are popped.Exact cooking times will vary based on your microwave. Start with a minute and half, and only heat it longer if there are a bunch of unpopped kernels left.
You can tape the bag shut if you’re concerned about the popcorn escaping from the bag as it pops.
 While air-popped popcorn is usually the healthiest way to enjoy popcorn, you may want to cook it in oil on the stovetop for added flavor. However, it’s important to choose a healthy oil so use one that is low in saturated fat.Extra virgin olive, walnut, and avocado oils are usually the best options for popping popcorn.
Canola oil is a decent option, but it has more saturated fat.
Avoid popping your popcorn in soybean, sunflower, or corn oil.
To make popcorn on the stove, heat 3 tablespoons (45 ml) of your chosen oil in a saucepan with a thick bottom on medium high. Add ⅓ cup (75 g) of popcorn kernels to the pan in a single layer. Cover the pan, and remove it from the heat for 30 seconds. Return the pan to the heat, and the popcorn will start popping. Take the pan off the heat when there’s more than 2 to 3 seconds between pops.

