 Typical drawer glide designs consist of a pair of rails that are mounted to the drawer and a pair of rails that are mounted to the cabinet.


The drawer rails have a small wheel located at the end near the back of the drawer and the cabinet rails have a small wheel located near the face frame of the cabinet.
The drawer wheel travels along the track of the cabinet rail, while the wheel on the cabinet rail supports the track of the drawer rail.
Either the right or left cabinet rail has a “hooked” channel along the top edge to keep the drawer wheel securely in the track.
The corresponding drawer rail has a slightly “hooked” edge along the bottom to keep the drawer from slipping off the cabinet rail.
The rails along the opposite side of the drawer and cabinet do not have these “hooked” edges.
If the right and left rails are not parallel, then this is when the drawer is likely to drop off the track along that edge. You can usually feel this occur as you close the drawer.
You are also likely to feel a temporary bind and a “pop” of the wheel back onto the track as you open the drawer.
 With the drawer fully closed, use a flashlight to look at the drawer rails and cabinet rails from inside the cabinet and below the drawers.


If the drawer has jumped the track, the drawer glide wheel along the “non-hooked” edge will be off or nearly off the track.
 You can make the adjustment by loosening the mounting screws along on the cabinet rail mounting bracket at the inside rear of the cabinet.


Nudge the bracket inward until the glide wheel on the drawer is properly traveling along cabinet rail.
Then, secure it in place by tightening the bracket screws.
 If the drawer rail jumps off the guide wheel at the face frame as the drawer is closed, then you have to use the following trick to realign the rail.


Remove the mounting screw that holds the rail to the face frame of the cabinet.
Take one or more of the ¾” washers and use as spacers between the face frame and the rail.
You can gage the number of washers you will need by comparing the thickness of a number of washers with how much the rail needs to be moved.
 Since you have now increased the space between the rail and the face frame, you will need to use one of the longer screws described at the beginning of the tutorial.


Your drawer should now open and close without jumping the track!
Use this same trick if the cabinet glides are mounted to wood rails that run from front to back. You may use washers to adjust the back end of the glide as you did the face frame end of the glide.

