 Breathe deeply before you react out of anger. Take a few seconds to collect yourself and ease any mounting tension. Inhale from your nose for a few counts. Hold the breath briefly. Then, exhale from your mouth for a few counts. Repeat one or two times., A great method for keeping cool after being insulted is counting to 10. You can do this while you practice deep breathing. With each exhale, you might mentally count “1,” “2,” and so on. This can help you get back to a space of calm before speaking to the person.You are more likely to have a productive conversation with the racist person if you are calm and have your emotions under control.
 Some people may be triggered after being called a racist name. You might feel a dramatic rise in anger or anxiety. Water is a terrific “grounding” element, which serves to reconnect you with the environment around you. Plus, sipping cool water may give you time to decide how you want to respond., There’s a popular saying about “letting things roll off your back” when people attempt to degrade you. Sometimes, this is much easier said than done. But, it might be better to act out the concept by wiggling a little in your seat or shaking your arms.

Mentally envision the comment trying to catch a hold to your skin, but you keep shaking until it falls to the floor, unable to harm you.
 It helps to have support when someone has called you a racist name. Even if you consider yourself to be relatively thick-skinned, hurtful comments can still affect you. It’s best to share what you’re feeling with someone who may understand.You might say, “Something happened today. Can I talk to you about it?”

, Being called a racist name can negatively impact your self-esteem. Therefore, nothing helps you bounce back from an insult better than reminding yourself of all the reasons the person who insulted you was wrong. Make a list of all your best attributes. Hang it up on your bathroom mirror or place it on the nightstand beside your bed.Whenever you remember the hurtful comment, repeat the list aloud like, “I am outgoing,” “I am caring,” or “I am a talented trumpet player.”

, Self-care is essential as you recover from being called a racist name. Do something really special for yourself to remind you why you’re important and worthy. Think outside of the box and really treat yourself to something you wouldn’t usually do.This might be a night out in the city with your closest pals, a lounge day at home with a blanket and a good book, or a weekend shopping spree.

