 If you are the beneficiary of a trust and want to remove the named trustee after the grantor's death, the trust document itself may provide some mechanism by which the trustee can be changed under specific circumstances.If the trust document includes a clause that allows the beneficiaries to remove a trustee and appoint someone new in their place, it usually lists specific reasons for removal.
Typically, all beneficiaries must be in agreement to remove the existing trustee, as well as making a joint decision on who the new trustee should be.
The trustee may no longer be able to fulfill their duties, or may simply want to resign their post. This is the most straightforward situation for the beneficiaries, since you can't really force someone to continue in a role they cannot or don't want to perform.
However, keep in mind that even if all are in agreement to remove the existing trustee, you still may need a judge's approval to appoint a new trustee if the trust document didn't name a successor.
 If the trust document doesn't contain a clause for changing the trustee that applies to your situation, you'll need to file a petition with the probate court to have the trustee removed. An experienced probate attorney can help you assess your options and guide you through the next steps.Since having a trustee removed isn't a common action and typically requires rather complex proof of wrongdoing on the part of the existing trustee, you may not be able to find court-approved forms and other resources to enable you to complete this action on your own.
An experienced attorney will understand the procedures and formal requirements of probate court, which can differ from regular civil courts, as well as being able to navigate the discovery process.
Attorney assistance is particularly useful if you anticipate your petition to change the trustee will be opposed, either by the existing trustee or by other beneficiaries.
Although you typically will have to pay court costs and attorney's fees out of pocket, you may be able to seek reimbursement from the estate if the court grants your petition.
 Probate courts only allow trustees to be removed for specific reasons, typically related to wrongdoing on the trustee's part. Before you petition the court to have the trustee removed, you need to make sure you have some evidence of what the trustee has done.For example, most states provide for removal of a trustee if they are insolvent or otherwise unfit to administer the trust.
If the current trustee recently filed for bankruptcy, court documents related to this filing could be used to prove the trustee is incapable of managing the estate's assets appropriately for the beneficiaries.
You also typically can have a trustee removed if they have conflicting interests or duties. In other words, if the trustee has some personal financial interests or other dealings that are adverse to or conflict with interests of the trust, they may be considered unfit to administer the trust.
An example of a conflict of interest would be if the trustee is a member of the board of a corporation in which the trust holds a significant number of shares.
All states allow trustees to be removed for a breach of fiduciary duty, or in cases where the trustee is particularly vulnerable to fraud or undue influence. In these situations, you would need factual evidence to prove that fraud or undue influence has been attempted, or that the trustee acted in a way that was adverse to the interests of the beneficiaries.
 To get court approval to change the trustee of a family trust, you must first file a petition that sets forth the reasons you believe the current trustee should be removed.Although a family trust typically is created to avoid probate, the trust document itself is a legal document, and any proposed changes to it must be brought through court.
Since a trust also is an estate planning document, the probate court in the county where the deceased person resided typically is the correct court in which to file your petition.
If you've hired an attorney, they'll draft the petition describing the reasons you want the trustee removed, and asking the court to approve of that removal and allow you to appoint someone else.
In some jurisdictions, you also must name the person you want to take the trustee's place so the judge can approve that appointment.
Once your petition is filed, it must be served on all interested parties, including the current trustee and other beneficiaries of the trust.
Especially if the current trustee or other beneficiaries oppose your position, don't be surprised if someone files a motion to dismiss your petition. You'll have to defend your cause against such a motion before a judge will rule on the merits of your petition.
The probate court typically will allow formal or informal discovery, which allows all parties involved to exchange information related to your petition. Keep in mind that any level of discovery can be expensive as well as time-consuming.
 The court will hold a hearing to decide whether the current trustee should be removed and a new trustee appointed, at which all interested parties will have the opportunity to speak – including the current trustee.At the hearing, all parties will introduce evidence supporting their position, which can include submitting documents or calling witnesses to testify.
Although there won't be a jury, the hearing will proceed similarly to any other trial, with similar rules of evidence and procedure. Your attorney typically will meet with you in advance to explain the procedures and what you should expect.
If you intend to testify at the hearing, your attorney will ask you questions related to your petition. Attorneys for any other parties opposing your petition also will have the opportunity to ask you questions.
At the conclusion of all the evidence, the judge will decide whether to grant your petition. Although you may learn the judge's decision immediately following the hearing, it typically will be a few days before a written order is entered.

