 In a lowered gun stance (ready position), pull your gun up, as quickly as possible, to firing position and focus hard on the front sight of your gun, wait until you see a bit of the front sight between the rear sights and pull the trigger (this is called flash sighting). You should be able to land a hit in the 10-inch target every time. If you are missing try going a little slower. The key is to practice perfectly, and the speed will come naturally.
 Take a few steps back (go for 10 yards). Do the same things as before, but this time, put two or three shots quickly into your target, between each shot, get the flash sight again. Once you are able to get to firing position and put three quick shots into your 10+ inch target consistently in under a second-and-a-half, you can move on.
 You want to start by setting up three or more targets a yard or two apart. Quick to firing position and go down the line. One shot at each target. Change it up: maybe try in a different order; have a friend tell you which one to shoot ("one!", "three!", etc.), but the key thing to be sure of is that you hit your target; once you are sure you can hit your target every time, try to accelerate your pace. At first when you fire move the gun with the recoil. As soon as the recoil is completed you should be on the next target already. As you get faster you can force the gun into position and be ready before the recoil is complete.
 While moving, you should still be able to hit targets at 10 yards (9.1 m). Set up three or more targets about a few yards apart from each other. Start about 15–18 yards (13.7–16.5 m) back. Run up to about 10 yards (from your first target) while drawing your gun to firing position. Fire a two-shot burst, side-step to engage the next target, and so on. Each time you run the course, try to do it faster; try to pause as little as possible when shooting (even while moving you should be able to get a flash sight), the longer you pause the more accurate you will be, but in a gun fight, the clock is always ticking quicker than at the range.
 If a friend is calling out target numbers, and they call the number of a target you have already shot, this time you go for a head shot. This is also known as "failure to stop" practice. The idea is, you have shot the target, but he isn't impressed (i.e. he is on drugs, is wearing body armor, or is just plain determined) and keeps coming, so you have to take a head shot. Read Human Targets below for more information.

