 Google Inbox is available for both Android and iOS. Once you've downloaded the app in one of those operating systems and set up your email address there, you'll also be able to access Inbox on your Chrome, Firefox, or Safari browser at the Inbox website.


For an Apple device, click here to download the app, and for an Android device, click here.;
, Google will ask you to sign in to your Gmail account within the Inbox app. This just takes a flash, and then you'll be good to start using the app.
 Some features of Google Inbox are very similar to Gmail but have their own names. Becoming familiar with these terms will help as you get used to Inbox:


Inbox lets you mark any email or reminder as "Done" by selecting the checkmark next to or above it, or swiping to the right. This is similar to Gmail's archive; it doesn't delete the item, but moves it out of your inbox and places it in your "Done" folder.
Inbox uses "Move to Trash" in place of Gmail's "Delete".
Inbox uses "Move to Spam" in place of Gmail's "Report Spam."
Both services use "Compose" to mean write a new email.
Inbox's "Pinning" is very similar to starring an email in Gmail. This marks it for your attention and keeps it in your inbox.
 You'll see most emails listed chronologically, similar to your regular Gmail inbox. However, by default certain types of emails are bundled together by label to maximize inbox efficiency. These bundles gather all your recent emails from a label in one spot, rather than having them take up extra vertical space in your inbox. Read more on this below.


To navigate through a bundled set of emails, find the topic/label in your inbox list, and then open it to see all of the emails it contains. Tap or click on any particular email to expand it.
 Labels and bundles are two of the main functions of Google Inbox, and mastering them will allow you to maximize your email efficiency.



Labels are how Google Inbox sorts your incoming mail. By setting filters when creating a label, you can sort your incoming mail into categories that are useful to you. Google Inbox comes with several premade labels that it will attempt to sort the bulk of your mail into.

Bundles collect all new mail for that label in one spot in your inbox. These bundles act as a holding area for your new mail, keeping your inbox uncluttered. Each l;abel can have its own bundle in your inbox, and bundling is enabled on a label-by-label basis. When a label is unbundled, each individual message will appear in your inbox.
 Press the three little lines (☰) in the top left-hand corner to open your menu. This menu will show you the standard email folders, with some fresh Inbox spin:


You'll see your Inbox, Snoozed, and Done labels at the top. "Inbox" contains new emails and reminders, the "Snoozed" section contains emails you've asked the app to remind you about later, and "Done" contains all the emails and reminders you've marked as completely handled.
You'll also see folders for Drafts, Sent, Reminders, Trash, and Spam. Click on any of these to see the contained messages, much as you would in classic Gmail.
Beneath the system folders, you'll find all of the labels you've created. These will be sorted by Bundled and Unbundled. Any labels that you created in Gmail can be found here.
 If you want to create a new label to sort specific emails into, you can quickly create a new label from with the Google Inbox app or website. When creating a new label, you can choose whether or not you want it to be bundled in your inbox.



Click here for detailed instructions on creating new labels and bundles.
 By default, Inbox sets up bundled labels for emails related to Travel, Purchases, Finance, Social, Updates, Forums, and Promos. Inbox will attempt to automatically sort the majority of your mail into these categories. You can change the settings for any of your labels to bundle or unbundle them.


Open the Google Inbox menu (☰).
Select the label you want to change settings for.
Click or tap the Settings button (it looks like a gear).



You can select whether to bundle the messages under that label or display them each separately in your inbox.
You can select whether to show the bundle each time as messages arrive, or only once per day or once per week.
You can select whether you want notifications on or off for emails which have that label attached (mobile only).
 For example, if you set up a label for all emails from your mother-in-law, and want them to skip your inbox altogether and be marked as done without notifying you, your Inbox label settings will get the job done!

, When you receive a new email, it'll show up in your inbox, unless you have it set to skip the inbox and go straight to "Done." When you get a new email, you can view the subject, sender, and a snippet of the contents direct from your inbox. To read the rest, click on it and the email will expand.


From the expanded email view, you'll be able to reply or forward the email, as usual. You'll also be able to pin it, snooze it, mark it done, or group it by label(s).
 One big feature of Inbox is that you can "pin" any important emails that need your attention. This will keep them in your inbox, and is similar to starring important emails in Gmail.


When you select the Pin toggle at the top of your inbox, only pinned emails will appear. Use this to get an overview of what emails you have sitting in your inbox that still require your attention.
When you're done with an email, you can remove it from your pinned list by tapping the pin again. You can also mark it done and remove it from your inbox by clicking the Done checkmark.
 If you don't want to deal with an email right now but know that you will need it again later, you can press the clock at the top, or swipe the email left from your inbox. Set either one of the default time options or pick your own date/time or place, and Google Inbox will drop the email into the top of your inbox again at the right time.
 Hit the checkmark or swipe the email right to do this. Marking an email done is like archiving it: If you've read it, replied as needed, and decided you don't need to pin or snooze it, you can mark it done and get it out of your inbox.


Emails marked as done are still available in the "Done" folder or under any label that they're categorized as, but they won't clutter up your inbox anymore.
 If you want to add or change a label on an email you're reading, click the three dots in the top right-hand corner. This will open a menu that says "Move to."


Click on whatever label/folder you want to apply, and Inbox will take care of the re-labeling for you.
 Inbox retains the powerful search feature of Gmail. To find an email by sender, subject, or contents, click on the magnifying glass at the top right-hand corner of the app and enter your query.


The app will pull up any matching results, and you can select one to read in detail.
See this guide for details on searching Google Inbox.
 If you want to select more than one email from your current list of messages, you can click the circle to the left of the email. It will either have an icon or avatar, or the first letter of the sender's name. When you click it, it'll turn into a checkmark.

You can keep selecting all the emails you want from the list, before hitting the trash can, pin icon, snooze icon, or done checkmark to move them all to that state.
 To reply to an email, click on the arrow in the circle button at the bottom-right, or simply scroll all the way down the email thread until you see the "Reply" or "Reply to all" textbox. Type your response and then click send.


If you want to expand the textbox to make it bigger, click the button that looks like an upwards and downwards arrow, in the top-right of the text area. This will pop out the whole email text area and give you more space to compose your reply.
If you want to reply to a certain message in the thread but not the whole thread, click the three dots next to the timestamp for that particular email message, then select "Reply" or "Reply all." You can also forward the email from there if you'd like.
 From your inbox, click the big red plus sign to start a new email. This will suggestion recipients you've recently corresponded with, or you can click the red "Compose" button again to start an email from a blank slate.


Make sure you fill out the "To" field with the recipient address and your subject and email contents before sending. You can add an attachment by clicking on the paper clip icon, if desired, and then send your email by selecting the paper airplane icon in the top right-hand corner.
 If you want to write yourself a reminder, you don't have to email yourself anymore: Inbox builds this feature right in. Select the big red plus sign from your inbox and then click Reminder (the icon is a string tied around a finger). Fill out what you want to remember.


Reminders are "smart"; a drop-down menu will give you some options based on your location, contacts, and more. For example, you might select "Call Bob" or "Call Bob's Hair Salon in New York, NY" and Google will fill in the details for you.
Select the clock to set a time or place when you want Inbox to give you the reminder. If you don't set a time or place, the reminder will just go straight into your inbox, pinned at the current time.

