 By yourself or with a friend, design a casual journal you can put out once a month or every two weeks. You can write content, invite contributions from others, and even share editing responsibilities with a friend: for instance, she or he could be in charge of art and poetry, while you could supply opinion pieces and book reviews.


Possible content for a zine include: reviews of shows, books, movies, and albums, outside submissions of poetry, photographs, and drawings, lists, trivia, humor, political commentary, and fashion tips.
Stay true to the punk spirit of the "zine" and make them yourself. All you need is a photocopier and a stapler.
Pass out your zine to members of your community. Leave them in lobbies, common rooms, and sneak them into magazine racks at stores.
Zines are fun because they are super representative of the place they are made. Ask for contributions from the people you see weekly: the proctors at your school, your favorite barista, the kids you babysit, your grandmother.
 Teach yourself to build a website from scratch, or use a blogging template. Your website can showcase your work, your tastes, or be an online journal. You can also start a webzine instead of a "zine," and solicit contributions from strangers in the world.
 Look up some basic recipes you have never tried. How basic can they be? Try to find 3-5 ingredient recipes. For example, you can make a flatbread with just water and flour and salt. You can make truffles out of tahini, cocoa powder, and dates. You can make an omelet with just eggs, butter, and salt.


Cook without a recipe. Use inexpensive ingredients and experiment. Try to recreate something you have eaten in a restaurant, or invent a twist on a dish you enjoy.
Clean up as you go. Cooking is more fun when there aren't a bunch of dishes at the end.
 Do you like to draw, to write, to dance, to sing? Get some space and materials and make something. Get yourself started by spacing out with the medium you use: move around to music, doodle shapes, freewrite. If your mind is blank, give yourself a prompt. For instance, if you are writing, start yourself off with a line from a song you like.


Make something you can use, like a notebook or a scarf.
Make art for someone. Make a card, write a beautiful letter, or paint a picture for someone you love. If you know someone who is going through a hard time, make something for them.
Make a movie. Make a long film of something interesting. You can appear in it, or it can focus on other people, animals, things you observe. Try to film a portrait of a place: all the most strikingly beautiful, plain, ugly, active, and quiet places in your neighborhood, for instance.
Write fanfiction. Take the characters from a book or show you enjoy, and write them some adventures. Take a neglected character and give her a starring role.
 Get your musical friends with tastes similar to yours and start a band. If you know how to play instruments, so much the better. You don't need much to make a sound: you can improvise drums, you can sing together, and someone somewhere probably knows how to play guitar.

