 Use all-purpose fertilizer like 10-10-10 in the amount listed on the label. For the best results, switch to a fertilizer high in phosphorous (such as 10-16-10) just before the plant blooms.To apply fertilizer: granular fertilizer can be sprinkled on the soil with or without a spreader. Water-soluble fertilizer should be applied using a sprayer or watering can. For either method, always measure your application based on the fertilizer's instruction label.
 Daisies don’t require a set watering schedule; in fact, they prefer the soil to dry out somewhat between waterings. Check the top 4-5 in (10.2-12.7 cm) of soil – if it’s dry, water the daisies deeply from underneath so that their leaves don’t get wet. The best time to do this is in the morning.Daisies don’t need watering in the winter unless the weather is unseasonably dry. If that is the case, water them 1-2 in (2.5-5.1 cm) every other month.
 Weeds can attract parasites and starve daisies of nutrients. Make sure to wear gardening gloves and remove weeds by hand or with a short-handled weeding tool regularly. This is especially important when your daisies are still young.For less necessary maintenance of weeds, apply 2-3 in (5.1-7.6 cm) of mulch in mid-to-late spring when the ground warms and dries from winter. Keep a 2-3 in (5.1-7.6 cm) circumference around the plant base free from mulch., Throughout the growing season, prune away any dead leaves and snip the flower heads off whenever their appearance begins to fade. This encourages regrowth.Stop deadheading the daisies near the end of the growing season if you plan to collect the seeds. The end of the growing season will vary based on your location., Trim down your daisies where the stem meets the foliage, approximately 3 in (7.6 cm) above soil level.Wait until the last killing frost. You can find the date range of freezes by looking up your gardening zone online. After trimming down, protect the perennials’ root balls with a layer of mulch. You can use straw, hay or leaves., Dig deeply into the ground about 6-8 in (15.2-20.3 cm) away from the plants’ centers. Loosen the roots by rocking the shovel, and lift the plants gently out of the ground by the root balls. Carefully pull the clump apart and discard the woody centers. Replant wherever desired, each group of daisies 12 in (30.5 cm) away from other plants.Autumn is the preferable time to divide your daisies, however you can divide them in springtime if necessary.
When dividing your daisies, place them gently in a temporary container to move them, and replant them right away.
 Use a single application of fertilizer just before the new spring growth appears, or as soon as it pushes up through the ground.Side dress with compost or apply no more than 1 pound (0.45 kg) of nitrogen per 1,000 square feet (305 square meters).

