 Meditation practices are traditionally buddhist techniques that can help develop concentration, clarity, emotional positivity, and a calm acceptance of the true nature of things.Do about 15-30 minutes of centering meditation (such as mindfulness or kindness and compassion meditation) daily to relax your muscles, relieve your stress, and as a result, remove the tension from your body.Try either kneeling, laying down on your back, or sitting with your legs crossed in front of you while you meditate. There are many different ways you can position your hands while meditating, and each are thought to have different effects on the body. Some of these so-called mudras include:

Gyan
Budhi
Shuni
Prana
Dhyana
Surya, Breathing exercises can help to calm down an anxious or stressed mind and are particularly useful for releasing tension to enable sleep.

Try the 4-7-8 exercise by pressing your tongue against the back of your teeth, inhaling for 4 seconds, holding your breath for 7 seconds, and exhaling for 8. Then, repeat this 3 more times.Try alternate nostril breathing by sitting with your back straight and closing your eyes. Close your left nostril with your right ring finger and inhale. Then, close off your right nostril with your thumb as you exhale.Make sure to take deep belly breaths when you practice yoga. This will naturally invigorate you and help dissolve tension and tightness in your muscles., Stress is one of the most significant sources of tension. Avoiding stressful situations whenever possible will also help ensure that you don’t have tension in your body.Organizing your day and allowing time to relax will help you relieve and avoid unnecessary stress.Step back from any stressful situation if you can. If you cannot, try taking a deep breath and not reacting immediately to avoid having your feelings and tension rise unnecessarily., Regular exercise is an important part of staying healthy and it will also help relieve tension-causing stress. Try to get some form of exercise every day to help avoid and alleviate tension.Even a small amount of exercise is good and can help relieve stress. For example, a ten minute walk will relax and refresh you and will also lightly stretch your muscles.Exercise produces endorphins that will improve your mood and help you sleep, both of which can contribute to feelings of tension., Bad nutrition exacerbates stress and tension. Eating healthy foods will not only help your overall well-being, but also combat stress and tension.Chewing can help you relieve tension because the motion is a natural relaxant.Foods like asparagus, which has the mood-enhancing nutrient folic acid, can help alleviate stress.Foods high in Vitamin B such as avocados also help relieve stress.A glass of warm milk can help insomnia and anxiety. Its proteins lower blood pressure while the potassium can help alleviate muscle spasms caused by tension., Every person needs sleep in order to maintain health and well being, but it will also help your body relax and process stress. Make it a priority to get 7-9 hours of sleep every night to help you avoid stress and tension.Increased stress and tension are one of the negative consequences of insufficient sleep. Make sure you get enough sleep every night so that you don’t exacerbate any stress or tension in your body.Short naps of 20-30 minutes can also help relieve stress.