 The swishing motion inside a washing machine causes garments and fabrics to rub against each other, and this leads to pilling. To prevent unsightly pilling on the outside of garments, turn them inside out before throwing them into the washing machine and before handwashing.Pills may still form if the garments are inside out, but they will be on the inside of the garment, so they won’t be visible.
To prevent pilling on the inside and outside of the garment, place pill-prone items into a garment bag before washing.
 An alternative to the delicate cycle is hand washing, which may be best for items that are very pill-prone.Wash items one at a time. To hand wash clothes and other materials:


Fill a sink or bucket with water that’s the right temperature for the fabric
Add detergent and agitate the water to create suds
Soak the item for at least five minutes
Swish the item around in the water, but do not rub the material together
Remove the item from the sink and squeeze out excess water

, Enzyme-based cleaners and detergents break down organic matter such as grass and blood stains, and they also break down proteins and sugars found in natural fibers. When you wash clothes in these detergents, the enzymes dissolve the small weak fibers that pills might form on.


When looking for enzyme detergents, look for ingredients like cellulase, amylase, pectinase, and protease, which break down sugars and carbohydrates, proteins, and other molecules.Powder detergents can be abrasive. Liquid detergents will cause less rubbing, and reduce pilling that occurs in the wash., The delicate or hand wash cycle on a washing machine will create less rubbing, and this will help to prevent pills. The delicate cycle uses less agitation and a slower spin cycle, both of which mean less friction in the wash., The dryer is another place where clothes and fabrics tumble around rubbing against each other, so drying clothes in the dryer can cause pilling as well. Instead, hang clothes, bedsheets, and other laundry items to air dry.During the warmer months, hang clothes on an outdoor line for the fastest drying time.
In winter, you can hang clothes to dry inside, but keep a window slightly open and the room well ventilated to avoid moisture buildup in the air.
 Sometimes it’s necessary to tumble dry pill-prone items. When you find yourself in that situation, set the dryer to a lower heat setting. This will prevent shrinking and minimize stress on the fibers.


Remove items as soon as they're dry to reduce the amount of friction the items are exposed to.