 Many schools will send in the mail a list of everything you need. If you've received this letter, read it over. Think, What do I already have? What do I need to buy? because you may find some spare pencils or folders in your house, saving you time and money. Make sure, though, that everything you find is reusable. If you find a ripped up binder, you'll definitely have to get a new one. As you find items, cross them off the list so you know what you still have to buy.


If you do not know what school supplies you need, don't worry. No. 2 pencils, pens, pencil sharpener, colorful highlighters, a notebook, a pencil case, erasers, a flash drive, a binder (1, 1 1/2, or 2 inch), and folders are usually a safe bet, depending on your grade. For younger grades (1-4) you probably won't need a binder, just a folder for homework and notes. You'll also probably need glue, scissors, and colored pencils in Elementary school. You could also call the school to ask what you'll need.
Take inventory of your closet. Do you need new clothes or shoes? Write down how many of everything you already have (that fits) so you'll know what to buy when you shop. Write down the number of tops, bottoms, sweaters/hoodies, pairs of socks, underwear, and shoes you have.;
, You could get a regular binder (great price but not very durable) or a zipper binder (very expensive but very durable). What kind you get is up to you, depending on your budget. Usually, zipper binders are $10-$20, with regular binders at only $1-$2. When getting a regular binder, try to look for ones with pockets to hold important papers. you'll also need dividers with these binders. Binders can be found at many office stores like Staples and Office Depot. You can also order them online, and you'll probably get a discount.
 You have different options, and it's completely up to you on what kind you get. Consider your grade before picking a backpack to buy. And, some are better for your back, some aren't as much. You can wear a different kind of backpack each year to see which you like best, or just to change it up. Backpacks can be found in many stores. Lots of department stores have a wide selection of backpacks. Prices can range from $10-$50 and even more. $20-$30 is a good price for an average backpack.


.Regular backpacks are good for your back, and can hold a lot of things in them! These backpacks are good for any grade, and can be held on one shoulder if wanted. Messenger bags have quick access, but you might not want to carry a lot of weight on one shoulder. Tote bags have a good amount of room and look professional, but, like a messenger bag, you may not want lots of weight on one shoulder. Backpacks on wheels don't add any weight. But, some schools do not allow them, so make sure that you are allowed before buying a backpack on wheels.
Make sure that you get a backpack that is a good size for you to handle. Put it on and see if it is uncomfortable. Keep in mind that you'll be putting in a lot of supplies. If you are in elementary school, get a medium sized bag, you won't need anything too big. For middle and high schoolers, try to get a larger backpack to hold everything you need.
 You can get these at many stores, not just office stores. Department stores like Target usually have these items at a great price. Look for deals (buy 1 get 1 free, buy 1 get 1 50% off, etc.). If you get mechanical pencils, you'll also have to get lead. Find colors or patterns you like, like a blue eraser instead of a regular pink one, shiny pencils instead of yellow, etc.
 It is always good to have new shoes every year. You'll need, of course, sneakers, boots for winter, ballet flats (girls), dress shoes, and sandals for warm weather. Some schools, however, do not allow flip flops. In middle and high school, you should probably buy an extra pair of sneakers for gym, especially if your regular ones are Converse. You should try to get shoes that have support on the bottom for your feet.


Know your shoe size before buying. Most stores have a device to measure your size. If not, check the size of the shoes you are currently wearing (if they still fit) and get a pair of shoes in that size.
 Focus on the fall and winter clothes, but since school starts in summer, don't be afraid to get a couple pairs of shorts. You should have at least 7 tops, bottoms, sweaters, underwear, and pairs of socks, one for each day of the week. If you have an older sibling, see what clothes they have. You never know, they may fit you, and you might like them! If you need some trendy ideas, you can read the lists below, but follow your own style.


Boys. Buy a few T-Shirts and polos in orange, blue, gray, red, green, or your favorite colors. Also get some sweaters for the winter. Get some denim jeans and a nice belt.
Girls. Purchase some Henley's in blue, pink, purple, white, or your favorite colors. Graphic Tee's are also nice. Get a few hoodies and sweaters for winter. Skinny jeans are in, but get flare or boot cut if you like them. Accessorize with a cute necklace.

