 Sun salutations are a great complement to cardio and are the start of a healthy yoga practice. Not only do they build strength and endurance, they also help stretch out your muscles.Start by standing in mountain pose, which gets you ready to flow through sun salutations.Stand with your feet hip width apart and arms outstretched down your sides. Look straight ahead and distribute your weight evenly on each foot.
Engage your core and roll your tailbone towards the ground to elongate your spine.
Inhale and exhale evenly through your nose. This can aid your flow through sun salutations., Breathe in and bend your knees to “sit” towards the floor while raising your arms into the air. Arch your back slightly as you look up towards your extended arms. Keep your shoulders down and tilt your pelvis towards the floor.Extend your elbows as much as you can. Keep your hands in prayer position, which can make this easier.
Sit down as far as you can to try and get your knees parallel to the floor.
 From chair pose, you will flow into your next pose. Exhale, engage your core, and hinge at your hips into a forward fold.Keep your back straight when you fold from chair pose to your forward bend.Place your palms flat on the floor parallel to each foot. Bend your knees slightly if your hands can’t reach. Point your hands and fingers towards the front of your mat and keep your whole hand pressing into the floor. This can make it easier to flow into the next positions in your wake up sun salutation.
 Inhale as you rise up into a standing half forward bend. Your torso should be parallel to the floor. Your hands should also still be parallel to your feet., Chatturanga dandasana, or four limbed staff pose, is the next movement in your sun salutation. It should look as though you’re hovering in a pushup position over the floor. Four limbed staff pose will build overall strength and endurance.Step back into four limbed staff pose if you are new to yoga. Jump into it if you are more advanced. Land with your body in a hovering push up position, keeping your weight as evenly distributed as possible.
Engage your arms so they are close to your sides, forming a 90 degree angle with your upper arms.
 From four legged staff pose, roll over your toes into upward facing dog. You can also set your feet on the ground if rolling is not possible. Engage your back muscles, open your chest, and look up as the tops of your feet rest on the ground. Upward dog easily transitions you into the final position, downward facing dog.Engage your thighs to help you safely and effectively stay in upward facing dog. Pulling your tailbone towards your heels can also protect your back. Press your palms fully into the floor.
 Breathe and roll back over your toes into downward dog. You can also step into downward dog if your toes can’t roll into the pose. Your body should look like an inverted “V” shape. This is the final position in sun salutations.Relax your shoulders and roll your arms inward so the inside of your elbows are facing. Lift your sitting bones towards the ceiling. Keep your palms pressed flat against the floor.Allow your heels to fall where they want. Your heels may not touch the floor, depending on the flexibility in your lower back, hamstrings, and calf muscles. The more you do yoga, the easier it will be to get your heels to the ground.
 In order to get the most out of your sun salutations, repeat the sequence for 10-12 rounds. Beginners may only want to do 3-5 rounds. If you are short on time, practice sun salutations for 10 minutes. Repeating your sun salutations will boost your energy as well as strengthen and stretch your body and mind.Choose to do quick transitions between poses for more cardio benefit. You can also do a slower and more meditative sequence of sun salutations. This can stretch you out more than quickly progressing through poses.

