 Humans rarely naturally experience the rapid shift in momentum necessary to run up and over walls. Due to this, the motion will likely feel foreign to you for some time. Focus on clean, smooth, and consistent technique, until the motions become second nature.


You may find that your early attempts end in you kicking off and away from the wall instead of running up and over it. This is completely natural, and will still help you become familiar with this move's mechanics., This kind of practice works well with tall walls. Using tape and a ladder, mark off several heights at regular intervals along the face of the wall. These will be your targets while practicing. As you reach a new target, move on to the next target until you're reached the top of the wall or your vertical limit.


As you practice this move, you should notice your technique improve and your body strengthen. These advances should also lead to a higher maximum height.
For some, it might take days, weeks, or months of practice before maximum height can be achieved.
The height of the wall will not change your wall run technique. Walls that are especially high will only require more steps up the wall for you to achieve increased vertical distance., Walls can be made from many different kinds of material, and some of these will be more slippery than others. You may also find that some pairs of shoes don't grip well and should be avoided. To be able to execute this move whenever necessary, you'll need to be comfortable running up and over most surfaces.


Always take it slow when running up a new or unfamiliar wall. If the wall is unexpectedly slippery, you could get hurt or injured.
Trying out different kinds of walls will also familiarize you with the kinds you should avoid. Some walls may be too smooth to run up without special tools or assistance., This kind of maneuver requires quick reflexes and strength. By training these along with functional movement and cardio, you can improve your wall run a great deal. Some exercises that might help include:


Running
Doing bodyweight squats and jump squats

Doing push ups
Doing leg lifts

Doing pullups, Parkour is a discipline where people train their reflexes and physical ability through obstacle course exercises. The wall run is a common parkour move, and you might be able to get some pointers on how to do it at a local meetup.


Facebook can be a valuable resource for finding local parkour groups that practice near you. These events frequently take place at playgrounds, parks, and universities.