 Teaching your child to greet people will help them to manage simple encounters with acquaintances and friends. Teach them to greet people with something like a simple, “Hello! How are you today?”

, If your child is struggling with a particular set of manners, try role-playing scenarios to help them learn and practice. For example, if your child struggles to wait their turn in line or blurts out answers, practice scenarios that may involve waiting patiently in line or taking turns speaking. Ask your child what to say or do.Once they get the hang of it, practice how to work through problem situations, like someone cutting in line.
Make sure to have other adults, such as the child’s other parent or grandparent, alternate roleplaying with your child with you. This will help to expose your child to different types of personalities and behaviors.
 Many children struggle not to interrupt others when they speak. Practice at home by not interrupting your child when they speak, and gently letting them know when they interrupt you. Teach your child to listen to others when they speak and wait their turn to respond, especially when speaking to an adult.If your child really struggles to wait their turn, use a speaking object to teach them to take turns. For example, have a rubber duckie to hold when it’s your turn, then pass it to your child when they can speak.


If your child interrupts, say, “It’s rude to interrupt. I’ll let you know when it’s your turn to speak.”
Be sure to teach your child about active listening and encourage them to use it even when they are not interested in the conversation. Active listening includes making eye contact, nodding, and smiling while they wait for the person to finish speaking.
 Find a way to make practicing manners fun and competitive. For example, see which child can say “thank you” or “please” the most in one day. Children will love looking for opportunities to practice their manners while finding opportunities to be kind. Talk about when they used their words and who they spoke to.For example, if your child has problems sharing, play a game to see how many times they can ask other children if they want a turn. Have them ask, “Would you like a turn?” or, “Would you like to share my markers?”

, Teach your child to include other kids in their play, whether they’re at the park or playground, or playing a game or doing an activity. This can be especially important in including kids during recess or group activities at school. This teaches kids to include everyone and not isolate children who might struggle to fit in socially. Have your kid ask others, “Would you like to play with me?”Teach your child to be inclusive with other children, even if they’re different. If a child from a different race or ability level comes in, encourage your child to extend their invitation to them, too. Also, make sure to teach your child that it is not appropriate to comment on another person’s differences, and that they should wait for the person to bring it up if they choose to do so.
 Teaching respect can begin at toddler age simply by teaching your child to say “please,” “thank you,” and “excuse me.”Also make sure to teach them to do what people ask of them without grumbling or complaining. It’s important for children to respect their teacher, teacher aides, principal and staff at school, so have your children practice interacting respectfully with other adults in their lives such as aunts, uncles, grandparents, and other adults.Encourage polite interactions when your child orders food from a waitress, checks books out from the librarian, and greets other parents.
 Identifying when to apologize, how to apologize appropriately, what to do to make amends is a crucial skill for your child to learn. Teach them how they can determine when they are at fault and what makes a good apology. Also, make sure to teach them about how to make it up to someone they have wronged, intentionally or not.

