 Now that you have your target calorie and macro ranges, it is time to re-analyze your old eating habits. Look at your previous diet, as recorded in section "Understand Your Current Lifestyle", and figure out what you need to cut or change in order to meet your new goals.


This takes some time, play around with menu ideas and calculate the calorie and macronutrient content. Find a diet that fits your taste and lifestyle but is within the nutrition guidelines.
Good foods you may want to consider adding or substituting into your diet are as follow:

Good protein sources include skinless chicken breast, ground turkey, bison, egg whites, Greek yogurt, and tofu.
Good fat sources include almonds, peanuts, flax seeds, chia seeds, fish, egg yolks, and olive oil.
Good carbohydrate sources include unprocessed carbohydrates such as sweet potatoes, brown rice, fruit, oatmeal, bran, wheat germ, Bulgarian wheat, beans, and vegetables.


Try to minimize highly processed foods, such as bread, pastries, pasta, fast food, and frozen prepared meals.
 It helps to diet with the people you live with. It is easier to eat clean if you are not surrounded by temptation and bad influences. Try to enlist family and roommates to join your diet.
 Do yourself a favor and throw out any junk food in your house. It is easier to stay on your diet if tempting junk food is not in easy reach.
 Go to the store and stock up on the food you need for your diet, lean proteins, vegetables and complex carbohydrates.
 Spread your calories out throughout the day. Consider eating 5-6 small meals a day instead of just three. Also make sure to eat breakfast when you first wake up.
 Drink water with and between meals. This will help you feel fuller while dieting.
 With a long term diet, like 20 pounds, the hardest part is being consistent. Few people have the willpower to be perfect for the 3-6 months it takes to lose 20 pounds. Therefore it is advisable that you build into your diet a "cheat meal" once a week.


A cheat meal does not mean that you get to eat an entire pizza and a carton of ice cream in one sitting. But it is an opportunity to eat something that is not on your diet. So have two slices of pizza and a reasonable bowl of ice cream.
Have your cheat meal guilt free, after all it is a planned part of your diet, then immediately get back on your diet for the next meal. A regular and reasonable cheat meal may even help boost your metabolism .
 Not enough sleep can hamper your weight loss efforts. Try to get 8 hours of sleep per night.
 Log your food intake throughout your diet. If you eat as prescribed and maintain your current activity level or more, you should be able to successfully lose 20 pounds.


Keep in mind that as you lose weight you may want to recalculate your macronutrient and caloric needs.

