 You age and sex dictate how much magnesium you need to eat everyday. If you are pregnant, you’ll need extra. The amount needed for a male aged 19 – 30 is 400 mg per day. This is also the amount used to determine “percentage of daily value” information on food labels in the U.S. Women of the same age require 310 mg.Men over 30 require 420 mg, and women of this age require 320 mg.
Pregnant women younger than 30 years of age need 350 mg. If you’re pregnant and over 30, shoot for 360 mg of magnesium per day. These requirements do not apply to breastfeeding women.
Never take more than 350 mg of magnesium via daily supplements, as dangerous side effects my occur.
 Young people require different amounts of magnesium. Talk to your family doctor about making sure your baby gets the nutrients they need. Children will need increasingly greater amounts of magnesium.From one to three years old, kids need 80 mg.
From four to eight years old, 130 mg are necessary.
From nine to 13, make sure kids are getting 240 mg.
Sex begins to matter in the late teens, when 14 – 18 year old boys need 410 mg and girls of the same age need 360 mg.
 The U.S. Department of Agriculture hosts a nutrient database on its website that includes the nutritional content of almost any food you can imagine. You can search by nutrient content or by food name. For instance, search a certain food to find out how much magnesium it will provide you with, or search magnesium and see a list of foods broken down by category and listed in order of their magnesium content.You can access this database by visiting the following page: https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Magnesium-HealthProfessional/


, For your body to utilize calcium, you need magnesium as a cofactor. Therefore, if you are consuming a calcium supplement, calcium-fortified products and/or calcium rich-foods without meeting your magnesium daily needs, your body won’t be able to utilize calcium for its purposes., Magnesium deficiency is quite rare, but can lead to symptoms. In particular, take note of any hyperexcitability, muscle weakness, or sleepiness. Alcohol abuse, extensive burns, low amounts of calcium in the blood, medication use, and several other medical conditions may increase the likelihood of these symptoms.


On the flipside, it is unlikely that you will experience symptoms related to eating too much magnesium in your food. Your body will most likely excrete extra magnesium.
Prolonged lack of magnesium can lead to anorexia, apathy, confusion, fatigue, insomnia, irritability, muscle twitching, poor memory function, and reduced learning capacity. Heart complications may arise over time, and a severe lack of magnesium will lead to muscle contraction, delirium, numbness, hallucinations, and tingling sensations.

