 Calcium helps to strengthen your bones and keep them from breaking down. When you have more calcium in your system, your injured ankle and rebuild itself and remain strong after you have recovered. You can take a calcium supplement each day, or you can eat calcium-rich foods. These foods include:


Dairy products like skim milk, yogurt, and cheese.
Broccoli, okra, curly kale, and kidney beans.
Almonds, hazelnuts and walnuts.
Sardines and salmon.
Apricots, figs, currants, and oranges.
 Phosphorous is an essential nutrient that works with calcium to build and maintain strong bones. It can also reduce muscle pain and is needed for the growth, maintenance, and repair of your tissues and cells. You can take a phosphorus supplement, or you can get phosphorous from the food you eat. These foods include:


Seeds like pumpkin and squash.
Cheese like Romano, Parmesan, and goat cheese.
Fish like salmon, whitefish and cod.
Nuts like Brazil nuts, almonds, and cashews.
Pork and lean beef.
Tofu and other soy products.
 Vitamin D helps your body to absorb and use both calcium and phosphorous. In turn, these two nutrients—as mentioned above—build, maintain, and repair your bones. When you sprain your ankle, your calcium and phosphorous levels can use all the help they can get so it is a good idea to increase the amount of vitamin D you get each day. The easiest way to get vitamin D is by spending some time in the sun, as your body absorbs vitamin D through sunlight. You can also eat foods like:


Fish like salmon, mackerel, and canned tuna.
Egg yolks and milk that has been fortified with vitamin D.
Mushrooms that have been exposed to UV light,

, Vitamin C helps your body to create collagen. Collagen helps to repair tendons and ligaments that get damaged when you sprain your ankle. Getting vitamin C each day also helps to strengthen your immune system, which keeps you from getting sick while your body is focused on repairing your ankle. You can take a vitamin C supplement or you can eat foods rich in vitamin C like:


Yellow and red bell peppers.
Guavas, kiwi, and strawberries.
Dark leafy veggies like kale and spinach.
Broccoli.
Citrus like oranges, grapefruits, and lemons.

