 As you are doing this, turn your turn signal on so that cars behind you know to drive around. The open spot should always be on your right. Never park crossing over to the other side of the street. Your bumper should cover half of the end of the parking space.Make sure to look out for pedestrians before you begin backing up.;
, Turn your wheel all the way to the right before you begin moving the car. Press on the gas gently as your car begins to turn. Because your wheel is all the way to the right, your car will move left when it is in reverse.Continue to look in your mirrors and check for pedestrians and the edges of the cars surrounding the parking space.
Turn your car to the left until your car is parallel with the parking space, equidistant on both sides. After it is parallel, press on the brakes and hold your car steady. Turn your wheel so that your tires are now straight.
 Check your mirrors first to make sure that there is enough room on both sides of the parking space. Do not back up if there are people behind you. Let the brakes go, and gently press on the accelerator with your car still in reverse. Let your car slowly move back into the space.Take it slow. Continuously check the mirrors, and back out, if you are getting too close to one of the cars on the sides.
 Switch between forward and reverse, moving a few inches at a time. Turn your wheel either way. You want the space on both sides of your car to be even. Once your car is safely backed into the space, put your car into park and turn off the engine., Open the driver's door slightly to see whether there is enough room to get out. You may have to hold the door only slightly open as you get out. Make sure not to sling the door open, otherwise you could damage the car behind you. Once you are out, lock your car and you are good to go., Turn your car on and put it in forward. Go forward slightly as you press on the accelerator. As you begin to creep out of your parking space, tilt your head forward to make sure there are no cars or pedestrians coming by. Continue out of the space straight until your bumper is fully past the cars on either side.Turn your wheel whatever direction you want to go and press on the accelerator.

