 If a permanent tooth or teeth is loose, the most likely cause is gingivitis or periodontitis. These are gum diseases that weaken the tissues that hold your teeth in place. It’s very important to keep brushing, flossing, and using mouthwash if you have loose teeth, or your condition will worsen.Be very gentle when brushing around loose teeth. Use the softest tooth brush you can find. Look for one with a small, circular head.Try to carefully remove any buildup of plaque that might be growing in pockets where your gums have started to pull away from your teeth.
Consider using a dental pick, which is a tool that’s designed to remove plaque buildup in between teeth., Avoid hard or crunchy foods that can dislodge your loose tooth or teeth. Steer clear of sugary items, like candy (especially sticky candies), soda, and alcoholic beverages. It’s still important to keep up a well-balanced diet, so go for softer healthy foods like soups, oatmeal, fruit purees, yogurt, and smoothies.Be aware of heat or cold sensitivities as well, and avoid food and drink that are either too hot or too cold.
 Smoking irritates gums and encourages plaque buildup, which is the main cause of gum diseases that result in loose teeth. In addition, once you see a dentist, they might apply medications to your gums to prompt healing and new growth. Smoking can interfere with these medications., You should see a dentist as soon as you notice a loose tooth or teeth. A dentist can remove plaque and tartar that are at the root of gum diseases. Your dentist can also recommend any further treatments that might be necessary, refer you to a periodontist for specialty care, and determine if your brushing techniques need improvement.Your dentist can offer you bite guards or tooth splints, which are similar to braces, if your loose tooth or teeth greatly interfere with your daily routines or prevent tissues from regenerating.
In severe cases, your dentist might recommend surgical treatments, like bone or gum grafts to preserve and restore the affected tissue.
A dentist might recommend pulling a tooth or teeth if they are not viable. Ask them about options for implants, braces, or bridges to keep other teeth from shifting out of place.
Ask your dentist or their hygienist to dye your plaque, so that you can see it. This is a common way dentists and dental hygienists teach people to brush and floss more effectively.

