 If you’re unsure of your own ability to judge wines by their label alone, see if the store offers any further detail beyond pricing about certain wines. See if some or all of the bottles have any visual aids affixed to their spot on the shelves. The method and level of detail may vary by store, but these may come in the form of:Scales or charts indicating how sweet or dry a white wine is, or how heavy or light a red wine is.
More detailed descriptions of the wine's character.
Separate displays for featured wines.
 Some stores may publish their most in-demand stock either online or in the store themselves. See if there is a special section or display devoted to these wines. If not, look for any signs or lists that may indicate which ones other customers apparently love.Remember that the quality of one producer's wine may vary from year to year, so always note the vintage of a particular bestselling wine if it's included.
 If you're totally lost on what to select for yourself, see if the store has staff dedicated exclusively to the wine section. Not all grocery stores employ wine experts, but some do just so that someone is always on hand to answer questions you're likely to have. Of course, the person you see stocking the shelves may just be a stock-person, so always ask them if they're able to provide assistance before launching straight into your more pointed questions., Rely on outside experts who have already done the work for you. Look for bottles with foil stickers listing medals or other awards that it has won. Favor those that also mention which specific vintage won that award so you can compare that with the vintage printed on the label to the bottle in your hand.A lot of factors can impact the quality of vintages in a relatively short amount of time. The longer the gap between the award-winner’s vintage and this particular bottle’s, the bigger the risk that the quality has dropped since then.
If the sticker doesn’t mention which vintage won the award, use your smartphone to search online.
 Instead of falling back on the trial-and-error method of buying a bottle and only finding out afterward if it’s any good, use the internet to narrow down your choices before purchasing them. For each bottle that catches your eye, do a quick online search for customer and/or expert reviews. Instead of leaving things up to chance, utilize your access to all sorts of outside help in making your selection.Reviews can be found on such sites as http://www.winemag.com, http://www.winespectator.com, and http://winereviewonline.com.
Wine-specific apps include Supermarket Wine, 60secondreviews Wine, and Vivino.

