 The US Bureau of Labor Statistics lists most jobs and their expected growth in the next 8 to 10 years. For example, in 2012, information technology consultants, data scientists, cloud architects, search engine specialists are expected to see job growth at a rate much faster than the national average.


Expected growth industries change a little every year, especially in the technology sector where new platforms and programs create new types of jobs. Do extensive research before you enter school. Search online for articles about high-growth technology jobs, read business and technology journals and discuss job growth with people you know in the technology sector.;
, While there are some technology jobs that do not require a 4-year degree, this is the standard for engineering, administration and software development. Consider Management Information Systems (MIS), Computer Science or Software Engineering.


Popular jobs that only require a 2-year degree include graphic design, web development and computer support specialties.
 What might surprise many new college graduates is that some of the best places to work in technology look for passion in their employees. Fostering new ideas and contributing to larger projects will show you to be a creative, driven employee.


When you are looking for a tech job, you want to be able to express how you are a better choice than the dozens to thousands of other applicants for the job. Working on pet projects, open source platforms or on research may give you an edge on the competition.
If you are a budding developer, try to become versed on Android, iPhone, the Cloud and JavaScript. You can specialize later on; however, you may develop a talent and passion by trying several systems.
 IT auditors, data modelers, software engineers, network security administrators and data analysts can earn a starting salary into 6 figures. If you find a high-paying job that you want to work toward, take electives while in school and choose jobs that give you experience in the field.


There is some risk to choosing an educational path based on 1 job, since the tech industry can change greatly in 2 to 4 years. However, once you've graduated, you can begin to work toward your high-paying job by making calculated employment and experience choices.
 Few tech people get to start off as a software developer, data modeler or IT auditor. Apply for an entry-level job as an assistant analyst, junior web developer, data manager or assistant applications developer.


Some jobs, such as applications and cloud architects require 8 to 10 years of applications development experience.
 Employers will look for people who are on the cutting edge of the industry. As you go through school and long after, try to read technology websites and journals so you can discuss new technology thoughtfully.

