 Write down where they last saw your spouse and perform some follow up investigation.


For example, you might speak to your spouse’s mother. If she says your spouse went to visit friends in Texas, get the phone number for the friends and call them.;
, Use websites such as Intelius to search for your spouse. Typically, these websites charge a fee to use them. However, they can generate a thorough list of places your spouse has lived. Print out your search results and save them.


Also check your spouse’s Internet social networking profiles for information.You might be able to tell from the pictures where they have moved to.
 Many government offices have records of where your spouse might be. Stop into the following and check:Department of Motor Vehicles
Post Office
Voter Registration Department

, Many states will require that you find out if your spouse has entered the military.You can search the Military Verification Service using your spouse’s Social Security Number., They might have been given a forwarding address where they can send a final paycheck.
 A skip tracer is someone who will try to find your spouse. They search special investigator databases and public records, much as a private investigator would.In some states, you must hire someone to skip trace your spouse.Check your state’s laws online. Search “your state” and “divorce missing spouse.”

, When you call someone, write down the date, time, and phone number. Also summarize what the person told you. Keep thorough notes on everyone that you call., Most courts will have printed, fill-in-the-blank forms you can fill out to get divorced. These are particularly helpful if you don’t want to hire a lawyer. Stop into your courthouse and ask the clerk if there are forms available. You can also look online.


Generally, you’ll need to fill out a petition and forms that list your income and assets.
The clerk can give you the forms, but they can’t answer legal questions. If you’re confused or need help, check if your court has a self-help or family law center. Someone there can answer your questions.
You might also need to hire a lawyer. You can get a referral from your local or state bar association., Make a copy of all completed forms for your records. Also check if the court needs multiple copies filed. Gather everything and take it to the court clerk. Ask to file


You’ll need to pay a filing fee. Call ahead of time and ask for the amount and acceptable methods of payment. If you can’t afford the fee, ask about a fee waiver.
 You won’t be able to serve notice on your spouse since they’re missing. For this reason, ask the clerk how you can request service by publication. Ask what the process entails.


Usually, you’ll need a judge’s permission to give notice by publication.The clerk should tell you what you need to file.
In some states, you still need to attempt personal service on your spouse’s last known location—even if you know your spouse doesn’t live there any longer. This is a pain, but it’s something you have to do. You might need to pay the sheriff to attempt service.
 In most states, you’ll need to file a motion and a supporting affidavit, which is a signed sworn statement. In the affidavit, you lay out everything you’ve done to find your spouse.Keep a copy for your records.
 Each court is different. Some judges might rule on your motion without needing to hear from you. However, other judges will ask that you appear before them and explain the steps you’ve taken to find your missing spouse. The court should tell you if an appearance before the judge is necessary.


Try to look professional for the judge. Wear business casual clothes, such as dress pants and a dress shirt or blouse. If you only have jeans, make sure they are clean and neat. Tuck in your shirt.
If you’re nervous, then take a copy of your affidavit so you can refer to it as you speak to the judge.
 If the judge allows you to serve notice by publication, you’ll receive a set of instructions, so be sure to follow them. For example, they might tell you what newspaper to use and how long your notice should run.Follow the court’s directions to the letter, because you won’t get divorced if you don’t.


For example, in New York, you must publish a notice once a week for three consecutive weeks.Check how much it costs to publish notice. If you can’t afford it, talk to the court clerk about a possible fee waiver.
 You need to give the court proof that you published your notice for the required length of time. Typically, you’ll need to provide a signed affidavit. Also clip out the advertisement from the paper and submit it along with the affidavit.


In some jurisdictions, the newspaper will send this information to the court directly., In some states, such as Texas, you need to hire a lawyer for your spouse. This lawyer will represent your spouse’s interests during the divorce and also search for them.Although not required in most states, you should still check with your court.
 You’ll have to wait a certain amount of time to finalize the divorce. The waiting period depends on your state, but is typically around 30 days.If the court hasn’t heard anything from your spouse, they will give you a divorce by default.
 The judge might not be able to give you everything you’ve requested in your divorce petition. For example, they might not be able to give you child support or divide marital property in your spouse’s absence.These issues will remain unresolved, so you should continue to search for your ex-spouse even after you are divorced. If you find them later, you can file for child support.

