 Find out what is causing your dry mouth. Your doctor or dentist may be able to spot symptoms of gene disorders, medication side effects, allergies, or other untreated causes of dry mouth. Make an appointment, and write down any symptoms you have been experiencing and any treatments you have tried.


Bring information about your diet, smoking habits, oral hygiene routines, medications, and medical history.
Bring a complete list of prescription and over-the counter medications that you take regularly.
 Take inventory of the medications you currently take. If you take any medications, these may add to your dry mouth symptoms. Dry mouth is one of the most common side effects for over a thousand prescription and over-the-counter medications. If you have been prescribed medication for depression, anxiety, nerve pain, or other pain management, that may be the cause of your dry mouth.


Cancer patients undergoing radiation and chemotherapy often experience dry mouth. This can be a temporary change, or it can be chronic — radiation to the head and throat may permanently damage the salivary gland. Talk to your physician about treating your symptoms.
Older people often experience dry mouth as a result of medications.
 There are serious medical conditions that trigger dry mouth. If you experience dry mouth as well as dry eyes, talk to your doctor about Sjögren’s syndrome, a disorder that affects the immune system, and is predominantly found in women aged 30 – 50. Your doctor may be able to prescribe certain medicines to decrease these symptoms., Dry mouth can be a side effect of many conditions, including rheumatoid arthritis, hypertension, thyroid dysfunction, cerebral palsy, and endocrine disorders. If you have already been diagnosed with one of these conditions, ask your doctor about the possibility of dry mouth being a side effect.


If you have recently had a bone marrow transplant, this may have caused your dry mouth.
If you have recently suffered nerve damage to your head or neck, this may have caused your dry mouth.
 Certain conditions can cause you to misdiagnose yourself with dry mouth. If you have Alzheimer's disease, or if you have recently suffered a stroke, you may perceive your mouth as dry despite normal function of your salivary glands. Check your symptoms: Is your saliva thick or stringy? Have your teeth begun decaying at a faster rate, despite normal oral hygiene? Do you have bad breath? Is it difficult to wear your dentures?