 Make a staircase with a wide entrance, about 4 x 4 blocks, so it's easier to lure the creeper into it. Have this lead to a pit 23 blocks deep, with ladders on the opposite wall. Lead the creeper here, then climb up to the surface while the creeper falls to its death.


A diamond shovel might be fast enough to dig a small pit trap even while you are being chased, but this is a risky tactic.
 If you can get above the creeper, you can drop two blocks of sand or gravel on the creeper, which has a good chance of killing it before it can escape. Some people make suffocation traps and lead the creepers into them, triggering a sticky piston to push a block onto the creeper's head, suffocating it.


The lava variation is a more effective method, but risks setting fire to your surroundings.
 First, use another method to kill creepers, then gather gunpowder from their bodies to use their own weapon against them. Craft TNT from five pieces of gunpowder and four blocks of sand or red sand.This explosive does exactly what you would expect, and can be set off using redstone or from contact with fire or lava.


Make sure the button or lever that sets off the TNT is a safe distance away.
The TNT will destroy the ground where it blew up, so you will either have to fix the whole trap each time or set it up in a new area.
 You can set up a path of flammable terrain, or just find it naturally occurring. Run away from the creeper backwards, while using your flint and steel to set the ground on fire. This will slowly burn the creeper to death as it walks over the flaming ground.


Mine gravel to find flint, then craft it with an iron ingot to make flint and steel., Yes, you really can lift enemies up with a fishing pole. Get on a hill above the creeper and go fishing, then drop it to deal damage. Repeat until the creeper is dead.


Fishing rods are made from sticks and string, which you can find by killing spiders.
 Getting between a skeleton and a creeper sounds like a terrible place to be, and it is. However, if you can get a skeleton's arrow to hit a creeper, it will drop a music disc, which can be played in jukeboxes.


Some other enemies will attack creepers as well, but do not cause it to drop a music disc.

