 You might notice some blood on the toilet paper or in the toilet bowl. This is the most common symptom of an internal hemorrhoid.


Blood or mucus in your stools can be a symptom of other illnesses as well. It can signal colorectal cancer or anal cancer, as well as hemorrhoids.Be sure to check with your doctor if you experience these symptoms.;
, Many people with internal hemorrhoids will describe a sense that they haven’t finished a bowel movement. This is probably because the bulging veins of a hemorrhoid feel similar to stool in the anus.
 You may feel an internal hemorrhoid that has protruded when you clean around your anus. It will be a pink mass of skin that has poked out of the anus.This is called a prolapse and it can lead to leakage of rectal contents. If you have a prolapse, it can cause some discomfort, but is not usually described as painful.


Internal hemorrhoids are not painful because there are no pain fibers in the veins at that location.
 While hemorrhoids are most often caused by straining during a bowel movement, they can also be caused by obesity, lifting heavy objects, and by pregnancy. In pregnancy, hemorrhoids are due to the extra strain from carrying a baby and the resulting extra pressure on the veins of the lower abdomen., Most internal hemorrhoids can be treated at home by increasing the amount of fiber in your diet and drinking more water. This will soften up and bulk up the stools, making them easier to pass. This will also reduce the internal pressure that can cause hemorrhoids.Eat more foods high in fiber or take a fiber supplement. Follow the directions on the package if you decide to take a fiber supplement.
Drink enough water so that you do not become dehydrated and your stool is softened. It is suggested that you drink between 9 and 13 cups of liquid per day. That is usually 6 to 8 full glasses of water., If you think you have an internal hemorrhoid, and that sense doesn’t go away with increased fiber and water after a few days, you should make an appointment with your physician. Your doctor will determine if you have internal hemorrhoids or if there is another medical problem.


Prepare for your exam by writing down your symptoms, making a list of questions you have for your doctor, and continuing to try to soften your stool.
Classically, hemorrhoids are painless and you can recognize them just from passing bright red blood through your rectum.
 A physician can diagnose internal or external hemorrhoids by performing a rectal exam. Your doctor will need to look at your anus during this exam, so that he or she will be able to see the hemorrhoid and assess its severity.


Make sure that the doctor does a digital rectal examination. This is when the doctor examines your rectum with a gloved, lubricated finger.
 If rectal bleeding is not caused by a hemorrhoid, your doctor will likely recommend a more extensive test, called a sigmoidoscopy or a colonoscopy. This is because rectal bleeding is one of the symptoms of colon cancer.The sigmoidoscopy looks at the rectum and the lower colon, while the colonoscopy looks at the whole colon and rectum.For both of these exams, your doctor will need to insert a scope into your anus.
Anoscopy and endoscopy can also be used to diagnose internal hemorrhoids. With an anoscopy, the doctor inserts a thin lighted tube just a few inches into your rectum.An endoscopy is similar, but the tube might be inserted further into your rectum or colon., Medical treatments of internal hemorrhoids can be awkward and uncomfortable but they are usually essentially painless. Medical treatments for internal hemorrhoids include:Ligation: Tying a rubber band around the base of the hemorrhoid to cut off blood flow.
Injection of a chemical solution designed to shrink the hemorrhoid.
Cauterization: burning the hemorrhoid.
Hemorrhoidectomy: surgical removal of the hemorrhoid.

