 Needle-nose pliers are useful both to help you attach and remove split shot sinkers from your line and to help you remove the hook from the fish's mouth. (Some fishermen carry 2 sets, one to remove the hook and the other to hold onto the fish.) Look for a pair with a reasonably long point, allowing you to reach deep into the fish's mouth, if necessary.


Pliers can also be used to help peel away the skin from catfish. Special pliers are made for this task, but you can also use a pair of snub-nose or adjustable pliers.
 Either of these items will help you cut the tag end of your fishing line after tying a knot and can be useful for other purposes as well.
 If you clean your fish on-site, a good fillet knife, which features a long, thin, sharp blade, will help you separate the fish's meat from its bones and skin.


Fish other than catfish and carp can be scaled instead of filleted. If you prefer to scale your fish, you'll need a fish scaler, which is shaped somewhat like a brush but replaces the bristles with jagged metal teeth used to remove the scales from your fish. You'll still need a good knife to cut off the fish's head.
Some fishing sites provide fish cleaning stations, while most don't. To keep your fish from moving around while cleaning it, you can purchase a cleaning board with a clamp on one end to hold the fish's tail while you work

, Having a first aid kit along will help you deal with the bumps, bruises, and cuts that may happen while you're in the outdoors. A few adhesive bandages, an antiseptic salve, some gauze, a small spool of waterproof medical tape, and perhaps a small bottle of hand sanitizer will cover most of the minor injuries you're likely to deal with.


You can pick up some of these items for free if you attend trade shows. Many hospitals and health agencies who exhibit at these shows offer small first aid kits or their components as promotional items.
 While fishing provides an opportunity to get away from the rigors of life, you can also come back with a sunburn instead of sunfish, insect bites instead of fish bites, and eye strain from squinting because of the bright sun. Having bottles of sunscreen and insect repellent, as well as a pair of polarized sunglasses will help you enjoy your time more and let you concentrate more on fishing.

