 If you want to use hair products to get your hair curly, the best way to do it is with hair gel. Regardless of how your hair is styled, using a pea-sized amount of gel and running it through clean hair can help you curl it up however you want. Take the time to make individual curls, or run your hands through it quickly for a messy look.


After rinsing your hair, squeeze a small amount of gel into your hands and run your fingers through your hair, from the forehead to the back. Let it start to set up for a minute, then take a pencil and wrap little curls of hair around the pencil. Count to 30. Keep working your hair into tiny curls until you like the look.
If you have less time, try just running your hair through your hands quickly and getting your hair to stick in a lively, curly-looking position. If you don't like that crunchy hair gel style, try using a softening gel like IC Fantasia, which can help to keep your hair extremely soft, as well as train it into curls.;
, One common way of training your hair naturally is by using a natural hair oil that will help to moisturize and keep your hair strong, making it more likely to take on natural curl and body. Once or twice a week, use a pea-sized amount of hair oil on a plastic comb and comb through your hair after rinsing to treat your hair and keep it strong.


It's also common to combine this treatment and cover your hair with a tight-fitting bald-cap or do-rag, to keep your hair kinked up and keep the oil close to the scalp overnight. When you remove the cap, your hair should be able to take on curl more easily.
Olive oil and coconut oil are also versatile food-based products that are commonly used in the hair to help keep moisturized and curly. Treating your hair with these products can help to keep them light and silky, making them more amenable to taking on curl.
 Texturizing spray is typically marketed to women, but it's perfectly fine to use for men to use in their hair to increase the natural curl. If your hair has curl in it, you'll be able to emphasize it with texturizer, and if your hair isn't, it can help to create it. These products are sprayed directly onto the hair and can be used to loosen the follicles and increase the natural curl.
 While the claims of many curl-enhancers are somewhat dubious, there are a number of products on the market that claim to curl up naturally straight hair with washing. These shampoos should be used in conjunction with other methods of curling, but it's worth trying out.


When you select a shampoo, try to pick a product made primarily of natural ingredients, avoiding the use of shampoo with parabens, aluminum, and other artificial ingredients. You want the shampoo to keep your hair moisturized, promoting its natural oils, rather than drying it out.

