 If you notice a person starting to faint, try to catch him or her and slowly lower the person to the ground. When people faint, they are unable to protect themselves with their hands when they fall. Although typically a person who faints does not incur serious injuries, preventing hitting the ground will protect him or her. Of course, do this only if it is safe for you--if the person who is fainting is much larger than you, for example, this may put you into a hazardous situation.;
, Tap or shake the person, to see if she has regained consciousness. In most cases, people who have fainted regain consciousness quickly (usually between 20 seconds and 2 minutes).When people faint, they fall, which brings the head to the same level of the heart. In this position, it is easier for the heart to pump blood to the brain. Therefore, recovery can be just as sudden as fainting is.If the person regains consciousness, inquire about any pre-existing symptoms or conditions that may have caused the fainting. Symptoms such as headache, seizure, numbness or tingling, chest pain or trouble breathing are all worrisome. In such cases, emergency services (EMS) should be called., Loosen any constrictive clothing (like a tie or collar) on the person to make him/her comfortable.


Let the person lay on the ground and rest for at least 15-20 minutes. This provides enough time for blood to return to the brain.Give the person room to breathe, and fan the victim with fresh air. If fainting happens in a public place, crowds typically gather in order to see what happened. Ask people to back up unless they are actually helping the situation.
Give the person water and/or food once she is conscious and stable; food and water will help revive him/her. Dehydration and hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) are common causes of fainting.
Do not let the person get up too quickly. Encourage him/her to stay lying down for a few minutes. This will allow blood flow to the brain to fully regain. Additionally, abrupt rise may precipitate another fainting episode. Once people have regained consciousness, they may try to brush it off by standing and trying to walk too soon after the incident.
If the person has a head injury, additional symptoms (such as difficulty breathing, chest pain, severe headache, etc.) or a preexisting condition (pregnancy, heart disease, etc.), he/she should consult a doctor.
 This is also an opportunity to have someone look for an Automatic External Defibrillator (AED). Assess the pulse at the person's neck because that is where it will be the strongest. Place your index and third fingers on the neck of the person to the side of the windpipe and feel for the pulse.Assess the pulse only on one side of the neck at a time. Checking both sides can compromise the blood supply to the brain.
If there is a pulse, try to raise the person’s legs a couple of feet above the ground. This helps blood flow back to the brain.
 If you're not familiar with CPR, consider seeing if anyone around you is a medical professional.Kneel next to the person.
Place the heel of one hand at the center of the person’s chest.
Place the other hand on top of the first.
Be sure not to bend your elbows.
Use your whole upper body weight and compress on the person’s chest.
The chest must be compressed as you push straight down by at least 2 inches.
Push down on the chest at about 100 compressions each minute.
Continue chest compressions until EMS arrives and takes over.
 Staying composed and in control of the situation can make all the difference.

