 Before you starting the cleaning process, go to a side corner of the room. Apply a bit of your cleaning solution to this space and observe what happens. Look to see if the floor appears dull or otherwise impacted by the solution. If not, proceed as planned. If so, consider using an alternate solution or calling in professional cleaners., Select the bare floor setting on your vacuum, making sure that the bender bar underneath does not sit directly on the floor’s surface. Follow the grain of your floor and do a few vacuuming passes over the room. Use your vacuum attachment for any corners or crevices. Vacuuming beforehand helps to minimize the movement of dirt and grime on your floor, which can cause streaking., Stand with your spray bottle or microfiber mop against one of the walls with your back facing the rest of the room. This means that you will spray in front of you when walking backwards. This will keep you from stepping on top of the fresh cleaning solution and leaving footprints or other marks.
 Spray a bit of the cleaning solution onto one of your microfiber mop pads. Or, hold your spray bottle above the floor and lightly mist the surface. Either way, keep an eye on your floor and make sure that it is damp, not soaking wet. Excessive liquid on your floor may cause streaking and warping., After you’ve applied the cleaning solution, run your mop over the wet areas, making straight strokes. Keep the amount of pressure that you use even and controlled, or you could end up causing streaking by scrubbing some areas too much and others not enough. Every few minutes, stop and look over the floor to make sure that you are not missing any wet spaces.
 As soon as you finish applying the cleaning solution, go back to where you began and begin the drying process. Walk backward and use a microfiber cloth or mop pad to pick up the moisture from the floor. Moving this way means that you will minimize your footprints, but make sure to buff them out as you go, leaving a pristine surface behind., If you choose to use a microfiber mop, make sure to use a clean pad for the drying stage. Otherwise, you will just apply another layer of dirt onto the clean surface. To keep your pads clean, place them in your washer on a “delicate” cycle or run them under some warm water.Avoid using a laundry sheet when drying your cleaning cloths or pads, as the chemicals from the sheet can lead to streaking when you use the pads or clothes again.