 In a social setting, ask the host or hostess. If the other person has signed in, ask if you can see it. You can explain your reason to the host or hostess simply by confessing your situation.


Ask a friend. If you're attending a social gathering, chances are that someone else in the room knows the person's name. Discreetly ask a friend what the person's name is. If you don't get a chance to ask your friend during the social gathering, ask them later.
If you're in a bar, restaurant or other public setting, and person seems to know the location well, people who work there may know the person's name. Ask them to help you. You can explain your situation by honestly confessing that you've forgotten the person's name. Usually, people approached in such a manner are eager to help.
Eavesdrop on their conversations with others. The person may introduce himself to other people over the course of your time together.
Keep alert for any printed material that might have the person's name on it. If you're attending a seated dinner, for instance, you will have place cards. If you're at a trade gathering, the person may have printed materials that he's sharing with others.
 This is easily done by retreating to a private place, and pulling out your smart phone. Most people have sufficient information about themselves online that online search engines will often reveal someone's name by entering in the information about the person that you do have. Enter the information that you have about a person (the city in which he lives, his college or workplace, any other affiliations that you can think of).Once you've entered in all the information you can think of about the person into a search engine, search by "image" to narrow down your results. After all, you know what the person looks like - particularly if you're still with him!
Social media sites will use your shared information to find the person quickly, particularly if you have many shared friends. Facebook's "People Search" can often help, if you remember any part of his name.
Search for him online by their phone number. Many sites, such as White Pages, 411, or AnyWho, will provide a person's profile through their phone number. Entering the person's phone number into an online search engine, such as Google, Bing or Yahoo, will result in lots of results. These are filtered by relevancy, so you'll only have to check out the most likely options, listed at the top.
 While you're waiting, perhaps you'll remember his name. Talk about other things, which don't require names.


Use verbal work-arounds to avoid saying the person's name. Use the phrase, "my friend" or "my colleague" if you have to refer to the person.
In certain cultural settings, generic endearments may be appropriate. For example, some people choose to use the terms, "sweetie," "darling," or "pal."Be very careful before employing these, though, as they are culturally specific. If these terms aren't commonly used within a particular culture, they might be misunderstood.
 Most people will be understanding, and won't mind telling you their name a second time. You can use this opportunity to tell them your name again as well.


Use a casual tone of voice when you ask what her name is. For example, you might say, "Hang on, I've already forgotten your name. Would you mind saying it again?" or "I'm totally blanking on your name for some reason." The other person will likely appreciate your honesty.
You might add, "I'm not good at remembering names," so that the person will not assume that knowing her name isn't important to you. If this is a potential business contact, however, don't add this, as it will perhaps seem like a potential liability.
Blame your forgetfulness on your age. Most people experience worsening memories, particularly for names, as they age.