 Is she making eye contact with you? Is she smiling, laughing and having a good time talking to you? If so, you're on the right track. What if she keeps looking at you because she's annoyed with you always looking at her? This is not a good sign, and the girl might be a little stressed herself. Make sure to keep your feelings about her private, and not so obvious.;
, If she's constantly trying to touch your hand or finds excuses to do so, then she's probably interested. However, don't assume that she doesn't like you if she isn't touching you. Likewise, don't start touching her if she isn't making contact with you. This usually scares or intimidates girls. If she won't even look at you, stay calm and find excuses to talk to her.
 If she likes you, she will either hold your gaze for a long time or pull away immediately. Either of these signs could mean that she likes you. If you happen to glance at the girl and you see her staring back at you, then this means that she doesn't like you, or she does like you, although she may quickly dart her head in a different direction. If she's looking at you in a mean way, check your teeth. If she pulls away quickly, it could mean she is nervous but still likes you.


Remember that if you are having a conversation, girls tend to look at your face, so don't immediately assume that she likes you if you are speaking and she is simply listening. If you never talk to the girl, chances are you have a low chance of dating her. Friendships lead to love, but non-friendship leads to.... nothing.
 While talking, make sure to look at her face and specifically her eyes. Pay attention to what she is saying so that when she asks you something or stops talking, you can continue the conversation intelligently. Don't get caught staring at her body (especially her breasts). Very few women like this. If she doesn't look at you or she ignores you, back off, and leave her alone for a little. Some girls don't like looking boys in the eyes and talking. Read her body language.
 Offer to carry something heavy, get her lunch at the office, or do something nice for her. If she refuses, then wait until she really needs help or comforting, like when she's feeling down and having a bad day. Be friendly and outgoing to her. If she walks away quickly, don't follow her or say, "What??", just keep on going.
 You don't need to get decked out in a suit and tie to ask a girl out, but make sure your clothes are clean and well-fit, that you've brushed your teeth and are wearing deodorant. You should never ever wear the same clothes again, like you wear red sweatpants Monday, and then you wear them again on Tuesday.
 Don't worry about coming up with something overly clever. Simply say "Hi" or "Hey." As the conversation moves forward you can give her a complement or ask her a question.


If starting conversations is not your strong point, read these articles:
How to Talk to Strangers
How to Come Up with Good Conversation Topics



, Don't make the occasion seem like a big deal. Flirt a little! Relax, crack a joke, and break the touch barrier.
 Ask her to go the movies or something else you both would be interested in. You could also invite her out to happy hour at a bar you both enjoy. Try to make it original.


You might say: "I heard about this movie, _______. What do you think about it?" If she says she thinks it looks good, ask her if she'd like to go with you to see it. If she asks "As in a date?" say yes. Girls like guys who are sure of themselves much better than they do the cowardly guys.
Another thing you might say while keeping the tone casual is: "I was going to check out this art opening on Saturday night. Do you want to go with me? I think it would be fun if we both went together."

, If she questions if you're asking her on a date, say yes. Girls like guys who are sure of themselves.
 Keep your cool if she says no, smile and respond gracefully by saying, "No problem! Maybe another time." Change the conversation to something else or leave if you'd rather not hang around. Act as if you don't need her, because that sometimes will pique the interest of a girl. If she makes a face and yells, "Oh my gosh, no way!" this means that the girl is grossed out with you. Leave her alone and move on to another girl. Don't get your feelings too hurt though, this will leave you lifeless. Some girls just don't like this kind of stuff.

