 This way, you will not introduce any germs or foreign substances into the cut that may later cause it to become infected.


If available, put on some single-use gloves after washing your hands for more protection;
, For minor cuts and scratches, this may not be an issue. However, for wounds that are bleeding more heavily try elevating the injured area above the level of the heart (as this decreases blood flow to the area), and apply gentle pressure as needed. You can use a clean cloth to apply the pressure, as this will also soak up any blood as it appears.


If the cut is from a large stabbing object that remains imbedded in the person's body, do not attempt to remove it, as this will cause more bleeding. Seek emergency attention.
Note that if the bleeding does not slow down or stop with these steps, you may need to go into the Emergency Room. Although most small cuts will stop bleeding within five or so minutes, if the blood keeps pouring out you will definitely want to see a doctor sooner rather than later as your cut will likely need professional medical attention, as well as possible stitches.
 Start by rinsing the cut with clear water and a mild cleanser. You do not need to use hydrogen peroxide or an iodine-containing cleanser. These may actually irritate the cut more than help it to heal. Simple soap and water is effective enough for the cleaning process.


Rinse for at least two minutes, and until the wound looks clean.
 However, be careful not to make the wound worse as you try to get things out of it. Note that if there is a significant amount of foreign material lodged in the cut, it is best to see a doctor rather than to attempt to get it out yourself. This is because failure to get it out may result in infection, or you may make the cut worse in your attempts to clear it all out.


Therefore, if cleaning the debris out of the cut is simple, you may do it yourself; however, if it looks daunting (or appears that you might cause further injury trying to get it out), see a doctor for professional help.
Again, if there is a large object imbedded in the wound (such as a knife left in a stab wound), leave it in place and get emergency assistance immediately.
 Apply a light covering over the entire wound. This not only helps to prevent bacterial infection, it also helps to moisturize the cut which can speed up healing.
 If it is just a small cut or scratch that looks like it will easily heal on its own, covering it may not be needed. However, if in doubt, use a bandage to be safe rather than sorry and to ensure the fastest healing. Be sure to change the bandage every 24 hours.


If the wound looks too big to be covered by a bandage, you may need to look for a larger bandage, or to see a doctor to wrap it if it is a large wound. Consider a compress and rolled gauze.
 A small cut or scratch is unlikely to be a significant worry. However, if in doubt, see your healthcare professional to discuss whether or not he advises a tetanus immunization at this time. If you have been immunized within the last 10 years, you will be fine as the shot is effective for 10 years.

