 Go to Facebook’s home page and enter your registered email address and password in the required fields at the top right corner of screen. Hit the “Log in” button to access to your Facebook account.


Remember, you must be an administrator of the Facebook fan page to add the Pinterest tab.;
, Here, you will see all options on adding the Pinterest tab to your Facebook page.
 Click on the drop-down menu tab next to the Pinterest logo, and select a particular page from the list of pages under your administration.
 You will be redirected to the selected Facebook page, which will now have the Pinterest tab on it.
 You’ll find the new Pinterest tab along the top bar, below your page’s cover image.
 You will be taken to the Woobox Pinterest Tab Edit page.


If it’s your first time to use Woobox, you will be asked to grant Woobox permission to access your Facebook. Just accept to proceed to the edit page.
 Remember, just enter the user ID not the entire URL of the Pinterest account.
 Click on one of the radio button next to the heading “Pin Mode” to choose the appearance type of your pins or pin boards on the Facebook page. You can select from “Show All Pin Boards” or “Show Pins from Pin Board.”


The first option will display all the pin boards on your Pinterest account on your Facebook page.
The second option allows you to select certain pins from a particular board to be displayed on your Facebook page.
If you want to display the “Facebook Like & Send” button on your pins, check the box under “Share Options.”

, The first option under this heading is the Fan Gate option. It is an option through which you can set preference on the liking and viewing contents on your page.


By choosing the “Yes” option, your visitors have to like your page before viewing the contents of your Pinterest tab; on the other hand, by choosing the “Off” option, the visitors are allowed to view the contents of your Pinterest tab without liking your page. The default setting for this should be Off.
You can also enter a URL under the “Non-Fan Page Source” option to load it in the Iframe window. Do this by clicking on “URL” tab to the right side of the “Non-Fan Page Source” title.
Similarly, you can upload an image or use an HTML code by clicking on “Image” or “HTML” tab on right side.
 Your Facebook page and Pinterest account should be connected, and the tab should load all the pins available under your Pinterest boards.
 After adding the Pinterest tab on your Facebook page, you should check the tab whether it is working properly or not.


Go to your Facebook page and scroll down the page until you find out the App tab on the left side.
Click on Pinterest logo under the App tab. Once the next page loads, you will see the Pinterest boards and pins you allowed to be displayed on your Facebook page, under the Pinterest tab.
You can also find the Pinterest tab under the More tab at the top of the page.

