 Havanas have a beautiful, silky brown coat. The type of fur makes it easy to take care of without any special care. Brush your Havana Brown’s coat weekly with a rubber brush to spread the natural oils and keep them look neat.Consider shining your cat’s coat with your hands, a chamois cloth, or silk scarf.The Havana Brown doesn’t shed very much.;
, Proper nail maintenance is part of caring for your Havana. To trim your cat’s nails, make your cat comfortable and make sure they are in a calm mood. Hold the cat in your lap by wrapping your more dominant hand around the cat’s upper body. With your free hand, gently hold one paw and carefully press on it. The claws should extend. Use your dominant hand to trim the nails.


You need to use cat nail clippers, which can be found online or at a pet store. There are two types, scissor clippers and guillotine clippers.
Avoid cutting the quick when you cut the nail. The quick is the living tissue part of your cat's claw. You can see it underneath or through the top of the nail. The quick is the pink triangle part of the nail. Only cut the clear bits of nail, not the pink part.
 Wipe your cat's ears often to remove dirt and buildup. Check the ears once each week to see if they are clean. A clean ear will be pink and odorless. If the ear is dirty, it will be darker because of dirt or debris. It may smell.Dampen a cotton ball. Gently rub the inside of your cat’s ear to remove any dirt or debris.
 Help promote a healthy mouth for your Havana Brown by brushing their teeth often. Use cat toothpaste and a cat toothbrush with soft bristles. Never use human toothpaste on a cat because the fluoride is poisonous.You need to get your cat used to the toothpaste before you brush their teeth. Start by letting the cat taste the toothpaste. Place a small amount of toothpaste on your finger and let the cat lick it. When your cat gets used to the taste of the toothpaste, start rubbing your finger along their gums.
After your car is used to the feel of you rubbing their gums, carefully drag a toothbrush with toothpaste along the gums. Work the bristles along the teeth in slow, tiny circles. Continue this until your cat allows you to brush their teeth.

