 The most common topics in pop punk are love, adolescence, and youthful rebellion, but the beauty of the genre is how open it is. You can talk about politics, people, science fiction, or a night at the bar with your friends. The important thing is to keep it contained to one idea instead of cramming in 2-3. Pop punk songs are short, and you'll be much more effective focusing on just one idea for each song.


In general, pop punk songs have 2-3 choruses, 2-3 verses, and maybe one breakdown, usually without lyrics. You can also consider a chant or call and response section for audience participation, but that's about as complex as most pop punk song structures get.;
, Pop punk is generally a very personal medium. Your fears, stress, and anger all make great, raw emotions for a pop song, so don't shy away from your personal life and opinions. Punk is an open, DIY genre, and you should add your own take to your songs. While traditional "punk" steers free of emotional songwriting, pop-punk bands like Screeching Weasel, Good Charlotte, and more have proven that there is a demand for emotionally honest songwriting.


Love and heartbreak
Suburban angst
Rebellion against school, parents, etc.
Growing up., Green Day's album American Idiot, perhaps the most famous pop-punk political statement, is really just one album in a long tradition of socially conscious, politically informed punk rock music. Typically, the mood is rebellious and angry -- pointing out problems others won't in an attempt to bring about awareness about the issues you care about. Bands like "The Clash," "Bad Religion," and "Anti-Flag" can be powerful mentors. Some angles include:


Attacking a powerful political figure, like in Anti-Flag's "Turncoat."
Exposing an issue or ignored topic, like The Clash's "Spanish Bombs" or "Washington Bullets."
Mocking satire, pretending to be a political opponent to show how terrible their views are ("Kill the Poor.")

, Throughout the history of Pop-punk, pranksters, jokers, and biting satirists have shown that pop-punk can be just as funny as it is powerful, personal, or political. From NOFX's "She's Nubs," most of Blink 182's early library, or the self-aware The Steinways, don't be afraid to write a silly, juvenile song just to get a quick laugh., The Lillingtons, for example, wrote most of their songs in an imaginary sci-fi universe, building up stories and ideas through futuristic lyrics. If you feel like writing a cowboy anthem in the vein of Social Distortion, go for it. There is nothing stopping you from crafting a pop-punk jam from Batman's perspective, or the mind of a monkey. Pop punk is a wide-open and inclusive genre, so write what you want to write.

