 A joke, or something said or done to provoke laughter or cause amusement, can be something as simple as a knock knock joke or as detailed as a long, interesting story with a punchline.


A knock knock joke is a call and response where you engage your listener by asking: “knock knock”, and wait for them to respond with “who’s there?”For example: “Knock, knock” “Who’s there?” “The interrupting cow.” “The wh-” “The interrupting cow.” "The-" "The interrupting cow."
Inside jokes - jokes shared between a few people only - are funny because they are relating a common experience amongst a private group. This mutual experience makes you happy and allows you to relate to someone in an intimate way, which can produce laughter.
Keep in mind jokes don’t always have to be funny, they only have to provoke a response in the listener. To do that, you can simply tell a joke that relates to them; one that supports the way they think, makes them feel better about themselves, or reaffirms a friendship or bond. ;
, Puns are a form of wordplay which forces the listener to think twice about the meaning of a word or phrase. For example:








“Did you hear about the guy whose whole left side was cut off? He's all right now.”
“I'm reading a book about anti-gravity. It's impossible to put down.”
“I don't trust these stairs because they're always up to something.”, Sarcastic remarks point out the obvious in a situation in a teasing or taunting manner. Be careful with sarcasm though, as it can be offensive or confusing if the listener does not understand your sarcastic tone.









Work on your sarcasm by first learning to recognize when someone is being sarcastic, and then try to imitate or mimic their tone, language, and remarks. Don’t be afraid to ask your listener if they found your remark sarcastic or clever.
Be sarcastic by giving the opposite response of what is expected. “Do you like the dessert I made?” “No! It’s absolutely horrible!” This pokes fun by pointing out an obvious truth.
Sarcastic remarks can be made to point out an absurd assumption. “Is my car in the driveway?” “No, last I saw it was at the bottom of the lake.”

, A one-liner is just like what it sounds - a joke told in a single sentence.









For example: “I asked my North Korean friend how it was there, he said he couldn't complain.”

, A comeback is a one line joke, usually told in response to teasing or mocking.









The best comebacks are told in the moment, and with rapid delivery so that the person who said the original remark is thrown off or surprised.
For example: “Nice wig, Janis. What’s it made of?” “Your mom’s chest hair.”, This means you tell jokes or make remarks to make fun of yourself.








Point out your obvious flaws. If, for example, you’re tall for your age, make jokes about it so people around you feel more comfortable and are less intimidated by your height.
Joke about personal disadvantages. If you are in debt because you are a shopaholic, make jokes about your inability to stop from purchasing your 200th pair of shoes.
Joke about your quirks. If you have a fear of slugs and know it’s irrational, joke about it. People laugh at things that seem absurd or ridiculous, especially when you are willing to also poke fun of your own absurdity.
 This is a type of joke where you accidentally insert an out-of-place word from your subconscious into your speech. These can be done intentionally, but are funniest when they are accidental.








"For seven and a half years I've worked alongside President Reagan. We've had triumphs. Made some mistakes. We've had some sex... uh... setbacks." -A Freudian slip by President George H.W. Bush
While watching a commercial advertising a laundry detergent, Larry asks his girlfriend to pass him the phone, but instead, he says, "Babe, can you pass me the soap?", This is when you make a joke by minimizing the seriousness of an action or event. This will help to lighten the mood and undercut any tension or anxiety around the action or event.









Your friend gets stung by bees and has an allergic reaction that causes their face to swell up and turn red. Your response “Oh, it’s not too bad. Just adds some natural color to your face!”
Make an understatement about a bad test score to minimize the upset. “Well, it could have been worse. We could have been in there for 10 hours instead of 3!”

