 Locate the app on your iPhone and tap on it. The app logo has a picture of a periscope with a red dot on a blue background.;
, You need a Twitter account to use Periscope, as your live videos are broadcasted on it. Tap on the “Sign in with Twitter” button on the welcome screen. Tap the OK button on the authorization message to allow Periscope access to your Twitter account.  

, Periscope will link with your Twitter account. Tap on the “Create Account” button to start using Periscope.  

, A list of featured people and people you follow on Twitter will be shown. Tap on the ones you want to follow on Periscope. A check icon will appear beside their names. Tap on the Done button on the upper right corner.  

, You’re now set to use Periscope! You will be brought to your main dashboard screen. The list of people you are following that are live and that have recently broadcasted will be shown.  

, From the list of live broadcasts, tap on the name of the person you want to watch now. A “LIVE” flag appears on the person’s box that’s currently streaming.


View Global List. If you don’t have any that’s currently live, you can tap on the “View Global List” instead. You can also tap on the world icon on the bottom menu. You will be brought to the Global List showing all the people currently broadcasting live. Swipe up and down to view your options. Tap on the one you’d like to watch now.
 All the people currently watching the same live video can post messages that can be seen by everyone. These messages appear from the bottom left of the screen going up.


Send a message. You can also join the conversation by sending a message to the group. Tap on the text field on the bottom and a keypad will appear. Type your message, and then tap the Send button. Your message will appear on the messages stream over the video.
 People who like the video can show this by tapping anywhere on the video. Each tap sends a heart fluttering from the bottom right corner.


Send a heart. You can send a heart by tapping anywhere on the screen. Hearts you send will be colored green, while the hearts other people send will be red.
 You can skip Steps 2 and 3 above if you just want to silently watch the video. The video will continue to stream as long as you’re connected and the person broadcasting is live.
 Tap on the ‘X’ button on the upper right corner to exit the current video. You will be brought back to either your dashboard or the Global List, depending on where you came from.
 Tap on the camera lens icon on the bottom menu. Before you can begin doing a live stream, you have to set up your iPhone to support video broadcasting.  

, Since this is your first time, a step‐by‐step guide will help you set-up. Tap on the “Enable Camera” button on the menu. The app will request access to your iPhone’s camera. Tap on the OK button to confirm.  

, Next, tap on the “Enable Microphone” button on the menu. The app will request access to your iPhone’s microphone. Tap on the OK button to confirm.  

, You can opt to share your current location, which will show during your live stream. Tap on the “Enable Location” button on the menu. The app will request access to your iPhone’s location services. Tap on the Allow button to confirm.  

, Before you begin broadcasting, you can type an introduction about what you’re going to show. A text field appears at the top of the “Broadcast Now” screen. Right below it, there are four options you can select to control your video sharing.  

, Tap on the chevron icon to enable Location Sharing. This means that people watching your video will know where you are. Leave this if you do not want to share your location.  

, Tap on the padlock icon if you want to do a Private Broadcast. Private Broadcasts do not appear in the Global List and only the people you invite can join. Enter the names of the people you want to invite to your Private Broadcast on the next screen. Leave this if you’re okay with publicly sharing your video.  

, Tap on the chat icon if you only want to allow users that follow you to chat on the video. This would restrict others from leaving their messages on your video. Leave this if you want to let everybody speak freely.  

, Tap on the Twitter icon if you want your video to be posted as a tweet. Once you start broadcasting, it will also be posted on Twitter, which means everyone following you there can also see it. Leave this if you don’t want to post a tweet about your video.  

, Tap on the red “Start Broadcast” button right below the four options. You are now live, and people can watch you live. Point your camera to yourself or to the areas you want captured.  

, When you’re done, swipe down anywhere on the screen. A red “Stop Broadcast” button will appear. Tap on it. Your live streaming has just ended. A summary screen will appear.  

, Immediately after your live stream, your video would be uploaded. Once done, a play button would appear. Tap on this button to replay your video.  


Save to Camera Roll. This video can be saved locally to your iPhone’s Camera Roll. You can save it for your records or share it with others later on. Tap on the “Save to Camera Roll” button on the bottom part of the screen.
 Tap on the ‘X’ button on the upper right corner to exit the summary screen. You will be brought back to your main dashboard.