 Contours are the outlines of your drawings. There is not blending or shading yet, just lines. Drawing good contour lines is essential for your final drawing, as this is where you give your drawing its shape and proportions.


In general, contour lines are the first thing you do in a drawing.
 This is often overlooked by beginning artists who dive right into the work, but it is incredibly important to get accurate drawings. For example, if you are drawing a large scene, start with faint lines that break your drawing up into thirds both horizontally and vertically. You should have nine small boxes on your page. These will help you to frame your drawing and put everything where it should be, giving you reference points as you work.
 Proportion is the difference in size between two objects. If you draw your arms and legs out of proportion, for example, your drawing will look crude and lopsided. Close one eye and line your pencil up with the subject. Your arm should be completely extended. Use your pencil as a ruler and mark the length of the object with your thumb. You can then compare this distance with other objects on your page, or even use your pencil to mark out the specific distance on the page for your drawing.You can also use your guidelines to help. What “box” of your guidelines does the subject fit into? Do they take up the whole page, or a third of it?

, There is no worse feeling than getting halfway done with a drawing and realizing that the arm of your character is much too short. Good drawers know how to avoid this by blocking out the drawing beforehand. Use simple shapes to mark the proportions of each object. For example, make an oval for a person’s head, a rounded rectangle for the torso, and longer elbows for each arm and leg. Keep adjusting these blocks until you feel confident in the pose and proportions of each item.Make sure you make these marks lightly, so that you can easily erase them later.
Make a small circle or dot for each joint to help your “move” arms and legs into accurate poses.
 Add a layer of complexity with each draft. First it is guidelines and stick figures. Then you add in basic shapes and poses. Next, add in permanent lines over your outline, connecting the joints, adding facial features, etc. Think about making the final contour of the body by connecting the joints so that you have a recognizable shape.


Once you’re happy with your new lines, erase away your light contour marks from underneath the new drawing.
Work slowly, making each line carefully and erasing when you are unhappy. You need your contour to be accurate in order for the final drawing to improve., Never start a drawing at the details. Once you’ve finished you basic contours, it’s time to move on to the details. This is where most artists get caught up early on, spending all of their time and energy on the small details while neglecting the larger proportions.
 Perspective is why far away objects appear small and nearby ones appear large. To get accurate drawings, you need to have accurate perspective. One way to practice is to use a perspective point. Think of this as the farthest point on the horizon, like the sun right before it sets. Draw straight lines out from this point to match your drawings – anything closer to the dot is farther away, and thus smaller, and anything away from the dot is close to you.


Draw two diagonal lines coming away from the dot. Anything that fits between those two lines is the same size in real life, though perspective makes it appear as if they are different.