 You should identify areas that you may potentially be hired based on the languages you speak, your nationality and the job you perform. For example, if you speak English and French, you will want to look in those countries and Switzerland or Belgium.
 It is no longer very easy to travel to a country and apply for jobs while you are there. Most people should establish their training in their own country and apply for jobs or visas before going abroad.
 People with medical degrees, certain engineering degrees, entrepreneurs, investors and certain mechanics may be able to apply for an eased work permit or they may not be required to have a European work permit at all.


In the UK, investors, entrepreneurs, people with exceptional talent and some graduate students or graduate entrepreneurs can apply for a point-based visa system. For many of these categories, there are a limited number of visas, so make sure you apply early.
Elsewhere in Europe, countries are either adopting a points-based system, like the UK, that awards a value based upon your skills and experience. This is a response to supplement the skills of an aging population. Many countries, such as Switzerland, specify that a company must sponsor a non-EU citizen. However, for certain positions, they may not be required to offer the job in their country beforehand.
 This is the most common path to get a skilled job in a European country, because your company will help you apply for the visa before you move. You can search for jobs by specific companies, or you can go online to job aggregate sites, like Monster, CareerBuilder and Indeed and look for jobs located in Europe.
 Many domestic programs are cheaper and well respected in Europe. Visit websites like eslemployment.com, teachaway.com, languagecorps.com to begin researching positions in EU and non-EU countries.


If you have an education degree, you can apply for work in international, military and immersion schools abroad. As well as applying online, you may attend international teaching job fairs to interview for a full-time position.
If you are having trouble finding a full-time job, consider apply to be a camp counselor at an International Camp in Europe. Visit statravel.com/work-abroad-europe.htm to apply for a short-term position.
 There are dozens of agencies that hire English-speaking people to be au pairs for at least 3 months in Europe. You must be at least 18 years of age with some experience taking care of children.
 Depending upon the country to which you are applying, you may be able to get limited rights to work in that country. Then, you can apply for permanent residency or a work permit.

