 Some bands are: Ozzy Osbourne, Black Sabbath, Metallica, Judas Priest, Iron Maiden, Dio and Dokken. Black Metal would be Gorgoroth, Marduk, Satyricon, Mayhem, etc. Melodic, Folk, or Power Metal bands you might like would be Eluveitie, Finntroll, Ensiferum, Helloween, Iced Earth, Hammerfall, Amon Amarth or God Dethroned. Recommendations for heavy or brutal bands are Death, Nile, Suffocation, Morbid Angel, Devourment or Skinless. Go to their concerts! Don't waste your money on the ones you don't like though because you will seem like a poser.;
, Most metalheads' hair is red, blonde or black. You can tease it as long as you don't look like the 'scene kid', but a mullet type hairstyle, which is a quite old style from the 80s, is good. Most metal chicks have long hair! So grow out your hair or have corn rows.
 Your shoes can be heeled boots, platform heels, and flats (depends on the style of your flats).
 Look for people wearing t-shirts of bands you like, or hang out in areas where people listen to metal. Start hanging out with the people you might have thought were weird when you were younger that listened to the hard rock music like Bon Jovi or Motley Crue.
 Find your own personal metal style. You should know your stuff, and which music you like in metal depends on you. Don't feel the need to listen to certain bands or dress a certain way in order to be cool; focus on what you personally like.


Be cautious about people who dismiss you as "fake." It's okay to be new to metal, and to still be exploring what you enjoy. It's also okay to like different things from what most metalheads like.
 Get an instrument like a guitar or drum or use your voice. If you are a better singer than an instrument player, do that. Guitars can vary like bass, and electric, you could get a cool design if you have the money for a wicked awesome one. And for drums, just make sure it isn't a kid drum set.


Only some metalheads are musicians; it's okay if you appreciate music without making your own.
 Get your friends who know how to play instruments or sing. Guitar, drum, and piano are the staples of metal bands. Listen to metal for inspiration, and come up with unique sounds and lyrics.

