 Draw a square on page as big as you would like to make the map in it.


Mark the half of the box, vertically and horizontally.
Make all the guidelines very light with a light pencil so you can erase them easily in the end.;
, Draw a line at the center of both the vertical and the horizontal lines of the box with a scale.
 Use a scale to further divide the two vertical halves into four equal parts.


These four divisions will enable you to maintain good proportion of the map of India.
You can erase these lines or guiding lines in the end once you finish drawing the map.
 To understand better as to which section of the map will be drawn where, number the boxes as shown in the picture above.
 Use curved or wavy lines all throughout the map.


Keep a keen eye on where the line must go inwards and where outwards. Some waves are longer and some smaller.
 The bottom portion or the south of India could be drawn like a side face of a human looking at the right side of the page. You can start off making a 'v'.


This lower portion will fall on the second box.
Almost the entire (lengthwise) map of India will be adjusted in this 'second' box.
 Make the entire lower half for the south of India continuing from the above step.


Looking at the horizontal line you made, make a cup like portion to the extreme left box.
Draw a sloping or a wavy line going upwards.
 Make another cup like portion over the first one. Make it a little smaller.


Make the rectangular shape as you continue.
Make the smaller raised portions and the bits that press inwards. This outward and inwards pressing dents will help you to maintain proportion and alignment with the other half and to make the states inside the map.
 To be able to maintain appropriate proportions, you can either visually or with a scale understand and mark the distance between two shapes.


Understand and mark size of the background and the foreground. The background is the white blank space and the foreground is the object you are drawing.
 Make the top or the north of India.


First draw a half rectangle and over it draw the shape of half and almond.
Make note of the line of the rectangle that is going inside another box.
 Make a slanting 'L' followed by a rock like shape in box no.2.


Make an 'm' like shape and a small rectangle.
Make an inverted 'L' followed by another line making it appear like a ladder.
 Continue from where you left the bottom to the adjacent box.


Make appropriate marks and dents on the line precisely. Maintain the uneven flow of this line.
 Complete the top section towards the east of India. Complete box no.3 with a line which meets the bottom box you made above.


Draw a wavy line followed by three small bumps.
Make a straight line and a bump followed by a conical shape.
Make the shape of a slanting 'M' and a wavy line that touches the bottom section.
 Starting at the small gap or cone made above, make a thin, vertically elongated rectangle. Continue with a wavy line and then make a horizontally stretched rectangular shape.
 Draw an uneven rock shape touching the rectangular shape you made.


Mark the round bumps and the conical shape as shown above.
 Draw two uneven, elongated rectangles alongside the above made shape.


The last bit of the map of India here will have a small rectangle, a few bumps and small 'm' like shapes.
 Make a small '+' addition sign to mark the direction of the map.


Write a capital letter 'N' to signify that the top portion of the map is of the north of India. This would also state that the opposite side of the north or the lower area is south, the left to the north is west of India and the right of north is the east of India.
You can also make a small arrow at the end of all the four lines of the plus sign.
 Outline the map with a black pen, sketch pen or any medium or color of your choice.


Erase the guidelines you made earlier.
 Jammu and Kashmir is the first state from the top or from North.
 Use a good non smudge pen or pencil to write it inside the map.


Write Jammu and Kashmir in any font of your choice. Make sure it is legible or easy to read.
Write its capital below with a mark or a bullet so that there is a distinction between which is the State/ Union Territory and which is its capital.
Write 'Srinagar' as the capital under the states name.
 Write the name of the state 'Punjab' and its capital 'Chandigarh' as Jammu and Kashmir above.


You may also write it with pencil first so you can erase any spelling errors and then write on it with pen.
 Make the border for Himachal Pradesh alongside Punjab.


Write Shimla as its capital city.
 Create the border for Uttarakhand and mention capital 'Dehradun'.


If the names are too long to fit inside the borders, you may stretch it beyond the borders with part of it in the map and part of it extending outside.
 Mark Gujarat to the west of India.


In order to maintain good proportion and that you dont make mistakes with the borders, you can shift from top to bottom or left to the right of the map.
As you reach the center of the map, you will see that the proportions are well maintained and a particular state is not extended beyond its original area.
Write 'Gandhinagar' as its capital.
 Mark 'Rajasthan' above 'Gujarat' and write 'Jaipur' as its capital.


Make the border for 'Uttar Pradesh' below 'Uttarakhand' and name its capital 'Lucknow'.
Make the border for 'Haryana' and its capital 'Chandigarh' between Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.
Try to scale the area of the states better by understanding the distance between two states. This will help especially when there are more than two states lined up one next to another.
 Specify the capital of India - New Delhi with a special symbol which will be mentioned in the key below.
 Going in a flow from top to bottom may make way for some disproportion as mentioned before. Try moving to another direction as south. As you move from south to the top, you will reach the center of India with exact proportion.


Mark the slender border for the state of 'Kerala'. Its capital 'Thiruvananthapuram' is rather lengthy to fit inside the map. Hence, write it outside the map alongside its state as then it will imply clearly that Thiruvananthapuram is the capital of Kerala.
Mark the state 'Tamil Nadu' besides Kerala and write its capital city 'Chennai'.
 The borders here are a bit wavy. To avoid confusion and going beyond the area of specified states, make guidelines for the states.


Mark 'Karnataka' above Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Mention its state 'Bengaluru'.
Mark the border for the state 'Andhra Pradesh' next to Karnataka. Mention its capital city 'Hyderabad'.
Make a small border for 'Goa' over 'Karnataka' and note its capital as 'Panaji'.
Mark the border for the state of 'Maharashtra' between Gujarat and Goa. Mention 'Mumbai' as the capital of Maharashtra.
Mark the guideline over 'Andhra Pradesh' for the state 'Odisha' or 'Orissa'. Adjust its capital is 'Bhubaneshwar' partly inside the map and the rest outside or write it completely outside but alongside Odisha to it looks like it belongs to it.
Mark the border for 'West Bengal' over Odisha and write its capital 'Kolkata'.
 Join the marks you made for the states as per its shape and area.


Write the names of the states and its capital as mentioned above.
Make the border for the state which is at the center India, 'Madhya Pradesh'. Mention its capital 'Bhopal'.
Make the border for 'Telangana' and its capital also 'Hyderabad'. Telangana shares its borders with a few states namely Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Chhattisgarh.
 Make it over Telangana. Write the name of its capital, Raipur.
 Border the boundary for Jharkhand and its capital 'Ranchi'.
 This section of the map is complete with Bihar which shares its borders with Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and West Bengal.
 This is the portion of the map which is to the extreme end holding on with a comparatively smaller portion.


Write the name of the state 'Sikkim' on the rectangular shape that stands out. Mention its capital as 'Gangtok'.
Make the remaining borders for the eight states that fall in this section of India.
The areas are smaller while the names are bigger. Hence you will have to adjust and write them neatly.
Write the names of the state next to Sikkim as 'Assam' and its capital as 'Dispur'.
Mention 'Arunachal Pradesh' on top of Assam and 'Itanagar' as its capital respectively.
Make way for the state of 'Nagaland' and its capital 'Kohima'.
Below it mention 'Manipur' and its capital 'Imphal'.
 Make the border for the two lower, connected states. Mention 'Mizoram' and its capital 'Aizawl' and mark the state of 'Tripura' with its capital 'Agartala' alongside.


Mark 'Meghalaya' below 'Assam'. Mention its capital city 'Shillong'.
 Write the name of the Union Territory - 'Andaman and Nicobar' and its capital 'Port Blair' as seen outside the map.
 Mention 'Daman and Diu' with its capital 'Daman' and 'Dadra and Nagar Haveli' with its capital 'Silvassa'.
 Mention the union territory 'Lakshadweep' and its capital 'Kavaratti' below the above union territories.
 Mark the union territory 'Puducherry' on opposite side of Lakshadweep towards 'Tamil Nadu'. Mention its capital 'Pondicherry'.
 You may mark the neighboring areas to India.


Write Pakistan to the top left blank area.
Arabian Sea to the lower left blank area.
Indian Ocean below the Arabian Sea.
Tropic of Cancer at the center to the right side of the map.
China to the top right blank area.
Bay of Bengal at bottom right of the page.
 Use a specific colored pen or any medium of your choice to outline the map. This will make the map stand out and create a distinction between the overall border of India and the borders of the various states.


You can also use a thick black pen or a non-smudge sketch pen for it.
You can color the states with different colors of your choice.
You can color outside the map as well.
 Use a different color or a different thickness for the outline of the states.


You can also draw the border creatively with dotted lines, thick and thin lines etc. All this will be marked accordingly in the 'key'.
You can write 'India' either on the map elaborately or on the side outside the map. Just make it bold and clear so it need not be searched instead is easily spotted. If you write it on the map, make sure not to write on top of the other names mentioned in it already.
 The key consists of and explains the symbols you have used to mark the details like borders, states, capitals etc. It mostly sits on the lower right of the map.


You can make the box for the key first and fill in all the details first or write the details first and make borders around it. If you write the details first, you don't have to worry about fitting in all the details or writing in smaller letters.
If you have used a thick black line to mark the borders, make a thick black line and write 'Country Boundary' besides the line. This will show how you have marked the boundary of the country.
 Write 'Key' as the heading.


Towards the left of the key mark the symbol you have used to mark the capital of the country and the capital of the states or the union territories.
Continue with marking the style or color of the line you have used to mark the boundary of both the country as a whole and the states or the Union territories.
Towards its right, mention what the symbols denote.
Make a border around the key to make it look neat.
 You can choose to color the inside of the map. Coloring with pencil colors or with any medium of your choice will only make it look more presentable and vibrant. You can color each state and Union Territory with a different color so each division stands out individually.


Using differing colors will also avoid confusion as to where a certain boundary or border ends and where another begins.
