 Things to look for that might spell out negative vibes include your roommate's lack of cooperation, not talking to you, being impolite whenever you do talk, being grouchy, being reticent to spend time around you beyond sleep time, making difficult requests about lights, noise, positioning of furniture, etc. Equally there could reasons why these should not be interpreted negatively - your roommate might be feeling lonely, homesick, sad, anxious, afraid, bored, drugged, etc.;
, If you're worried about all the negatives, try looking for positives to balance with the negatives. Good signs include talking with you civilly, asking you permission to move things, checking that you're OK with things happening or changing, being respectful of curfews, etc.
 It won't take long for you to know whether or not there is a friendship between you but it can be harder to know if you do at least have mutual respect even if friendship is not going to be an option. Good signs of a positive relationship include feeling comfortable and at ease around your roommate, being able to talk with them about room issues without too many difficulties, and generally just getting along fine. Bad signs include feeling sick, nauseous, and uncomfortable in their presence, being unable to hold a polite conversation, shouting at one another all the time, bullying, mean-spirited behavior. You're the best judge of how life in your room is headed.
 Stress does weird things to people. If your roommate has been great but suddenly changes, don't assume it's you. If might be exams, a broken heart, a lost trophy, a missed audition, a dented car, a poor mark on an essay, a death in the family. Give your roommate the benefit of the doubt, let them know you're available to talk and give them space. Perhaps in time they'll change back. If, on the other hand, the difficult and uncomfortable behavior has been going on since day one, it's probably a permanent state of affairs.
 When the two of you live in close quarters, you will be crossing invisible boundaries all the time. It's a really good idea to sit down and talk about this from the outset. Find out about each others' space issues and try to find ways to accommodate these early on. A great deal of animosity can be avoided by not crossing these boundaries but you need to know them first!

, Is there anything less disturbing than being woken up at 3am by a loud, drunken roommate when you've got an exam first thing in the morning? Not really. Again, set the ground rules early on, as well as letting one another know when important events are happening, such as exams, dates, etc.
 If you're making life unbearable in the room, don't expect joy back. Be considerate and helpful, remedy that snoring issue, and keep the lights out when both of you agree. It's not easy sharing a room with someone else but it is a good lesson in life in not making assumptions, being open, and being ready to make compromises so that both sides are comfortable.

