 This can be a sheet of plastic canvas, window screening, tulle, or even lace. Plastic canvas is a great choice, because it comes in all sorts of colors and is easy to work with; you can find it at an arts and crafts store. This holder will work best for hook earrings, but it can work for stud earrings as well.


If you are using window screening, consider spray painting it a fun color first. Paint one side first, let it dry, then flip it over and paint the other side.
For a rustic frame, try burlap instead. You can even add a silhouette or letter to it with some fabric paint and a stencil., Discard the glass panel and the backing, or save them for another project. Alternatively, you can also use a simple, wooden frame base from the craft store; it doesn't come with a glass panel or backing, so it'll be less work for you.


Don't worry about the color of the frame; you can always paint it.
 If the frame is the right design, but the wrong color, you can spray paint it to suit your taste.You can also decorate your frame with glitter, glitter glue, or colorful rhinestones. Let everything dry completely before continuing.
 Turn your frame over so that the back is facing you, then lay the mesh down on it. Use painter's tape or masking tape to mark off where you need to cut the mesh. When you are done, cut the mesh using the tape as your guideline. Peel off any excess tape.


Don't use marker. Not only will you mess the frame up, but the marker will be hard to see on the material.
 Draw a line of glue around the outer edges of the opening on the back of the frame. Quickly press the mesh into the glue. You can use hot glue or tacky glue for this. If you used tulle, lace, or burlap, you can use fabric glue instead.


Different types of glue will take different amounts of time to dry. Tacky glue will take a few hours while hot glue will set almost immediately.
If you'd like to hide the glue, outline the inside edges of the mesh square with glue, then cover it with strips of ribbon. Make sure that the ribbon does not stick past the opening of the frame.
 Because you took the backing out, the frame won't be able to stand up on its own. You can't put the backing in again either, because it will "block" the mesh and prevent you from inserting your earrings. If you want to make your frame a little more stable, there are a few things you can do:


Cut a piece of ribbon and tie it into a loop. Glue it to the back of your frame, and use it to hang it up on the wall.
Use a frame holder or frame stand to hold up your frame.Hot glue a short dowel or two to the back of the frame to make a stand.If you'd like, you can paint the dowel to match the frame.
 This earring holder is best for hook earrings, but it can work for stud earrings too. Simply take the earring backing off first, poke the earring through the mesh, then pop the backing back on.

