 Life insurance for people is essentially a way for the insured individual to cover the costs related to death while also providing a specific sum of money to help the family members of the recently deceased carry on without the income the deceased person once provided. Most pets don’t really provide an income, so pet life insurance works a bit differently in that it accounts for end of life costs- more like a health insurance plan. While pet life insurance can be used to cover funeral or cremation costs, they don’t often provide the “income-lost” portion of insurance money because the pet generated no actual income., This is not to say that you need to evaluate how much you love or cherish your pet. Rather, you need to ask what type of loss you will incur as the result of your pet’s death. Years back, this would seem an absurd question. But, pets now actually generate money for families in some exceptional or rare cases. Think about the following questions:Is your pet a show pet or purebred animal? Show pets and purebreds have a greater value than the average pet because they can win prize money at competitions or have inherent value as breeding pets.
Is your pet famous? Some animals are much more notable than others, thus giving them a higher value in the eyes of the insurance company. Some animals work in a professional capacity, as animal actors in movies, television shows and commercials. Also, with the rise of viral pet videos, animals can become internet sensations (think Grumpy Cat). These animals generate income by drawing viewers to certain websites where advertisements can be sold, giving them a tangible, quantifiable value.
 The bulk of pet life insurance plans cover the costs related to a very narrow range of deaths. For example, the insurance company will not pay for the costs related to the death of an animal that died because of old age or hereditary disease. They generally cover costs related to sudden or accidental death, the sudden onset of terminal illness, the funeral costs, and money equal to the dollar value of the pet, so that it can be replaced.If you pay for comprehensive pet life insurance, the insurance company may even cover the costs of therapy for you and your family members to help you get over the death of a pet.
 There are some limitations on which types of pets are eligible for pet life insurance. For example, pets over 8 years old are generally not insurable, unless you are willing to pay an exceptionally high premium for a special plan. However, every company has different policies for what they will cover and what they will not., If you are looking to purchase life insurance for your pet in order to pay for sudden end of life treatments and burial, then you are looking at the right plans. However, if your goal is provide some assistance in paying for an animal’s regular vet bills, grooming costs, etc. you will likely want to consider pet health insurance. Also, if your goal is to get the costs of your pet’s sudden accident or injury covered, there are specific policies for that as well. There is a considerable amount of overlap between other pet health insurance policies and pet life insurance policies, so look at each type carefully to make sure you are paying for what you really need.