 You can buy fun or fancy name tags or labels from crafts and office supply stores. Write your class or your name on the label using a fun script or font. Practice writing the word on a scrap of paper in different scripts or fonts until you find a script you like, and then with a marker or pen, inscribe the title onto the name tag. Use a ruler and carefully center the tag on the front upper center of your paper cover and then adhere it., You can buy different colored paper tapes from a crafts store that go well with your cover. Take the cover off of the book to make the stripes, or make the stripes before you make the cover. Mark a place for each stripe at the top of the book every 1-2 inches. Use a ruler to mark off the stripes at regular intervals to make sure they are evenly spaced. To keep your lines straight, draw faint lines down the cover with your ruler and cover them with strips of paper tape.
 For example, if you have a blue paper cover with white stripes, you can adhere an anchor sticker to the bottom corner of your cover to create a sailing themed book cover. You can buy any kind of sticker(s) to go along with the color or pattern of your book cover. , You can put your school schedule into a document holder you adhere to your book cover or you can decorate a card to place into a holder to give your cover more fun style. In office supply stores, you can find self-adhering business card holders, self-adhering document holders, and insertable label holders for shipping. Simply adhere one of these pockets onto the front or back of your book cover. , You will follow the method “Making a Paper Cover” to make your paper cover, but you will use two pieces of paper instead of one. The second paper creates a pocket you can use to put papers in. You can overlap two different colored pieces of large construction paper to create a pocket on your book cover. Or you can use one solid color and one pattern or music sheet, etc.. This pocket will look cool but is also a practical addition to your cover. You will be able to quickly stash documents in the front of your book cover with a pocket.To create the paper sheet you will cover your book with, lay the papers on top of each other so that the piece below sticks out 2 inches from the bottom edge of the top paper.
Use double sided tape to adhere the two pieces of paper together at the edges of the paper.
 If you keep a pocket notebook, make a rubber band holder to keep your pocket notebook. It will help prevent you from losing the small notebook in your bag. Simply take two large rubber bands and place them around the length of the front cover so that they are spaced a bit wider apart than the notebook.To secure your notebook in the cover, put your notebook under the rubber band closer to the book opening, and set it on top of the rubber band nearer to the book spine.

