 Your goal is to keep the pollen that is outside, outside. Keep your car windows and house windows closed and use air conditioning instead, especially when the pollen count is high or you’re in the midst of pollen season. Unfortunately, this comes at an additional financial cost, so decide how often you want to use this method.


Alternatively, have a new and efficient air filter added to the air intake of your car, so that you can use outside air to circulate around the car instead of air conditioning.If you don’t have air conditioning in your home, it may help to swap bedrooms with a housemate whose room faces the fewest allergy-producing trees and plants. It will help to reduce the exposure when you let fresh air into your room.
 Pollen collects on your skin and clothes when you’re outside, so when you get home remove your day clothes immediately and toss them in the hamper or washing machine. This will prevent the spread of hitchhiking pollen to the couch, your bed, and other clothes. Wash your clothes before wearing them again.


Use an electric dryer or indoor clothes line instead of drying your laundry outdoors.You may also want to leave your shoes at the door after spending time outside to avoid tracking pollen indoors.
 Pollen not only settles on your clothes throughout the day, but also on your skin and in your hair. Going to bed with pollen in your hair will transfer that pollen to your pillow, and you'll sleep with your face in pollen all night long. A soap-free rinse in the shower before bed will do the trick to remove pollen from your skin, but for the best defense overnight wash your hair, as well., Sheets, blankets, comforters, and especially pillowcases should be changed often, at least on a weekly basis if not twice per week. Thoroughly wash bedding before reusing. Have spare sets of bedding so you can swap the sets out often without overwhelming yourself with doing laundry every three days. Keeping a clean, pollen-free bed will protect you from inhaling pollen all night long.
 Your dog, outdoors cat, rabbit, ferret, or other loveable pet can easily track pollen into the house. Commit to brushing them daily to remove as many allergens as possible from their fur, especially if they sleep in bed with you. Groom them in a wood or tiled area so that you can easily clean up without hair and pollen getting into the carpet.
 No amount of washing and prevention will stop all pollen from entering your home. Vacuum at least once a week to help remove the residual pollen that’s carried inside on people and pets. Use a vacuum cleaner with a small-particle or HEPA filter.