 Some clothes like jeans can be worn several times before washing, but wash your undergarments and socks after each use. If you are wearing clothes more than once, check for any dirt or stains on them before going out of the house. Don't wear wrinkled clothes or anything covered in pet hair.


If you have a pet, keep a lint roller handy. It will pick up pet hair, bits of fuzz, and anything else that sticks to your clothes.
 While you might not have a big clothing budget, you can still match the clothes you have. Put a little more energy into putting an outfit together, then take a minute in front of the mirror to see how you look.


Do not mix styles. Don't wear sweatpants with your blouse or dress shirt. Avoid wearing white socks with your dress shoes.
Avoid wearing colors that clash. Avoid pairing colors with different intensity or undertone. Colors have different properties that will determine if they are complementary to the eye or if they clash.You can use color wheels to help learn to identify various color properties, or simply wear a lot of neutral colors that can make it easy to coordinate with your colored clothing.
 Avoid anything that is too baggy or too tight. Pants shouldn't be drooping down so low that your underwear is showing. Likewise, clothing that is too tight can be seen as too revealing or sexual. Find a size that fits you comfortably.


Wearing a belt or suspenders can help keep your pants where you want them to be.
Make sure any clothes that button up, like shirts and blazers, don't pull or gap across your chest or stomach.
 Avoid any outfits with holes in the fabric and clothes that went out of style ten years ago. When clothes start to seem stretched out or don't quite fit you anymore, it's a good idea to get rid of them and pick out some new clothes. Even if you don't have a big budget, a few new items like a nice pair of new pants and a couple neutral color shirts can go a long way to work with the rest of your wardrobe.


If your closet's full of things you never wear, but they're in pretty good shape, you can donate them to a charity shop. Don't donate things that are worn out (and don't donate undergarments at all).

