 Bend your knees to about a 45 degree angle and lower your weight at your hips. Your head should come to a stop at around chest level or slightly lower. Unlike the exercise-focused variation, the version of the duck walk designed for use on stage keeps you in a more vertical position so that you can continue playing or singing.Chuck Berry did his signature duck walk quite low. This made it look impressive and memorable, and also a bit humorous. Angus Young from AC/DC, another notable representative of the move, tended to stay in an upright stance, making it look more like a game of hopscotch., Lift your non-dominant leg and extend it straight out in front of you at an angle with the floor. Keep your dominant leg planted for better stability and balance. Once again, your entire foot should be flat on the floor, with more of your weight hovering over your heel.


Since the “rock and roll” style duck walk is done on one leg, it can be harder to balance and may tire you out faster.
Try switching up which leg you use from time to time until you can do it on both sides.
 From this skewed-leg position, take a small hop off your grounded foot. You don’t need to try to jump too high or far: only move forward a couple inches at a time. Hop along in this manner on one foot to accentuate your performance. Let your extended leg hover just over the ground, or touch down with your heel if you need to correct your balance.Make your hops small and controlled. Your head shouldn’t bob up and down too much while you’re traveling forward.
If you want your duck walk to look more like Chuck Berry’s, flare your non-hopping leg up and down a little with each hop., Straighten your back and keep your chest up. This will allow you to create enough room to play the guitar, saxophone or another instrument while duck walking. A more elevated body position also won’t require you to use your hands to help preserve your balance, freeing them up for groovy solos.


Practice while holding or actually playing your instrument to see if you can pull off the two tasks simultaneously.

