 Dog food manufacturers will provide coupons in the coupon section of your Sunday newspaper. Try picking up a newspaper each week and clip out any dog food coupons that are included.Make sure that you check the expiration date on any coupons that you collect. Some may only be good for a couple of weeks while others may be good for several months.
 Some manufacturers may also make coupons for their products available online. Try searching the brand name of a dog food that you normally feed your dog and the word “coupons.”Keep in mind that some manufacturers may require you to provide an email or other personal information in exchange for a coupon.
 Another option for getting coupons and even some samples of your dog’s favorite food is to write to the company. Visit the company’s website to find out how to contact them and compose an email or letter to the company to request coupons and samples. Try writing something like:


“My dog really loves (name of dog food, be specific about the type and flavor)! However, I am having some trouble affording the cost of his food right now. Would you be willing to send me some coupons and/or samples?”

, The best way to maximize your coupons is to use them in conjunction with a sale.This will ensure that you pay the least amount of money for your dog’s food. Watch the ads for your local grocery and pet food stores to find out when your dog’s food will be on sale.


Sometimes you can even use a manufacturer’s coupon with a store coupon to save even more money. Try to collect as many coupons for your dog’s food as possible to maximize your savings.Watch for fine print. In some situations, you may not be able to use a coupon if the item is already on sale. Try to avoid these kinds of coupons because they will not save you as much., Pet food stores often have samples of pet food on hand to give to customers. These samples might only be enough for one portion, but you will still save a bit of money if you get a sample every time you go to the store.


Try asking for samples at local pet food stores. For example, you can say something like, “I am really interested in this product, but I’d like to see if my dog will eat it first. Do you have any samples available?”

