 Talk to your family and figure out what everyone likes to do. If they already like to do outdoor activities such as hiking or canoeing, then you can partake in those activities as a family. If they don't like the outdoors, think of things that can link to their interests, such as looking for exotic insects, taking photos of wildlife, picking flowers, or growing plants in a garden.If your kids like animals, you can take them to an outdoor zoo.
If your family has an interest in growing fruits and vegetables, you can start an outdoor garden.
You can say something like "Hey everyone, I'm going to try to make an effort for us to spend more time in nature. What do you think and what are the things that you'd want to do?"

, Don't try to force a harsh regime on children because they are likely to rebel. Instead of concentrating on what your family should be doing, live in the moment and allow your entire family to enjoy the experience. For example, if you want to finish a long hike, but your kids would rather play in the giant field, encourage the fun rather than obsessing over your pre-defined plans., Try to impress the benefits, especially on child development. For children, being outdoors helps build confidence, promotes creativity and exploration, and teaches the child responsibility. For adults, being out in nature can make someone more physically and mentally fit and reduces stress.If your child doesn't want to go outside you can say something like, "Being inside all the time is bad for your health and can make you feel more stressed out. Take a two-hour break and spend some time in the backyard."
If your spouse is reluctant you can say something like "Bill, if the kids see you doing it, then they are more likely to go outside. Also, it's better for your health and can reduce your stress. Why not give it a try?"

, Engage toddlers in their interests and explore nature with them. When your children get into grade school, try to keep the activities exciting and make sure to include a physical challenge. Teens are old enough to do more complicated things like canoeing, hiking, and hiking complex trails. Think of the age of your children and do something that correlates to their age.Toddlers are fascinated with discovering new things like bugs, plants, and flowers.
Toddlers also love digging holes, so purchase a shovel and pail.
You can also teach grade age children how to catch exotic bugs and amphibians, build forts, camp at night, and climb trees.
You can go backpacking or do community service work with your teenager.

