 Most of us have specific activities we want to do in our lives. Things on the bucket list should be large and small-traveling to a particular place in the world, eating at a particular restaurant, engaging in daring adventures-a birthday can be a great opportunity to do the things you’ve always wanted to do but never got around to. Having a literal list is not a bad idea. Writing out your bucket list can have positive effects on your life in general, such as:


Being a motivator. Writing out a list of things you want to do in life can help motivate you toward positive action.
Helping you feel successful and more accomplished. Checking items off your bucket list shows you proof that you’re getting things done.
Increasing focus. A list will help you have a clearer sense of what you want, and what you want to do with your life. , Look at ways to do the things you’ve always wanted to do on a budget. Your list should be expansive, but also include things that won’t be as big of deals to accomplish.


Your list should include things that you can do without too much expense or time.
Include things you can do without leaving your hometown or spending less that $100. , Your bucket list should also include big dreams! Is it your 21st? Your 40th? 50th? Doing something really special on particular milestones is especially memorable (and no one will begrudge you the expense!). Consider checking off a big bucket list item for these special years; major milestones are good years to do the skydiving, or the trip to Paris, or the kayaking down the Grand Canyon.


Look at ways to do the things you’ve always wanted to do on a budget. There are lots of helpful resources out there to make it easier (and cheaper) to get in that trip around the world you’ve always dreamed of, or snorkeling in the Maldives, or even just cooking that special dish you’ve always wanted to try.
If you want to do something major, figure out how much money you can afford to spend on a special milestone birthday.
Select a few possibilities from your list that you think may be within your price range.
Narrow down ideas by looking at any travel expenses, ticket prices, lodging, and food expenses that each item will entail, and deciding if they will be possibilities.

