 You can change the speed of the game in AoE2 by pressing + (plus) to speed it up or - (minus) to slow it down. This allows you to take more time in making decisions or to speed up your way to victory when you have the upper hand over your rivals.
 You can use hotkeys to quickly train units by pressing the building’s selection combination and then pressing the unit training hotkey. For instance:


Press Ctrl+H to select your Town Center and then C to train a villager.
Press Ctrl+A to select an Archery Range and then A to train an archer, R to train a Skirmisher, and C to train a Cavalry Archer.
Press Ctrl+K to select your Siege Workshop and then R to train a Battering Ram, N to train a Scorpion, and A to train an Onager.
Press Ctrl+B to select your Barracks and then S to train a Swordsman, and B to train a Spearman.
 If the enemy descends on you suddenly, hit B to command your villagers to stop working and garrison inside the nearest building. Press B again to send them back to work.
 Select the units you want and then press Ctrl + (1-9) to assign them to a group number from 1 through to 9.


To select, say, all the units in group 1, simply press the number key 1. Press 2 to select all the members of group 2, and so on.
Press Alt + (1-9) to both select a group and focus the game screen on them. This group assignment strategy is very useful when you have a large army to manage.
Press Shift + (1-9) to add selected units to the respective already assigned groups.
 In AoE2, you can quickly construct any building by selecting a villager, pressing B and then the corresponding build hot key. For instance:


Press B and then A to construct an Archery Range.
Press B and then K to construct a Siege Workshop.
Press B and then V to construct a Castle.
Press B and then I to construct a Mill.
Press B and then E to construct a House.
Press B and then S to construct a Blacksmith.
 You can quickly navigate the game world without scrolling around with the mouse or keyboard arrow keys. To do this, simply press Ctrl + (building hot key). The jump to building hot key is the same as the build hot key. For instance:


Press Ctrl + A to jump to an Archery Range.
Press Ctrl + K to jump to a Siege Workshop.
Press Ctrl + V to jump to a Castle.
Press Ctrl + I to jump to a Mill.
Press Ctrl + S to jump to a Blacksmith.
 Press . (period) to cycle through all your idle villagers.
 Press , (comma) to cycle through all your idle military units.

