 These are all signs that your dog is overheated and, if you don't act, could lead to heatstroke. If you notice your dog displaying these symptoms, begin cooling her down right away. Even if you think she's just hot and not experiencing overheating yet, it's worth it to call your vet and get their opinion.More severe overheating can cause diarrhea, vomiting (sometimes bloody), seizures, coma, cardiac arrest and death.;
, Gently pull the skin on the back of your dog's neck. If your dog is hydrated, the skin should immediately go back to it's normal position. If the skin sticks up or stays wrinkled, your dog may be dehydrated.The longer it takes the skin to return to normal, the more severe the dehydration.Take your dog to the vet so he can get treated with IV fluid.
 Lift your dog's lip and press your finger against her gums until the turn white. When you remove your finger, a healthy dog's gums will turn pink again immediately. If the gums stay white or take a while to turn back to their normal color, your dog is likely suffering from dehydration.If you suspect your dog is dehydrated, give her access to water immediately (if she won't drink, try wetting her tongue or just take her straight to the vet). Untreated dehydration can lead to organ failure and death., If she displays signs of fatigue, weakness, dizziness, listlessness, she could be overheated and need medical attention. If she collapses or has a seizure, take her to vet immediately. Call ahead so they can be ready to treat her immediately.Fatigue is one of the earliest signs of overheating. Don't drag your dog along on a walk or ignore her if she starts laying down or keeps straying into the shade. Give her some water and take her somewhere cool., Dogs naturally have a higher temperature than humans, and if his temperature is any higher than 104째F (40째C), then he is overheated and you need to start cooling him down as soon as possible and call your veterinarian for an exam.Check his rectal temperature every five minutes to check his progress.
Once his body temperature has reached 103째F (39.4째C), stop all cooling measures. Dry him off and keep him covered so he doesn't lose more heat., Dehydration and overheating can be fatal to dogs. Watch your dog's behavior and check for signs of severe overheating or dehydration. If you're unsure, call your dog's veterinarian or an emergency pet hospital and describe your dog's symptoms. They may ask you to continue to monitor her health or to bring her in for treatment.

