;
, Take a deep breath and prepare yourself, stretching out your arms a little if you have to. Just try to keep as still as you can.
, Keep your right arm stiff and parallel with your upper body the whole time, holding it at a slight diagonal. (See above picture) Spin your staff in an oval from where you had it diagonal beside you, behind you and up, around your head, down, and straight back as you do this. On your way to hold it backwards, spin the staff in your hand. (If you don’t know what I mean, watch a video of the Sending)

, Spin halfway back around, facing the way you started, as you do this. Bring the staff back up in an arc around your head. Bring the staff up parallel with the ground, spinning it like you did when you held it backwards. Grab it in both hands for a moment, still spinning it.
, Bring both hands, and the staff, above your head, hands now straight.
 Quickly bring it back down, and bend forward, keeping your back straight and your legs bent.
 As you go to bring it back up, still in the circular pattern, lean back with the staff, keeping the circle going.
 While crouching, bring your staff into your left hand (hand on the bottom, holding it as you had at the beginning), and twirl it in an arc from where it was, until it is facing away from you. Bring the arc back into your right hand again.
 When you get up high enough (still going slow,) spin your staff in your hands like an airplane propeller. Slowly continue to spin it, and bring your arms out straight in front of you, then up, as though the propeller was moving from in front of you to over your head like a helicopter.
, Rise you your tiptoes (this is where it helps to where stockings if you are going to be on a wood or linoleum floor) and spin around a few times. (Do some pirouettes. Yuna officially does seven before stopping. Do as many as you like.) While doing this, make more ovals around your body with the staff, holding it at the bottom, with your right hand. When you stop, keep your staff in your right hand, holding it at an angle above your head.
 Take the staff in both hands again, and do a few more circles (away from you and in, up and down, as before) with the staff, walking in a small circle yourself as you do this. Finally, come to a halt, standing straight, with your left hand on the top of the staff, and your right on the bottom. Hold your staff so that, with your hands where they are (top and bottom) your right hand should be on top, and your left on the bottom, the top of the staff facing towards the ground. Your arms should be out, and the staff should be perpendicular to you.

