 Public libraries typically have local newspapers archived, sometimes going back to the first year the newspaper was printed.


For example, if you go to the New York Public Library, you can look at microform copies of The New York Times going back to 1857.If you're looking for a death notice from someone who died relatively recently, you may be able to find that online for free. However, if the person died hundreds of years ago, that information may not be digitized or available for free.
 If you need an official death certificate, you probably will have to order it from the vital records department in the person's last state of residence.


Typically you will be charged a fee for a standard copy and a little extra if you need a certified copy., Even if a gravestone is weathered or illegible, you typically can search cemetery or burial records to find details about a person's death.


Some cemetery districts have websites where you can look up a grave online. For example, the Orange County Cemetery District provides a searchable database for graves in Anaheim Cemetery, El Toro Memorial Park, and Santa Ana Cemetery.In many cases, however, you will have to make a visit to the cemetery itself to review the records.
 State records often go back further than Social Security or other national records and may provide more detail about the death. The state archives typically are housed in the state capital, but if you can't travel to that city you may be able to request documents through a local university research library or historical society., While plenty of information is available online, a visit to an Archives facility may be necessary to find the death notice you need.


You can search the Archives website at http://www.archives.gov/locations/ to find the location nearest you and the services provided there.
Beyond just federal records, ancestry.com also is available for free at an Archives facility, so you may be able to find the records you need there without paying a subscription fee to use the online service.