 Use the same cable that you use to charge your iPad.;
, This will allow your computer to access the files on your iPad. You'll only need to do this the first time you connect the iPad to your computer.
 You can open this from the Start menu or by pressing ⊞ Win+E. In Windows 10, click the File Explorer button in your taskbar or Start menu.
 The "Import Pictures and Videos" wizard will begin scanning the iPad for files. This may take a while if there are a lot of pictures stored on the iPad.


If the wizard can't find anything, close it and try again. Sometimes it takes a few moments for Windows to recognize the iPad storage. Make sure your iPad screen is unlocked.
 This will allow you to select which files you want to import, and how you want to group them.
 By default, all new images will be selected for import.
 The slider determines how large of a date range each folder contains. Moving it all the way to the left will create folders for each 1/2 hour interval, while moving it all the way to the right will place all of the imported pictures into a single folder.
 This can help you quickly find your pictures later. If you don't name the folders, they will be labeled with the date.
 There are several important options here that you may want to adjust before importing your pictures:


You can select the location that the photos will be imported to. By default, they will go to your Pictures folder. You can click "Browse" to select any folder on your computer.
You can delete the photos from the iPad after importing by checking "Delete files from device after importing." This can clear up a lot of space on your iPad after your photos are safely backed up.
You can change the format used to name the files as they are imported. By default, it will be the same name as the containing folder along with a number.
 If you are copying a lot of pictures, this may take a while to complete. Once the process is finished, the folder you copied the images to should appear. If it doesn't, you can usually find the imported pictures in your Pictures folder., After importing the pictures, you'll be prompted to add tags. This is optional, but can help you sort your images in the Windows photo library.

