 In a small bowl, combine 1 teaspoon of each of the following: honey, finely-ground oatmeal, and yogurt. Apply the mask to your face and wait 15 minutes, then rinse it off using warm water. Splash your face with cool water afterwards.Oatmeal is a natural, but gentle, exfoliant.
If you can't get ground oatmeal, you can grind your own using a blender or coffee grinder.
 In a small bowl, mash together 2 ripe strawberries using a fork. Add 1 teaspoon of honey and1 teaspoon yogurt, then stir to combine. Apply the mask to your face, and rinse it after with warm water after 15 minutes. Splash your face with cold water to seal your pores afterwards.Strawberries are naturally brightening and lightening.
For something a little more exfoliating, add ½ teaspoon of finely-ground almonds., In a small bowl, mash one-fourth of a ripe avocado using a fork. Stir in 1 teaspoon of yogurt and 1 teaspoon of olive oil. Spread the mask over your face and leave it on for 15 minutes. Wash the mask off using warm water, then splash your face with cool water to tighten the pores.Avocados and olive oil are naturally moisturizing and hydrating.
For a hydrating and antibacterial face mask, use honey instead of olive oil.Olive oil can clog pores. If you are worried about this, try jojoba oil, sunflower seed oil, or sweet almond oil instead.
 In a small bowl, briskly mix together 2 teaspoons of yogurt, 1 teaspoon of cocoa powder, and 1 teaspoon of honey. Spread the mask onto your face, then wash it off after 15 minutes with warm water. Splash your face with cool water afterwards, and apply some moisturizer, if desired.Cocoa powder has natural anti-aging properties. It will help prevent sun damage and reduce the appearance of fine lines.
 In a small bowl, mix together 3 tablespoons of yogurt, 2 tablespoons of ground coffee, 2 tablespoons of cocoa powder, and 1 tablespoon of honey. Apply the mask to your face. Wait 15 to 20 minutes, then rinse it off using warm water. Splash your face with cool water when you are done.Coffee helps tighten your pores and reduce oiliness, puffiness, and swelling.
Cocoa and coffee both have anti-aging and detoxifying properties.
 Combine 1 tablespoon of yogurt with 1 teaspoon of honey. Stir in a dash of cinnamon and nutmeg, then spread the mask over your face. Wait 7 to 10 minutes, then was the mask off with warm water. Splash your face with cool water afterwards to seal your pores.


Cinnamon is not only naturally antibacterial, but it also gives skin a healthy glow.
Nutmeg will plump the skin, thus reducing the appearance of wrinkles and fine lines., Mix together 1 tablespoon of yogurt and 2 to 3 drops of lemon juice in a small bowl. For extra moisture and hydration, add 1 teaspoon of honey. Spread the mask over your face, and wait 10 to 15 minutes. Wash the mask off using warm water, then splash your face with cool water to tighten your pores.


Lemon juice is a natural skin brightener. Some people find that it can also help reduce acne and blackheads.