 One of the easiest ways to raise cash quickly is by selling items. The first step with regards to selling items involves identifying items to sell, and often, this can be the most difficult step.The solution involves identifying items that are of little to no use, and are being kept for sentimental or other reasons.


One suggestion is to ask yourself, "If I lost everything I have, what would I replace?". This question is important because it makes one think of possessions in terms of utility, that is to say, what they do for you..
Make a list of all the items that come to mind first. Most likely, these are the items that are critical to your quality of life or survival. You may for example list a computer and cell-phone as being items to immediately replace.
By doing this, you can determine which items are absolutely necessary. Any items not on this list can be seen as eligible for sale.
Think in terms of needs, and make sure you have the minimum amount of items only to accomplish said needs. For example, entertainment may be a key need. To accomplish this, a computer and a smartphone probably suffice, making your TV redundant. Another example would be with regards to clothing. You need shoes for example, and likely shoes for different functions (like running shoes and dress shoes), but you likely do not need three pairs for each category.
 Once you determine items that you do not need, it is time to determine how to price them. Your goal here is the maximize the value you get for each sold item, to increase your cash.Find out the replacement value of the item assuming you are replacing it with a brand new version. For example, if the item is a snare drum for a drum kit, look online or at local stores to determine its current price. If the item is difficult to find, use similar quality items for reference.
Find out the used value of the item. Use Amazon, Ebay, or Craigslist. Make sure to take note of the quality of the typical item being sold, as well as the quantity of sellers.
Use the above information to price your item. If you notice your item is higher quality than most used items, price it above the typical sale price seen, and closer to what the new price would be. If you notice there are very few sellers of your item new or used, and your item is of higher quality, you may be able to get away with very close to new prices assuming your item has a decent demand.
 Once you have a general price determined, it is important to determine where to sell it. There are multiple websites available and each has different advantages depending on the product being sold.Amazon Marketplace is an excellent choice for selling electronics, household items, and small appliances. Amazon lets you list the quality of the item, assists in price setting, and has a vibrant marketplace of potential buyers. Most importantly, Amazon will list your item under their particular listing for a product. This means anybody searching your product new will also see your used item to compare as an alternative.
eBay is also a viable alternative, but it takes more effort to ensure your item is easily found. Typically, eBay is more useful for valuable items.
Craiglist can be useful for nearly any classification of item, and the website allows you to sell your item directly to your local community.This can be useful for clothing especially, as potential buyers can examine the clothing before purchasing.
For Craigslist, consider selling in bulk. For example, post an ad saying "10 slightly used but in good condition male t-shirts for sale". Craiglist is also very useful for large appliances or furniture. Selling locally saves the buyer from shipping fees, and saves you from the complexities of packaging and sending large items.
 Holding a yard sale can be an efficient way of selling large quantities of items in one day, thereby allowing you to quickly raise cash. To advertise your yard sale, print flyers and place them around your neighborhood and city to attract potential buyers.


Yard sales can be useful for selling toys, furniture, appliances, and other miscellaneous items. Toys and children's items sell especially well compared to online, because there are few sites dedicated specifically to these products. It is also a handy way for buyers to purchase multiple items quickly and easily.
 If you have gift cards lying around with unused balances, sell them online. Several websites specialize in buying and selling gift card balances at discounted prices. GiftCardGranny.com is an especially helpful brokerage service that can connect you with top-paying companies looking to buy gift card balances. You can receive up to 90% of the card's face value doing this.
 Pawn shops offer short-term cash loans secured on just about anything of value that you can give them. Electronics and jewelry are two popular choices to pawn. If you don't pay the loan back within the time allowed, the pawn shop repossesses your item and you keep the money. You will need to show a photo ID at the pawn shop, but you won't need a Social Security Card.

