 This will make for a healthier environment for your baby turtle and allow you to go longer between big cleans.Aquatic turtles have to eat in the water because they can’t produce saliva. Unfortunately, leftover food quickly decays and makes for a messy tank. Use a net to clean up any leftovers when your turtle is done.
Use a siphon-type aquarium vacuum to clean the substrate (i.e. the rocks or gravel at the bottom of the tank) every 4 or 5 days. Use a squeeze-bulb to start the siphon and put the hose end in a bucket below the tank. Gravity keep the water flowing from the tank to the bucket.
For added efficiency, you can use your siphoning as a partial water change. Just be sure you siphon off enough water (see below) and replace what you have removed.
 The media inside your filter is what strains out dirt, uneaten food, and poop. If it is a sponge, you’ll need to clean it weekly by rinsing it with water. Do not use soap. You can clean foam filters as well, or if you are using filter floss, polyfill stuffing, or charcoal replace it weekly. Filters are full of germs, so be sure to:Unplug your filter before working on it.
Work away from food and places where food is prepared.
Wear gloves or avoid cleaning your filter when you have cuts or scrapes on your hands.
Clean your arms and hands with soap and water after cleaning the filter.
Remove and wash any clothes that get splashed with filter water.
 Even if you have a filter, you’ll still need to change the water regularly to prevent the build-up of small particles and nitrates. Though you may need to change the water more frequently if you feel it is too dirty, here are some general guidelines:Small Tanks (30 gallons or less) – Change 20% of the water every 2 days. Replace all water every 10-12 days.
Medium to Large Tanks (30 gallons or more) – Change 50% of the water every 5 days. Replace all water every 12-14 days.
For high quality, high capacity external filters – Change 50% of the water every 7 days. Replace all water every 17-19 days.
 Especially in the early days, you’ll want to pay close attention to your turtle’s water to ensure it staying clean.A strong smell or change in water color means a full water change and tank cleaning are needed.
The water pH, which measures acidity/alkalinity, should be between 5.5 and 7. Acquire a pH testing kit at your pet store and test your water every 4 days for the first month or so to be sure you are maintaining the proper pH levels.
 You can push this to once every 45 days or so, so long as you add solutions that help to disinfect the water and are safe for your turtle (available at most pet stores). Otherwise, you’ll want to disinfect the tank more regularly to keep your turtle healthy.If you have living plants rooted in substrate, you will not be able to do a full cleaning. In this case, you will want to monitor the water quality more closely to be sure your turtle is healthy.
 You’ll want to set up your cleaning supplies in advance, and do it somewhere away from food preparation areas. Be sure to use a turtle-safe disinfectant from your pet store, or make your own from bleach, using ½ cup bleach to 1 gallon of water.Other supplies include:Sponges
Scrapers (like a putty knife)
Bowls for soapy water and for rinse water
Paper towels
Trash bags
A spray bottle or bowl of disinfectant solution and a bowl of rinse water.
A large receptacle for soaking artificial plants, rocks, and your turtle’s land area

, You will first need to remove your turtle and place him in a separate area. A bucket with enough water from his tank to cover him will work fine. You will then need to clean the tank, land area, substrate, and any other surfaces (i.e. the water heater). Use a tub or bathroom sink, not your kitchen sink, to avoid contamination.Unplug and remove all electrical devices: water heater, filter, lamp, etc.
Clean the surfaces of underwater electrical devices with soapy water and disinfectant spray. Rinse thoroughly.
Remove the land feature. Clean it with soap and water and let it soak in disinfectant for 10 minutes. Rinse thoroughly afterwards.
Remove the substrate. Clean it in soapy water and let it soak in disinfectant for 10 minutes. Rinse thoroughly afterwards.
Clean the tank with soapy water and a sponge. Fill with disinfectant (1 part bleach to 9 parts water) and let it sit for 10 minutes. Empty and rinse thoroughly.
Replace everything in the tank. Make sure the water is at the correct temperature before returning your turtle to his tank.
Be sure to wear gloves or to wash your hands thoroughly afterwards to avoid contracting diseases like salmonella.

