 Sometimes the job you have is different from the job you applied for. If you are finding yourself taking on additional responsibility, or are doing tasks you do not feel qualified for, bring your concerns to your supervisor promptly.Find a copy of the job description you received when you applied or were hired for the position. Make a list of all the responsibilities you currently manage. Show them to your boss and say, “Here is a copy of my job description, and here is all the work I am currently doing. I think we need to talk about the expectations for my position.”
You could use your additional responsibilities as leverage for a pay raise. You could say, “I think if you expect me to continue to do these additional responsibilities, it may be wise to talk about an increased salary.”, If you feel your job performance would improve with additional training or classes, be proactive in seeking out training you feel would be beneficial. Look for training within your company or in your community (perhaps in a community college or a university extension class), and bring the opportunity to your supervisor’s attention.


You could say, “I found this coding workshop that’s going on at the local college next month. I think this is exactly the kind of course I need to help take my performance to the next level and help me gain greater understanding of my position. Would the company be able to sponsor me to attend this workshop? Here is the information on it.”
You could consider seeking out a mentor within your company to help you better understand your role.
 Sometimes work problems can develop when you get little or no feedback on your performance. Take the initiative and ask your boss if they’d be willing to have a conversation with you on how you are doing in your position.


Set a time for you and your boss to talk. Give them a sense of what you want to talk about. For example, you could say, “I was curious to know how you felt about my performance over the last few months. I think I’ve been taking on more responsibilities, and I wanted to get some feedback on what I’ve done well and what needs improvement.”
Don’t beat yourself up over a bad performance review. Look at it as a learning opportunity, asking lots of questions so you can best understand how you can make changes. You could say, “I appreciate you bringing these concerns to my attention. Do you have any suggestions as to what I can do to improve my next review?”, Know your company’s rules and regulations. Know the protocol for addressing a problem in your organization. You may be required to address all problems with your supervisor, or you may need to head to HR for all of your dealings.


Your company may have a chain of command that you are expected to follow in addressing a problem. Make sure you follow the expectations exactly; doing so will make it easier for others to do their jobs as well.
When you meet with someone to address your concerns, bring your copy of the employee handbook with you to reference. You could say, “Mr. Kendall, I know I don’t usually meet with you, but per the employee handbook, if I am having a problem with my supervisor, I’m supposed to go to their supervisor. So that’s why I wanted to talk to you today.”

, If you feel you are being treated unfairly and your problem has not been solved or even addressed, you can take steps to have the problem identified through a more formal procedure. If complaint procedures are not spelled out in your employee handbook, find out through management or HR what steps you need to take.


You could say, “John, I’ve taken all of the steps in the employee handbook to follow the chain of command at work, but my concerns are still not being addressed. I want to find out how to file a formal complaint within the company.”
If you feel you are being harassed or discriminated against, for example, it may be beneficial to you to file a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (if you live in the United States). Find out more at https://www.eeoc.gov/index.cfm.
 If you are represented by a union, know how the union will help you in dealing with any work-related problems. Read a copy of the agreement between your union and your employer, as well as any union materials you may have to find out more information.


You may wish to speak to the union representative at your employer and inform them of your situation. You could say, “I’ve been having some problems at work lately, and was wondering if you could let me know if the union will be able to help me in any way.” Explain your situation and ask for support.

