 If you are only washing a few pieces of clothing, you only need enough water to submerge them one at a time. You may use a washing tub or bucket, or scrub a sink clean and put in a stopper. Some delicate clothing may be damaged by warm water, so only use cool unless the clothing is heavily stained.


Alternatively, if you only have a couple pieces of lingerie or other small items, bring them into a cool or lukewarm shower., Hard water leaves a white, mineral residue on pipes, sinks, and dishes after heavy use. If this happens with your water, counteract this effect on delicate clothing by stirring in a spoonful of powdered borax.Baking soda is less effective, but has a similar ability to soften water.
 Mix in a few drops of extra mild detergent or soap, stirring until a few suds are visible. If you are not sure whether your detergent is mild, baby shampoo is a good option, and normal shampoo is suitable., Material that can absorb a great deal of water, most notably wool and cashmere, will typically change size and shape in the wash. This can be counteracted by drying it in the correct position, but in order to do this you will need to know the correct size of the clothing.Measure a sweater's width at the neck, shoulders, and base. Measure the length of the sleeves.
Make a rough sketch labeled with your measurements for sweaters or other articles of clothing that require several measurements.
 Some materials, such as silk or elastic, will last longer if you minimize the amount of time it spends soaking, so try not to spend more than a few minutes on each item unless there is still visible dirt on the clothing.Swish gently back and forth, pressing or squeezing lightly.
 Squeeze out the soapy water by balling up the article of clothing and compressing gently.Dip it in clean water without soap, then squeeze it again. Repeat until no suds are visible when you squeeze.
 Lay out a large, white towel and arrange your article of clothing on top of it. Refer to your measurements from before washing and gently tug the clothing into its original shape. Roll up the towel around the item in this shape, then press the towel to remove excess moisture. Place the towel on a water-safe surface away from heat, unroll it, and leave the clothing to dry on top of the towel.


A colored towel may stain wet wool or cashmere.
After a few hours, if the clothing is not yet dry, flip it over or transfer to a dry towel.
 You may use the low or delicate setting on a dryer, but the best way to maintain the longevity of your delicate clothing is to air dry it. Place it on a clothesline or clothes horse in a sunny area, or at least a slightly warm and ventilated area. Avoid applying direct heat, such as with a hair dryer or heater surface, as this may warp the clothing.

