 You might know other Muslims who do not like that you hang out with a Jewish person. These may be your friends, acquaintances, or family members. If they try to persuade you to ditch your friend, stand up for yourself. Let them know that you believe in being kind and generous to people of all faiths.


You can say, "Islam is the religion of peace, and that means extending love and peace to all people."
If they persist, you can say, "My friendship with a Jewish person is not your concern. I will continue to do what I believe is right."

, You might have parents, siblings, or other family members who disapprove of your friendship. Perhaps this disapproval is based on political beliefs. Some might believe that such a friendship is forbidden. Explain to your family that the Quran does not forbid friendships with people of other faiths.


If your family's disapproval comes from their disdain for Israeli politics, you can say, "My friend is not responsible for the political situation. They are a good person, and that is all that is important."
If your family is biased against the Jewish faith, you might say, "Jews are people of the book too. They follow an Abrahamic faith. We might have our disagreements, but I do not think that it means I should shun them."While some use certain verses in the Quran as proof that you should not be friends with other faiths, you might want to point out that those verses were written when there were many wars between the religions. Many scholars believe that the verses have no relevance today., Through your friendship, you can be living proof of how interfaith relations can help promote peace. If others doubt you, let them know how you are helping heal tensions between the religions. Encourage others to do the same as you.


You can remind people that both Judaism and Islam believe in cooperation to improve the welfare of humanity.You can say, "By being friends with all people, I am acting on the principles of peace in Islam. Actions speak louder than words."

