 The larger the tackle box, the more fishing tackle it can hold, but the larger the box, the bulkier it is, and the heavier it is to carry. A large tackle box is not practical if you do a lot of hiking and backpacking to your destination. Likewise, a small tackle box may not be practical on a long fishing trip where you can expect to encounter a number of different conditions.


If you normally wade into a lake or stream to fish, you'll want a small tackle box you can carry on your person, such as small metal or plastic box that slips into a pocket of your shirt or waders or one that clips to your belt. You may also have a larger tackle box on shore from which you trade out lures to the one you carry on your person or keep equipment for tying flies on location when trying to "match the hatch."
If you normally hike some distance to your fishing spots or fish in farm ponds, you'll also want a smaller tackle box. You may find a traditional single-tray or 2-tray box satisfactory, you may prefer the pocket or clip-on tackle boxes used by wading fishermen, or you may prefer a soft-side tackle box that can be carried over the shoulder.
If you normally fish from a boat, a larger tackle box may be called for, particularly when fishing for bass, walleye, or muskellunge, when you may want to carry a large selection of, or in the case of fishing for muskie, very large lures. Larger tackle boxes typically have at least 3 trays, and sometimes 2 sets of 3 trays each that open in either direction, and a large bottom to hold extra line, small reels, sinker boxes, spinnerbait racks, and other fishing equipment.
If you normally fly to your destination, such as to a remote lake in Canada, you want a tackle box large enough to hold your most important gear, but not large enough to require extra handling fees. It should also be sturdy enough and have a secure enough latching system to handle rough handling before and during the flight.
If most of your fishing is done from the bank or a lake or stream in a park or other public access area, you can get by with a 1- or 2-tray plastic or metal tackle box. This is also a good size tackle box for a first-time fisherman to buy; as you develop more specific fishing interests, you can consider a second tackle box that better serves those needs.;
, If you don't go fishing very often, you probably won't want to invest a lot of money in fishing tackle, or in a large tackle box. A 1- or 2-tray box could very well meet your needs under most circumstances.
 Whatever size of tackle box you decide to buy, look for a well-constructed unit that will stand up to the unintended abuse you'll put it to. If buying a traditional hard-case tackle box, look for a box made either of metal or high-impact plastic, such as ABS plastic. If buying a soft-case plastic box, look for one made of a sturdy material with well-stitched or welded seams.


The latch on a hard-case tackle box should also be secure enough to minimize the possibility of the box's accidentally popping open when you pick it up by the handle. The zipper on a soft-case tackle box should feature large, sturdy teeth that won't come out of the zipper.
 Your tackle box should have enough trays to handle the type of lures you use most often, keeping them separate so their hooks won't tangle together. You may want to have trays with adjustable dividers as well as various-sized compartments; if you fish with spinnerbaits, you may want to have a rack that suspends them vertically instead of laying them flat in a tray compartment.


If you fish with plastic worms, the trays should be made of a material that won't react with the soft plastic the worms are made of. (You shouldn't keep plastic worms and crankbaits in the same compartment for this reason.) You can also keep plastic worms in a small tackle box designed just for plastic worms that you can carry in the bottom of a larger tackle box.
 When closed, your tackle box should not permit water to enter it unless it falls into the water and sinks. This feature can be especially important if you do a lot of fishing in the rain or other foul weather conditions.
 As you get more into fishing, you will buy more fishing tackle and related equipment. Buying a slightly larger tackle box than you need right now, unless you normally hike to your fishing spots, will give you room to grow into the sport and give you room to carry a few non-tackle items, as well.
 The longer the manufacturer guarantees its tackle boxes for, the more reputable the company generally is and the better-constructed its tackle boxes are. Look for a warranty of at least 2 years; some manufacturers offer a lifetime warranty on their tackle boxes.

