 People who experience panic attacks are less likely to accept their emotions and are more likely to try avoiding them.Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is an empirically-based treatment for panic attacks; it is used to change your thinking about panic attacks in order to reduce your overall anxiety, and thus, reduce the likelihood of a subsequent attack.Therefore, if you accept the attack it may prevent future attacks from happening.Engage with the panic attack rather than trying to fight it.This may sound counter intuitive, but it works!
Think a thought such as, "I am having a panic attack and I accept the panic attack. I know that it is just a reaction in my body."

, Remember that a panic attack is a reaction to a perceived threat. The reality is that we are not actually in danger even though we think, feel and act like we are.Remind yourself that it is a panic attack you are experiencing, and it will eventually go away. It will not harm you. Think thoughts such as, "I am having a panic attack. My body is just reacting and I am not dying. I will be okay."

, Once you realize that there is no "real" danger you can then focus on the experience you are having. Instead of feeling terrified become an objective observer of what you are feeling. Notice the feelings and sensations as they wash over you. By "observing" instead of "fighting" these feelings you reduce rather than increase the level of stress and conflict in your mind.


Observe. The process of observing is crucial because it engages your rational mind.Normally during a panic attack the emotional mind takes over and controls you until the symptoms have run their course. The rational mind is nowhere to be found!
By turning yourself into an objective observer you allow your rational mind to function. It's very difficult for the emotional mind to dominate if you are thinking rationally, so what happens is that the panic attack symptoms will start to fade away.
 Once a person has had one panic attack another may be more likely, as the mind may react to “triggers” that resemble the original attack. For example, your first attack might have happened while driving. It wasn’t necessarily the driving that was the real cause – more likely the stress had been building for some time. But your mind remembers that you were driving when the attack happened and links the two. Now driving has become a “trigger” for the next attack.


Understand your triggers and be prepared when dealing with them. Have a plan of coping with your triggers such as avoiding certain triggers (for example, being around people who make you especially anxious or fearful), or using coping mechanisms (such as deep breathing, relaxation skills, art, etc.) when you are encountered with a certain trigger.

