 This task will vary from car to car, but typically you will have to remove some screws around the middle of the panel (such as inside the door pull) and then use a prying tool around the outside to pop out the clips on the perimeter.Sometimes you may have to remove things such as weather-stripping or door moldings as well.
 Attach the probes of your multi-meter to the motor’s plug and toggle the switch up and down.Make note of the voltage in both directions. Your owner’s manual should list the specific voltage required.
 There should be no slow spots or blockages., If you the motor is getting the proper voltage but not functioning properly, you likely need to replace it. Start by unplugging the wiring connectors from the motor.

If your motor is functioning properly but the window is not responding, you may need to replace your regulator.
 The regulator is the lift assembly that moves your window up and down. You will have to move the window up or down to align these bolts with a hole in the door interior. Using an extension on a ratchet, you will put a socket (usually 8 or 10 mm) through the hole and loosen the two bolts., Use your hands to push the window up, and then either fasten it with tape or pull it out of the door altogether., You will have to press down on the clip that holds the wiring harness into place and pull the harness out. These can be hard to press and sometimes it is best if you can get a screwdriver on it to press it in., Any bolts holding the harness and motor will have to be removed.

These can often be difficult to bolts to remove. You may need to use a ratchet with a long extension to provide the necessary angle to access and turn the bolts.
 Once you have the assembly removed, you can separate the two pieces and replace the one that is malfunctioning., Once you have replaced the malfunctioning part, whether it was the motor or the regulator, it is time to slide the assembly back into the door's interior and bolt it back into it's original position., Plug the wiring harness into the window motor. This will provide power to the motor so use caution., Remove the tape or re-install your window. Make sure that the tabs in the bottom of the window are properly aligned to bolt it back onto the regulator., Using the bolts you removed earlier and the same extension, you need to bolt your window back to the regulator., It should now move up and down freely when you press the switch.