 Add the rennet, stirring well.;
, Set in a warm place, wrapped in towels to keep it warm.
 A clean break is when the curd separates cleanly when you insert a knife and pull it gently to one side. If it's similar to scrambled eggs, you are close, but not quite there; keep it warm and test again in 10 minutes. (See tips).
 Let rest for 15 minutes, then agitate the curds with a slotted spoon. Let rest another 15 minutes.


Heat the pan gently to 38ºC/100.4ºF, rest another half an hour. During this process the curds will expel more whey.
 This is easiest done with a slotted spoon, mesh-straining spoon, or a sieve. Do not throw away the surplus whey––put the lid or cling film onto the pan again and set the whey aside after all curd has been removed.
 Place a large heavy weight on a saucer, then place this on top of the curds to compress them and expel more liquid. This will take at least 1 hour.


5kg / 11lb is a recommended mass. A large pot full of water works well. Pressing the weight to expel more whey does speed up the process, but should not be done to excess as you will split the curds and make them crumble.
 Aim to cut slices that will fit easily into your storage container.
 At this stage, any remaining milk proteins will knit together and rise to the top. Skim this into a bowl.


The ricotta is an additional treat to eat with sugar and cinnamon to taste, but for this quantity, you may only get 4 or 5 tablespoons worth.
 Simmer until the slices float, then poach for another 15 minutes. After poaching, drain on a clean cake-cooling rack.
 Add the slices, then top with whey until the cheese is fully covered. Agitate the container gently to ensure that the mint is evenly dispersed.
 Let it at least sit overnight if you added the mint; this will allow the flavour to penetrate.
 While the haloumi cheese can be eaten as it is, it can also be served in one of the following ways:


Cut the cheese into slices or cubes, then fry haloumi in a little olive oil until crisp and browned.
Fry as above, then add some fresh herbs and cherry tomatoes into the pan and briskly cook until tomatoes are hot and just starting to break open. Season with black pepper, a lemon wedge and a little salt to taste. Great with a good bread such as Turkish bread to sop up the juices.
Use fried haloumi in tapas or antipasto style snacks. It is also a delicious vegetarian alternative to white meats.

