 Telling your boss they're wrong can have an impact on your relationship. Therefore, you want to make sure the issue is worth discussing before bringing it up. If your boss is wrong over something minor, alerting them to this may come off as condescending.How much is the issue really affecting your work life? If you disagree with your boss on something minor, such as policies regarding lunch breaks, it's probably only a minor inconvenience for you and other employers. This may be a difference to simply accept.
In general, if a concern is impacting the efficiency and performance of you and other employees, it's worth addressing. Individual concerns and pet peeves are generally not a large concern for your boss. Remember, they're focused on what's best for the company and not a single individual.;
, When planning what to say, keep the big picture in mind. Think about why your boss's misjudgment adversely impacts the company. When speaking to your boss, this is where you want to place your primary focus.Think about how your boss's decisions are impacting fellow employees and overall output and productivity. If other employees have expressed frustration to you, keep these concerns in mind.
For example, your boss may adhere to an older computer system because they believe it's more efficient. However, the older computers clearly run slower than newer models, and you believe some of the leftover budget money should go towards this purchase. Your boss, however, has decided to put the money elsewhere.
In this situation, look at some objective facts. You can present your boss with information about why newer models run faster. You can show your boss how much more work will get done in a single day when using newer, faster computers.
 If your boss is incorrect about something, you may know something they do not. In this case, it's perfectly acceptable to fill your boss in on what they may not know. Consider if there are any areas of the company where your boss is less involved.For example, your job may be to oversee enrollment for after school programs in your company. Enrollment has skyrocketed this year, and you believe it is necessary to hire a temp for data entry work. Consider whether your boss knows about the spike in enrollment.
If your boss is involved in other aspects of organizing after school programs, they may not realize the necessity of a temp. You can fill your boss in on how much enrollment has increased, and how much extra data entry will be required.
 When you address the issue is important. It's a good idea to let your boss choose the time. This way, your boss can pick a time where they're free. This can also show you still respect your boss's authority, even in times of disagreement.Approach your boss and say something like, "I have something I wanted to go over with you. Can you let me know when you have a spare 10 minutes? I'll need your full attention, so I wanted to make sure I caught you when you're free."
Ask to reschedule if necessary. If your boss seems distracted during your set meeting time, say something like, "Hey, you seem really busy today and I don't want to distract you. I'm fine rescheduling to a time that works better for you."

, It can be stressful to confront your boss. You may stumble over your words during the talk, so writing them out ahead of time can help. While you shouldn't read off a paper when talking to your boss, jotting your words down can help you better commit them to memory prior to the talk.Write down your major areas of concern, as well as how you want to address them.
Review your words to make sure you're making yourself clear and behaving in a professional manner. Rewrite as necessary to keep your language professional.
Review what you wrote down right before the meeting. When the meeting arrives, try to stick to your script.

