 Donating plasma is a simple way to earn some extra income and help others out. Plasma can help the blood clot and is usually needed by people suffering from liver issues or blood infections. Check for any local plasma donation opportunities near you and review some of the following requirements and information before you sell:You will need to be in good health and HIV free.
You will need to weigh at least 110 pounds.
You will need to complete a survey to make sure you are able to sell.
Donating plasma usually takes about one and a half hours.
You can sell around every 28 days.
Every donation center will have their own unique rates for plasma donations. Some offer cash rewards, up to $200 a month.;
, Reproductive donations can help those who are unable to conceive a child. Both men and women can make reproductive donations. However there are many differences and requirements that should be understood between sperm and egg donations.


Men are able to sell frequently and can earn around $1,000 dollars a month depending on the agency collecting the donation.Egg donations usually fetch around $8,000 per donation. However, donors are usually required to take hormonal drugs and outpatient surgery is necessary to collect the eggs., Long and natural hair can be a high-value commodity. Sold hair is often used to create wigs for those who for whatever reason have difficulties or are unable to grow their own hair. Many sites exist on-line today that allow you to sell your hair and be compensated for doing so.The price you are paid will depend on the quality and length of your hair. Long natural hair will fetch higher prices.

http://hairsellon.com/ is an example of a site that can help you to sell your hair.
 Many areas of medical research require that tests are performed using human experimentation. These trials are in need of volunteers that will undergo the medical tests. By finding an open position for a medical experiment volunteer you can earn some extra income and help advance medical science.


Pay rate will depend upon time invested and risk to health.https://clinicaltrials.gov/ is a good resource to look for open medical trials.
Many research universities will pay volunteers to undergo medical trials. Contact the campus administrator or check with their official website for a listing of available openings.

