 Consolidators are companies that buy bulk plane tickets at wholesale prices directly from airlines, and then sell them at greatly reduced rates to others. Using a consolidator will likely get you a better rate than you could on your own through an airline or travel website.


Some examples of consolidators are: 1-800-FlyEurope, Airfare.com, AirfarePlanet.com, AirlineConsolidator.com, AirTreks, BargainTravel.com, CheapTickets, Economytravel.com, Globester, and TFI Tours.
You can also look for consolidators in the travel section of most major Sunday newspapers.
Consolidators are different than discount airlines – they do not actually own planes, they just have access to deeply discounted tickets.Some travel websites, like Travelocity and Expedia, sometimes offer consolidator fares on certain flights, but they are not actually consolidators. Generally, such websites only offer published fares. Consolidators, on the other hand, offer fares that are not published, and are worked out between the consolidator and the airline., Consolidators pop up and fold quite frequently, so you need to check the reputation of the consolidator that you use. Check to see if they belong to a consolidator trade organization.


Look for membership in organizations like the United States Air Consolidators Association (USACA), American Society of Travel Agents (ASTA), or the United States Tour Operators Association (USTOA).You should also check to see if anyone has reported the consolidator you’ve chosen to the Better Business Bureau (BBB). The consolidator should have good BBB reports and scores., When using a consolidator, check what restrictions there are on tickets you purchase through them. When you book with a consolidator, you usually can’t use frequent flyer miles to pay for your ticket. Additionally, the tickets are probably nontransferable and nonrefundable., Make sure you ask plenty of questions while you're purchasing your tickets. Different consolidators have different policies, so you want to make sure you get all the details specific to your consolidator. You can either do this by calling the consolidator's customer service phone number and booking over the phone or using the website's chat box, although calling customer service will probably be faster.


For example, find out if the consolidator has an emergency number to call in case of problems with your travel. Ask what happens if you miss your flights – the original flight or any connections. You should also ask if there are any fees associated with purchasing through them, on top of the price of the ticket.
 If you can, use a major credit card to book your travel through a consolidator. This can be a personal or business credit card. Using a major credit card gives you recourse if you don’t get a valid ticket because you can deny payment to the consolidator through your credit card company., Before you pay for your ticket through the consolidator, contact the airline and make sure they have your reservation in process. This way you know the consolidator is doing what they’re supposed to be doing on their end. You should also check with the airline again after you pay., Once you’ve booked your travel with the consolidator, ask for a record locator number (this might also be a confirmation number). This gives you proof that you booked your tickets through the consolidator and gives you a reference number in case you need to contact the consolidator later.