 Grab some magazines, watch TV, browse the internet, etc. Find clothing styles you like, haircuts you like, music you like, lifestyles you like, whatever. Make a collage, a list, or a checklist of what you need. If you don't want to choose an inspiration, then you can skip this step and choose a totally different style.;
, Bring in a totally cute haircut from a magazine or online or do it how you want it done at home(just don't cut your hair by yourself. Feel free to really change your look, or only go for a small change. You don't have to dye your hair or get it all chopped off to have a new look. Simply parting it a different way or getting fringes or side bangs can actually be very effective. Don't be afraid to try new things!

, Go from glasses to contacts or contacts to glasses. If you decide to wear contacts, try getting one that changes the colour of your eyes if you want to. If you wear glasses, get a new frame for your glasses if you can afford it. If you wear plastic glasses, get metal glasses! If you wear metal glasses, change them to plastic glasses!

, Try wearing some that match your inspiration(if you chose one). It's good to shop to add to your wardrobe, but incorporate some of the things you already have with any new items. Be creative with your look. Here are a few ideas for clothing that you can buy in case you don't have an inspiration or just need some guidelines:


a stylish jacket (try buying one with a bit of faux fur on it)
graphic tees
baggy jeans
skinny jeans
sneakers(try the brands Nike, Jordan, or Adidas)
tights
cute skirts
ruffled shirts

, Again, you don't have to buy something that's extremely expensive, like a designer bag, just buy purses and jewelry that are of good quality that you can wear over and over again.
 Just don't wear too much. A little concealer, blush, mascara, eyeshadow, light amount of eyeliner and lip gloss can go a long way! Just find what works for you and use it. (See warnings)

, Check them to see what's in and what's out. Perhaps read a fashion magazine like Elle(note that some of the clothes and commercials in there can get a little bit inappropriate). Try to find an outfit that reflects your personality and wear accessories that stand out and make you feel confident. It's good to wear bright coloured clothing that will get you noticed.

