 Often, idle threats are extreme and over-the-top. The parents probably would never carry out the threat because it may harm the child. Don’t tell your child that you will do something that you would not feel comfortable following through on.For example, an extreme idle threat may be, “If you don’t stop, I’m going to leave you here” or “If you don’t eat, I’m not going to let you have any more food today.” These are threats that you wouldn’t carry out on your children.
 Many idle threats occur when a parent is frustrated and speaks without thinking. To help you avoid this, try to think through what you are saying before you say something to your child. This helps you make a conscious decision about the punishment you are confronting your child with.When your child misbehaves, take a deep breath. Count to five before speaking. Do whatever you need to do so that you have a few moments to think before speaking.
Ground yourself first. For example, you might take 5 deep breaths and then slowly count to 20 in your head to get some clarity.
 Instead of shouting an empty threat, try ignoring the negative behavior if you cannot deal with it right then. Sometimes, children misbehave for attention and threatening them gives them attention. Try ignoring them and taking a few minutes to calm down instead of giving them idle threats in frustration.For example, if you are at a party and your child is overly excited and acting out, don’t threaten them with something you won’t carry out, like going home or no dessert. Instead, give it a few minutes to see if they will calm down.
 When you make warnings, use “I” statements to emphasize what you plan on doing in response to their behavior. This helps set a clear consequence. Additionally, it helps go beyond the word “no” and other phrases that are similar, which your child may tune out.For example, say “I will throw away your toys if you don’t put them away in the next few minutes” instead of “You won’t have any toys if you don’t clean your room.”

, When a child knows you’ve made an empty threat, it leads to learned bad behavior. If you accidentally make an idle threat, make sure that you talk to your child to reestablish balance. Start by sitting down privately with the child.Apologize for making an idle threat.
Tell the child their behavior is unacceptable and you are not happy with how they have acted.
Set a more reasonable punishment for their behavior.
 Parents make mistakes, even if you focus on discipline and consistency. You get frustrated, stressed, and tired. When you feel this way, you may slip up and accidentally make an idle threat. If you do this, don’t beat yourself up. Remember, you are human and being a parent isn’t about perfection.If you make a mistake, accept it. Tell yourself, “I accidentally made an idle threat today. Next time, I will take a few deep breaths before I react.”

