 To apply your homemade ink at home, you'll need a few supplies: a few very fine sewing needles, a #2 pencil, a ballpoint pen, some sewing thread, matches, and alcohol swabs. You'll also need your ink!, Before you begin to give yourself a tattoo with your homemade ink, make sure you thoroughly wash your hands. This means washing your hands well, with soap, for at least two minutes.For some extra cleansing, you can also wipe your hands with an alcohol wipe after you've washed them.
 You'll want to prepare your needle for applying your homemade ink by attaching it to a longer handle. This gives you more control over the movement of the needle and makes tattooing easier. Insert the eye end of your thin needle into the eraser of the #2 pencil. Then wrap the needle and pencil with thread until the needle stays firmly in place.You might want to wrap the thread with some tape to give it extra support and make sure it doesn't move.
 Once you've got your needle put together, you'll need to heat the tip up. Light a match and hold the needle over it for ten to fifteen seconds. Make sure you turn the needle so it heats evenly. Heating the tip of the needle kills any germs on the needle. This can prevent infection when the needle goes under your skin to apply the ink.
 Use an alcohol swab to clean the area of your skin where you want to apply your tattoo. Then, using the ballpoint pen, draw on your design.


If you've never done your own tattoo before, you might want to start with a small design.You should practice your design on paper before you draw on your skin.
 Once you're satisfied with your design placement and style, it's time to ink your needle. Simply dip your needle into your homemade ink. Gently tap the needle on the side of the jar or its lid to remove any excess ink. You don't want the needle to be dripping with ink.
 Once you've got ink on your needle, poke the needle into your skin at any point in your design. To make sure the ink actually stays in your skin, you'll need to poke through the first two layers of skin. Continue this process along the lines of your design.Your skin may bleed occasionally when you poke the needle through. Some bleeding is normal, but if you notice a lot of blood, stop immediately.
You'll need to reload your needle with ink occasionally. If you notice that the ink color is fading, reload the needle.
 After you've finished your tattoo, you should wipe it down gently with water and mild soap and apply anti-bacterial ointment. If your tattoo is in a place that is likely to rub against your clothing, wrap it with clear plastic wrap. Once you unwrap it, clean it with soap and water, but don't use a cloth.In the days after your tattoo is finished, you might notice your skin dries out quite a bit. This is normal. Just use a bit of fragrance-free moisturizer and rub it gently over your tattoo.
 Your skin will swell when you repeatedly poke it with a needle. Once you've finished your tattoo and your skin has had time to heal, you might notice that you've missed a few spots. Simply go back and repeat the tattooing process to touch up the areas that you missed.