 Your friends and family will be able to support you better if they understand what you are going through. Find a few high-quality websites, books, or other sources of information about your illness and share them with the people in your life.Consider talking with loved ones individually, in small groups, and on social media. Start by speaking with friends and family in person before you move on to less formal forms of communication.
You might sit down together and do a basic Google search about your condition. Communicate the symptoms you experience, explain what treatments you are undergoing, and the prognosis of your condition.
Encourage questions. You might say, "Terry, we've been friends for a long time, and I don't want things to be awkward because of my diagnosis. Is there anything you want to ask me about the disease?";
, Getting more information about your condition can give both you and your friends a peace of mind. Suggest that they accompany you to doctor's visits and specialist appointments to learn more about your illness and how they can help.Your loved ones may also be able to help by catching information that you might miss due to nervousness or being distracted.In addition to speaking with medical professionals, you and your friends can also participate in support groups for people with your condition. Speaking with others who have your illness can help you know what to expect and also get advice about how others can support you.
 Your friends may want to support you, but not know how. If you wish that someone would give you a hand with something, ask. You’ll get the help you need, and your friends will feel better about knowing exactly what to do for you.Consider asking a friend to pick up groceries for you, help you with chores around the house, take your kids to the park so you can rest, or just sit and talk with you for a while. Make a list of the things you are struggling to get done. If someone asks what they can do to help, give them one of the tasks.
 When managing your friendships, you can't sit around and feel sorry for yourself when friends aren't calling you back or never coming around.They may just not know what to say to you or how to help. Reach out to them and break the ice.


Call up a friend who has been a no-show and make a light-hearted joke. Say something like "Geez, Rebecca, I was diagnosed with fibromyalgia, not cooties. It's not contagious. I would love to see your face more often!"

, You might feel hurt or angry if your friends go MIA, but their behavior says more about them than it does about you. Your friends may not know what to say to you, or they might find it too difficult to see you suffering.Seeing a friend come down with a chronic illness is hard for many people because it reminds them that anybody can get sick. People may disappear from your life because they don’t want to think about their own health and mortality.
Some of your friends might feel awkward around you because they don’t know how to act anymore. If they’re afraid of saying something wrong, they might start avoiding you altogether. Also, some people inaccurately assume that you want space while you are coming to terms with your diagnosis. Particularly if you have been less present socially due to pain or illness.
 If a friend says something that hurts your feelings, don’t hesitate to tell them how it affects you. Putting a stop to tactless jokes right away will make your friends less likely to say similar things in the future. If your friend cares about you, they will apologize and speak more carefully next time.Be direct. Say something like, “That’s pretty hurtful to me. I’d rather you didn’t joke about that.”
Be aware that your friend is probably not being intentionally hurtful. They may be making a poor attempt at humor because they don’t know what to say.
 Not everyone will be capable of giving you the same degree of support, but don't let this keep you from asking. Just be understanding if they can't make something work. Don't assume they do not have time for you. If a friend can’t be there for you all the time but still makes an effort to keep in touch and help you out occasionally, let them know you appreciate them.You might say, "I know we used to spend more time together, and I'm not physically able to go out as much. I really appreciate how flexible you have been to still hang out with me."

, To extend your social circle, which might be helpful if you currently have unsupportive friends, you might not have to look further than people you already know. Try striking up a conversation with a classmate, neighbor, or coworker. If you like their company, invite them to do an activity or get coffee with you.You can also get involved in a cause related to your illness and meet people with similar struggles.
 Talking to other people with chronic illnesses can be a great way to find social support and form new friendships. Look for a group in your area or search the internet for a virtual support group. You might also ask your doctor if they know of support groups in your area., If it’s difficult for you to spend too much time outside the house but you're still yearning for support, the internet can help you stay connected. A few options include using social media, writing a blog, or participating on chat boards for people with chronic illnesses. Here, you can find support from others who may be undergoing a similar struggle., People come and go, and sometimes old friends return after disappearing from your life for a while. Be willing to reconnect with people from the past to keep your circle of friends strong.For instance, if you see a high school friend who shares their journey coping with diabetes on Facebook, you might reach out to them. Say something like, "Wow, I was so moved by your post the other day. I, too, have diabetes. I really need someone to talk to about my condition. Are you open to do that?"

, A therapist can provide a supportive and understanding ear when you’re feeling down about your illness. They can also help you cope with your illness in a healthy way and find ways to maintain a support network. Ask your doctor for recommendations, or run an online search for therapists in your area who have knowledge about your condition., If a friend repeatedly abandons you when you need them or says insensitive things, you may be better off without them. Dropping a friend might be difficult, but keeping a thoughtless or toxic person around will do more damage in the long run.If you decide to cut ties with a friend, talk to them first – they may not realize how their behavior is hurting you. You might say, “Lisa, I have always enjoyed our friendship, but things are different now that I have multiple sclerosis. I haven’t been feeling very supported by you…”

, Taking care of your physical, mental, and emotional health will help you maintain a positive outlook on life. Eat a balanced diet, do some gentle exercise, get enough sleep, and practice mindfulness techniques like meditation.Eating a nutritious diet, exercising, sleeping enough, and practicing self-care can help improve symptoms of your chronic illness and help you manage stress.
Avoid using alcohol to cope or overindulging in alcohol. Alcohol is a central nervous system depressant and can lead to symptoms of depression, which is already a common problem for people with chronic illness.Share your health goals online with your social media followers to get some accountability from friends online.
 Getting lost in an activity you enjoy can help you stay busy and positive. Rediscover an old hobby that you’ve forgotten about, or pick up a new hobby that you’ve always wanted to try.Knitting, drawing, painting, and reading are a few options that are simple to start and won’t tire you out too much. If you have hand pain, consider using rubber grips to make your knitting needles or pencils easier to hold.
 Chronic illness can bring you down, especially if you add unsupportive friends into the mix, so look for ways to build yourself back up. Set challenges for yourself, remind yourself of your positive qualities, and focus on what you can do instead of what you can’t.When you're sick, it's common to dwell on the negatives and not notice the positives. Make a list of all your positive attributes and review it regularly. You might include traits "being a good listener," "having compassion for others," and "being creative."

