 Teach your child that there are consequences for completing or not completing their homework and putting forth effort. If your child does not put in adequate effort, let them suffer the consequences. For example, if your child turns in their homework late and gets a bad grade, have your child ask their teacher about completing extra credit to bring their grade up.If your child does poorly on a test because he or she did not study well enough, talk to your child about studying more. Help your child problem solve ways to do better. Should they spend extra time on that subject? Do they need to go to tutoring after school?

, Your children may not hear everything you tell them, but they are always watching you. If you have the opportunity, take your child to work with you. Show your child the work you do around the house such as folding laundry, washing the dishes, or paying the bills.Explain to them what you do at work and why you do chores.


Display a positive attitude about the work that you do. If you complain about your boss or having to wake to go to work, your child may mirror your bad attitude.
 Your child should learn to work through difficult challenges. Teach your child to engage in positive self-talk. Phrases such as "I can do it," "I won't quit," and "I'll try again," can be used as encouragement when things get rough. Have your child say one of these each day., An allowance can be used as a reward for chores or to teach financial responsibility. You can give your children money and/or privileges for completing their chores. Privileges such having friends over or choosing a movie to watch can also be rewards.Explain the connection between completing chores and not having money to spend. If your child does not complete their chores, they will not have money to buy something candy from the store.
If you want your child to see chores as their contribution to the family, an allowance may not be a good option.
Providing an allowance is a personal choice. It is not necessary to teach your children work ethic.
 Place more importance on effort than on intelligence.Your child will not be successful at everything they try, but they can put forth effort every single time. For example, if your child brings home an "A" on her report card, tell her "I'm so proud of how much you studied", or "I'm pleased you put so much effort into that class".
 Constantly challenging your child will result in growth. especially in areas where your child is skilled. For example, if your child excels in reading, say "You're doing such a great job on your reading, so I think you're up to an even better challenge", and present harder tasks. If your child has mastered a chore such as making the bed, allow your child to change the sheets on the bed as well.
 These can be fictional stories, stories from your life, or accounts of famous people.Identify your child's interests (e.g. music, art, sports, etc.) and then find examples of people who worked hard to achieve their goals. Find books or movies that detail the work that these people put into their craft so your child understands that success does not happen overnight.
 For example, if your child is dealing with a mean classmate, ask questions to prompt your child to think out an appropriate response. Praise your child for coming up with good solutions, and for handling problems independently.
 Staying organized and on task can help your kids get their work done more efficiently. Each task should be divided into three steps: getting organized, staying focused, and getting it done. Before your child begins a task, go through each of these steps with them. Continue to do this each time until your child is able to do this independently.If the task is completing a homework assignment, getting organized would include getting pens, paper, handouts, and any textbooks that are necessary to complete the work.
Staying focused can be difficult. If your child wants to go watch TV or play outside before homework is done, tell your child to ask "Is that what I should be doing right now?" If your child becomes restless, let them know that it is OK to stand up or stretch and then get back to the task.
Getting it done includes any final touches that are needed to make sure homework is complete. Final touches include proofreading by your kid and/or you, writing the name and date on the homework, putting the homework in a folder and in his or her backpack.
 Your kid may want to start a business. Babysitting, volunteering, mowing lawns, baking, dog walking, and running a lemonade stand are all reasonable businesses for children to run. If your child is interested in doing something like this, help them make a business plan, get supplies and equipment, and market the business. Have a planning meeting where you will discuss responsibilities and what is needed to make the business a reality.Let your child know that he or she is responsible for the business and how much time you will commit to helping them.
You should not do all of the work for your child. For example, if your child is scheduled to babysit the same night of a friend's birthday party, let your child know that their business comes first. Do not offer to babysit so your child can go to the party.
The summertime is an ideal time to try out a business idea. Your child will be out of school and have more free time to devote to their business.

