 Nuts and dried fruit are just fine to take through airport security, and you shouldn't have to worry too much about them getting crushed as long as you store them in hard-sided containers rather than bringing a bag.Dividing these snacks into individual portion sizes means you'll have a smaller container and won't have to worry about over-eating.
Make sure you choose unsalted nuts. Too much salt can lead to dehydration, especially on long flights.
 Small, single-serving containers of vegetables, cheeses, and fresh fruit typically will go through security okay. You may want to check airport restrictions, especially on international flights.A small bento-style box works well for this and well keep your food separated. Choose vegetables in a variety of colors.
Keep in mind that you won't be able to carry on liquids or gel-like substances, which means you won't be able to pack sauces or dressings for dipping. However, you may be able to pick up hummus at the airport, or buy an individual packet of dressing at a snack or salad bar.
You can bring along small individual packets of nut butters, which meet security restrictions at U.S. airports and many others around the globe.
 If you don't care for airline food and don't want to hassle with airport restaurants, you can always make your own lunch or dinner and take it with you, provided your ingredients are allowed through the security checkpoint.Keep in mind that whatever you bring needs to be able to hold up well being stored at room temperature. Depending on the length of your flight, leafy green salads and certain types of sandwiches may not be the best choice.
Pitas and wraps travel well, and you don't have to worry about them getting smushed in your carry-on.
Grain-based salads with quinoa, barley, or brown rice work well at room temperature, as well as lentil or bean salads. You can try to find salad dressing at the airport, or buy a sealed individual packet less than two ounces and put it in your liquids bag with any toiletries you have in your carry-on.
 Tea bags are typically fine to take through security checkpoints, and that way you won't have to pay for a drink at the airport — just get a cup of hot water and you're good to go.Choose teas that work well with your flight pattern and travel plans. For example, if you're taking a red-eye flight overnight, you might want to include a couple of bags of chamomile tea. Chamomile also works well if you need to calm pre-flight jitters.
If you're going on a long flight to somewhere with a significant time difference, you may want to include a zinger tea or others that will give you an even burst of energy when you reach your destination until you can adjust to the time difference.

