 It is very common for people who suffer from Crohn’s disease to suffer from specific vitamin and mineral deficiencies. This is often due to the diet of soft and refined foods that can alleviate symptoms, yet does not provide enough of some essential vitamins. Discuss your diet with your doctor or dietitian and ask them for recommendations of vitamin and mineral supplements, and in what form you should be taking them.


Ask your doctor about prebiotics and probiotics, which can stimulate the growth of gut microbiota and may help lessen your symptoms., ASA medications such as sulfasalazine (inflammation reducer) which are used for the treatment of Crohn’s disease may impair the absorption of folate. A folate deficiency can lead to megaloblastic anemia. Green leafy vegetables are good sources of folic acid, but you might be intolerant to them as they contain a lot of fiber; therefore, the supplement might be a better option for you. You can take a 5mg tab of folic acid once daily to prevent this type of anemia., Oral tablets will not work because of failure to absorb. Vitamin B12 is absorbed from terminal part of small intestine (terminal ileum). This part is commonly affected in Crohn’s. Sometimes, this part is even surgically removed to relieve narrowed intestine. This often results in a vitamin B12 deficiency, which can lead to megaloblastic anemia., You may develop a vitamin D deficiency due to poor absorption (particularly after bowel surgery). This deficiency may cause low calcium absorption, resulting in bone weakness and potential fractures. Take vitamin D supplements in capsule form. One 0.25 mg capsule of vitamin D daily is sufficient to meet your daily needs. Alternatively, you may take cod liver oil, which can be found in capsule form. Take one capsule daily to supplement vitamin A and D., Calcium deficiency may arise from avoidance of dairy products, poor absorption and steroid intake. Bones become brittle and thin in calcium deficiency. As a result you may incur fractures with only minor traumas or falls. You should take a 500 mg calcium tablet two to three times daily to avoid this deficiency.