 Your parents likely have given you certain chores that you are supposed to do each week, like doing the dishes or taking out the trash. Every week, make sure that you are doing your part in your home to keep it clean and running efficiently. Remember that you are a part of your family and if you all work together, you make things easier for your parents.Keep a planner and set aside times to do these chores so you don’t forget. You should always complete your chores without having to be reminded.
 Your parents may come home each day from work and ask to see your homework so they can check it. Make sure that you are completing your homework each day after getting home from school so that your parents don’t have to stress about unfinished work. Since school is likely your only job, you should do it diligently and make sure that all of your business is taken care of without having to be reminded.
 Though you are not their parent, if you have younger siblings, you can help take care of them. This will signal to your parents that you are responsible and are becoming more mature, and they will likely trust you more and think of you more favorably. If you know how to do certain things that your siblings usually rely on your parents for, you can step in occasionally to help.


For instance, if your mom or dad usually gets your sibling a snack at night, you can get it for them some nights instead.
You can also help them with their hair or when they pick out their clothes. Ask them if they want help first, though.
 Even if your parents make rules that you think are strict or perhaps even a bit harsh, you should always obey them. Many issues can be avoided if you heed the wise instruction of your parents. They have been where you are now and tend to make rules to prevent you from making the mistakes that they made. So do all that you can to keep your promises to them and show your respect.Always show them respect. Never let your friends or any others talk badly about them.
It is your parent’s job to guide you and prevent you from harm. Remember that their rules stem from that desire.
Avoid comparing your parents to your friends' parents. Each household has its own rules and style. Remember that some other parents might be lax and not provide enough guidance.
 If your parents have given you a certain time to be home, respect that time. Your parents have likely set this time to ensure that you are home safe so they don’t have to worry about you. Do you best to never cause your parents unnecessary stress.


Come home a few minutes early when possible.
Set an alarm on your phone so you know when to leave your friend’s house or other location in order to be home on time.
 Your parents love you and only want the best for you. Always show them the respect that they deserve, which is a lot because they gave you life and take care of you. Be positive with them, don’t argue, and always show them kindness.Always treat them how you would like to be treated.
Think about all that they do to take care of you.
Never yell at them or raise your voice.

