 100 grams of cooked oysters contains 78.6 mg of zinc. In six raw oysters, you get 32 mg of zinc (which is 400% of the recommended daily allowance)!You can serve the oysters at a party with horseradish and lemon.


Serve fresh oysters with a mignonette. Oysters taste delicious with a horseradish, lemon, and black pepper mignonette. Shuck two dozen oysters and put them on ice. Then, grate 1 tablespoon of horseradish and one lemon. Mix the horseradish with the juice and zest of one lemon, 2 tablespoons of vinegar and 1 teaspoon of freshly cracked black pepper. After mixing the mignonette, add a dash to each oyster.Make sure the oysters are fresh because they taste much better and older oysters may give you food poisoning.;
, In one can of crab meat you will get 4.7 mg of zinc. In addition, crab contains lots of protein and vitamins A, B, and C.You can add it to some salad or put it on sandwiches.
 3 ounces of braised beef contains 7 mg of zinc. In addition, you will get lots of protein and vitamin B12, which is good for nerves and blood cells.You can use the beef in stews, stir fries and other family favorites.


If you want to make an easy beef stew, put 2 pounds of beef stew meat in your slow cooker. Mix together 1/4 cup of all-purpose flour with 1/2 teaspoon of salt and 1 teaspoon of paprika. Pour this flour, salt and paprika mix over the meat in the slow cooker. Gradually stir in a bay leaf, a clove of garlic, a chopped celery stalk, three potatoes, a chopped onion, and 1 1/2 cup of beef broth. Cook the stew on a low setting for 10 to 12 hours., 100 grams of cashews contains 5.6 mg of zinc, which is 37% of your daily value.You can add the cashews to salads or eat them as a snack.




Add cashews, pumpkin and squash seeds to a garden salad. Toss some romaine lettuce with some mizuna and kale in a salad bowl. Then, mix 1/2 half cup of extra virgin olive oil with 1 cup of freshly squeezed lemon juice, 2 teaspoons of salt, a pinch of black pepper, and eight cloves of garlic. Mix the ingredients in a small container and pour on the salad. Finally, add the cashews, pumpkin and squash seeds to the garden salad.
 3/4 cup of fortified cereal contains 3.8 mg of zinc. In addition, fortified cereal usually has lots of other essential vitamins and minerals., 3 ounces of cooked lobster contains 3.4 mg of zinc. In addition, a serving of lobster also contains plenty of protein, vitamin B12, and calcium.You could make lobster rolls or boil the lobster.
 3 ounces of pork chop contains 2.9 mg of zinc. Pork chops are also low in fat and high in protein., 100 grams of pumpkin and squash seeds contains 1.03 mg of zinc. You can add them to salads or eat them as a snack.

