 Mantra meditation comes from the Hindu tradition and involves the meditative repetition of a single word or phrase. This is the “mantra.” The purpose of the mantra is to give you a focus of attention, like breathing in the Vipassana and Anapanasati techniques. First thing, choose your mantra.You might pick any word or one that inspires you. Simple is better!
Some ancient mantras are “Om,” “Om Mani Padne Hum,” “Ham-sah,” or “Namo Amitabah.” Modern mantras might be “peace,” “love,” or “one.”Picking a non-English mantra might actually help, because you will have fewer connections to it. It will not distract you from your meditation.
 Obviously, there is no right time or place to do your mediation. The choice is a personal one. However, some people find that mantra mediation has its best results if done first thing in the morning, after working, or during your low point in the afternoon at around 4 o’clock.As for places, make sure to have a quiet spot where you won’t be disturbed. For instance, try your bedroom, your backyard, or a quiet park, woodlot, or beach.
The key is to minimize distractions. The quieter and fewer people, the better.
 You don’t have to sit cross-legged or in the lotus position for mantra meditation. Find someplace comfy to sit upright. If you’d like, support your back with a cushion or the wall or even sit in a chair.Lying down is not recommended for this type of meditation – you can easily fall asleep.
Close your eyes and sit still for a half a minute or so. Get accustomed to your environment and draw in several deep breaths., After a few deep breaths, resume your normal breathing and start to chant your mantra. Some people are comfortable doing this aloud. Otherwise, repeat the word silently in your head without moving your tongue or lips.Don’t force things. The repetition of the mantra should be relaxed and gentle.
You also don’t need to worry about coordinating the mantra with your breath. Let both come as naturally as you can.
Some people find it helps to imagine that the mantra is being whispered in their ear, rather than coming from their own mind.
Stay fixed on the mantra and don’t try to empty your mind. When your attention wanders, just bring it back to the mantra and your breathing. Don’t worry if this happens – it’s normal. What’s more important is that you realize when you start to wander and refocus., Try to repeat your mantra for 5 minutes at a time to start. Gradually, you should be able to go for up to 20 to 30 minutes, several times per week. Other people alternatively aim for a certain number of repetitions, traditionally 108 or 1008.Some people use cellphone alarms as timers, while others sit with a clock in view. It really doesn’t matter. Do whatever works best for you.
When you wind down, stop saying the mantra and sit silently for a few more minutes to relax. Let yourself slowly re-enter your normal activities. Otherwise, you may feel groggy like you’ve gotten up from a nap.