 If there are borders around your flower bed made of plastic, metal, or some other material and you no longer want to use them, pull them carefully out of the ground. Discard this old material.


If you cannot pull this up by hand, try working a small hand trowel or pry bar under the bottom edge and levering it out. Sometimes the edging is anchored with stakes, so be sure to remove them first.;
, If there is an existing border, and you want to keep the edging where it is, then you are ready for the next step. If you want to change where an existing border is positioned, or if you are making a completely new one, then you will need to mark on the ground where you want the border to be. Straight lines can be fine. Many people prefer curved edges, however, and they may make your flower bed look bigger. , You can use a garden hose, string, or marking paint.Put the hose or other marking material on the ground where you want the actual edge to be.
 For best results, use a half-moon-shaped edging hand tool on a long handle. If you'd rather not buy a new tool, use a sharp trowel or spade. A long bladed knife (e.g. sharpened dinner knife) is also very effective.


Follow along the existing edge, if applicable, or the line you have marked out with the hose or other material.
Cut down 4-6 inches into the soil.
Hold the tool firmly, push it into the sod, then use a sawing motion to avoid any stones in the soil.
Cut all the way down along the line marking where you want the edge to be.
 Push a trowel or spade into the line you have cut in the soil, then pull toward yourself at a 45 degree angle. Scoop away the dirt that is pushed up and discard. The goal is to create an edge that goes down from the lawn a few inches at a 90 degree angle. Repeat this step all the way along the line you have cut in the soil to mark the edge.
 This will help keep your flower bed maintained. At the same time, it will help to visually define the edge even more.
 This will give you a very exact edge and improve the look of your flower bed. You will probably have to repeat this step periodically during the growing season if you want to keep the edge perfectly trimmed.You can use a weed whacker or a gas powered edger instead.
 This will deter weeds, and keep your edged bed neat. It will also help to draw attention to the contrast between your lawn and the flowerbed, increasing its aesthetic appeal. If the flower bed is not overgrown, consider installing weed fabric around the plant before adding mulch.
 Over time, your edge may become uneven due to rain, wind, animals, etc. If this happens, use a spade or trowel to cut through any uneven patches and remove the excess dirt. A good time to do this is in the spring at the start of the growing season., If desired, you can install a border around the flower bed to keep the edge defined. This can be a simple plastic or metal sheet, or any solid barrier of your choice.

