 This section will give you a few ideas on how to decorate the lid of your box. You don't have to use all of these ideas. Instead, choose one or two that you like the best., Even if the rest of the box is plain, you can easily make it suitable for any occasion depending on what you put on top of it., Choose a ribbon that matches the height of your lid. Most list will be about an inch (2.54 centimeters) tall. You can also use rickrack or flat (non-ruffled) lace. Place some fabric glue around all four sides of the lid. Do not put any glue on top of the lid. Then, press the ribbon down onto the glue. Let the glue dry before doing anything else, such as placing a gift inside the box or tying a ribbon around the box.

If you want a layered look, glue a thinner ribbon right over the wider one. Just make sure that the thinner ribbon is centered over the wider ribbon.
Washi tape, scrapbook tape, or any other colored/patterned tape will work as well. Skip the glue, and just run the tape around all four sides of the lid.
This will also work great on round or hexagonal lids as well.
 After you have placed the gift inside the box and tied a ribbon, tuck some embellishments just behind the ribbon. Try to match the embellishments to the theme of the event. If necessary, secure the embellishment with hot glue or clear tape. For example, if the box is for a Christmas gift, you could do any of the following:

If the box has a blue or winter theme, loop a silver or white glittery snowflake around the ribbon.
If the box has a more rustic feel to it, snip a small branch off of your Christmas tree and tuck it behind the bow. You can also use a cinnamon stick instead.
If the box has a more traditional feel to it, you could tuck a small pine branch behind the bow, and add a tiny glass ornament; the ornament shouldn't be larger than 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) or so in diameter.
For a sweet tooth, you might want to stick a candy cane behind the bow. If you want to add a more festive touch, look a jingle bell ornament over the top of the candy cane.
 You will need several pieces of patterned and plain cardstock. They should be of a similar shape, but in different sizes. Use small, double-sided foam tape to attach the largest piece to the center of the lid. Then, use the tape to attach a slightly smaller piece on top of the large one. Keep stacking pieces until you get the look you want. Try not to use too many, however. Three or four should be plenty.

You can complete the look by outlining the shapes with some glitter glue, and stamping pretty designs into the corner of the box.
Try to use ornate paper cutouts with scalloped edges.
 You can find them in the sticker or scrapbooking section of an arts and crafts store. Find some colorful paper flowers, butterflies, and leaves in different sizes and glue them down in a small patch on the lid. Try to the largest shapes in the center of the patch, and the smaller designs on the sides. Give the patch an asymmetric shape to make it more interesting.

You don't need a lot of shapes to make this look beautiful, but you might want to use fewer large shapes and more of the smaller ones.
Consider working in odd numbers, instead of even. For example, you could have three large shapes, and five to seven smaller ones.
 This way, you won't have to mess around with labels. You can apply the paint on using a foam brush, or you can use chalkboard spray paint. Apply two to three coats, allowing each coat to dry before applying the next one. Let the paint to dry and cure according to the instructions on the can, then prime the chalkboard. You can do this by covering it allover with chalk, then wiping the chalk off., Find a large, paper doily that is the same width as your box lid. Glue the doily down onto the lid using some spray adhesive or Mod Podge. Let the glue dry, then wrap a pretty ribbon around your box., A blank box may be someone else's canvas. Take five or six crayons in basic colors (red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and purple), and tape them side by side in a neat row in the corner of the lid. Write the words "Color Me" next to the crayons.You can also cut down some coloring book pages so that the fit each side of the box, and glue them to the box. Tape the crayons to the top corner of the box. This will give your little artist something to color once the event is over.

