 If you want to flirt in person with your crush, wait until it feels right. You don’t have to wait until you are alone with your crush, but if you notice that there are people around you who are especially gossipy or seem to be watching you and your crush, wait for a different time to talk to your crush.


Wait until you feel at ease in your environment and you won’t be uncomfortable with the people around you hearing you flirt with your crush.;
, Establishing eye contact is key to any kind of flirting. It’s also a great way to initiate a conversation if you don’t want to be overly-flirtatious. Make eye contact with your crush to show them that you are interested in talking without being too forceful.


Especially if you’re a girl worried about seeming too forward, using eye contact is a great way to acknowledge your crush and hint that you may want to talk with them.
Don’t overdo eye contact. Hold eye contact no more than a few seconds, especially if you haven’t started talking.
 Remember to smile when you’re talking to your crush or trying to get their attention. A smile shows that you are receptive and interested without seeming too forward.


Try to give your crush a cute or coy smile rather than a huge grin.
If you’re a girl, try smiling at your crush, then flitting your eyes downward, then looking back at your crush. This is a modest gesture that will make you seem shy and endearing.
 Don’t immediately jump into flirting when you see your crush. Instead, have a casual conversation about work, school or something else you have in common. You could even ask your crush a question about themselves. This is a good way to ease into your conversation and to not make it look like you are trying too hard.You could say something like, “So have you gotten started on that English project yet? I’m completely stuck!”

, A great way to keep a conversation going and build natural rapport is to ask your crush questions about themselves whenever there is a lull in the conversation. This will make you and your crush begin to have a good back and forth that can set the stage for flirting.Some good questions to ask include:


What do you like to do for fun?
How long have you lived around here? Did you grow up in this town?
What is your favorite class? What do you like about it?
Do you have any pets?

