 You should only co-sleep with your baby on firm mattresses. Soft and sagging mattresses may cause your baby to overheat or suffocate. The mattress should fit the bed frame snugly, with no gaps between the mattress and headboard, frame, or wall.Avoid co-sleeping on feather beds, air mattresses, and waterbeds.
 Heavy blankets can lead to overheating and suffocation. Instead, use light sheets and thin blankets. Avoid flannel sheets and heavy comforters or duvets.If you use heavier blankets, never cover the baby’s head with it.
Make sure the sheets fit the bed so there’s no risk of the baby getting tangled up in loose sheets.
 Your baby shouldn’t be surrounded by pillows or stuffed animals. Sleeping on pillows or with pillows around them can cause the baby to roll off or end up wedged between the pillows, which can cause suffocation., You may want to put the mattress on the floor instead of on the bed frame. This may make you feel safer since your baby won’t be at risk for falling off the side of the bed to the floor.This may be preferable once your baby starts moving around a lot.
 The best bed for co-sleeping is a king-sized bed. This size gives enough room for you, your partner, and the baby. If your bed is too small, you or your partner may want to sleep on the floor or in another room so there is enough room to co-sleep on the bed., When you co-sleep, you should sleep in the right position. The “C” position helps keep your baby safe. Sleep on your side, with your body curled around your baby like a “C.” Put your forearm above the baby’s head and your knees under their feet.This positions helps you avoid rolling away or towards your baby, and keeps your pillow away from your baby.
 Overheating is a big concern with co-sleeping. Your baby should be warm and able to regulate their temperature.Keep the head uncovered, which will help their core temperature adjust as needed. Place them in their regular pajamas when you sleep.
 If your hair is long, you should tie it back. Long hair can get tangled around the baby’s body. Co-sleeping with long hair presents a danger of the hair getting wrapped around the baby’s neck, which can lead to suffocation.You can pull your hair into a ponytail, braid it, or place it in a bun.
 When sharing a bed with your baby, the baby should always sleep on their back. This is the same as the way they would sleep in a crib. Don’t place the baby on their stomach or side when co-sleeping.