 One of the most important things that you can teach a child is being reliable as an adult. Many young kids may not have parents or other relatives that are dependable. Adults may promise one thing and then do something else. They may not be there on time, or at all.When you make plans to spend time with your niece or nephew for example, be there when you said you’d show up. Set aside time to be with them. If a friend invites to do something else, prioritize your time with your niece or nephew first.
If your young cousin has a soccer match coming up, and you agreed to go, then make sure to put that down on a calendar. If something else comes up, make sure to contact them at least a day in advance to let them know you’re not coming. Avoid accidentally forgetting to show up.;
, As a role model, you are a source of wisdom and inspiration. You help others to understand what matters in life. Many children may have role models like professional athletes, singers, or actresses, but they also need real-life role models that help them to understand morals and ethics.


Talk with them about real-life people that you admire, and what qualities make those role models special.
Give your younger relatives examples of people who have made an impact for good. Use examples of people in your community. Sometimes historical figures can also provide a good perspective.
Demonstrate to them what responsibility, respect, and integrity look like. Take this to heart in your own daily actions. If you’re taking a trip to the store with your younger relatives, think about ways you can model behaviors of respect when interacting with other shoppers, or when making purchases that show responsibility., Avoid acting like you’re too good or know better than to make mistakes. If you’re calm and understanding, you’ll help to teach your young relatives that it’s okay to make mistakes in life. Show them that you can overcome and move forward after a mistake. Consider saying, "Yes, I messed up on this, but I am ready to make it better." Demonstrate that you take initiative after making a mistake in order to correct it.
Show them that you are realistic when mistakes happen. Consider saying, "I know I made a mistake. I will make every effort to address it. Remember that we all make mistakes, but it's about what you do afterwards that matters."

, For example, let’s say that you got in trouble back in high school for skipping classes to hang out with friends. Explain to them the consequences of your behavior. Maybe you got disciplined by the school administration? Or had low grades that semester? Tell them how you overcame the situation and what you learned.


If you’re having some arguments with your relatives, think about how you would react if your younger relatives were in the room. Be calm and focus on ways to be mature in your opinions when talking with your family members.
Talk with your young relatives about mistakes that you or others have made. Ask them how they might have handled the situation themselves.
For example, you could approach a topic about mistakes in this way--"What do think about when getting caught for being tardy to class? I used to get sent to detention after being late three times. How do you think you'd handle the situation after being late?"

