 Cut them using a pair of wire cutters. Try to use the heavy duty kind, and not your good jewelry wire cutters. Memory wire is strong, and can easily dull a good pair of wire cutters.
 You must use braided leather cord. Regular leather cord won't work because it doesn't have any room inside for the wire.The recommended size is 6mm. If you can't get cord in that size, use the next closest one you can find.
 Do not tape over the ends, or you won't be able to feed the fire through it. Try to use a narrow piece of tape; cut it in half lengthwise if needed. You will be leaving the tape on the cord. If it is too wide, it will peak out from under the caps., Some cords have rubber tubing inside. If your cord has rubber tubing, simply thread the wire through it. You may have to use a pair of pliers to pull the wire through the cord at the end.
 This will make it easier to slip the end caps on. To trim the wire, push the cord down a little, the cut the wire using a pair of wire cutters. Repeat this step for the other end of the coil as well.
 Place a few drops of super glue into the cup part of the cap, then push the cap onto the end of the cord. You will need to twist the cap in order to get it all the way on. Repeat for the other end of the bracelet.


The tape should be covered completely by the cap, so you should not have to remove it.
The recommended size is 6mm. If you are using a different sized cord, however, then make sure that you get caps that match that cord. For example, if your cord is 4mm, then get 4mm caps.
If you'd like to add charms to your caps, get the kind that have loops on the end.
You can use any color your want, but silver will look best with black leather; brass will look best with brown leather.
 Open up a jump ring, then slip a charm into it. Poke one of the ends of the jump ring through the loop at the end of an end cap, then close it.If you'd want a simpler bracelet, you can skip this step.
 This may take up to 24 hours. Once the glue has dried, your bracelet is ready to wear.

