 If you have a pet bird, make sure to protect her from cold weather. Move her bird cage to a warm location, away from drafts, doors, and windows., Though large, horses also need to be looked after in extreme cold temperatures. Your horse should have access to a secure shelter, like a barn or three sided structure. This shelter should protect the horse from the wind and elements.


If needed, place a blanket on your horse to keep her warm and dry.
Make sure your horse has plenty of food since staying warm burns more energy. Feed your horses more forage during colder months. Keep a check on your horse’s water supply to make sure it is not frozen.
 If you have outdoor rabbits, make sure to protect them during cold months. Most rabbits are able to withstand colder temperatures. However, if it is freezing, you need to make sure to protect them. Consider moving rabbits indoors, or into an unused garage, shed, or outdoor building during freezing temperatures. Make sure to ensure the rabbits have plenty of exercise areas if you move them.If you leave your rabbits outdoors, make sure they have ways to keep warm. This includes extra bedding. Make sure the rabbits’ home is protected from rain, snow, wind, and other adverse elements. The house should be protected from drafts.Make sure to keep your rabbits dry. The worst thing for rabbits during cold weather is to be in a wet or drafty home.
 If you see a pet in your area who is left outdoors without the proper safety measures, talk to the owner. If there is no change, document the conditions and report it to animal control or the sheriff’s office.You can politely follow up after a few days if the pet has not been provided for.
When documenting a case, note the date, time, and location. You also need to provide the type of animal. Describe the details of the unsafe care as specifically as possible. If possible, take a video or photo with a camera or cell phone. Providing as much evidence as possible will help the situation be dealt with.

