 If you are unable to commit to regular lessons, there is a vast amount of online resources and websites that you access for free to help you learn. Many of these websites are very well developed and have a lot of information about grammar, as well as plenty of exercises to help you practice.


There is huge choice, so try a few different websites and see which one you find the easiest to use.Often countries will have official websites as bases for people to learn their mother tongue.
The government backed websites are generally very reliable and accurate.
Look for websites with addresses that end with .gov or .edu, or are from well-known institutions, such as the BBC or the Goethe Institute.
The American Foreign Services Institute has high-quality materials prepared by linguists, and covers a wide-range of languages: http://fsi-languages.yojik.eu/.
 Learning languages is a big business, and there are lots of different packages you can buy that will guide you through lessons that cover reading, writing, speaking and listening. These packages can have hundreds of hours of material, and be very expensive to buy. Look up online reviews to get an idea of the packages available for the language you want to learn.An advantage of using one of the packages is that you can learn at your own speed, and fit your lessons in around your daily life.


There are also very popular apps that you can get on a smartphone, which enable you to learn anywhere.Without regular face-to-face lessons you may find it harder to develop confidence in your ability to actually speak the language to other people.
If you struggle with motivation, you might benefit more from having the face-to-face contact, where there is more pressure on you to study and contribute.
Most of the major companies will offer a free trial of their software, so be sure to try it out before you pay hundreds of dollars.
 A more low-tech way to learn at home, is to buy some textbooks, grammar guides, and verb tables and start working through them. This approach requires some dedication and commitment, because learning at home with a book can get boring and frustrating. Using books can be a good way to learn technical aspects of the language, such as grammar, sentence structure, and verb conjugation.


Old textbooks can be bought cheaply second-hand online, but try to get one that is fairly recent.
Languages change, so you need to be learning from an up-to-date text.
If you just rely on books, you are unlikely to spend much time on listening, and even less on speaking.
 When you are trying to learn a language, it’s important not to neglect any of the key areas. If you are learning alone, you are likely to spend more time on reading and writing, and if you learn in a group you will probably spend more time speaking and listening. Try to get a good balance of the four different aspects, and vary your learning techniques.You are not just learning the technical aspects of a language, but also developing the confidence to speak to people.
Take any opportunity to practice, and spend as much time on the language as you possibly can.

