 Puppy socialization is important to help your puppy learn normal dog behaviors.Socialization starts from a young age when your puppy is with its mother and other puppies. You take over socialization training after the puppy leaves its littermates and mom (around 8 weeks of age) up until it reaches 12-14 weeks of age. During this time, expose your puppy to other puppies, dogs, and cats, humans (of all shapes, sizes, and sexes) along with different situations such as car ride, parks, and the neighborhood activity.


All this socialization serves a purpose related to biting because a well socialized dog will know how to play with other dogs and will not bite at the first sign of a threat.
 Do not let your puppy get away with everything when you bring it home. Set clear boundaries such as where the puppy is allowed to be in the house, when it is allowed to eat, and what it can play with. If your puppy violates any boundaries, discipline him right away and be consistent.


For example, if the puppy is not allowed to get up on the furniture, tell your puppy “No!” and put him back on the floor right away.
Never strike your puppy. This will only instill fear in it and fearful puppies (and dogs) do not make good companions. Instead, discipline your puppy by teaching him what you want and then rewarding positive behavior. To reward your puppy, you can give him a small treat and lots of praise. If you puppy does something bad, then ignore him until the bad behavior stops.
 Make sure that your puppy is getting enough exercise and safe play every day. Puppies often bite or nip because they want to play or are bored. Teach your puppy that games like fetch, Frisbee and tug-of-war are acceptable for playtime.


Taking your puppy for a short walk once or twice a day is a good way for both of you to get exercise. Keep it short (less than 15 minutes) as young puppy’s bones and joints are still forming and longer walks can harm them. Do NOT take your puppy for jogs or runs until he is over a year old.
You should also have at least 15-30 minutes of playtime each day where the puppy can burn off some excess energy. Doing this will help your puppy focus a bit more during training sessions—including not biting—once he has calmed down from a good solid play period.
 If you are still having serious problems with puppy biting and none of the at-home methods you've tried seem to be working, consider taking your dog to a certified professional pet behaviorist or to a certified professional dog trainer. Many pet stores offer obedience courses run by trained professionals who can help you teach your puppy not to bite.