 Farm Heroes Saga can be played on your smart device or from the Facebook website.


For Android and iOS, look for the game app on your home screen. Tap it to launch the game.
On Facebook, on the News Feed page of your account, look for the Apps heading on the left panel. A list of your apps will be displayed here. Click the Farm Heroes Saga link to launch the game.;
, Once you’ve finished level 275, level 276 of the game will be accessible for you to play. Tap on the level from the game map to open it.
 Double-check your goals before you start. You’ll find them at the left side, next to the board. The number of moves will be below the goals. Keep watch of your goals as you play the game. Also, check out the board if there are good matches to make.
 In Farm Heroes Saga level 276, the technique to beat Rancid is by gathering enough onions, strawberries, and water drops. As there are just four types of Cropsies on the game board, it’s very easy to make the correct matches. Emphasize making your match as big as you can (match of 4 or more). The bigger the match, the more damage you do to Rancid.
 Make matches near the grass as much as possible to bump up the value of your Cropsies and do maximum harm to Rancid. Making matches here will also help you trigger cascades, allowing you to gather enough onions, strawberries, and water drops to beat the game

, Boosters should definitely be used in levels where you have very less amount of moves to make. It can make the difference between winning and failing a level. You get free boosters every 5 to 10 hours. Boosters can be found at the top right of the game screen. There are three kinds of boosters in Farm Heroes Saga.


Magic Shovel Booster: This allows you to remove one crop. You can use this booster when you only have a small number of moves left and you badly want to collect one cropsy to complete a level.
Bonus Reward Booster: Every required cropsy will get +1 bonus on the board on applying this booster. So when you need more points to win the game, apply this booster. It will give your score the boost it needs.
Tractor Booster: This booster will remove a full row of cropsies by driving over it.

