 Before you begin filming, pass out a copy of the shooting script and briefly outline the goals of the commercial. Let people know if there is a specific tone you are going for (comedic, serious, etc.) so that they can do their jobs according to your vision.


If you are shooting across multiple days or locations, highlight the moments you will be filming that day and quickly tell people how the fit into the final commercial.
If working with a DP, review the camera and lighting choices ahead of time so that you are ready to shoot when everyone arrives., Blocking is where people stand and where they move. Set your cast and crew up, and use a small piece of tape to mark their locations on the floor. If they will be moving around, mark the spots they move to and from separately.


Keep the blocking simple -- have people walk in straight lines and stand when delivering lines. This will make everyone's job easier while filming., Once you know where your actors art standing you can adjust the lighting so that they are visible and clear. Unless you're going for a very specific effect (such as police lights on a law firm's commercial) you want to keep the light even and natural. Avoid big bright spots or faint, almost gray light. Try and get even lighting on everything, with few bright spots and several dark, deep shadows.


It can help to set your camera, briefly, to Black and White to check the lighting. Does the picture still look interesting in black and white? If so, your lighting is good.
If you don't have professional lights you can pick up clamp lights and work lights from home improvement stores, which have been used to light many independent productions.
If you are filming the video yourself, be sure to use your camera's "white balance" feature before starting. This adjusts the camera to the lights so that it looks natural.
 The microphones attached to the camera will work, but the sound quality will be poor and the final production will be amateur-sounding. It is proven that most audiences notice bad sound before they notice bad video, so you need to spend time and money on decent audio equipment.If you can purchase a cheap lavalier microphone, which attaches to your shirt, you can get great audio with minimal hassle. Other options include a shotgun microphone, which attaches to a camera, or a small portable recorder, like a Tascam.


You can also record the commercial with voice over. Many commercials don't need someone on screen talking. Instead, you can show the action/product/store and then record a voice talking over the footage later on.
 B-roll includes all the shots that aren't essential to your story, but can help sell your product or story. Think of the shots the pan over a row of new cars, or all the cakes offered at the bakery, or the happy couple walking into the bank. The more B-roll you can shoot, the better your commercial will be since B-roll is often used under voice overs or to transition from one shot to the next.