 Take the attitude that the media needs you when you need them, not the other way around. If a story is worth running, you should be the one in control of it. Start things off this way by making appointments with paper, Internet, magazine, TV editors the moment your selection is confirmed. Use this as an opportunity to introduce yourself, not run the party line or to give your press release verbatim. They can read that for themselves - this is about letting them know you are accessible for good news and you will make yourself available but usually on your terms.;
, The press are people and each individual, despite their media presence, is amenable to pleasant, convincing and polite discussion. Everyone likes to be treated with respect. Be the one that is known for always doing this and the media will return the favor.
 Have your facts straight at all times and when you don't, use the lines that deflect comment, such as "I am getting further information immediately", "I'll find that out for you shortly", "Let me get back to you on that". If you do get back quickly and efficiently, the press will learn to take you on your word and respect you. If you don't, you will get badgered. Another thing to always remember is not to comment on what someone else has allegedly said without either you having been present when it was said or you have an authoritative version of the text before you. It's fine to just keep reiterating that you have no comment but be prepared for the press to keep trying - just don't give in or you will have words put in your mouth.
 You are a target, whether or not you like it. Humility goes a long way to defraying the temptation to lampoon you. If it is known that you can laugh at yourself and that you're perfectly open to learning from your foibles and faux pas, the press will learn to respect that and report accordingly.
 Treat all media establishments with the same rights to your stories and news. Release news to all outlets equally but do still choose your moment - after all, some news is better delivered at certain times of the day or week.
 This is a more personal means of communicating with everyone and the media can learn about you from there as well. Don't bad mouth anyone in a blog. It will haunt you within five minutes and is never erasable.
 Use your smile, your smiling eyes, your facial expressions to convey messages as much as the words. Your demeanor counts, especially on TV. And keep relaxed; remember that every bit of stiffness shows when being filmed.
 Never waffle. People take a few seconds to catch on and then you lose them. Have real life examples that appeal to those with whom you are speaking. Don't lead media up the garden path with false or wishy-washy statements or they'll immediately return the favor and you'll be digging yourself out of a hole.
 Even journalists are flattered by their interview subject being an active listener, let alone your voters. Show concern for the interviewer as one of your voters, engage them as well and respect them by concentrating. Respond with conviction and clarity; again, when you don't know, don't make it up but promise to get back to them or simply state that it's a no comment occasion.

