 Tap the App Store on your iPhone/iPad to launch it. Search for Slideshark in the store, then tap the “Install” button beside the app. You need to have Slideshark installed on both your iPad and iPhone in order to partner and link them.;
, In order to connect Slideshark on both your iPad and iPhone, you have to turn both devices’ Bluetooth on. This is the interface which they will use to find and connect to each other. On each of your device, go to Settings. Tap “Bluetooth” from the menu and tap on the toggle button to green to turn Bluetooth on.
 Locate the app on your iPad. The app icon has an orange background carrying the SlideShark logo. Tap on it. It is best that you hold your iPad horizontally so that the presentation will properly appear in landscape.
 Tap the remote icon on the menu bar on the left panel. A small window will appear with the Remote settings. Under the Remote Control option, tap the toggle button to green to turn it on.
 A Remote Control PIN will be display in the Remote settings. Take note of this four-digit PIN. You will need this to authorize the connection on your iPhone., Locate the app on your iPhone. The app icon has an orange background carrying the SlideShark logo. Tap on it. You can hold your iPhone vertically, which is also the better position as a remote control.
 Tap the remote icon on the menu bar on the bottom panel. The Remote settings will appear. Tap the toggle button to turn on the Remote function.
 Slideshark on your iPhone will search for nearby devices via Bluetooth to which it can connect to. Your iPad should appear on the list of devices. Tap on it.
 You will be asked to enter a PIN. Input the four-digit PIN you got from the iPad. Tap the “Connect” button on the top right corner to proceed.


This linking is only required during the initial setup to connect the iPhone and the iPad. Once the connection is established, you now have your iPhone as a remote control for Slideshark on your iPad.
 Back on the main directory view, tap the file you want to present. It will be loaded in full screen.
 Your iPhone will now act as a remote control. You can see some buttons or arrows on the screen that you can use to navigate through your presentation.
 To run the presentation in sequence, one slide after another, swipe left on the iPhone screen. Your presentation will advance to the next slide.
 If you want to go back to the previous slide, swipe right on the iPhone screen. Your presentation will go back one slide.
 If you want to see or jump to a specific slide, swipe up on the iPhone screen. All the slides in the current presentation will be displayed in thumbnails. You can tap on any of the slides here to jump to another slide.