 Make a loop a little ways from the end of your yarn. Make a second loop a little farther from the yarn end and pull it through the first loop. Slide this second loop over your crochet hook.






;
, Take the "working yarn," or yarn leading back to the skein, and wrap it over your crochet hook, from the back toward you. Ensure this new loop of yarn sits inside the hook itself, with your slipknot loop a little farther away.










When a pattern wants you to yarn over, it will abbreviate it as "yo."

, Pull your hook backward through the slipknot loop, bringing the second loop with it. You should now have two chain stitches, with one loop remaining on your hook.
 Yarn over and draw through until you have the amount of stitches you need. If working from a pattern, count your stitches and stop when you have the number called for. If working on the fly, simply estimate.
 After you have reached your required length of foundation chain, you must crochet exactly three more stitches to help you turn your work and start the treble crochet.
 Keeping your last loop firmly on your hook, simply take the work that you have done and flip it so that the end you started from is trailing to the opposite side. Do not move or flip your hook.
 Wrap your yarn over your hook from the back toward you two times.
 Count four stitches back from your hook. You will skip all of these. Insert your hook under the top loop of the fifth chain stitch from your hook. This is done because those four stitches count as your first treble crochet stitch.
 Wrap your yarn over the hook from back to front exactly as before and pull it through one of the loops on your hook.
 Wrap your yarn over the hook once and pull it through two of the loops on your hook.
 This is a repeat of the last step, but don't skip it. You must complete the stitch in this manner.
 This is another repeat step, and is the last. You should now have only one loop left on your hook. A pattern will abbreviate what you have just completed with "tr."









, You will always yarn over twice before inserting your hook for a treble crochet stitch.
 This time there is no need to count stitches. Insert your hook into the next stitch in your chain.
 Just as you did before, you will wrap your yarn over your hook once and pull it through one loop.
 Again, yarn over only one time and draw your hook through two loops.
 Remember this part? This is no broken record, these steps are all important.
 Once again, you will now have only one loop left on your hook.
 Continue to repeat them with each of your remaining foundation chain stitches.
 Once again, simply flip your work over so that the stitches you've just made are now going in the opposite direction.
 This turning chain will consist of four single chain stitches.
 Wrap your yarn over your hook two times and insert it underneath the top two loops of the first stitch.
 Yarn over your hook one time and pull it through the stitch you inserted into. This means the first two loops on your hook.
 Again, yarn over once and pull through two loops. Repeat this step until you have only one loop on your hook, as before.
 Additional rows of treble crochet will be completed by repeating this section.









