 Using an athletic stance during training increases the benefits of your drills and conditioning exercises. There are three basic athletic stance positions to choose from. Select the one that feels the most natural to you and make sure that you always begin your training sessions in this stance.Universal. Stand with your feet shoulder width apart. Bend your knees slightly and lean forward. Put your hands up in front of as if you are getting ready to grab your opponent.

Staggered. Stand with your feet shoulder width apart, but place either your right or left leg a little ahead of the other leg, as if you have just taken a small step forward. Bend forward so that your back is almost parallel and put your hands out in front of you.

Parallel. Stand with your feet shoulder width apart and bend at the waist until your back is parallel with the ground. Then, put your hands out in front of you.;
, Chain wrestling is a style where you plan out moves for specific situations, such as when you are in a hold. You can use chain wrestling to help you gain the advantage, rather than repeating the same moves over and over again. Chain wrestling is similar to making a sequence of moves in chess to beat your opponent.For example, you might develop a specific move to counter a hold and then have additional moves to follow that one, which will help you to achieve your goal of pinning your opponent.
 If you are not yet following a strength training routine, then now is a great time to start. Strength training can increase your power and this will give you an advantage during your matches. Make sure that you work with a trainer who is knowledgeable about strength training for wrestlers.Some good strength training exercises to add to your routine include:


pull-ups
push-ups
shoulder presses
wall sits
sit-ups

, Wrestlers need to be strong, but they also need to be agile, so agility training should be part of your program as well. You can improve your agility through training matches and actual wrestling matches, but you can also try other strategies, such as jumping rope or running obstacle courses.
 Wrestling is an intense cardiovascular workout, so it is also important to include some vigorous cardiovascular exercise in your training regimen, such as running or climbing stairs. You can use your cardio routine as a warmup to your workout, or incorporate the cardio into your wrestling training.


For example, you could run a couple of miles before you start your workout, or sprint across the gym a couple of times in between your strength training exercises.
Make sure that you take a few minutes to stretch before and after your workouts.
 Wrestling camps offer intensive training with talented coaches and other dedicated wrestlers like yourself. If you want to immerse yourself in wrestling and return to school in the fall with better wrestling skills, then a wrestling camp might be your best bet.


Ask your coaches if they know about any good wrestling camps in your area.

