 Some causes of sexual frustration, such as erectile dysfunction or difficulty achieving arousal or orgasm, can have medical causes. Your physician may be able to recommend treatment options or lifestyle changes that can help with your difficulties, which will help relieve some of that frustration.Erectile dysfunction is a common cause of sexual frustration not only for men but their partners too. Heart disease, diabetes, obesity, and certain prescriptions can all interfere with a man's ability to achieve and maintain an erection.
Age is another very common factor in sexual frustration for both men and women. Sexual dysfunction becomes more common in men and women as they get older.Your doctor may be able to help you find treatment options that relieve your issues., Fatigue can be a culprit behind sex troubles such as erectile dysfunction and difficulty achieving orgasm.Feeling tired can affect arousal as well as performance. You may feel frustrated because you want to have sex but don’t have the energy to, or because you try to have sex and can’t maintain interest because of fatigue.Getting enough rest can help you feel rejuvenated and ready for sex.


Sleep apnea may be a disruptor, especially for men and people who are overweight.If you frequently wake up tired and don’t feel rested even after getting enough sleep, consult with your doctor about possible treatment options.
 Stress can impact your ability to enjoy sexual relations. If you cannot manage stress well, speak with a psychologist or your doctor about possible solutions. Your sexual symptoms (or your partner's) may be the side effect of larger stresses.


Try yoga, meditation, and deep breathing exercises to help relieve daily stresses.
 Depression is a major culprit behind many cases of sexual dysfunction.If you’re struggling with depression, you may feel a lower-than-normal sex drive that could frustrate you and/or your partner. Seeking treatment from a mental health professional can help you deal with your depression and can also revive your sex drive.


The brain is the biggest sexual organ in humans, and it has to function properly for your sex life to be happy and healthy. Clinical depression is often caused by chemical imbalances that can affect your libido and ability to perform sexually.Depression can also often cause feelings of personal worthlessness or sadness that can interfere with your ability to feel sexually desirable. Getting help for your depression can also help you overcome these feelings, allowing you to feel more desirable and experience more desire yourself.
Some antidepressant medications may also interfere with sexual desire. If you’re taking antidepressants and experiencing unwanted sexual side effects, speak with your doctor. Never stop taking or alter your dosage on your own., If your sexual frustration is the result of a physical disability, don’t despair. Many individuals with disabilities have healthy, satisfying sex lives.Studies have shown that nearly every area of the body can function as an erogenous zone.You aren’t limited to your genitals.
Incorporate all your senses. Remember that sex is about more than just genital contact. Involve your senses of sight, smell, hearing, touch, and taste into your sexual experiences.
Many people who have lost sensation in their genital areas can actually still experience orgasm through genital stimulation. You may just feel it in a different part of your body than you expect.You may also benefit from incorporating techniques from tantric sex.Tantric sex involves Eastern philosophies of mindfulness and being in the present moment. It can help you enjoy whatever activity you can experience without worrying about what you perhaps cannot.For example, focusing exclusively on the sensation of an activity or being mindful about your breathing can help you stay “in the moment.”

