 While there is no scientific consensus, some research indicates tea tree oil and other natural oils may kill head lice. You can buy tea tree oil at a local health shop or order it online. See if it works at treating head lice.


Some people are allergic to tea tree oil and will have a lot of skin redness or irritation if used. Talk to your doctor before trying tea tree oil. Or, you can apply a small amount to your arm for a few days to look for an allergic reaction. Be especially careful if using on a child.
Before bed, sprinkle a few drops of tea tree oil on your scalp. Put a towel on your pillow and go to sleep, leaving the oil in overnight.In the morning, comb your hair to remove any dead lice or eggs. Then, wash and condition your hair. If possible, use shampoo and conditioner that contains tea tree oil. Look for a minimum concentration of 2% tea tree oil.Repeat as necessary. The process may take a few tries before it works.
 Some research indicates some natural plant oils may be toxic to head lice. However, scientific research is limited and not conclusive. Lavender oil, anise oil, ylang ylang oil, and nerolidol all may work at removing head lice. You can order these oils online or can find them in some drug or health food stores. Use with caution, however, as essential oils are not required to meet FDA safety regulations.Keep in mind many essential oils need to be diluted in a carrier oil, like olive oil, before use. Read the label of any oils you purchase for instructions on safe use. As with tea tree oil, use these oils with caution, especially with children. Talk to your doctor before using essential oils to treat head lice.
 Many household products can supposedly kill head lice by depriving lice and eggs from air. This can smother lice and eggs but there is little clinical evidence of the effectiveness of these treatments.


Olive oil, mayonnaise, petroleum jelly, and butter are all suggested smothering agents to treat head lice. You would apply one of these products to your hair, cover with a shower cap or hair net, and leave in overnight. Wash out in the morning and see if you notice any results.