 You will probably feel jealous that she is talking with others instead of you. In that case, express your concerns to your partner. Arrange a date night or special time when you can regularly be together one-on-one. This will ensure you both find enough time to spend together.


Try to compromise with your partner to find a comfortable amount of time you can be together each day.
If you were cheated on by your partner before, you might also become overprotective as a result. Perhaps you start trying to keep an eye on him/her. However, this is unhealthy, not to mention impossible. Rebuilding trust takes time, and overprotective behavior will slow the process.
 You might think your partner does not want you around anymore. If you feel these things, express them to your partner. Often, being reassured that your partner is still interested in you can alleviate your stress and reduce your need to be overprotective of him or her.


Low self-esteem and a lack of self-confidence can lead to unhealthy attachments and overprotective behavior. Build your self-confidence each day by taking care of your appearance. Dress well and maintain good hygiene. Eat a balanced diet and get 60-90 minutes of exercise each day. In time, you will feel more comfortable with yourself and not need to be so overprotective of your partner.

Make three lists: one of your strengths, one of your achievements, and one of things you admire about yourself. Consult your partner and other friends about what they think belongs on each list. Refer to it regularly when feel down about yourself.
If you suffer from long-term insecurity about your personal prospects, consult a psychologist. Psychologists are trained to help you work through personal problems and identify causes which may lie deep in your past.
 For instance, do not snoop into their text messages or emails. If you are suspicious that your partner is cheating on you, confront them with your concerns directly. Don’t go behind your partner’s back to discover what they’re saying to their friends or coworkers.If they ask for alone time or don’t want to go out every time you offer them an invitation, don’t take it personally. Everyone needs alone time.

