 Body casts can be difficult to deal with and keep clean, especially when going to the bathroom. You want to make sure that if you or your child has a body cast, you do not get urine on the cast.Find a way to prevent splashing urine onto the cast, such as toilet paper in the bedpan.
Make sure no urine rolls along the skin into the cast. Wipe away the urine immediately.
 You may want to use something to help with the smell of the cast or to help keep it clean. However, don’t do this. This can lead to more grime and problems, especially inside the cast. Keep those types of things away from the cast.For example, don’t place lotions, powder, or deodorants on, inside, or near the cast.
 Though taking care of a fiberglass or plaster cast is similar, there are important distinctions between the two. Make sure you know what kind of cast you have and the type of liner you have so you can care for your cast properly.Fiberglass casts can hold up better if they happen to get wet. However, you should not submerge them in water, go swimming with them, or take a shower with them if you have a normal liner. The liner can get wet and irritate or cause sores on your skin inside the cast.
Some fiberglass casts come with waterproof liners. If you have a waterproof liner, you may be able to submerge it in water, but only with your doctor's approval. For example, you may be able to go swimming or take a bath with it.
Plaster casts cannot get wet. Water can damage the cast and cause problems. It may even possibly cause the cast to dissolve and fall apart. You should take care to always keep your plaster cast dry.
 If you get the cast completely wet somehow, you may need to see a doctor. Sometimes, a wet cast will completely dry, but often, a wet cast won’t dry completely, and it will cause sore spots on your skin inside the cast.You should call the doctor if you notice:

Pain and tightness in the injured limb
Numbness or tingling in the injured hand or foot
Burning or stinging under the cast
Injured fingers or toes of injured limb becoming cold or blue
Inability to move fingers or toes of injured limb
Swelling below the cast
Red or raw skin around the cast
Fever of 101F (38C) or higherIf the cast gotten wet but has not dried after 24 hours, call the doctor.Most casts will start to smell a little after you wear them for awhile. However, any foul or extremely bad odors are an indication of a problem. You should go see a doctor if the smell is bad because this might mean you have an infection.

