 You can use any web browser to download Photoshop training materials from Adobe.

You must purchase the training materials. The price varies by product and region.;
, It’s the white oval button on the blue bar near the top of the screen. This opens the catalog., It’s toward the bottom of the column along the right side of the screen., This opens the module’s page, which displays a description of the covered material, as well as the price.,, It’s beneath the “Country” drop-down. A pop-up will appear.,, Use the drop-down menus under “Calculate Shipping Rates,” then click Recalculate to get a proper price estimate., You’ll only have to do this if you’re a new Adobe customer.

If you’ve already purchased items from the Adobe store, enter your email address and password into the blanks under “Returning Customers,” then click Login & Checkout.
 You’ll have to include your name, address, phone number, and a new username and password (if you’re a new customer)., You can choose an option from the drop-down menu beneath the form where you entered your personal information., This goes into the form beneath the shipping method., Expect your training materials to arrive in accordance with your selected shipping method., This is the Adobe exams site., As of 5/2017, the Photoshop exam is called Photoshop CC 2015., If you’re taking the exam in a language other than English, the button should display that language., A pop-up will appear.,, It’s the blue button on the right side of the screen.,, Once your account is created, you’ll see a page titled “Home.”,, This displays the exam’s details, such as its cost and policies., It’s at the bottom-right corner of the screen.,, To search for a testing center near you, type your address into the search box and click Search. Then, click the check box next to the center where you wish to take your test. You can select up to 3 centers at once to view available test dates., It’s to the right of the map., When you click the date, a new window will appear., It’s at the bottom-right corner of the screen., You’ll have to provide your credit card information as well as your billing address to reserve your spot at the testing center., Now that you’ve submitted your testing payment, be sure to write down all of the details you’ll need, including the time of the test. Be sure to review your study guide before the test so you’re well prepared.

The test is 57 questions long.
You must answer 63% of test corrections accurately to become an ACE (Adobe Certified Export) of Photoshop.

