 Get some nail polish remover, a cotton ball, and aluminum foil. If you don’t have aluminum foil, a rubber band or hair elastic will do the trick just as nicely. What you really want is something that will hold the cotton ball in place against your fingernail., Acetone is an extremely powerful solvent that can remove all types of nail polish. Use acetone-based remover in order to remove your glitter polish more effectively. While it’s powerful, it’s also harsh on your nails, so try to use it as infrequently as possible.
 Tear off a couple sheets of foil and tear each sheet into several pieces. Each piece should be about as big as your palm and in the shape of a rectangle.








You can also substitute the aluminum foil for ten small rubber bands or hair elastics.
 Press the cotton ball, saturated side down, onto your nail.
 Put the aluminum foil strip over the top of your finger so that it’s wider horizontally, and then wrap it firmly around your fingertip so that it won’t fall off. Putting the foil on will help to keep the cotton ball in place. Fold down any aluminum that’s extending past your nail.








If you’re using bands instead of foil, wrap a band around the cotton ball and your finger. If it is a large band, wrap it around multiple times until it is firmly against your finger so that the cotton ball won’t fall off.
 Let the polish sit for at least 5 minutes so that the remover can slowly loosen the glitter’s grip on your nail. This will help you to remove the polish later more effortlessly.If you’re in a rush, sit in the sunlight while you let your nails soak. The heat will slightly speed up the process, allowing you to remove the foil and cotton balls in 3-5 minutes., While applying a bit of pressure, drag the foil-wrapped cotton ball across and off your nail in one swift movement. This should take most if not all of the glitter polish off of your nails.
 If there is still a bit of glitter polish on your nails at this point, heavily saturate a couple more cotton balls in an acetone-based nail polish remover.








You can also use an exfoliating cotton makeup wipe. These wipes have ridges that make it possible to create more friction., Press down hard and rub your nail with the cotton ball wherever glitter polish remains. If one side of your cotton ball gets covered in glitter, flip to the other side and continue to scrub. Repeat this process for each nail, throwing away used cotton balls and soaking new ones as you go.
 If at this point some of your glitter polish still won’t come off, fill a small bowl that you can fit five fingers in at once with about two inches of non-acetone remover. Submerge all five fingertips on one of your hands in the liquid, and keep them there for 2 minutes. Remove your fingers and try using a cotton ball to rub off remaining polish.


If you still aren’t having any luck, submerge your fingertips for another 30 seconds. Repeat this process on your other hand., Before you put on glitter polish, track down an old, empty bottle of nail polish. Fill the bottle with nail polish remover and swirl it around, and then rinse it out thoroughly with hot water until it’s clean., Once it’s clean, fill the empty bottle up about ⅓ of the way with liquid school glue, such as Elmer’s. Add a little water to the glue and shake it up, so that it’s spreadable.
 Apply your glue base coat just like you would apply a regular base coat. Make sure you wait a solid 5 minutes for the glue to dry completely before you put your glitter polish on.









If the mixture looks particularly streaky while you’re applying it, you may need to add a little more glue, shake up the bottle, and try to apply it again.Regular showering and hand washing may break the glue down quickly. Use less glue in your mixture if you want your polish to stay on longer., Days later when you’re ready to remove your polish, you should be able to by simply peeling it off. If this doesn’t work, try scraping is off with a wooden nail stick.







