 Testing kits are easy to use and available at most home improvement or hardware stores. Because lead is so toxic, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has tested all of the do-it-yourself kits on the market and only supports two particular brands – LeadCheck and DLead.;
, Test kits react to two chemicals – rhodizonate or sodium sulfide. To be thorough and accurate, get a test kit for each chemical. The results are shown by a test strip or swab that changes color when it comes in contact with one of these chemicals.


If you’re color blind, have a friend or family member confirm your results.
Do-it-yourself kits are not always reliable. Results may be contaminated by other materials present in your test sample.
 Professionals use x-ray fluorescence technology to determine which paint in your home contains lead. These contractors are certified in lead paint detection and removal. If lead is detected, they will assist you with determining a removal strategy.


In some cases, it is wiser and safer to allow a certified professional to detect and also remove the lead paint in your home., Information is also provided about laboratories near you that can help you test for lead.
 Leaving these systems on will result in lead paint dust being spread throughout your home. Close all vents.


Keep all windows closed to prevent dust from blowing around.
 Seal off air intakes, ductwork, dryer vents, bathroom vents, doorways, windows and other openings to your home with one-mil (.001 inch) polyethylene sheeting. This heavy-duty plastic sheeting will help minimize how much dust gets dispersed through the air.Seal doorways with poly sheeting. Close off and seal any room in which lead paint is not being removed. Exterior doorways also should be sealed.
Secure the plastic sheeting in place with duct tape. You can get these materials at most hardware stores.
 Tape the plastic to the floor or baseboard at least five feet beyond the area you’re working in. Seal the side of the plastic so dust can’t get under it. If you have wall-to-wall carpet, be very thorough. Once lead paint dust gets into carpet, it can be very hard to remove.


You could tape the plastic to the baseboard instead, but be very careful, since this could strip the paint off when you remove it., Everything, including furniture, bedding, drapes, dishware, toys, food, rugs, etc.) must be removed to avoid contamination. If it can’t be removed, cover it with two sheets of heavy duty plastic. Secure the sheeting in place with duct tape so that all seams are sealed., Lead is extremely hazardous. Children and pregnant women should never, under any circumstances, do any lead paint removal work. Everyone, including pets, must stay out of the work area until clean-up is complete.


If necessary, make arrangements for temporary living quarters.
Seal off and restrict the work area to only others working on the project., Disposable coveralls are a good option. Use paper-bootie shoe covers and remove them when you leave the work area. You’ll also need gloves, goggles and a half mask respirator equipped with a HEPA (High Efficiency Particulate Air) filter to protect your lungs.


Only HEPA respirators can filter lead dust and fumes. Paper or fabric dust masks will not protect you.At the end of the day, take a shower as soon as possible to remove any lead dust on your skin.
Always wash your work clothes in a separate load from the rest of the laundry.
 The lead dust will cling to the wet surfaces, allowing you to easily wipe away loose paint without causing a massive dust cloud. Before disturbing any painted surface, always use a water-filled spray bottle to wet the area.
 Using a 2 inch carbide scraper or wire brush, scrape off the loose and flaking paint. Start at the top and work your way down. Keep cloths and an empty bucket nearby. Continually wipe up water, dirt, sludge and paint flakes as you work and wring out the rag into the bucket.


You can also use a HEPA vacuum intermittently to clean up debris.
Continually wet the surface with the spray bottle as you work to keep it moist.
 Continue to work wet by moistening the surface before you start sanding. Never sand lead paint on a dry surface. Wet hand sanding with a coarse-grit sanding sponge or using an electric sander equipped with a HEPA filtered vacuum attachment are the only techniques that should be applied.Liquid paint removers can be used safely on small areas, like windowsills, doors and woodwork. Always read the warning labels and follow the instructions when using these products.Clean up the debris after every work day. Mist the debris with water, sweep it up and put it in double 4-mil or 6-mil plastic garbage bags. Wet-dust and wet-mop all surfaces., Do exterior work on calm days with nice weather. Wet-misting and vacuuming should be used to control the dust and paint chips. Cover the ground around the house with heavy plastic sheeting. Make sure the outer edges of the sheeting are raised so that it will properly trap the debris.


Removing all of the exterior paint isn’t necessary, and would cost you a lot of time and money. You only need to remove paint where it is loose and flaking off., When you're dealing with lead paint dust, only a HEPA vacuum is sufficient for the job.Use the vacuum to pick up as much of the paint chips and dust as possible. Be sure to get in the nooks and crannies.


Double check the cracks and corners, especially around windows, for debris. Use an attachment to get into the hard to reach areas.
Do not remove your respirator or any of your protective gear before or during cleaning.
 Soak a heavyweight paper towel in the solution and begin wiping the work surface. Start at the top and work your way down, so that the debris and residue are always being pushed in a downward direction.


When the paper towel surface gets dirty, toss it into a bucket and get a new one.
Make sure the paint chips you wipe off also go into the bucket.
 Always wipe horizontal surfaces in the same direction. Rinse and wring out the cloth in the bucket often. Change the water in the bucket as soon as it starts getting cloudy.
 Begin to fold the plastic inward, starting at the corners. Continue folding until the plastic is fully rolled up on the floor. Put it in 6-mil garbage bags, along with all of the debris you collected in the bucket.
 Be sure to get into the corners and edges of surfaces, where debris can hide. If you’re working around old wooden floors, be extra thorough. These older floors have a lot have cracks that the dust can settle in.
 Make sure the paint chips you wipe up are wrung out into the bucket. After you've washed it, refill your bucket with clean water and repeat the rinsing technique from earlier – dip a cloth in the clean water, wipe down the surface, rinse and wring out the cloth, repeat.


Remember to change the water in the bucket often.
Double-bag all debris and paint chips in 6-mil plastic garbage bags and throw them in the trash.Thoroughly wash off your tools and respirator. Be sure to throw away the respirator filters and sanding sponges.

