 The team leader will make final decisions about definitions or arguments should there be disagreement in the group. He or she will also keep track of time to ensure that preparation is moving efficiently.This method requires you to work alone first, discuss as a group, and then work independently again. Decide if this is the right method for your team and topic.;
, Individually brainstorm the development of your team’s argument.


If your topic is, “Should abortion be legal?” you may begin by listing reasons for both sides of the argument. Think of what most intelligent people say about the topic.
Remember to focus on how your side will approach presenting convincing arguments and counter-arguments.
 Discuss your brainstorm as a team. Come to an agreement on how you will interpret the topic, how you will argue your general case, and what kinds of research you will include.Both teams must prepare a definition of abortion that is accurate. Remember that you should not create a definition that tricks the other team or that confines the debate to a specific place or time.Decide on an approach to the case. Maybe you want to focus on women's rights or family values. No matter the approach, remember that you'll need to assign specific arguments for each speaker.
 The first and second speakers should begin preparing engaging speeches. The statements should be backed up with research where possible. The affirmative team’s speakers might develop strong arguments for abortion that are backed by historical facts. For example, “Abortion should be legal because the U.S. supreme court declared it a fundamental right after Roe v. Wade.”.
The negative side may present moral arguments like, “Abortion should not be legal because it is murder and fetuses feel pain during the procedure.” The third speakers should take this time to look critically at the case. Determine weakness that the other team may find in your arguments. Prepare to defend your case accordingly.

The affirmative side might consider that some supreme court justices believe that Roe v. Wade should be overturned.
The negative side may find that a fetus is not considered a legal person since it cannot survive outside the womb.
 As a group, discuss your points and any new ideas that emerged in the writing process. Clarify how the new ideas will fit into the first or second speaker’s arguments. All speakers should share their main arguments. Other team members must bring up any flaws and how they can be fixed.
For example, someone may have remembered that some religious organizations support a woman’s right to reproductive choice. This may be an important point to consider for both sides.
 Use the last few minutes to clean up your case outline and main arguments. Clarify how the second or third speaker will respond to any opposing challenges to your main points.

