 The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) indicates that some Agriculture and Food Safety Technicians may obtain a position without a post-secondary degree, but as an alternative it would require previous experience instead. For this type of inspector, an education that has focused on biology, animal sciences, food sciences, or something similar are the best options.


Many post-secondary institutions offer science degrees that may have specialties in agriculture and/or food-related topics at the undergrad level. Degrees that are specifically in agriculture and food safety tend to be at the graduate level., In the United States, the Department of Agriculture employs inspectors through their Food Safety and Inspection Service and through their Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) employs Food Safety professionals in their Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition. In the private sector many agricultural organizations and food producers employ agriculture or food safety professionals to inspect and assess crops, animals and output., Agriculture and/or Food Safety professionals usually focus on a specialty of some kind, such as carbon management, microbiology, consumer safety, and import.Each specialty may require slightly different qualifications that you need to be aware of before deciding which roles you wish to apply to.


The Department of Agriculture requires that inspectors pass a written test in order to qualify for an entry-level position., Certification is not required for Agriculture and/or Food Safety professionals, but some organizations may require certification for certain inspector positions. If not required, becoming certified will definitely help your job prospects.


The American Society of Agronomy offers certifications in a variety of specific agricultural disciplines.
The Soil Science Society of America offers certifications specifically for the soil science specialty.
The American Registry of Professional Animal Scientists (ARPAS) offers certifications specifically in animals sciences.
The Institute for Food Technologists (IFT) offers different levels of membership that are very similar to certifications.
 Career experts have no magic number of jobs to apply to during a job search, but you should try to be logical. Make sure you take the time to do your job search properly - don’t rush. Take advantage of expert advice from career centers and reputable career websites. Make sure your application stands out from the crowd. And don’t sell yourself short by making compromises.Postings for Agriculture and/or Food Safety positions at the federal government level can all be found on the USAJOBS career website.Don’t limit your applications to positions you’re 100% qualified for. You may have other skills and abilities that make up for the lack of specific qualifications in other areas.The majority of available jobs aren’t actually posted on job websites, or advertised at all. This is referred to as the closed job market and it can usually only be accessed by networking.Your cover letter is one of the most important parts of your application. Don’t use a form letter. Make sure you use keywords directly from the job posting., Once you’ve submitted your application you may be short-listed for an interview. The interview if your chance to show your potential employer you’re the perfect candidate for the position. Review any potential interview questions you may receive and practice your responses.Make sure you bring at least two printed copies of your resume with you to the interview. One to give to the interviewer, if required, and the other for you to reference while answering questions.
Review the employer’s website and ensure you know the proper attire to wear for the interview. When it doubt, assume business formal attire.
Practice your interview with a friend or career professional. This can include the career center at your post-secondary institution. Career centers may also offer seminars on interviewing skills which may be helpful.