 A lot of people think that having trouble sleeping is a common problem that cannot be fixed. While it is common, insomnia is also a cause for concern. Speak to your doctor if you find yourself regularly having trouble sleeping. She can help you figure out if there is something in your medical history that is causing your sleep problems.Take notes with you. Write down important information about when you sleep, for how long, and the time it typically takes you to fall asleep. Your doctor can use this information to help determine the cause of your insomnia.
 Depending on why you are having trouble sleeping, your doctor may recommend a prescription sleeping pill. This is not the best treatment, as it is treating a symptom rather than the problem. However, sleeping aids can offer a lot of relief and provide you with some much needed rest.Sleeping pills can be prescribed to help you fall asleep, stay asleep, or both.
Your doctor may recommend trying pills for a short amount of time and seeing if the problem has resolved itself.
Short acting benzodiazepines can also help if you have a problem falling asleep, and long acting benzodiazepines will help if you have a problem staying asleep. If your symptoms persist for more than six months after therapy and medication, then you need to be evaluated for a sleeping disorder.
Make sure to discuss possible side effects with your doctor.
 If your doctor is unsure what is causing your insomnia, she may recommend that you participate in a sleep study. In most studies, doctors use a polysomnogram (PSG) to help understand your sleep patterns. Typically, you will stay overnight at a sleep center for this type of study. The PSG will monitor your brain waves, heart rate, eye movements, and other vital signs.Make sure that your insurance covers a sleep study. They can be very expensive if you have to pay out of pocket.
A sleep study can help determine why you have trouble sleeping. Your doctor will then be able to recommend the most effective treatment.
Usually, doctors prescribe Cognitive Behavioral Therapy and medication for sleeping problems. A sleep study is only ordered if the condition does not respond to conventional therapy and medication.

