 If you like working with a larger group to help a diverse number of individuals workout in a safe environment, group exercise might be for you. You’ll want to look for training programs that are geared towards group certification.Most training programs are catered for certification to teach group exercise classes.;
, If you like working with one individual to manage and achieve goals, you should look into becoming certified to teach privately.Not all pilates instructor certifications will also include specific training on how to work with individual clients, so make sure you look for a certification that also addresses this.
Some pilates studios or gyms will provide you with a client list, while others will expect you to build your client base yourself.You can work with individual clients on the side, if you also enjoy instructing group classes.
 If you’ve got a background in physical therapy or sports medicine, you may want to look into becoming a Pilates specialist. You can teach courses for those in rehabilitation or for athletes.You can also get certified to teach special courses, such as pre or postnatal courses, without already having a speciality degree.
 Think about whether you want to be a basic mat instructor or if you’d like to be certified to teach more advanced courses. If you’re newer to Pilates, you’ll be more comfortable becoming a basic mat instructor before tackling more advanced certifications.

An example of a more advanced training certificate would be one that also includes reformer Pilates.
If you’re wanting basic training, most training programs are 40-50 hours. For more advanced training, you’ll be expected to put in 500 hours of training.The higher your level of certification, the more you’ll be paid to teach once you’re hired.
 There are many programs offered through private studios, but not all of them are of good quality. Look for programs that are accredited by institutions, such as the National Commission for Certifying Agencies, the National Exercise Trainers Association, or the American Fitness Professionals and Associates.


Where you obtain your Pilates fitness instructor certification will influence your future job search outcome after training. If you’re looking to work at a competitive studio, make sure your certification is one they’ll accept.
Ask other Pilates instructors about their training and for their recommendations., Pilates certification is a big time commitment so choose a certification that works for your life. Many programs offer intensive courses over the summer if you’ve got free time. You can also look into online training programs that allow you to complete the certification on your own time., Pilates certification courses can range from a couple hundred dollars to thousands of dollars. Decide what you’re willing to spend to become the type of Pilates instructor you’re most interested in, and then let that be a deciding factor when choosing programs., After you’ve scoped out a few programs, contact them to see if you can set up an informational meeting to find out more about their process. This allows you to determine whether you’ll feel at home in their studio.


This gives you a chance to see their studio in person and see what sorts of equipment they use.
Ask to observe one of their instructor’s classes. This provides you with an opportunity to see if you like their instruction style since there’s so little consistency in Pilates techniques.
 Understand any prerequisites that must be accomplished, and consider the total cost of training before you make a commitment.


Many pilates certifications, for example, require an anatomy foundation class., Before you begin looking for a position, update your resume to include all of your qualifications and certifications, any experience teaching, and any relevant health and fitness education., Since the Pilates market is thriving, you can likely find either fulltime or part time positions. However, part time positions are more abundant.

You can teach fulltime or part time regardless of whether you’re working with group classes or individual clients.
 Most job search engines, such as LinkedIn, have postings for private or group pilates instructors., If you’re looking for something local, call the studios in your city to see if they’re hiring. If so, send them your resume.

Even if they’re not currently hiring, go ahead and ask if you can send them your resume to have on file for when they do decide to hire in the future.
 If you’re so inclined, open your own pilates studio and manage your own staff of instructors.Of course, you can also teach classes when you have time! Owning your own studio will give you the flexibility to teach whenever and how often you like.
Be weary that you need a decent amount of capital to start your own business.
 Most programs require continuing education accreditation to maintain a Pilates instructor position. Make sure you keep up with your certification to maintain your current position or so that you’re able to easily find another one.