 Ornate Horned Frogs are native to tropical and mountain rain forests, so they need an aquatic/terrestrial habitat. Glass aquariums are easy to clean and you can watch your frogs through the glass.These frogs aren't jumpers, so you don't strictly need a screened lid on top. However, a lid is still a good idea because it helps keep the tank warm.
 Your frog feeds by “ambushing” its food, meaning it will hide in the deep substrate until prey comes near, then jump out and attack. Be sure the substrate is slightly moist at all times, never soggy or completely dry.Good substrate materials include coconut husk fiber (Bed-a-beast, Eco-earth, Forest Bed, or similar products.)
Soil is a good option because it stays moist and allows your frog to dig. It looks natural, as well. Be sure to purchase safe soil that does not contain pesticides, vermiculite, perlite, or any other harmful chemicals.
Cypress mulch, sphagnum moss, and leaf litter are not generally recommended, because your frog can choke on a piece of bark or moss. If you use these items, you'll need to feed using tweezers or tongs.
Never use sand, gravel, or fir bark as substrate.
 Add a large, shallow bowl to the tank, which should be filled with water at all times. Always use de-chlorinated water – tap water will harm your frog.Glazed ceramic trays that come with flowerpots make excellent water dishes.
Most frogs defecate into their water dish, so be sure to replace the water at least daily.
Place little stacks of rocks next to the bowl and in the water, so your young frog can climb in and out.
 Horned Frogs don't need foliage to hide, because they burrow into the deep substrate on the bottom of the tank. But you can add artificial or real plants, if you want to make the tank look nice.Real plants can be difficult to grow indoors, and will need to be thoroughly washed and disinfected before you add them to the terrarium.
Artificial plants are easier to keep clean, and you can buy a wide variety of these online or at a pet store.
Air plants are living plants that do not require soil or water, apart from an occasional misting. Keep them away from harsh sunlight and heat lamps, or they will dry out., Position a low-intensity (15 watts) heat lamp over the terrarium, above the highest point in your frog's habitat. Be sure there is a screen lid to the tank between your frog and the heating bulb.Don't use under-tank heaters or heated rocks in your Ornate Horned Frog tank.
 Horned frogs will thrive in a fairly large range of temperatures, and do not require careful humidity adjustments like most amphibians. Their tank should be between 75°F (24°C) and 84°F (29°C) during the day, and a few degrees cooler at night.Hang store-bought temperature strips on the side of the tank to measure environmental conditions.

