 These attacks are largely triggered by feelings of restlessness, nervousness, fear, or stress. To prevent attacks from recurring, patients should get behavioral therapy and possibly psychiatric medication. Highly emotional states can increase your breathing rate, straining the chest muscles to the point of pain. They can also make the esophagus or the coronary (heart) arteries spasm, which you would feel in your chest.In addition to chest pain, you may experience:


Increased breathing
Increased heart rate
Shaking
Heart palpitations (feeling that your heart is jumping out of your chest)

, Hyperventilation can cause spasms in the chest muscles, arteries and esophagus. Slow, deep breathing reduces the respiratory rate, decreasing your chance of painful spasms.


Count to three in your head on each inhalation and each exhalation.
Controlled your breathing instead of letting air rush in and out of your body. By controlling your breath, you can take control of your anxiety or panic.If you have to, use a breath volume limiting device like a paper lunch bag held to your mouth and nose to limit the amount of air your body takes in. This can cut off the cycle of hyperventilation.
 A recent study suggests massage therapy, thermotherapy, and relaxing room therapy are effective in treating generalized anxiety disorder.After a 12-week course of these relaxation techniques, the subjects showed a reduction in the symptoms of anxiety and depression.


Schedule a 35-minute massage that focuses on indirect myofascial release (trigger points). Also ask the massage therapist to focus on muscle restrictions in the shoulder, cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine, the neck and back of head, and the bony area on top of the buttocks.
Find a comfortable position on the massage table, using blankets or towels to make any adjustments you need.
Play music that makes you relax, and take slow, deep breaths.Ask the massage therapist to use Swedish massage techniques between muscle groups to transition between them.
Ask the the massage therapist to place warm towels or heating pads on your muscles. When he or she transitions between muscle groups, remove the heat to experience cold transitions between groups.
Take slow deep breaths during the session.
 See a psychiatrist to talk about the possible causes of your anxiety. A steady routine of 1-on-1 therapy is the best way to ease your symptoms.


Therapists sometimes prescribe benzodiazepines or antidepressants to people who experience panic attacks. These medications treat the symptoms during an attack and prevent you from having future ones.

