 The softer a guava is, the sweeter and more delicious it will be. Keep in mind that because guavas are best when extremely soft, they are also extremely perishable. Once you purchase or pick your guavas, you should have about two days before they go bad, depending on how ripe the fruit is when you purchase it.In order to tell if a guava is ripe, squeeze it gently. If it gives under your fingers, its ripe.





;
, You want to try to select guavas that are blemish-free. Blemishes or bruises can mean the fruit is bad or will not taste good.
 Ripe guavas are those that have gone from bright green to a softer yellowish-green color. If you see a touch of pink on the fruit, it is in its prime. If you don't find any that are yellow, you can always buy green guava and wait for them to ripen., A perfectly ripe guava is one that you can smell without even putting it to your nose. It should smell sweet and slightly musky. If you have eaten a guava before, look for guavas that smell like they taste., You should wash the entire guava, as the rinds are actually edible. Rinse the fruit with cold water in an effort to quell any bacterial growth. Pat your guavas dry with paper towels.
 Using a knife, slice your guava in half. Serrated knives usually work best when cutting open a guava. Some guavas have pink flesh, some have white flesh.


You can either cut them in half or slice them up into thinner slices., You can either eat the whole guava (rind and all) or scoop out the insides. Either way, you’re in for a delicious treat. Some people like to put seasonings on their guavas like soy sauce, salt, sugar or even vinegar.
 You can wrap uneaten guava halves in plastic wrap and store them in the fridge for up to four days. If you don’t think you will eat the guavas within four days, you should freeze your guava. Frozen guavas can stay in the freezer for up to eight months., Make guava barbecue sauce, a delicious sweet and salt combo that will make you feel like you’re feasting in paradise., Bored with the classic berry danish? Why not try adding some excitement to your morning meal., Skip the normal jello flavors dive and into something a bit more tropical. You can even make jello with actual guava chunks in it!

, Rather than mixing orange juice with sparkling wine, try some guava juice in a Hermosa mimosa instead. Just pour the sparkling wine, a dash of guava juice and two or three maraschino cherries.

