 If subtle cues are not working you’ll have to discuss your feelings. Meet with the other person in a private setting, but not in a place that is removed from other people. Places such as a coffee shop or a conference room at work are ideal. Never arrange the meeting in your car, the stationery room, your home or any other private areas that may encourage the other person to make a move.
 While honesty is the best policy, you don’t have to deliver your feelings in a brutal manner. Some kinder methods include:


Begin the conversation with qualities you admire in the other person but be neutral. Talk about topics like work ethics or friendliness. Avoid making appearance or intelligence as the other persons’ admirable qualities; doing so could send the wrong message.
You can avoid making an accusation (which makes people react defensively) by easing into a frank conversation with an assumptive statement such as, "I know you don't mean anything by it" or "I know you're an outgoing person and you don't have any intentions behind it..." Then if the flirter doesn't immediately follow the hint, you can go on with, "...but I'm not really comfortable with all the flirting/hugging/shoulder-rubs/hand-holding/winking/etc. at work/school/wherever. I'm in a relationship/married/not-looking-for-a-relationship/etc. and I'd rather our friendship be kept professional/platonic/not-so-flirty/etc." Often the other party will automatically concur they don't "mean anything by it" to save their own embarrassment, and since it's been said aloud, they'll have to continue showing they "don't mean anything" in order to save face in future. Preferably, they will steer clear or stop themselves mid-flirt the next time, because now they'll pay attention and begin to notice the flirting is not being reciprocated.
Tell the person why you cannot accept his or her flirtatious advances. Consider your words before you meet with this person so that you can give a solid statement about why they need to curb their behavior. Giving false excuses may be misunderstood as an opportunity to convince you to go out with them.
If the flirter persists, you can point out that they are not showing respect for your wishes. If they really like you, they will respect your need to be left alone.
Don’t back down. Stick to your guns and don’t divert from how you really feel. Don't allow the other person to lead you astray from your original thoughts and delivery.
 Be receptive to questions or comments. You may want to anticipate possible questions and prepare responses ahead of time.
 The idea is to stop the other person from flirting with you so don’t give the conversation more time than necessary. Keep an eye on the time and when an hour has expired, cordially end the conversation and excuse yourself.

