 When you work your inner thighs, you need to decide how many reps you will do of each exercise. If you are a beginner, try starting with 15 to 20 reps for each exercise.If you are more advanced, shoot for 25 to 30 reps.;
, Sets are the number of times you will complete your reps. Sets can either contain multiple exercises, or you can complete multiple sets of the same exercise before moving on to another exercise.For example, you may decide to do three sets of 15 reps of three to five inner thigh exercises. Alternately, you may complete three sets of 15 reps of wide squats before moving on to three sets of 15 reps of plank jacks.
Generally, doing three to five sets is good, depending on your fitness level and number of reps.
 Part of working your inner thighs at home is figuring out how often you will work them. Three to four days each week of inner thigh exercises is a good number of workouts. However, spot training won’t get you results. Combine these exercises with cardio, strength training, and healthy eating for the best results.You shouldn’t work the same muscles every day, so place at least one rest day between your workouts.
 Start by moving your feet wide so that you are standing slightly wider than shoulder-width. Your toes should be slightly pointed out. Lower yourself down into a squat position. Hold for a second, and then stand back up.Make sure to keep your knees over or behind your feet. Don’t let your knees push past your toes.
 Get into a wide squat stance, with your feet wider than shoulder-width. Lower down towards your left side, bending your left leg and straightening your right leg. The toes on your right foot should be pointed straight up, towards the ceiling. Extend your arms straight out in front of you.Come back to start and repeat the same movement on the other side.
Make sure your knee stays behind your toes and doesn’t push forward over them.
 Hold on to a sturdy chair, countertop, or other surface. Your feet should be around hip-width apart with your toes straight ahead. Put a medium sized soft ball, towel, or pillow between your thighs. Place your other hand on your hip and lift your heels. Balance yourself on the balls of your feet.Lower yourself by bending your knees and moving down about an inch like you were sliding down a wall. Squeeze the ball with your inner thighs. Your body should stay straight, with your shoulders over your hips and ankles.
Staying on the balls of your feet, raise your hips and straighten your legs as you bring your free hand over your head. You should still be squeezing the ball.
Lower again to repeat. Complete your reps on one side before switching and doing the same number of reps.
 Get in a wide squat position. Raise up onto the ball of one of your feet, keeping the other flat. Bend the knees a few inches. This is your starting position for the pulse. Drop your butt down only a few inches, then quickly raise the few inches. Continuously pulse up and down for your number of reps.After you are finished with that side, straighten your leg, then raise the opposite foot.
You can also pulse for a set amount of time, like 30 seconds, instead of reps.
 Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. Lean your weight onto one side and lift the other foot off the ground. Step your foot diagonally behind you. Bend both knees as your lower yourself down. Push through the hell to stand back up, kicking your leg to the side.Complete your number of reps on one leg before switching legs.
 Lie down onto your back with your knees bent. Place your feet flat on the floor. Place a medium-sized rubber ball or folded beach towel between your knees. Squeeze your inner thighs together against the ball and hold for at least 30 seconds.Relax your thighs for around 10 seconds.
 Start with your feet shoulder-width apart. Jump and spread your feet wider with your arms overhead, like the first movement of a traditional jumping jack. Then, jump and bring your legs back in, crossing them and landing in a scissor jack.Your right leg should be crossed over in front, the foot around your left hip, and your left leg should be crossed over in the back, with the foot under the right hip.
Your arms should be crossed in front of your hips.
Jump again out to the wide stance with your arms above your head. Then, jump and crisscross your legs again, switching which leg is in the front and back.
 Lower yourself onto your hands and feet into a plank position. Make sure your shoulders are over your wrists and your back is straight. Keeping yourself stable, jump your legs out as wide as possible. Then, squeeze as you jump them back together.If you have a slick surface, you can place towels, paper plates, or gliding discs under your feet and slide your legs wide and squeeze them back together instead of jumping.
 Lie on your back with your legs held straight up. Flex your feet, place your heels together, and turn your toes so our feet make a V shape. Lower and bend your knees, pushing your legs outwards and keeping your feet together.Squeeze your inner thighs as you straighten your legs.
 Lay on your right side on a yoga mat. Keep your back straight, bend your arm, and place your upper body weight on the bent arm. Bend your left knee and bring it over your right leg so that the foot is perpendicular to your straight right leg. Straighten your back and raise your neck. Flex your abdominal muscles.Exhale and raise your right leg up and straight as far as it will go. Stop if your hips start to move or your back starts to curve. Hold the leg at the top for 1 second.
Inhale and lower the leg slowly.
Complete all the reps on one leg before switching sides.
 Lie down on your back with your legs flat on the floor. Raise both legs a few inches off the floor. Then, raise one leg higher, then lower it as you raise the other leg, making a scissoring motion. Do this 10 times.Then, scissor your legs sideways by crisscrossing your legs. Make sure a different leg crosses over the top each time. Do this for 10 reps.
 Lie on your side with your knees bent at a 90-degree angle. Fold the arm closest to the floor and lay your head on it. Press your feet together as you lift your top leg, opening your legs like a clamshell. Squeeze your inner thighs are you lower your leg.Complete all the reps on one side before switching sides.

