 Find out from people in other departments within your own company or colleagues in other companies' marketing departments who they've worked with who could do a good job on your business marketing materials.
 While many of these firms will try to get you to contract with their people if they can, if they can't meet your needs themselves, they may be able to direct you to someone who can.


Many cities also have agencies that specialize in placing writers. Some specialize in technical writers for non-marketing projects, while others can help you find a good writer who can also generate marketing copy as required.
 Such organizations as the American Marketing Association, the Business Marketing Association, the International Association of Business Communicators, the Public Relations Society of America and the Society for Technical Communication maintain job banks and employment listings for their members. Many of these organizations have local chapters as well, or you can contact a local business association or advertising club.
 Many writers maintain their own Web sites, listing their services and often offering downloadable samples of their work for you to review. However, given the large number of writer sites, it is often easy to get bogged down in searching Web pages for an indication that the writer understands your needs. Therefore, you should begin your search by using a business networking site such as LinkedIn.


LinkedIn maintains both discussion groups and question and answer forums on a number of subjects, including the areas of most businesses, advertising, marketing, and writing and editing. By participating in these groups and reviewing others' posts, you can network for writers and evaluate the writing skills of writers who post to those groups. You can also post jobs to the main job board or those of your group and review the profiles of prospective writers who contact you through LinkedIn's message or InMail features.
You can also develop a list of prospects by first visiting their individual Web sites and then looking them up on LinkedIn.
 Keep a file of the business cards you receive at networking events, as well as any printed or e-mailed material that writers send you.

