 To drain the tank, switch off the water. You can find the valve near the wall behind your toilet. Once the water is switched off, flush your toilet. This should drain all the water from the tank., Look at how dirty your tank is. If it seems relatively clean, all you need is a basic disinfectant. You can use the same spray you normally use in your bathroom. However, with built up debris, you need something stronger.If you notice hardened mineral deposits in the tank, opt for clean, white vinegar.
If there is a lot of gunk and mildew built up in the tank, clean it with bleach over a commercial cleaner.
 With bleach and commercial cleaners, you can spray or pour the cleaners into the tank. Target the bottom and sides of the tank, paying particular attention to areas with built up dirt. Make sure to wear gloves when handling bleach., When dealing with mineral deposits, the process is slightly different. Pour white vinegar into the tank, up to the top of the overflow tube. Let the vinegar sit for 12 hours before flushing the toilet. After 12 hours have passed, flush the toilet and proceed with regular cleaning., Toilets and bathrooms in general contain a lot of bacteria. Before cleaning your toilet tank, put on a pair of gloves. Rubber gloves will help protect you from bacteria and germs.If you're cleaning with bleach, gloves are vital to protect your skin.
 Leave your cleaner on the tank for a set amount of time. Most cleaners should be left on for 10 to 15 minutes. However, it's always a good idea to check the specific directions on your cleaner.Remember, vinegar should stay on for 12 hours before you proceed to clean the tank.
 Use a scrub brush, old toothbrush, or scrubby sponge to scrub the cleaner into your tank. Scrub down the sides and bottom of the tank until the toilet bowl smells fresh and you remove any obvious signs of dirt and built up grime., Once you've scrubbed the tank down, you can turn the water back on and flush the tank to rinse. If you've used bleach, add a gallon of plain, cold water to the tank and then flush it.You may want to wear goggles to protect your eyes when adding water to a tank that had bleach in it.
 Mineral deposits will eventually build up in any toilet tank. Check your tank once a week and if you notice any deposits, treat the tank with white vinegar. Fill the tank with vinegar, let it sit for 12 hours, then flush and clean the tank., Stores often sell tank tablets, meant to be placed in your tank to help it smelling fresh. However, if you do use tablets, stay away from tablets that contain bleach. These can erode and damage the inside of your tank.If you clean your toilet tank regularly, tablets are probably not necessary.
 Many people remember to clean their toilet regularly, but neglect the toilet tank. Make sure not to fall into this trap. At least once a month, give your toilet tank a good cleaning. This will keep your bathroom smelling clean and fresh.