 Place the turkey, egg, bread crumbs, minced garlic, oregano, basil, salt, and pepper in a large bowl. Thoroughly mix the ingredients together using your hands.


The turkey, eggs, and bread crumbs should be retained, but you can adjust the seasonings according to taste. For instance, consider using minced onion instead of garlic or parsley instead of oregano and basil.
 Use your hands to separate the turkey mixture and roll each portion into 1-inch or 2-inch (2.5-cm or 5-cm) diameter balls. Place the formed meatballs onto a tray or large sheet of foil.


To make more uniform meatballs, consider portioning out each one using a melon baller, small ice cream scoop, or spoon.
 Evenly spread the slices of onion over the bottom of your slow cooker. Pour half of the crushed tomatoes on top.Consider lining the slow cooker with a special slow cooker liner before adding any ingredients. Doing so isn't strictly necessary but can lead to an easier clean-up later on. Spraying the inside with nonstick cooking spray is another option.
 Pour the olive oil into a large skillet and set the pan on your stove over medium-high heat. Allow the oil to heat and spread for at least 30 to 60 seconds.


You'll need to brown the meatballs before placing them into your slow cooker. Do not skip the browning step. Browning your meatballs will lock in more flavor and more juice, but more importantly, it can help prevent the meatballs from completely falling apart during the slow cooking process.
 Place the meatballs in the hot oil and lightly brown each side for approximately 1 minute. Turn them gently using tongs.


Do not crowd the pan or allow the meatballs to touch while browning them.
Typically, you should move directly into the slow cooking step after this. If you wish to save them for another time, however, you can cover and refrigerate the lightly browned meatballs for up to 1 day, or cover and freeze for up to 2 months.
 Place the browned meatballs in the slow cooker, layering them on top of the tomato-covered onions. Pour the remaining tomatoes on top once all the meatballs are inside.
 Cover the slow cooker and switch it onto its low heat setting. Slow cook the meatballs for 6 to 7 hours, or until no pink remains and the meatballs are tender enough to cut with a fork.


If you're short on time, you can cook the meatballs on high for 3 to 3.5 hours, instead of cooking them on low.
 You can enjoy the finished meatballs directly from the slow cooker. Eat them on their own or consider using them with pasta, sub sandwiches, or any other dish that calls for meatballs.


Place any leftovers into a covered dish and refrigerate them for up to 1 week. You can also cover and freeze them in their sauce for up to 2 months.

