 Does your enemy get along well with other coworkers? Watch to see how they interact.Then try to adapt your own interactions so that you can work better together.


You might discover that a colleague’s bluntness is actually a dry sense of humor which other people find funny. Although you might not find them funny, you can at least recognize that they aren’t being mean.
Mimic how other people interact with your difficult colleague. If they ask about the colleagues’ children, show your interest by also asking about them.
 Another way to build a relationship is to stop avoiding the person. Jump on a project they are currently heading, or volunteer to sit on a committee that they are a part of. The only way to build bridges is to actually see and speak to each other.


Put forth your best effort on the project. You want to build trust with your coworker.You should be a reliable team player. When you finish a task, ask what else you can do to help.
Be available whenever the person calls or stops by your office. Put aside whatever you’re working on and focus on them. They will appreciate your attentions.
Remember to tell you coworker that you trust their judgment., No matter how busy you are, there should be opportunities to get to know people at work. Look for chances to interact with your difficult coworker. Consider the following opportunities:Ride the same train or bus to and from work. You can talk casually on the ride.
Take a walk together during your break.
Eat lunch together. You might want to have lunch in a group at first, which can make you both feel more comfortable.
 When you see an opening to talk with your enemy, say “hello” in the friendliest manner possible. Then move onto some small talk, which is polite conversation on non-controversial subjects—the weather, what people have been doing, etc. Small talk is a good way to fill silence and forge a tentative connection.


A good strategy is to ask open-ended questions.If you feel nervous or don’t know what to say, ask your difficult coworker what they did over the weekend. Try to ask questions that don’t have a “yes” or “no” answer.
After the person answers, you should answer, too. It can feel like an interrogation if all you do is ask questions.
Maintain a positive energy. Smile and know how to laugh at yourself. Your enemy might be as intimidated by you as you are by them.
 You can develop a relationship by finding out what you have in common with your enemy. For example, do you both have children? Are you both married? Do you enjoy the same hobbies? Look at the person’s social media to find out details about their life.


Avoid pretending to have something in common. For example, don’t fake being a New England Patriots fan simply because your enemy follows the team closely. Sooner or later they’ll figure out you were lying, and they will probably resent you for it.
 We are more than our working selves. Try to see your enemy as a person by spending some time together outside the office. You might find out that they are completely different when away from the stressful work environment.


It might be difficult at first approaching someone you dislike. However, think about activities you can do in a group. For example, you might organize a group of coworkers to go get drinks after work or organize a softball game over the weekend.
Remember to always stay on your best behavior. Although you are in a social setting, people are still judging you.Always remain friendly to your enemy.
 Nothing brings two people closer together than having a common source of hatred. Instead of hating each other, hate something else.Avoid hating another person—if you hate another coworker, you’ve only created a new enemy for yourself.


Instead, hate the economy or the President or your state’s Governor. Find something larger than your employer to hate.
Hate growing old or gaining weight. This common enemy can open the door for doing activities together—for example, meeting up at the company gym once a week to lift weights.
 It’s difficult to turn a relationship around overnight. In fact, you should be skeptical if someone goes from hating you to loving you in a short period of time. Realize that it can take months or years to really develop a healthy relationship.


Nevertheless, you can’t get water from a stone. If you aren’t getting anywhere, you might need to cut your losses. At best, you’ll try to survive in the same office—at least until one of you leaves for a new job.

