 Random email checks can create a “start-stop-start” pattern to your work day, and lead to wasted time. Avoid opening your email constantly throughout the day, especially if you are supposed to be focusing on a different task. Schedule in three time slots in your schedule for checking email: early morning, after lunch, and mid-afternoon. This will ensure you are not distracted by a continuous stream of emails throughout the day and that you have time set aside to address your emails.This same principle can be applied to other means of communication, like your voicemail, your text messages, or phone calls. Try not to be available all the time, unless you are expecting an important text message or phone call. This will limit any interruptions to your workflow and help you stick to your schedule.
 If possible, choose at least one hour of your workday where you silence your phone and turn off your internet connection. This can then allow you to focus on work that needs to be done with complete concentration and without any distractions from your phone or from the internet.


Removing yourself from these easy distractions can also be helpful when you are writing a paper for school or a long report.Keeping your phone on silent will ensure you do not have an excuse to check your phone every five minutes or get sucked into scrolling through social media.
 Try not to encourage others to distract you or be a distraction to others, by letting everyone around you know that you are working. This may be by closing your door or putting up a busy sign. You can also send out an email in the office to remind everyone that a certain time period is a silent work time in the office.
 Once you have established a work list or a work schedule and have put safe guards in place to eliminate distractions, draw on willpower and focus to stick to your routine. Most people can recognize the difference between well used time and wasted time, so try to avoid falling into a time wasting trap. Lean on your schedule and at the end of the day you will be able to savor a feeling of accomplishment and time well spent.

