 As you prepare for natural childbirth, you need to look for birthing classes that will teach you ways to deal with the pain and discomfort you may be facing. Your obstetrician, midwife, or doula can help you find the best classes. There are many different kinds you can try.


Lamaze classes have been helping women through natural childbirth for many decades. Lamaze uses breathing, relaxation, and focusing techniques to aid in childbirth.The Alexander technique teaches coping methods for the pain and discomfort associated with labor using methods of flexibility, balance, coordination, and movement.HypnoBirthing takes both the physical and psychological aspects of birthing and pays special attention to relaxation, breathing techniques, meditative practices, visualization, exercise, and nutrition/The Bradley method emphasizes involvement of the whole family and teaches various techniques to improve the delivery experience including breathing and relaxation.Acupuncture and acupressure can help reduce the pain and discomfort during labor and delivery.Birthing from Within is a method that regards childbirth as a something experienced by all women and sees it as a transformational process incorporating physical, mental, emotional and spiritual components.Prenatal yoga helps you increase the strength, flexibility, and endurance of the muscles you will use during childbirth and also reduces your risk of preterm labor and pregnancy-induced hypertension., Practice the breathing techniques and the relaxation techniques taught at your birthing class. Work with your coach and your doula so that you are very familiar and very comfortable with these techniques and know how to use them when the time comes.


Make sure you practice with your birthing coach. This will ensure that your coach is also comfortable and familiar with his or her role in the birthing process., Since you will be having your baby without medical intervention, you should learn about alternative pain management techniques not related to birthing classes. These additional methods include:


Water birthing, a technique that is supposed to put less stress on the mother and child.Or taking a warm bath during early labor.
Applying a warm or cold compress or hot water bottle on areas of discomfort.
Changing position, walking around, or sitting on an exercise ball to relieve the tension.
Massages, especially to the feet and back.
Listening to music.
Visualizing the contractions before they happen to prepare yourself for the pain.
Imagining yourself somewhere else without pain during the labor.