 In fact, searching for vintage pieces is half the fun!;
, Use keywords such as fashion jewelry, costume jewelry, Indian jewelry, vintage jewelry, etc. There will be a lot of returns and you can start refining them once you get a good idea of what you like the most.
 Make sure to type in costume jewelry in the search box.
 There will be lots of up-to-date jewelry on display to choose from.
 They often have small jewelry collections with pieces that are relatively inexpensive.
 Look at the more expensive pieces displayed in locked cases of the store. Ask questions about:


The era
Any particular meanings behind certain pieces, such as events, deaths, commemorations, etc.
 This could be anywhere from department stores to flea markets.
, Most stores will generally have a bigger and better selection available online than in retail shops.


When shopping at a wholesale costume jewelry store, make sure that you are working with an outfit that you can trust, and that will offer you a return or exchange policy on any of the pieces that you purchase through them.
Keep in mind that customer service in a wholesale costume jewelry store is just as important as the products they sell, so if you are uncomfortable with the staff in a particular store, it might not be the right choice of places for you to shop with.
Once you have found a store that you are comfortable with, you can enjoy the opportunity to shop for beautiful jewelry pieces at discount prices.
 Higher-quality costume jewelry can be pricier.
Check the color of the metal, the quality of the stones and how the items are glued or welded together to determine the quality of an item.
 Some of these breakdowns are:


Beads and glass, stone: The artisans of this kind of costume jewelry often make their own beads, pendants and other components of jewelry from base metal that is available in their regions. These components have become very popular in the Western fashion scene lately. In fact they have become so popular that now there are a number of cheaper imitations in the market. Most of these imitations are cast instead of being fabricated by the hand.







Vintage fashion jewelry: Vintage fashion jewelry is also making a comeback. In the segment of the vintage jewelry, the glamorous styles of the 1940s are definitely the rage. The most obvious signs of this shift toward '40s fashion jewelry is the recent obsession that has been growing with feminine, draping chandelier earrings and big, sparkling rhinestone brooches.







Plastic fashion jewelry: Yes, plastic which is otherwise considered to be a cheap commodity, when designed with a fashionable stroke is converted into some of the most exquisite pieces of design. Plastic fashion jewelry is definitely making a comeback. One of the most famous fibers used to make this plastic fashion jewelry is the crisp Lucite which is available in a vibrant array of colors today.







Copper fashion jewelry: Copper is a gorgeous and natural metal with its earthy unique colour of its own. Being a soft metal, jewelers love to make unique designer pieces using the metal while the jewelry line serves as the latest fashion as well as it has got some undisputed health benefits of its own.







