 You want to make sure you lay down your new lawn on a hospitable surface. Walk across your lawn and pull up any weeds you see. If you notice any rocks, stones, or other obstructions, remove them as well.It's a good idea to wear thick gardening gloves during this process to protect your hands.;
, If your lawn has any uneven places where the soil levels are low or dip down, you will need to apply new topsoil. You can purchase topsoil online or at a local greenhouse.To apply new topsoil, start at the furthest part of the lawn. Cut open a bag and place it in a wheelbarrow. Run the wheelbarrow over your lawn, gradually releasing topsoil on the barer areas.Topsoil generally comes in large bags. Do not stack bags on top of one another, as this can cause topsoil to spill out too fast.
 After applying new topsoil, your lawn will likely be a little uneven. To fix this issue, start by simply walking across your lawn in varying directions until the soil begins to even out. After the soil is relatively even, take a rake and run it through all portions of your lawn to get the soil on a nice, even level. As with walking, rake the soil several times and in varying directions to allow it to level out., You can purchase fertilizer at a local greenhouse or online. Go for a general purpose fertilizer, which should be safe for most soil types. Usually, you apply 70 grams of fertilizer per square foot (2 ounces per square yard).The 70 grams/2 ounces is a general estimate. While it may be true for many all purpose fertilizers, rates can sometimes vary. Do not apply your fertilizer without checking the bag first for precise measurements.
 If you do not know how big your lawn is, use a measuring tape to measure it so you know it's dimensions. When purchasing turf, purchase enough turf to cover your lawn.


You may want to purchase a little extra turf, just in case any pieces get damaged.
 When buying turf, choose a buyer who can deliver straight to your door. Quality turf should come from raised seed and be drought-tolerant.Turf comes in different varieties, so pick a turf type that works for you. If you just use your lawn for day-to-day activities, go for domestic turf. However, if you show your lawn as part of landscaping competitions, go for fine turf.
Find a buyer with a good reputation by reading reviews online. If you know anyone who does a lot of gardening or lawn work, you can ask them for a recommendation.
 Find a straight edge in your lawn, such as near the edge of your house, to lay down your first piece of turf. Place the first piece of turf in the corner where you're starting and very slowly unroll it., After laying down your first piece, you want to create a line running across your lawn. To do so, lay down one piece of turf at a time until you reach the edge of your lawn. Make sure to lay each new piece close to the piece behind it so there are no gaps in your line. Continue laying down turf in this fashion until you reach the edge of your lawn or property line., Lay down the second line in the same fashion you laid down your first. Your second line should be right next to your first line. The pieces of turf in the second line should be pushed right up against the turf in the first line. You do not want any bare gaps of soil in your lawn., Keep laying down additional lines of turf until your lawn is covered. Keep gaps between sections of turf small to prevent bare patches in your lawn.Not all your lines will include the same amount of turf, especially if your lawn is not an even square shape. Expect to have to use more or less turf on different portions of your lawn.
Do not water the turf after laying it down. Avoid tampering with new turf for the first three weeks it's in place.
 After your lawn is fully covered in grass, trim the turf pieces in the corners into half-moon shapes. Then, scoop up a few handfuls of soil. Place handfuls of soil underneath all the turf pieces on the edge of your lawn. This prevents the turf from drying out., For the first three weeks, avoid walking on your lawn. Only step on the turf if it's absolutely necessary. It's important to give your turf two to three weeks for the roots to set into the lawn., During the summer months, water your lawn every five to 10 days. During other months, water the lawn every 14 days if the weather becomes dry., Do not mow your turf right away. Wait until the blades are 2 inches (5 centimeters) high to start mowing. When you do mow the lawn, set the blades on your mower high., After laying down your new lawn, you may run into common problems. Certain areas may not be thriving or you may notice pests infecting your lawn. If you notice any issues, take steps to address them promptly.If any areas of your lawn are not growing, do a soil test. You can purchase a soil test at a local greenhouse. If your lawn's soil levels are too basic or acidic, you may have to add an appropriate plant-based compound to treat the issue.
If you notice pests, choose a safe pesticide to apply to your lawn. Preventative pesticides are usually applied in the spring, while curative ones are applied in the fall. If you're worried about chemicals, there are many organic options on the market.
If the grass in shady areas is not thriving, trim the surrounding trees and bushes. This will provide your grass with access to the sun.

