 Add 2 cups (473 g) of whole milk, 1 cup (237 ml) of heavy cream, and ¾ cup (150 g) of sugar to a medium pot. Mix the ingredients together until they’re fully combined.You can substitute half and half for the heavy cream if you prefer. The popsicles won’t be as creamy, but they’ll still have a delicious chai flavor.
 Once the milk, heavy cream, and sugar are combined, stir 3 tablespoons (12 g) of strong black loose tea to the pot. Place the mixture on the stove and heat on medium until it comes to a gentle simmer. Let the mixture simmer for a minute.Don’t allow the mixture to come to a boil. If it seems like it might, lower the heat.
You can use any black tea, but Assam, Ceylon or Nilgiri are all good options.
You can substitute 3 black tea bags for the loose tea. However, you’ll need to steep the bags longer in the next step.
 After the mixture has simmered for a minute, remove the pot from the heat. Allow the tea to steep in the liquid for 3 to 5 minutes, stirring frequently.The longer that you let the tea steep, the stronger the chai taste will be.
If you are using tea bags, let them steep for about 10 minutes.
 When the tea is finished steeping, pour the mixture through a sieve into a clean pot. Add a 1-inch (2.5-cm) piece of ginger that’s been sliced to the mixture and mix well to combine., Place 1 teaspoon (3 g) of green cardamom pods, ½ teaspoon (3 g) of whole cloves, a 3-inch (7.5-cm) piece of cinnamon, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of whole fennel seeds, ½ teaspoon (1 g) of whole black pepper, and 1 star anise in the bowl of a mortar and pestle. Gently crush the spices with the pestle until they have a coarse texture.If you don’t have a mortar and pestle, roll a rolling pin over the spices to coarsely crush them.
 After you’ve crushed the spices, add them to strained cream mixture. Return the mixture to stove, and heat over medium until it returns to a simmer, which should take about 5 minutes., Once the mixture comes a simmer, take the pot off the heat. Allow the mixture to sit for about 30 minutes, so the spices have time to fully infuse the liquid.If you want the popsicles to have a stronger spice flavor, you can let the mixture sit for up to 45 minutes.
 After the spices have had time to infuse the mixture, add the remaining ½ cup (118 ml) of heavy cream to the pot. Mix well so the cream is fully incorporated.Taste the chai mixture after you add the cream. If you prefer your chair to be sweeter, you can mix in some more sugar.
 When the cream is fully mixed into the chai, use a sieve to strain it into a bowl. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap, and refrigerate it for approximately 1 hour., Once the mixture has chilled for an hour, transfer it to a popsicle mold. Add sticks if necessary, and chill in the freezer until they are completely set, which should take about 3 to 4 hours.Be careful not to overfill the molds as you pour the chai mixture into them.

