 Only use the social networking site when you know that all your day's work is done or when you have a break. Avoid taking breaks from your work to use social media, as you will likely become unproductive. You may find that two hours have flown by and you are still online while your work is being neglected. Only login once you are completely free of all your responsibilities. Set a time limit on how much you use your social media after your day is done.


Set a timer on your phone.
 You might have developed an addiction for social media because you are constantly getting notifications on your phone from your friends commenting or posting on your wall. In order to combat this, you can edit the notification settings in your phone or within the app so that you don’t get notifications, but can instead check the app at your leisure when you’re not busy.For instance, you might make it where you don’t get notifications for “likes” but you do for comments. You have many options to help you stay clear of social media.
 The more people you follow or are friends with on social media, the larger your news feed will be, and the more time you spend checking things out while you could be engaging in a more useful activity. Spend some time purging your friends list to only include your friends in real life or people who you know well.
 If you have an important assignment coming up, then temporarily deactivate your account. Another option is to install COLD TURKEY, which is a program that physically blocks you from various addicting sites. Remember that while social media can enhance your life, you should still attend properly to your relationships and responsibilities.Assess whether any of your close friends, partner, or family have complained about your lack of attention due to constantly being on a device.
 You might have three social media accounts or you might have ten. In order to limit the time you spend in total checking these sites, you could choose to delete a few of them and only keep the ones you value most. For instance, if you don’t particularly like Instagram but do like Facebook, consider deleting your Instagram., Enjoy the moments that you’re making while you’re making them and don’t feel the need to photograph or post about every moment in your life. Be present in the moment and enjoy the people and circumstances that surround you.