 It's a really bad idea to go out on a date and ended up noticing halfway that you couldn't afford it.


It's common to assume that guys usually pay on the first date. Guys generally pay first because it shows that they are willing to pick up the tab and doesn't always require them to pay.;
, It's a good idea to have some sort of idea of places that you could take her. Don't rule anything out either. Places that can allow more social interactions is best. Such as:


Park for a walk
Consider going for a hike if you two are pretty athletic
A coffee date is a good way to have an opportunity to get to know her better as a person.
Consider taking her to one place, then try to improvise afterwards
Consider taking them out to a movie before a coffee date if you need to have something to talk about later.
 Girls like it when you actually try to show that you are trying to be a good guy instead of being such a rude jerk and a slob.
 Silence always creates awkward moments and will make her uncomfortable so prepare some conversation starters. But make sure to make them realistic and something you both can relate to.


Topics like the weather or shared interests

, Girls generally prefer guys who listen and show interests in what they are showing.
 Lying is generally a complete turn off and girls can usually tell if someone is lying and can be offended by it. When you do have to tell a difficult truth that will most likely hurt their feelings, then try to show them that you're just trying to be honest and wasn't trying to be rude. Girls appreciate it when guys try to tell the truth even if it's hard.
 Girls really do like nice guys but they want more than politeness and niceness from them. They want guys to show initiative and stand up for themselves and for them too.
 It's usually pretty common for people to meet up somewhere if distance and/or schedules is an issue. Also it gives you an opportunity to not use up the gas money picking her up.
 Girls like it when you make them laugh. Consider not making random jokes that don't make sense at all since that will sometimes cause awkwardness.
 They generally tend to relax more and be themselves if you avoid doing anything to make them uncomfortable.
 Girls usually don't want you to rush things, especially if it's on the first or second date.

