 Consider whether you need only a photocopier or a machine that will also serve as a printer, scanner and fax. Although a multi-function machine will be more expensive, you may ultimately save money over buying a separate scanner, fax and printer. It will also be desirable if your current multi-function machine isn't keeping up with the needs of your staff.


The ability to make color copies will add to the cost of your photocopier. If you only occasionally make color copies, you may want to buy a small multifunction machine to make them rather than add the feature to a large photocopier.;
, If you need copies on sizes commonly used outside the United States, such as A-series or B-series sizes, or on unusual sizes such as folio or junior legal, you will want a copier that will accommodate them.
 Weigh the cost of features that allow copies to be made and finished quickly against the cost of having staff members wait for copies and finish them by hand.


Copy speed refers to how quickly the photocopier can scan the original document and produce a copy.
Paper capacity varies from trays that hold less than a ream (500 sheets) of paper to those that will hold as many as 10 reams. You should also consider whether you want multiple paper trays, each holding a different size paper, or a tray that can be adjusted for different sizes. Refilling and adjusting paper trays can be time-consuming for your staff.
Automatic document feeders allow staff members to copy multiple pages without being forced to lift the lid of the photocopier, remove the page just copied and replace it with a new page. This can mean a significant savings in time. Most automatic document feeders will also turn the pages over and copy the reverse sides.
Finishers offer a variety of sorting options. They can also automatically staple, fold or punch holes in copies.



You can get a photocopier that requires each staff member to enter an identification code before making copies. This will allow you to break down your photocopier expenses by department or staff member. You can also have your photocopier require a client or job code if you want to include copying expenses in invoices to your clients.
If security is a concern, you can acquire a photocopier that will not retain any information about the documents being copied in memory.

