 A nature walk is a good way to get kids out into the fresh air, and to allow them to exert some of their built-up energy. Visit a local park or nature trail where kids can't wander far or get lost easily (if you don't have an area in mind, look online for trails and parks near you). To keep kids focused, task them with a particular job during the walk - for example:


picking up sticks or pine cones for an art project
spotting birds, squirrels, or other small animals
looking for things starting with a specific letter (e.g. "trail" and "tree" for the letter "T")

, Swimming is an activity that is fun for kids, as well as calming and energy-burning. Unless you are living in a warm climate and have outdoor swimming options, look up indoor pools in your area to get information on their hours and rates. Be sure to monitor your children at all times while they are swimming and ensure that a CPR-certified lifeguard is on duty at the pool., Creating an obstacle course for your kids is a fun idea that you can customize based on the ages of your children and the space you have to work with.It can also be done indoors or outdoors, weather permitting. Set up clear "start" and "finish" points, and have obstacles for them to move through in between. Some ideas for safe, kid-friendly obstacles include:hula hoops to hop through
tunnels to crawl through (try draping a sheet over the space between two chairs, turned back to back)
a "balance beam" to walk across (a plank of wood, for instance)

, To keep your kids active during the holidays, go out for a walk to look at Christmas lights. This is a great way to get your family moving and drum up their holiday spirit. Cover at least a few blocks in your neighborhood and ask your kids to share what their favorite decorations were, and why.
 To keep your kids active and entertained, set up a themed scavenger hunt. Choose items for your kids to find that match the theme, and have them wear props to get into the fun. For instance, host a magic-themed scavenger hunt - have your kids find items like stuffed rabbits, wands, and playing cards, and have them wear capes or top hats to look like magicians.