 Before you actually ask your professor, read over the class syllabus and any other course policies. Sometimes professors will say if they automatically grant extensions, are willing to consider them in certain circumstances, or have a no-extension policy.Knowing what your professor’s rules are, and what they’re willing to do, will help you phrase your request correctly.;
, A serious illness, like the flu, is a reasonable cause to ask for an extension. If you say you are sick, however, expect some professors to ask for a doctor’s note or other evidence.If you say you are sick, most professors will understand. You don’t have to go into great detail about your intestinal difficulties or any other problem. Most professors won’t want to hear about this.
Something simple will do the trick, like: “Professor Thompson, I came down with a bad flu over the weekend and need a little more time to work on my paper. Could I possibly have an extension? I’d be happy to show you documentation from the University Health Services if you need to see it.”

, If there is a death or grave illness in the family, or some other unexpected hardship, this is a good reason to ask for a paper extension. Many professors would be willing to grant extensions in genuine cases of personal emergencies, but don’t abuse this possibility.

Try something like "Dear Professor Thompson, I'm sorry to say that last night my great Aunt Maude passed away. I'm with my family right now and will be attending the funeral. I was planning on completing my paper for your class tomorrow, but given the circumstances, could I ask for a two-day extension?"
A professor may or may not ask for some kind of documentation of the emergency, so don’t go this route if you’re unable to back up your story.
 Professors understand that you may be taking several classes at once, and have other things going on in your life as well. Sometimes you need an extension because you are overloaded. It’s worth trying to ask for one if this is the case.Stress that you need this kind of extension to write a good paper, e.g. “I’m requesting an extension because I’m overloaded with three exams all taking place on the day the paper is due. I want to do well on this paper and give it the attention it deserves, and another day or two would really help.”

, A group of students could collectively ask a professor for an extension if they all have an exam or other commitment that is taking away from time they need to spend on a paper. If several people all ask a professor for an extension, it can be more convincing than asking on your own.Say something like “Professor Thompson, 7 of us in your class are also enrolled in CHEM 220, and we have an exam on the same day the paper is due. Could we have a one-day extension so we can have enough time to write strong papers?”

, Whatever your reason for asking for an extension, don’t wear your professor down with endless explanations. Just get straight to the point, ask why you need an extension, and thank your professor for considering.If you need an extension because you caused yourself to get behind in your schoolwork, accept responsibility and ask for the extension anyway. Most professors will appreciate the honesty.
 Professors are much more likely to grant an extension if you ask before the paper is due. Ask as soon as you think you might need one, rather than the night before the deadline, or afterwards., Talking one-on-one with your professor will help show them you are being honest in saying you need an extension. When you think you need an extension, visit the professor during office hours or at least ask to talk to them for a minute after class., If you’re sick, away, or it’s the weekend you might not be able to approach your professor in person. In that case, plan to write a polite email to ask for more time to write the paper.
 An extension should give you a reasonable amount of time to complete the paper, based on how long you’ve already had to work on it, and on how much you’ve finished. Think about your professor’s personality when deciding how long of an extension to ask for.If your professor seems strict, leave it entirely up to them to decide how long of an extension to grant. You may just have to take what you can get.
If your professor is more lenient, and you think you can get the paper done within a certain time (such as two more days), ask for a specific extension.
If your professor seems like the type to negotiate, aim high. If you think you can get the paper done in two days, ask for a four day extension at first, and expect your professor to negotiate down.

