 Begin by applying a light brown, matte eyeshadow to the crease of your eyelid. Use a tapered brush to apply the eyeshadow all along the crease. Create a light layer of eyeshadow. This part of your smoky eye shouldn’t be too dark., Choose a slightly darker shade for eyelid. You could use a slightly darker brown, copper, or eggplant color. Apply the shade to your eyelid and bring to the eyeshadow all the way to your outer lid. Do not bring the eyeshadow up to your brow bone just yet., Choose a shiny chocolate brown shade for your upper eye. You can apply this color along your brow bone. Do not use too harsh of a line when you apply this eyeshadow. It should look blended with the other colors you’ve used so far., Use a dark brown color and apply it to your lower lash line. Then, use the shiny chocolate brown eyeshadow for your upper lash line. Use a tight-lipped eyeshadow application brush to apply the eyeshadow to your lash line. You will only need a small amount of eyeshadow.Applying eyeshadow to your lash line makes your eyes appear larger and add depth to the smoky eye look.
 Use a pencil eyeliner and apply it as close to your upper and lower lash lines as possible. It’s okay if it smudges and isn’t perfectly straight. This adds to the smoky look., You shouldn’t have any harsh lines in between the colors you’ve applied. Use a brush or your finger to gently blend lines and smudge the colors. Smudge the eyeliner and eye shadow at the outer corner of your eye as well., Apply medium green eyeshadow to the crease of your eyelid. A loose powder eyeshadow is ideal. Use a soft, fluffy brush to blend the eyeshadow into the lid and soften it up., Take an eyeliner brush and quickly dip it in water. Then, dip it in the same green eyeshadow that you just used for the crease. Apply this color to your lower lash line., Wash off the eyeliner pencil. While it is wet, dip it in a soft and light brown eyeshadow. Apply this color as close to your upper lash line as possible., Use a light peach-colored highlighter. Apply it to the inner corners of your eyes. Blend together any harsh lines, and your smoky eye look is now complete., Use a light purple shadow. It doesn’t matter what kind of eyeshadow you use. Apply it over all of your eyelid and over your lower lashes., A deep plum-colored eyeshadow is ideal to use. Use a brush to apply this color to your outer eyelids. Blend it in with the light purple eyeshadow., Use a light and creamy orange eyeshadow. Apply a small amount of it to the inner corner of your eyes. This will make your eyes appear wider., A deep shade of plum or copper is a good choice for blue eyes. Choose one color and apply it to your upper lash line. Brush the eyeshadow up toward the crease of your eyelid., Use a slightly lighter shade of whatever color you chose (plum or copper). Apply it slightly above the crease, but don’t bring it all the way up your brow bone., You can use a very light shade of the purple or copper, or you can use a cream or white eyeshadow. Apply it your brow bone and all of your upper eyelid. You should also apply this color to your inner eye and waterline., Use a medium-sized round brush to apply the charcoal-colored eyeshadow on your eyelids. Starting just above the crease, apply it in an arch shape. Then, blend it down to the upper lash line.A powder eyeshadow is ideal for this smoky eye look.
 Apply a soft, black pencil to your upper lash line. Draw a line over all of the upper lash line. Then, use your finger to smudge the line., Use a small, firm-bristle brush to apply this shade. Apply the gunmetal shade all along the lower lash line. Do not apply it to your waterline., Apply a pale silver eyeshadow to the corners of your eyes. This will make your eyes appear wider and add some brightness to the smoky eye. Once you’ve applied this shade, your smoky eye is complete.
 Begin by applying a light and shimmery highlighting base. Apply it to the center and corners of your eyelids. Do not apply it to your brow bone., The color of eyeshadow you will use depends on your eye color. Green for hazel eyes or purple for green eyes are a couple of choices for the medium shade. Apply this color to your along your eyelid and crease. Then, bring the eyeshadow slightly above the crease., Choose a darker shade. For example, you might choose a deep plum shade if you have green eyes. Apply this color to the base of your lash line and center of your eyelid., Use a black liner pencil or use liquid liner. Apply it to your lash line. Don’t worry if it isn’t perfectly straight--a smudgy look works better for a smoky eye., Use a plum color for the crease of your eyelid. Then, use a light lavender color on your eyelid. Blend the colors so that the progression between colors isn’t harsh., Use a dark shade, like dark purple, on the smaller or droopy eye. Extend this shade up and across your brown bone. This will create the illusion of a larger eye., Start from the outer corner of your lower lash line and work inward. Stop when you have gone three-quarters of the way. Finish by applying a cream-colored pencil to your waterline., Choose a light, iridescent color. The light shade that you choose depends on your eye color; copper looks great on blue eyes, and charcoal looks edgy on grey eyes. Apply this color to the inner corner of your eyes., Use a slightly darker color of the shade you just used on the inner corners of your eyes. Apply this color all over your lids. Bring the eyeshadow all the way to the outer corner of your eyes., Again, use a deep shade of the color that you’ve already applied. Apply this color to the crease of your eyelid. This deeper shade will add depth to the smoky eye.
 Line the waterline of your eyes with the waterproof eye pencil. Begin where your lashes start and line all the way around your eyes. The smoky eye look is now complete.
 Use the darkest color for the bottom of your eyelids, closest to your upper lashes. You can use a dark gray or brown eyeshadow, depending on the color of your eyes. Use a domed color to apply this shade., Use a slightly lighter shade of the color you used for the bottom of your eyelid. Apply this color to the the crease of your eyelid, or the middle of your eyelids., Use the lightest shade of the color you’ve already used. The goal is to create an ombre effect. Apply it to your upper lids and brow bone., Apply black liquid or pencil eyeliner to your upper lash line. Apply it thickly. It should still show when you open your eyes., Avoid using dark colors for small eyes. Lighter shades will make your eyes appear larger, and you can still achieve a subtle smoky look with them. Apply a light shade of eyeshadow to your eyelids, from the bottom lash line to the crease., Apply a slightly darker shade of the color you used for your eyelids to the crease of your eyelids. Extend this shade slightly past the color of your eyes. This will elongate the look of your eyes., Instead of using dark eyeliner, use a nuder, waterproof eyeliner that will make your eyes appear larger. Use the eye pencil to line your waterlines., Wide eyes can handle dramatic eyeshadow since there is a lot of space to work with. Apply a gunmetal-colored eyeshadow from the the upper lash line to the crease of your eyelids. Use a domed brush to apply the eyeshadow., Use a fluffy eyeshadow brush and whirl it around in a matte bronzer. Use the matte bronzer to contour the crease of your eyelids. This will add warmth to your eyes and offset the natural shadow of your brow bone., Use a fluffy brush to blend the two shades together. You should only blend the place where the two colors meet. Make sure there aren’t any harsh lines when you are finished., First, use an eyelash curler to prepare your lashes for the mascara. The type of mascara you use depends on what type of eyelashes you have. Use a lengthening mascara if you have short eyelashes, and use a volumizing mascara if you have thin eyelashes. Apply 2 coats for a heavy smoky eye. Your smoky eye is complete once you apply mascara!, Too much bronzer typically doesn’t pair well with a smoky eye, so opt for blush instead. Smile to find the apples of your cheeks. Then, choose a rosy shade of blush, and apply it your the apples of your cheeks and cheekbones., Pairing bold lipstick, like bright red lipstick, with a smoky eye can make the look appear overly done. Instead, use a lighter shade, like pink or a nude shade, for your lipstick. Use a little lip gloss over the lipstick for an extra dressy touch., A smoky eye is a timeless look, and so is a little black dress. Almost any black dress will pair well with a smoky eye. Choose a pair of high heels, like stilettos, or wear ballerina flats with the black dress to amp up the wow factor.
 Go for a bold look by pairing your smoky eye with a leather dress - the two go together like peanut butter and jelly. You can wear a loose or tight leather dress underneath it to play up the drama; this look is ideal for a night out. You might also go with a simple white tee and ripped black pants for a more casual, grunge look., You don’t have to dress up to rock a smoky eye look. You can also wear something simple, like a sweater and nice pair of jeans. A royal blue sweater would pair well with a smoky eye. The mix of bold color and edgy makeup will make you look like a million bucks!

