 If your puppy has its own play area or sandbox, it can practice its digging instincts without ruining your yard.Try dividing your yard into cared-for areas (lawns, gardens, etc.), and a place where your puppy is free to dig.You can use a commercial sandbox, or simply cover the designated area with loose soil or sand.
Use bricks, stones, sticks, or fencing to help your puppy recognize the digging area, and keep it from making holes in other places.If your puppy has been digging up specific areas of your yard, place rocks or chicken wire over them while it gets used to the digging pit. These deterrents will discourage your puppy from digging in those spots.
Some experts recommend burying dog feces in an area where a dog digs.Their theory suggests that dogs do not like to dig in the presence of feces. However, this will only discourage your puppy from digging in a specific area, and will not stop the general behavior.
 Your puppy will enjoy uncovering these treasures, and begin to associate that area (instead of your lawn, flower bed, etc.) with digging.


If your puppy has trouble understanding, make sure it sees you bury the treat or toy first. Alternatively, you can bury one and then uncover it yourself while your puppy watches.
Once your puppy starts to get used to the digging area, try putting new treats in it, or bury them deeper. This will keep your puppy interested.
Whenever your puppy digs in its area like it is supposed to, give it a treat. The positive reinforcement will encourage the behavior you want.
 If your puppy still has a problem with digging in areas you don’t want it to, even after trying to train it to use a designated digging area, then you will need to devote closer attention to the problem.Watch your puppy as it plays outside. When you see it start to dig in an area that you don’t want it to, clap your hands sharply to get its attention. Then, immediately lead it over to the dig area and encourage it to dig there instead.


Be persistent. It may take some time to adjust your puppy’s behavior.

