 Attend local venues and check out bands from your area. Supporting the local independent music scene is a great way to watch independent artists at a low cost. Some of these shows will be at small cafés or bars and may not even have an entrance fee.


Some popular indie venues in New York City include The Silent Barn, Secret Project Robot, and the Palisades.Find venues in your town that host local musicians regularly.
 There are indie musical festivals that take place all around the world. Some of the most popular include Field Day in London, Benicàssim in Spain, and Coachella in the United States.Festival tickets and fees can sometimes cost you thousands of dollars. Make sure to save up before going to them.Outdoor festivals can sometimes go on for days, so make sure you're prepared to rough it outside.
 Try to locate a bar or coffee shop in town that has other people that like indie music. Good places to look are locations that host poetry nights or open mic nights. Socialize and try to have fun with other people that are into indie music.


Some good indie coffee shops across America include, Boxcar Coffee Roasters in Denver, Toby's Estate Coffee in Brooklyn NY, and Blue Bottle Coffee in San Francisco., As you surround yourself with other people that are into indie things, you need to make sure to put forth an effort to become friends with people. Surrounding yourself with people that have similar interests means that you’ll have something to bond over, beyond your indie image.


Make it a point to introduce yourself to people of both genders.
If you find someone pretentious or annoying, you don’t have to be their friend.
 Going to an indie film festival will not only help you find critically acclaimed indie films but will also surround you with people in the indie scene. Try to get tickets to an indie film festival close to you. If you can't afford tickets or can't make the trip, try to watch it on TV or see if it's streaming online.


Some indie film festivals include the Cannes Film Festival, New York Independent Film Festival, LA Indie Film Fest, and the Sundance Film Festival., Join online groups or meetups to link up with other local indie artists. Reach out to artists via social media and try to collaborate with them. If you play music, try to form an indie band. If you're an artist or designer you could work on a body of work together. Make a large circle of indie friends so you can better immerse yourself in the scene.

