 Kids with ADD/ADHD need simple, explicit, unavoidable reminders and lists to keep them on track. Create a master to-do list for chores, etc. in a conspicuous common area (like on the fridge), along with an individualized list for each child. Update it regularly.Make sure that the lists are short and each task is simple and straight to the point. This will help minimize the chances of your child getting distracted or bored when examining the lists and trying to complete the tasks.
Try things like “Take out the trash each night at 7 pm” or “Do your homework starting at 3:30”.
 Consider having a small reward for completing each task, e.g. a sticker. Don’t go overboard and make it seem as though you are bribing or paying your child to do what is expected of him or her. Stick with simple, age-appropriate tokens of appreciation for completing tasks.


In truth, small rewards can work for people of all ages. Every time you accomplish a task that you could have done later, reward yourself. This could be anything from putting on some music to putting a few coins into a jar, which can eventually amount to enough to buy something nice., All kids misplace and lose things, and kids with ADD/ADHD can be even more naturally skilled in this area. Put their name in an easy-to-spot place on everything you send them out of the house with, from their lunchbox or phone to the clothes they are wearing. Never catch yourself assuming “there’s no way he could ever lose this … is there?”Label to help with organization as well. Mark the proper location for certain toys on the toys and the bin, shelf, etc. Use color coding and other eye-catching methods.
 Near the main door that you use to exit your home, create a “launch pad” that provides a convenient spot for everything needed when your child leaves for school, etc.Have hooks for a jacket and backpack, shelves for a lunchbox and homework, cubbies for shoes, and so on. Label them clearly and require the items to be returned to their proper location upon return.
 There is no way to avoid it: kids are going to sometimes drive you crazy with their disorganization and general messiness, and kids with ADD/ADHD may do so more than most. Try your best to remain calm and understanding, and help them to develop and enact strategies for efficiency and organization.Help your child create his or her own to-do lists, or to label his or her school items. Give your kid an active role in the process.
Help clean up or get organized when necessary, but don’t take over the task or let your child “off the hook” when it comes to clear responsibilities.
Lead by example. Keep your stuff (and yourself) organized.

