 The people we hang around with have a profound impact on our mental well being. If you're in an abusive or negative group of people, or even a group that makes your stressed or anxious (like a boss, work group, or friends), separate yourself to be with people that make you feel good about yourself. Good friends:


Are supportive.
Don't put you down, insult you, or belittle you.
Listen to your problems.
Take time to play, hangout, and talk with you.
 Music has been proven to reduce stress, relieve feelings of depression, and reduce anxiety.In fact, the health benefits of music are even physical, as they contribute to physical health and sleep quality.Find music you like and listen to it when you get stressed, such as during a commute, while working, or when you get home after a long day.
 Meditation is one of the oldest and most effective ways to combat anxiety, depression, and psychological stress.To meditate, simply set aside 10-15 minutes a day to consciously relax. Sit in a comfortable, upright position and focus on your breathing as you relax your body and mind.


Meditation does not need to be a chore — even 15 minutes a day has proven health benefits., Incense, candles, and fresh air will all subtly calm you down in times of stress and create a positive atmosphere around you. Lavender, for example, was found to significantly decrease anxiety in dental patients.Other soothing scents include:


Peppermint
Tea
Jasmine
Lemon, Being in the sunshine and fresh air has proven health benefits, from easing depression to improving your outlook on life.Go for a walk, take some photographs, or simply sit on your porch to enjoy the benefits of fresh air.


If you live somewhere too cold to go outside, consider getting a sunlamp to compensate for the lack of daylight.
 Going for a run, swimming, and biking have all been proven to lower anxiety, depression, and nervous tendencies, and not just in the short term. Exercise increase blood flow to the brains and distracts you from your problems.Do push-ups and sit-ups, watch an aerobics video, or try yoga if you can't go outside.

