 If you have to be apart and can't have an actual phone conversation, just sending a short "Thinking of you" text can be great way to remind your partner that you care. Here are a few romantic texts you can send through the day:


"You looked beautiful this morning. Can't get you out of my head."
"Can't wait to see you later today! Counting the minutes."
"Guy at work keeps talking about his cats. Miss you."
"I've been thinking about last night all day. Can't wait to do that again."

, If you know your partner's going to have a rough day at work or school, send them encouragement throughout the day. This helps to remind your partner that you're in their corner, and that you care about them. Be a helpful voice with the following kids of texts:


"You're going to kill that presentation, I just know it. Good luck!"
"Good luck with the test! Thinking of you!"
"Only three more hours left till you get to come home."
"It's almost Friday! You can do it!"

, When you're apart throughout the day, it's always nice to know what your partner is up to. Ask for updates on how they're doing and let your partner know how your day is going as well, with a reasonable number of text messages. Just keep each other up to date:


"Just finished my essay. Yikes. At least it's done? Can't wait to see you tonight and blow off some steam..."
"It's such a beautiful day on campus! Flowers! Birds! Wish you were here to see it."
"I got to work and Jim had eaten the last donut and drank the last of the coffee and now I'm just looking at Buzzfeed and wasting time. What are you doing?"
"Everyone on the train looks grim this morning. Monday. How's yours going?"

, When you're out and about and a date occurs to you, send a quick text to your partner to see if they'll be up for it. This is usually good for dates with someone that you've had dates before, not a first date. It's an easy and quick way to get in touch and plan something:


"When you get home from work, I'll bring you pizza?"
"I'm downtown later. Meet me for a drink at our spot?"
"I'm having the worst day. Here's what I'm thinking for later: You. Me. Some wine. A dark room....and Empire Strikes Back on the new Blu-Ray. Yes?"
"It's a beautiful day. Let's meet in the park and go for a walk!"

, If you're looking good, send your partner a picture to let them drool. If you see something funny while you're walking around, send it to your partner to let them laugh with you. Sending pictures can be a fun, easy, and quick way to keep in touch without having to do a whole lot of work.


Be careful with sending picture messages that are x-rated. Make sure you know and trust the person you send pictures to, and remember that it's never romantic to send unsolicited naked pictures, and it can be dangerous.
 A few texts a day can be great, but make sure you save some stuff to talk about in real life, too. Your dates might get kind of slow if you blow it all talking via text. Some people will enjoy sending hundreds of text messages a day, while others will be annoyed by the constant contact. Every relationship will be different. Find out about how much your partner texts and try to keep it within bounds. Don't annoy each other.

