 One way to maintain your boundaries or “break” from a toxic friend is to put some space between the two of you. f you have already told your friend that you only want to hang out once per month, begin to put those rules into place by decreasing the amount of contact you have with her. Call and take calls less often, for instance, and don’t interact as much on social media. It is better to first let your friend know about your need for space; however, you don’t have to tell your friend directly that you’re ending things — but it might take longer for her to get the message.


Screen your phone calls. Don’t pick up when your toxic friend rings, or have your family say that you’re not available to talk, e.g. “Jenny isn’t available to talk, I’m afraid. Can I take a message?”
Or you can answer the phone to briefly explain again that you need space and only want to talk once per month. For example, “Hey, remember when we talked about me being overwhelmed and needing space? I still need that. I will keep in contact once per month and will call next week, but I will not be answering your calls until then.”

, You don’t necessarily have to stop hanging out all at once with your toxic friend, but gradually decrease the amount of time that you spend together. Be less available. Be too busy to come out. With luck, your friend will either get the message or give up and lose interest in you.You might say that you’re busy and can’t come out, e.g. “I’m sorry, Cherie, but I’m going to be busy that night” or “I really can’t come to your party, Chase. I’ve got something to do this weekend.”
Don’t be tempted to feed your friend a lie, as you could get caught in it. Just be noncommittal and direct. You can also try a simple, “No, I’m sorry, I can’t make it.”

, Your toxic friend may have a hold on you in different ways, too. Cut back on other forms of contact, whether it is via text message, email, Facebook, or other social media. This doesn’t mean to block him — it’s not a complete cut off. It just means to be less responsive.


For example, don’t feel the need to reply immediately to texts or emails. Your friend may give it a rest upon realizing that you’re not being responsive.
You might also need to reduce your time on social media if you’re trying to avoid an open break. Spend less time on sites like Facebook if your friend can see your activity.
 Extend your distance to face-to-face interaction. Be more aloof when interacting in person with your toxic friend, but without being impolite or rude. If your friend approaches you at school alone or in a group, for instance, be civil but quickly excuse yourself from the conversation.


Don’t make it seem personal, e.g. “Hi Rheana, how are things? Can you excuse me? I’ve got to run!” or, “I’m sorry Ken, I can’t stay to talk right now.”

, Ideally, you can lessen your contact and have the relationship move from one of friends to one of distant acquaintances. To do this, however, you’ve got to stay respectful and not deliberately hurt the other person.Avoiding hurt feelings is partly about taking the high road; however, it’s also to your advantage and can help you dodge drama and a messy split.
Be prepared to assertively answer questions from your friend. If you did not explain your need for space first, your friend may become confused about your sudden distance. Be prepared to truthfully answer her questions about spending less time with her.
Speak kindly of your friend to other people. In other words, don’t trash her in front of other people. If you can’t say anything nice, try something like “Yes, we don’t talk as much as we used to. I hope she’s doing well.”
Avoid gossiping about your friend, too, and don’t force any mutual friends that you might have to choose sides after you’ve split.