 Instead of worrying about what others think and about your future, focus on the here and now. Think about how much your friends and family love you, and about certain activities that you’re good at.


Learn to celebrate your own success. Tell your friends and family when you’ve done something that you’re proud of, whether it’s winning first place in your science fair or getting an “A” on an essay.
Contradict your negative thoughts.When you become aware of a negative thought or belief like, for instance, “I am not a good person,” think of counterexamples that prove you actually are a good person. For instance, you might think of a time you were very generous with your friends and bought them all ice cream, or a time you helped your neighbor paint their fence.
Smile often.
 Don't bring yourself down. Instead, practice and perfect your skills and abilities. Whatever it is you like doing — art, music, sports — continue practicing until you feel that you’ve reached a level where you feel capable.


Get into the habit of saying five things good about yourself every day. Start or end each day with a confidence-boosting mantra like “Today was a great day.”
Live passionately. The teen years are often when you discover the causes, activities, and feelings that really motivate you. Identify things you’re good at and enjoy doing, and continue to do them., Be open and honest about whatever is troubling you with someone you trust.


Your parents are often a good source of advice and help.
However, if you don’t feel good about talking to your parents, you could turn to a school counselor or a licensed therapist.
Your teen years are the best time to work through issues that might hold you back and discover coping skills for the future.
 Identify your passions by trying a lot of interesting things, then pursue your favorite activities with passion. Try out for a community play, join a soccer team, or start a recycling club. Invite your friends to join you as you have fun as a teen.


Life is an adventure. Enjoy every day.
 Just like you want to be there for them, they want to be there for you. No matter what you’re feeling, tell someone. You might share your feelings with a close friend or a parent.


Don’t just share your sad or “negative” feelings — share your joy, happiness, and gratitude, too.
There are lots of ways to share what you feel. Sometimes you can say, ”I love you” to your dad. Other times, it’s enough just to give your dad or close friend a hug. Both are ways of showing how you feel.
Don’t feel embarrassed or bad about sharing your feelings with people who care for you. Learning to share your feelings can help you feel more confident and assertive in everyday life.

