 The most common symptom you may feel from caffeine withdrawal is headaches. You may get a headache as soon as 12 hours after stopping caffeine. The headaches may be worse for the first couple of days after you stop using caffeine. If you drank a lot of caffeine, you may experience worse headaches., There are other symptoms that may occur because of caffeine withdrawal. You may feel tired, have problems concentrating, or feel drowsy. Some people even feel like their brain is in a fog. Mood changes may also occur, like anxiety, irritability, or depression.Some people experience flu-like symptoms or muscle aches.
You may experience an erratic heartbeat.
 You may not want to quit cold turkey because you are worried about symptoms. Phasing caffeine out of your daily life, and therefore your body, may help reduce the symptoms you experience compared to stopping cold turkey. Try to cut back on the number of cups of caffeinated beverages you drink each day to start reducing your consumption.For example, if you drink four cups of coffee each day, you may drink three cups for a few days, then two cups for a few days, and then go down to one before quitting completely.
You can also try switching to half caf coffees or trying decaf.
 Caffeine withdrawal symptoms vary from person to person. Some people experience symptoms for a few days, others a week, while some people may go through withdrawal for two months. The duration of withdrawal symptoms correlates to the amount of caffeine consumed each day.Though some symptoms may continue for weeks, most of the worst symptoms go away after about a week.
 You may not want to cut coffee and tea out of your life completely. Despite having caffeine, both coffee and tea have positive health effects. However, if you consume too much, you may need to cut down, which can lead to withdrawals. The standard safe amount of caffeine for adults is up to 400 milligrams.This is approximately four cups of brewed coffee, 10 sodas, or two energy drinks. However, this caffeine content varies, especially for energy drinks or coffee from coffee chains.
Try to get an idea of how much caffeine you consume. Some people drink around 1000 mg of caffeine each day from coffee and energy drinks without realizing it.

