 Whenever you're digging in your yard, you're supposed to call about buried utility lines first. That way, you won't run into them when you're digging, which could cause problems., For instance, it's important to pick a high, dry location if you want your pet to decompose. In addition, you should pick a location downhill from a well and at least 50 feet away, though 100 feet is better, as well as 50 feet from other types of water such as ponds, rivers, and drainage ditches. Try to pick a place that is not shallow to the bedrock below (meaning, see if you hit rock below where you are digging), as when the pet is decomposing, it can leach into the water., First, find a heavy duty plastic bag that fits your animal. Next, find a box. Wood or metal is the best option because it keeps the pet enclosed. You can also decorate it if you wish.If you want your pet to decompose into the earth, you shouldn't cover your pet with anything. You should only allow your pet to decompose into the earth if your pet died of natural causes.
However, if your pet was euthanized, it's not safe to let her naturally decompose into the earth, so you should cover her., For a larger pet, you want the hole to be at least 3 feet deep. You might get away with 2 feet if the pet is smaller. Keep in mind that you may need to go deeper depending on the size of your box. Make sure to make the hole wide enough and long enough to fit the box you put your pet in.If you want your pet to decompose into the earth, you should bury the pet in a shallower grave. The hole needs to be about a foot and a half deep, making sure that you have about a foot between the top and the bedrock below. Make sure you have a foot and a half of soil above the pet, even if you have to mound it up a bit.
Making the grave shallower gives the body a chance to decompose.
If you're having trouble digging in your soil, you can "bury" your pet above ground. Simply lay your pet out, and then cover it with soil in a mound equal to 18 inches., Lower your animal into the ground in the box. Cover the box up with the dirt, packing it down as you go. If you're not using a box, simply lay your pet in the ground. You can also bury your pet with some of her favorite toys or a flower., You can give it a small ceremony by reading a poem or saying a few words. You could also light candles in your home in memory of your pet. Having a funeral, even a small one in your home, can help you and your family say goodbye to your pet.


Think about what you'd do at a person's funeral. For instance, you may want to read a short story or have someone offer a eulogy to your pet.
Get your kids involved. Let them read a favorite poem or story or something they wrote for the pet.
You could also play a favorite song, or enjoy "human food" that your pet loved.
 Stones will serve to mark the spot of your pet. However, they also serve an equally important utilitarian purpose: keeping scavengers from digging your beloved pet up.You can choose a decorative stone as a headstone.
You could also plant something over your pet, such as rosebush, in your pet's memory.
 If you aren't physically capable of burying the pet yourself, some areas will let you put them in a (closed) trash can after you've wrapped them up in an old t-shirt or plastic.Another option is animal control or services, who might come pick up your animal.Your sanitation department may also pick up animal bodies.While it seems sad to dispose of your animal this way, know you loved your pet well while it was alive. All that's left is the body, not the pet you treasured so much. If you want, consider placing a stone in your yard to remember your pet by.

