 Unfortunately, the more you associate with criminals, the more likely you are to commit crime. Try not to fall in with a bad crowd, such as gangs. It will be easier to live a clean life when you surround yourself with people who are living the same.


Meet people at churches, schools, or at community centers. It may be difficult to introduce yourself to a new set of people, but the hardest step is the first.
You can meet people online. But it is best to develop “real life” relationships. A network of good friends can provide emotional support during stressful times in your life.;
, People you know might pressure you to commit crime with them. It’s important to stand your ground and refuse to participate. This can be difficult. However, you can plan ahead of time for how you can deflect the pressure.


Casually say, “Nah, I don’t want to” or “You know, I’ve got to go.” Keep your voice level but speak clearly. If they won't stop bothering you, walk away.
If you can’t leave, quickly change the subject. Say, “Hey, let’s play a video game instead” or mention another activity you think your peers might be interested in.
Make sure to avoid these people in the future.
 The best way to avoid crime is to set healthy goals for yourself and to work toward them. Increasing your education should be a high priority. If you haven’t earned a diploma, you should return to school.


In the U.S., you can earn a GED (General Equivalency Development) diploma by taking a series of tests. The tests cover reading, math, writing, science, and social studies.Also consider getting more education past high school. For example, people with an associate’s degree in the U.S. earn about $500,000 more over the course of their lives than people with only a high school diploma., A good way to avoid crime and gangs is to find a job.You might find it difficult to work if you don’t have your high school diploma, which is why you should make completing your education a top priority.


There are many resources for people seeking employment. In the U.S., your state should have a job bank you can search.You can find links to state job banks here: http://www.careeronestop.org/JobSearch/FindJobs/state-job-banks.aspx.
If you are 16-24 and trying to enter the job market, you can visit the GetMyFuture website.It has information on writing resumes, finding jobs, and finishing your education. They also have information on addiction recovery and finding financial help.
Remember that your first job is not your last job. Instead, it is an opportunity to build skills and show future employers that you are responsible and reliable. Any work is important enough to do well, so maintain a positive attitude.
 You might be tempted to commit a crime because of financial difficulties. It is very easy to steal money from people when you are feeling financial stress. You might convince yourself that you’ll return the money once you get back on your feet. But stealing is always wrong.


Assess your financial situation. Figure out why you are financially stressed. Are you overspending? Have you suffered a bout of unemployment? You can’t tackle your financial difficulties until you identify the root cause.

Make a budget. If you overspend, identify the reasons why. Some expenses are fixed, such as insurance and rent. But you can cut other inessentials, like Netflix or meals out.

File for bankruptcy. You can get rid of unsecured debts like credit cards, payday loans, and medical debt through bankruptcy. It isn’t an ideal solution, but it is better than turning to a life of crime.
 Many people commit violent crimes because they can’t control their anger. Anger is normal. However, acting violently because you are angry is not. Seek out anger management courses or learn other methods for living productively with anger.


You can meet with a licensed mental health professional to learn how to manage your anger.If money is tight, talk to a school guidance counselor or stop into a public health clinic and ask what resources are available.
If you can’t afford counseling, you should adopt different strategies for handling your anger. Practice relaxation by breathing deeply and repeating calming words or visualizing relaxing images.
Also use different language when you talk to yourself. Avoid “always” and “never.” Instead, focus on how your problems are challenges to overcome. For example, you can think, “This sucks. But getting angry won’t help me solve this problem. And I can solve it if I take some time to think this through.”

, Almost 80% of all crimes involve drugs and alcohol.When you are drunk or high, you lose the ability to think rationally and may engage in risky behavior that can harm yourself and others. Accordingly, you should seek treatment.


You can find help for addiction by talking to a doctor.
In the U.S., you can also call 1-800-662-4357.Or you can look for treatment centers online at: https://findtreatment.samhsa.gov/.

