 Protect your emergency cash from potential thieves by hiding it in plain sight. If someone goes through your luggage while you are traveling, they probably won't think to look in your toothpaste.


Cut off the flat end of an empty metal tube, and rinse it out thoroughly.
Roll or fold paper money tightly and place it into the tube.
Pinch the open end closed, and flatten the roll so it looks like a partially used tube of paste.
Alternatively, wash and dry an empty plastic tube and insert tightly-rolled bills in the nozzle. To access your funds, cut the tube open at the flat end.
 If you keep sharp knives or scissors in drawers, you can protect your fingers by making a protective cap for them. This will also keep your knives becoming dull by rubbing against other things in the drawerCut off the cap end of a used plastic toothpaste tube
Rinse and dry the inside of the tube thoroughly.
Slip the plastic cover over your cutlery, and put them back in the drawer.
 If you have a craft area or workroom with a cork board, you can use empty tubes as handy holders for your pens or paint brushes.


Snip the cap end off the empty tubes.
Use a push pin to affix the empty tubes to a cork board, and fill them with pens or brushes.
 Empty plastic tubes make convenient, light-weight containers for camping. Instead of taking an entire jar of food, you can pack just the amount you'll need on your trip.


Collect a few empty plastic tubes, and rinse and dry them completely.
Using a funnel, fill the empty tubes with honey or peanut butter.
 Don't throw away your empty metal tubes of toothpaste, or they will go to a landfill. You can usually find a way to recycle them, instead.Aluminum tubes can usually be recycled along with your empty soda cans.
Tom's of Maine will recycle their empty tubes for you. Just save up a few, and mail them back to the company.
Terracycle, in conjunction with Colgate, will accept used toothbrushes, floss, and toothpaste tubes. Save them up, send them in, and they will recycle them for you.

