 If you decide to start the cleome early, you should prepare to sow the seeds indoors between mid-February and late March.


Ideally, seeds started indoors should be sown roughly four to six weeks before you plan to transplant them outside.
While cleome can be sown early indoors, many gardeners believe that the plants thrive best when sown outdoors.;
, For best results, choose a seed starting soil mix instead of a standard garden mix. Loosely fill the containers with soil; do not pack it in.


Plastic seedling trays are recommended, but you could also use small plastic cups, small plastic pots, or small ceramic pots. Regardless of the specifics, try to stick with a container that has a diameter or length no greater than 4 inches (10 cm).
 Make a shallow 1/4-inch (6-mm) indentation in the soil with your fingertip, the drop a seed inside. Sprinkle over the seed with a very light layer of soil.


If you are using small seedling trays, plant one seed per compartment.
If you are planting the seeds in a slightly larger plant, make sure that the seeds are 1 inch (2.5 cm) apart., Place the sown seeds and their containers in large plastic bags, then transfer the bags to the refrigerator. Keep the seeds there for two weeks.This part of the process, known as verbalizations, takes advantage of the plant's natural ability to thrive when brought out of cold temperatures and into warm temperatures, and mimics the way this happens in nature.
Only keep the seeds in the refrigerator, though. Do not use the freezer. Do not allow frost to form, and do not allow the soil to dry out.
 The seeds should be kept in a warm location with regular, daily access to direct sunlight.


The soil temperature should be kept between 70 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit (21 and 25 degrees Celsius) during this time.
Bottom sources of heat work best. Consider resting the containers on top of a heat mat designed for use with plants.
If you cannot provide bottom heat, at least make sure that the seeds remain in a room that is continually kept warm.
Usually, the seeds will germinate within one or two weeks once they are transferred to a warm area.
 Spray the soil with water from a spray bottle as the seeds prepare to germinate.


The soil must remain continually moist during this time, but at no point should you allow it to become flooded. Do not give the seeds so much water that puddles form on top of the soil.
Make sure that the soil remains moist throughout the entire germination process.
 Ideally, the cleome seedlings should be planted in full sunlight. Areas with very light shade are also acceptable.


For best results, choose a spot with soil that drains well. Since cleome grows well in most types of soil, though, it is not necessary to amend the soil before transplanting the seedlings.
If you are planting the cleome in a bed with other flowers, plant them near the back since they tend to grow tall.
 You should wait three to four weeks after the last frost in your area before transplanting cleome seedlings.


Usually, this means waiting until late April.
You also need to make sure that the seedlings have established themselves enough to be transplanted. Seedlings are ready to be transplanted once they are at least 2 inches (5 cm) tall.
 Use a garden trowel to dig a hole that is roughly as deep as the seedling container. The hole should be slightly wider than this original container, however.


Spread the seedlings apart, keeping roughly 2 inches (5 cm) of space in between each one.
 Slide the garden trowel in between the side of the container and the soil inside. Glide it around the perimeter of the container to free the soil from the sides, then gradually slip the entire clump of soil, seedling and all, out of the pot.


It might be easiest to tip the container on its side as you do this.
If you are using plastic seedling trays or other thin plastic containers, you might be able to free the seedlings simply by squeezing the sides of the plastic and pushing up on the soil inside.
 Carefully place each seedling in its own prepared hole. Fill the remainder of the hole with additional soil.


Lightly pat the soil around the seedling to secure the new plant in place.
Water the soil lightly after transplanting the seedling. It should be thoroughly moist, but not quite drenched.
 If you decide to sow the seeds directly outdoors instead of starting them early, you will need to wait until late April, or three to four weeks after the last frost in your area.


Note that late April is the earliest you can sow seeds outdoors, but you can continue sowing seeds all the way through May.
Directly sowing the seeds outdoors is actually recommended for cleome plants.
Some of the best varieties to choose for direct sowing include Cherry Queen, Mauve Queen, Pink Queen, Purple Queen, Rose Queen, and Ruby Queen., Cleome grows best in full sun to light shade.


These flowers can grow in most soil types, but the best soil for cleome will be soil that drains well.
When planting cleome in a mixed flower bed, consider planting them toward the back of the bed. Cleome tend to grow taller than most flowers.
 Pull any weeds from the soil and remove any debris, such as rocks or sticks.


Even though cleome grows best in well-draining soil, you do not need to amend the soil in your garden, even if it isn't loose and well-draining. Cleome can survive in a wide range of soil types.
 Use your fingertip to make an indentation in the soil no deeper than 1/4 inch (6 mm). Drop one seed inside the indentation, then sprinkle a very light, small amount of soil on top.


The seeds should be sown 1 to 3 inches (2.5 to 7.6 cm) apart from one another.
If the soil is too hard to press into using your finger, you could use the tip of a small garden spade, instead.
 After sowing the seeds, you should keep the soil moist by lightly showering it with a small amount of water from a watering can or spray bottle.


The "mist" setting on a garden hose nozzle can also be used.
At no point should you flood the soil. Avoid letting water puddle up on the surface.
 When the cleome plants are about 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) tall, pull out the weakest looking seedlings so that 1 to 1.5 inches (2.5 to 3.8 cm) of empty space can remain in between the strongest ones.


Pull up the weak seedlings gently and carefully. If you are too rough, you might accidentally rip up some of the seedlings you want to keep, as well.
Note that the seeds should sprout within 7 to 14 days.
 Once the plants are established, you can usually let nature water them. You will only need to water cleome if you are undergoing a drought.


Note that cleome do need to be watered every other day or so while they are still establishing themselves. During this time, keep the soil regularly moist along the surface but do not drench it. If there are puddles on the surface of the soil, you've added too much.
After the plants have established themselves, they only need 1 inch (2.5 cm) or so of water per week. Standard precipitation should take care of this, but if not, gently water the plants with a watering can or a light shower setting on a garden hose.
 Spread a thin layer of mulch around the plants after they establish themselves. The layer should be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) thick.


Do not let the mulch touch the stems. If you crowd the stems with mulch, moisture can build and cause stem rot.
Mulch can be very helpful to the overall health of your cleome bed. A layer of mulch can prevent weeds from popping through while insulating the soil during chillier weather.
 Cleome will usually survive without additional fertilizer, but if the quality of your soil is poor, applying a dose of fertilizer once at the beginning of spring and once in the middle of summer can benefit your flowers significantly.


Choose a balanced, all-purpose fertilizer labeled for use with garden flowers and apply it as directed on the label.
 Pests are not a common problem for cleome, but stem boring insects can be an issue, especially if you live in a humid climate.


If you spot stem boring insects or other pests on the plants, buy an appropriate outdoor pesticide labeled for use against such insects.
Test the pesticide on a small section of the plant to make sure that it does not destroy the plant itself. Once it seems safe, follow the label instructions and apply the pesticide over all of the infested areas of the plant, focusing on the stem.
 Once established, cleome will naturally self-sow by dropping seeds. To prevent the plants from spreading and taking over your garden, you should dead-head the flowers before any seeds can ripen.To dead-head flowers, wait until the flower shows signs of drooping or dying, then simply snip or pluck it off the stem.

