 If you have been diagnosed with carpal tunnel, exercise alone are not likely to significantly relieve symptoms, and they don’t replace other treatments. You may find that stretches help to lessen pain and tension to some degree if your symptoms are not too severe.You can extend and clench all your fingers to loosen ligaments in your wrist. Loosening your ligaments can help relieve tension within your carpal tunnel.


With your arms relaxed at your sides, stretch out your fingers far apart.
Hold this stretch for five seconds.
Relax your hands and fingers, and then repeat the stretch.
Repeat this exercise four times., Standing, extend both arms forward with palms facing downwards, parallel to the floor. Extend fingers upwards as if making a "stop" sign, and hold for five seconds.


Relax your fingers downwards so they are once again parallel to the floor.
Squeeze your fingers into a tight fist and hold for five seconds.
Unclench your fist.
Then bend the wrists down towards the floor for another five seconds.
Straighten both wrists and relax the fingers.
Repeat this exercise 10 times, and then hang your arms loosely at your side and shake them out a little., Close all your fingers, keeping the thumb out and pointed up. Create some resistance with your hand and wrist to keep your thumb from moving. Then grab your thumb with your free hand, and gently pull it back.


Hold it under tension for around five seconds.
Release and repeat five to 10 times for each hand., Another way to stretch your thumb starts with you holding your hand out flat in front of you. Fan out your fingers and ensure that your palm is facing the floor.


Bend your thumb under your palm and try to touch the base of your smallest finger.
Count to five, then release.
Repeat for 10 times with each hand., Resist rubber bands to build strength in your flexor tendons. Place small rubber bands over all five fingers, then try to flex your fingers open to work the flexor tendons at your carpal tunnel.


You can double the band to reduce its size and add more resistance, to strengthen weakened hand muscles.
You can also place the rubber band around the thumb and the index fingers only, or any two fingers you want to train.
Expand them, then relax.
Do each movement for one minute, or until you feel fatigued. Do not push yourself too hard. Instead, try to gradually build up your endurance. If you feel an increase in pain or numbness and tingling, stop the exercise and see your doctor or physical therapist. .

