 Many scam apps are copies of legitimate apps, and the scammer might try to take the pictures and description from the real app and put it onto theirs in order to make their app look real so people buy it.
 If the app has been out for some while, there should be some one-star reviews that state that they "didn't get what they bought" or they "received a different app than what was advertised".


It isn't uncommon to have many fake reviews. Fake reviews are easy to spot if you know what to look for. First, look at the date that the review was posted and compare it to the day the application was released. If they are the same or are only a day or two after the release date, that is likely a sign that it's fake. Second, do the reviews seem "too good to be true"? If all the reviews have high ratings, specifically 5- and 4-star scores, there's more potential the reviews aren't real. Third, compare all of the reviews that rate the app well. They all may look as if they have the same writing style and similar usernames (e.g. funnydog78, coolgorilla22, bestchair64, etc.).
 If the app is legitimate, it is likely that the publisher has few other apps and has a name that sounds more official, such as the name of their app or something that ends with "Co." or any other similar ending. If the app is a scam, the publisher may sound like an unpopular publisher or something unofficial, such as the publisher's name or something such as "Fun Games For Kids And Teens".
 Check for signs including:


They all cost money.
They all have fishy ratings, whether it's a low rating or a high rating.
They all seem like copies or "helpers" of a different app.
They were all published on close dates (e.g. November 24, November 25, November 26, all in 2016).
The storage they take up isn't as big as it seems it'd be.
 If the app is featuring, for example, stunning graphics and addictive gameplay, it's likely the amount of storage it'll take up is high, and may even take up gigabytes. If you feel a bit off about the app and you're unsure to buy it, however, you might want to check how many bytes the app will take up when you download it. If the storage seems lower than what it should be, you might want to reconsider your purchase.

