 Look for basic service sector jobs. Look online for jobs in fast food, restaurants, stores, cafes, and movie theaters. With all the limitations on your hours and your lack of experience, it will be difficult to find jobs in more competitive sectors.


Alternatively, call or stop by places that you are interested in. These jobs cycle often, so they are often looking for new employees. There is a decent chance that they are hiring.
Find something that you are interested in, like a restaurant whose food you like. If you like coffee, a café could be a good option. If you like movies, find a movie theater. Though these jobs don’t pay well, they often allow you to get free products.;
, You are more likely to get a job if you already know people who are employed with a company. Talk to friends and elders. Ask if they know anyone who is looking to hire and if they can testify to the fact that you are a reliable person., Applying for a service sector job is often very different than applying for a professional job. Instead of asking you to write a formal resume and cover letter, employers will typically have a paper application for you to fill out. The only way to know for sure is stop by and ask how to apply.
 Without work experience or a degree it will be hard to prove that you are a qualified employee. If you have any experience with volunteer organizations, clubs, or other groups—especially as a leader—talk about this when you apply for your job. If you don’t have any such experience, reach out to some groups and get involved., Think of some adults to whom you have demonstrated that you are responsible. You could consider teachers and school counselor. Anyone who you have worked with in an organization like the boy scouts or local clubs can testify to your ability to work with others.
 When you apply for a job, be sure that you are dressed in a way that suggests you are serious. A suit and tie might be a bit much for a summer job. But you should be sure that you are wearing nice clothes, with no holes, stains, or messages that could be read as offensive.
 You won't have to worry about a work permit if you're working for yourself. Ask neighbors if they need someone to mow their lawn or watch their kids. Although it might be a bit old-fashioned, a lemonade stand on a busy street in the summer could also bring in a bit of money.


Small household chores are not covered by federal regulations. Doing these will save you the trouble of getting a work permit and dealing with other child labor regulations.These sorts of jobs can be a good chance to show that you are a self starter, able to organize a business and get jobs done on your own.
 There also aren't as many regulations when working for your parents. Hopefully, they've also learned by now to like you well enough to give you a job. Ask if you can get paid for doing some chores around the house or if they are have any business that they can help you with.


There are no regulations for doing household chores. There are some for working with parents in a business, but it should be alright as long as the conditions are not hazardous., You'll have the rest of your life to work. One day, you might look back and regret that you didn't spend enough time being a kid or working on your education. While working isn't always a bad idea when you are young, consider whether it is really worth the cost.


Often it is best to work over the summer and Christmas holidays. Without school, you'll have time on your hand. Working won't get in the way of your education. That is why federal regulations are much more lenient when it comes working over the holidays than they are when it comes to working during the school year.

