 Each memory foam mattress lists its density in the product information. High-density foam is defined as above 5 (2.27 kg) and especially 6 lbs. (2.72 kg). This mattress will feel quite firm at first, but it will adapt to your body to relieve pain and pressure points. Lasting about 8-10 years, it’s the best choice for those looking for durability, although it will cost more., Mid-grade foam is defined as 4 to 5 lbs (1.81-2.27 kg). This option should also provide you with a durability of about 8-10 years, and it may be more comfortable and less costly than high-density foam., Low-density foam, normally 2 to 3 lb. (0.91-1.36 kg), will likely feel more comfortable when you lie down, as you’ll sink into the layer. While this foam is less expensive than higher density options, it’s also less durable. You may have to replace it within 4-6 years., The ILD is another important indicator of firmness. Low ILDs will give you a soft and comfortable surface, while highers ILDs create resistance and support for your back. You generally want lower ILDs (10-11) for the top layers and at least one layer with a higher ILD (20-40) to prevent low-back pain., Memory foam is a temperature-sensitive material that softens as it comes in contact with your body heat. This is what gives it the ability to contour to your body, but the foam can also get overly hot at night. Many memory foam mattresses now offer top layers made with different materials to increase ventilation and keep you cool., Gel memory foam increases the air circulation in memory foam, providing a cooler surface. This option also offers increased and more balanced support for your back. This may help relieve chronic back pain.Be aware that the gel memory foam will be cool at first, but it will heat up to match your body temperature over the course of the night. Gel layers may only help you fall asleep.
 Natural latex foam maintains the same general softness and support as memory foam, but does not have its temperature sensitivity. This will likely prevent you from experiencing the cloud-like feeling that comes from memory foam. However, natural latex will not cause you to “sleep hot,” and it won’t give off any chemical odors., CertiPUR-US is an American-based non-for-profit program that prevents foam from including harmful metals, chemicals, ozone depleters, or dangerous gas emissions. Most mattress companies will advertise that their products have received this certification.While companies from all over the world can be CertiPUR-US-certified, the certification adheres to American standards. These standards are comparable with the European-based Eco-label., The density of latex and memory foam mattresses already inhibits the spread of allergy-causing dust mites. The bamboo cover will supplement this resistance, as bamboo is naturally dust and mildew resistant., Before you decide on a product, check out previous buyers’ experiences to avoid falling into a consumer trap. Reviews will provide you with information about the relationship between the cost and the overall comfort and quality of the mattress.
 Even if you plan to make your final purchase online, it’s extremely important that you lie down at least once on the mattress you intend to buy. Mattress stores will allow you to test their beds by hopping on and getting comfortable, so take advantage., Give yourself ample time to fully experience the mattress. Try moving around and lying in various positions. Many memory foam mattresses are made specifically to suit back, side, or stomach sleepers, and it’s important that you test these labels. Some beds will also inhibit your movement, and you’ll want to know this before you buy., Learn exactly what will be required of you when you have a warranty issue. What counts as an issue covered by the warranty? Will you be responsible for packaging and shipping the mattress? Most importantly, how long has the manufacturer been in business? A lifetime warranty from a company that's only been in business for a short while is probably worthless.


Most warranties will cover problems with the mattress that appear to be manufacturer related. Warranties will rarely cover damage caused by you or by normal wear and tear., You should be able to test out your memory foam mattress to see if you have any issues or don’t like the feel of the material. These trials generally last between two weeks and a month. Be sure you understand the return policy in case you end up not liking the mattress.The company will likely require the mattress to be in as-new condition at the end of the trial period if you choose to return the product. Any damage to the mattress will almost certainly prevent you from making a return.
 If you’re in a local store, you may be facing overpriced products. Talk to your salesperson to negotiate these prices down to match the minimum prices you can find for the product online. Larger chains should already match these minimum prices.If you face resistance in this conversation, try telling your salesperson that you’ve found the same product for a better price elsewhere. While they may tell you that you’re welcome to make your purchase where you’d like, they might also take the opportunity to prevent you from walking out the door.
 Both stores and online vendors should have coupon options available. Search online for printable coupons to take in the store with you, or apply promotional codes at the end of your online purchase. You can also search your town’s weekly advertising circular for local couponing options.

There are a variety of online options for finding coupons. Honey is an internet add-on that will automatically search for and apply coupons to your online purchases, or you can use RetailMeNot.com to look up specific stores., Buying your mattress in a store means that you have a physical location and specific person to visit if you have problems with your product.When you buy in a store, you’re usually guaranteed assistance in moving and setting up the mattress.
 Online purchasing will allow you to avoid haggling with a salesperson over prices. However, be aware that your purchase may not meet your expectations, especially if you didn’t visit a store to test it out. It may also be more difficult for you to return a mattress purchased online.

Note that online vendors may only ship “compressed,” or rolled-up, memory foam mattresses that need about a day to fully decompress before you can sleep on them.
 Whether you make your purchase online or in the store, set aside a specific place on your computer or in your house for your purchasing records. You should be sure that the receipt, warranty paperwork, and any trial period agreements are somewhere that you can easily access and won’t forget about.