 Rainy weather can affect your self-esteem, making it more likely that you’ll forego social gatherings and do things solo.However, being alone on a gloomy day can quickly make your spirits worse. Give yourself a ray of sunshine by connecting with someone.


If you’re at home alone, invite a friend over to laze about with you. If you’re at work or school, make a special effort to connect with others by asking someone to sit with you at lunch or going into the breakroom for a quick chat. Socializing with others can improve your mood almost instantly.;
, If you enjoy reading, nasty weather is an ideal time to snuggle up with a book and a cup of tea. Not only is picking up a book for leisure a great source of pleasure and entertainment, it also reduces stress and brings about positive feelings. Plus, if academic achievement is important to you, studies show that leisure reading results in a greater vocabulary, higher test scores, and improved cognitive skills.Whether fiction or nonfiction, pull a book from your shelf and get lost in the wonderful world of reading. This serves as the perfect distraction and accessory to bad weather.
 Many would argue that a rain or snow day provides the best excuse to curl up on your couch for some one-on-one time with your television. There’s no need to go outside in the nasty weather if you can avoid it. Scan through your channels to see if any of your favorite shows are being replayed. Or, log on to Netflix and check out the newest releases.


Be mindful that prolonged TV time increases chances of being overweight or obese and developing chronic diseases.Make sure to take breaks and engage in other activities. At the very least, get up every hour or so for some light exercise and stretching.
 For centuries, humans have used art to promote healing. If you are feeling blue because of less-than-perfect weather, it may be a good idea to pull out those paintbrushes or grab your sketch pad.


Artistic self-expression with music, the visual arts, dance, or writing can all positively benefit your overall health and well-being. Research shows that creating art can actually help people feel better after both physiological and psychological sickness., There’s a chance that nasty weather tends to get you down because you have difficulty with idle time. Intense storms may prevent you from going about your activities as normal and you may not do well with unstructured leisure time. If this is the case, you are probably overdue for some good tender, loving self-care.


Ugly weather offers a terrific opportunity to relax and treat yourself. What have you been neglecting doing for yourself? If you can travel about your community, go get a massage. Get your nails painted. If you’re a guy, get a new haircut.
If you’re not able to leave home, make your living quarters a place of peaceful relaxation. Taking a few moments to relax can help reduce your risk of cardiovascular disease, depression, and anxiety.Play some soothing music. Light a luxurious-smelling candle. Perform self-massage. Take a soothing bubble bath. Sleep in and enjoy waking up slowly, at your own pace.

