 Locate the app’s icon on your home screen or app drawer. The icon is a hexagon with different colors on each corner. Tap on it.


If you have not already downloaded HD widgets, you will have to download it from the Google Play Store for $0.99.;
, The first time you open HD Widgets, it will give you instructions on how to use the app. Just view the tutorial by swiping your fingers from right to left twice.


On the new screen, choose an option that suits your needs: “Beginner’s Guide,” “Introduction,” and “Overview.”
The tutorial will proceed on showing you the different features of HD widgets. Swipe your fingers from right to left to keep viewing.
 The app’s menu screen will appear.
 Tap on “Glass Gems” to begin customizing the icons of the widget. You can change their type, size, background, and color.


Select the options to change. On the next screen, tap on your preferred parameters then tap on “OK.”

, Do this by tapping on “Location” and then on “Add location.” Enter the location you want and press “OK.”


The weather widget provides you the weather details of the locations added.
 HD Widgets comes with a free Glass Gems theme, but if you want to add more themes, tap on the “Add more” option in the menu. A list of themes will be displayed.


Tap on the theme name, and you will be redirected to the Play Store.
For free themes, tap on the “Install” button to download the theme. For paid themes, tap on the button with the theme’s cost to be redirected to through the payment process
Finally, tap on the theme name that are already downloaded to change the theme.
 Do this by tapping on the “Settings” option in the menu. Here you can configure the other settings for each type of widget, like weather, time, notification, and switches.


Tap on “Weather settings” to change the weather settings. Here, you can change different options like “Select location,” “Locate automatically,” “Refresh interval,” “Temperature,” “Wind units,” and more.
Tap on “Time & units” to change options for the date and time widget, like setting the date and time, and the time format.
Tap on “Notification widgets” to change settings for the notification widgets, like notification priority, battery level and duration indication, weather notification, etc.
You also change settings for switches, hotspots, widget sizes, etc. in the Settings menu.
 Once you’re done configuring HD Widgets settings, exit the app by pressing the Back button of your device., The home screen menu will pop up.
 A list of available widgets will be displayed.


You can access the Widgets menu by opening your app drawer and swiping right to left until the Widgets menu appears.
 The widget will be added to your home screen.


To change the settings of the widget, tap on it and then tap on “Settings.”

,