 Not all snakes are dangerous. However, it is a good rule of thumb to avoid any snakes you encounter in the wild. Certain signals can tell you whether the snake in question is particularly dangerous.Pay attention to the snake's position. A coiled snake is likely getting ready to strike.
If you encounter a rattle snake, back away slowly. If the snake is coiled and audibly rattling, it is getting ready to strike.
Be aware that a snake can strike from any position. It can strike the furthest distance from a coiled position, but it can also attack from a stretched out position.
 There is no full proof way to tell if the snake you encounter is venomous. It's a good idea to assume that it is, and move along. Venomous snakes do carry some common traits that are good indicators that they are poisonous.Poisonous snakes in the United States are almost all pit vipers. Pit vipers have heat-seaking pits on their snouts that help them to locate prey.
Many poisonous snakes have triangular heads. The water moccasin, rattle snake, and copperhead all have pointed heads and are venomous.
The water moccasin is also known as a cotton mouth, and is found in many southern waterways. It's venom can cause muscle and tissue damage.
The coral snake is the exception to many rules, and is the most venomous snake in the US. It has a rounded head, rounded pupils, and is more brightly colored than other snakes.
 Hikers and fishermen frequently encounter rattlesnakes. These snakes live in all parts of the continental United States. They are particular common in the Southwest.You can identify a rattlesnake by looking for the distinct, noise-making scales at the end of its tale. Be aware that not all rattlesnakes will actively be rattling. They are still dangerous.
Rattlesnakes are strong swimmers. Be on the lookout for them if you are fishing in a stream, lake, or river.
The rattlesnake has hollow, retractable fangs. These fangs appear when the snake strikes and can inject large amounts of venom in their victim.
 The best thing to do when you encounter a snake is to walk away and let it be. However, sometimes you may feel that you absolutely need to get rid of the snake. Make sure to keep safety as your top priority.If you find a snake in your yard, you might worry about it biting your children or pets. To send it on its way, spray it gently with a garden hose. Stand a good distance away while you spray.
If you find a snake in your house, try to isolate it in one room. If you're sure it is not dangerous, you can set a glue trap to catch the snake, and then set it free.
Call animal control. Each city has experts that can come help you deal with the snake who is invading your space.

