 While there is no one personality trait that leads to guaranteed happiness, research does suggest that being outgoing can make you more satisfied with your social life. Your first step towards being more outgoing is to get to know people around you. Chances are that there are people in your daily life that could potentially become your friends.Look around your neighborhood. Is there a friendly face next door whom you have never spoken to? Next time you see them out in there yard, make a point to go over and say hello. Finding new friends is a great way to build your social circle.
Strike up conversations on your daily errands. For example, do you frequently go to the same farmer's market on the weekends? Take a look around. You might start noticing that you see the same people there regularly. Start a conversation with one of them and see if they would like to grab a cub of coffee.;
, Senior citizens comprise a major percentage of the population. Chances are that there are activities in your community that are geared towards helping seniors socialize. Find out if there is a community center in your neighborhood that offers senior-friendly activities.Community centers might offer a wide variety of activities such as game nights, cookie swaps, and guest lectures. Don't be afraid to attend on your own! There will probably be lots of other people looking for new friends, too.
Your neighborhood gym or YMCA are also great places to find social activities. Many health centers offer group classes or programs that are specifically formulated for seniors. Being active is a great way to meet others.
 As you age, it can become easy to get set in your ways. After all, you've had a lot of experiences in your life and you know what you like and what you don't like. However, try to keep your mind open towards new people and new experiences. Even though your personality is already formed, it can still change. Be open to befriending people who you might not immediately have a lot in common with.Remember, you don't have to only be friends with other seniors. Maybe a nice young couple has moved in next door to you. Try inviting them over for dinner. Even though they are members of a different generation, you might find that you share a lot of interests. And even if you don't have much in common, you can still have an enjoyable evening.
 Technology can be a great way to widen your social circle and meet new people. Try setting up a Facebook profile. This is a great way to reconnect with old friends you have lost touch with. It can also help you to stay in touch with family members who don't live nearby.


If it is a romantic connection that you are looking for, technology can be a big help in that area, too. There are many online dating services, and more and more seniors are signing up.