 Some basic foot care can help your feet look smooth and soft. Doing regular foot soaks can help remove dead skin cells and moisturize your feet.


A foot soak should last around 10 minutes. Any longer could leave your feet dry and cracked. Aim for lukewarm water. Water that's too hot or too cold could cause redness and other damage.You can soak your feet in plain water. If you have sensitive skin that tends to react poorly to additives, this might be your best bet. However, adding certain ingredients can help make the foot soak more relaxing and help moisturize and clean your feet.Sea salt, Epsom salt, dried flowers, oatmeal, and essential oils are all great potential additives. Be careful, however, when using essential oils. You have to dilute most oils in a neutralizing substance, such as olive oil, prior to use or it can cause skin irritation.Listerine is a type of mouth wash that some doctors recommend for foot soaks. Mix one part Listerine with two parts warm water. Soak your feet for 15 to 20 minutes and then apply a moisturizer.;
, Exfoliating feet is important to having strong, healthy feet. Exfoliation is a process by which dead skin cells are removed. You should exfoliate your feet once a week to keep them looking smooth and soft.









There are many ways to exfoliate your feet. You can buy foot creams and gels at department stores that come with micro-beads or other exfoliating agents. Use such creams as directed on the box. However, keep in mind micro-beads have a somewhat bad reputation amongst environmentalists. Beads are not biodegradable and end up causing pollution.Many people get good results making their own exfoliating cream at home. Any grainy substance, such as sea salt or Epsom salt, can be mixed with water or soap and rubbed against the feet.To exfoliate, you rub your cream of choice into your feet. Use enough force to smooth out rough patches and remove dead skin cells. Then, rinse your feet and moisturize.
 A major factor in caring for your feet is selecting the right shoes. Shoes that are too tight can cause calluses, pain, and other damage.


Contrary to popular belief, foot size can change over time. Go to shoe store and have your feet measured before selecting shoes. A salesperson can assist you in determining what size shoe would work best for you.Keep in mind most people have one foot that is slightly larger than the other. Select shoe size based on the larger of your two feet. It's better to have shoes that are slightly too loose than shoes that are slightly too tight.When standing, there should be about 3/8" or 1/2" inch, about the width of a finger, between your longest toe and the end of the shoe.Walk around in shoes for awhile before making a purchasing decision. Make sure shoes don't chafe or rub in any uncomfortable places.Taking these precautions with your shoes is the main way to prevent issues like corns, calluses, and bunions., Feet encounter a lot of wear and tear in the average day. A lot of oils and moisture is lost through day-to-day walking. Use a moisturizer for your feet on a regular basis. You can use your normal moisturizer or lotion. However, a stronger moisturizer might be required for feet. You can find moisturizers specifically designed for use on feet at a local supermarket or beauty store.
 Damages like ingrown toenails can result from improper toenail trimming. Always clip your toenails straight across and then file them to your desired shape. Many people try to build a round toenail shape through clipping the toenails in a certain way but this can cause toenails to bend inward. This can result in ingrown toenails.