 Anna's face shape is a tall circle that comes to a gentle point at the bottom. Divide her face into quarters with general guidelines. Add a slender neck and narrow, rounded shoulders.
If you need help getting the overall shape of Anna’s head, draw a small circle at the bottom of her head. This will be her chin. You can erase intersecting lines to get a final form. Your circle should extend just below Anna’s head. This will create the gentle point of the chin.
Sketch loosely with your wrist and shoulder. You’re just trying to draw a base outline. You can erase any extra lines later.;
, Anna has wide eyes that slant upwards on the bottom. Draw the outline of her eyes like a sideways capital “D”.
Make her irises large and round. Note how the top of the irises are cut off by her eyelids. Use your horizontal guideline as a reference point. Her eyes shouldn’t extend below this line.
You may choose to draw individual eyelashes, or just make the lines thicker near the outer top edges.
Her eyebrows are full, blocky, and expressive.
If you’re drawing on paper, add a small circle in each eye to create a shine.
 Anna has a tiny nose that is little more than a squashed U-shape. She has thin Caucasian lips. Feel free to make her grin somewhat asymmetrical. It adds to her quirky appearance.


Draw the nose closer to her mouth than to her eyes.
To draw the mouth, start with a curved line which moves up at the ends. Then add lines on the top and bottom to fill out the lips.
Erase your guidelines.
 Note how it is parted on the side. All hair flows from a single spot at the top of her head. Her braids may take time to draw, but are made up of S-shaped lines which intersect one another.


Note how each section of hair tucks into the following one. You can draw her braids overlapping one another and then erase areas to create the braided look.
Braids also have a zig-zag line going down the center. If it’s easier, draw the middle part of the braid first and then fill out the curves around your zig-zag. Start at the bottom of a zig-zag line and draw a line upward, continuing the line from the zig-zag. Her hair starts above your initial circle for her head. Follow the curve you drew for her head when drawing the hair.
Follow your starting point and move out, adding a few lines for her bangs.
 You may choose to draw one of the dresses she wears in the movie or invent your own outfit.


Anna often wears modest blue or green clothing, with flower motifs or stripes.
If you layer her clothing, take note that cloth has volume; it will not be perfectly flat. For example, the shoulders on the vest should be a little higher than the outline of her body. This will give your drawing some weight.
Follow your initial outline for her shoulders when drawing the vest. In the center, draw a large U-shape to connect the two sides of the vest.
Add flowers or other details as you see fit.
 Go over your drawing and erase any trace lines which may be intersecting details like her hair or clothing. Use thicker lines to indicate the shadows under her chin and her eyelashes.
You may wish to use a pen with black ink, or make some of your lines colored. For example, you can use a deep orange for her eyebrows. Or, you may wish to stick with pencils.
 Hide or erase any leftover sketch lines.


If you are drawing digitally, change the background color to something other than white. This will help you use more contrast when you color, and the image will look nicer.
Decide where your major light source is coming from. This will help you with adding shadows. As a general rule, the closer part of an image is to a light source, the lighter it will be.
 Choose warm, peachy colors for a glowing complexion.


Don't be afraid of contrast; shading timidly is a common beginner's mistake. Pick a medium brown for the deepest shadows. This will help you get a more detailed drawing that looks close to the version of Anna in the movie.
 You want to shade in the direction that her hair falls to help it look natural.


If you are drawing digitally, make a new layer for the hair. Drag your brush in the direction her hair falls.
When shading her braids, make the darkest part the top and bottom of each section, and the brightest part in the middle.
This method of shading will help her hair look healthy and clean.
 Move on to her clothing and the whites of her eyes.


Her shirt needs less dramatic shading because it is not the focus of this picture. You can use a dark green for the vest, and a light blue for her shirt.
To add depth to her eyes, start with a grey-brown color and go lighter and lighter as you move down. This will mimic the shadow caused by her eyelid and eyelashes.
 If you’re digitally drawing, you can fill in the entire circle for the iris with a blue gradient. If you’re drawing on paper, Draw a large circle for the pupil before coloring her eyes blue.


You may also want to add another circle in the corner of her pupils to give her eyes a bright glare if you haven't already.
Move from a medium blue to a lighter greenish blue as you color from top to bottom.
Choose bright, saturated colors if you are drawing digitally, or have access to these colors. Saturated colors will make the eyes call attention to the viewer.
 Large pupils look more attractive, so make sure you draw large black circles in the center of her eyes for her pupils.


The pupils may be cut off by her eyelids.
You can add a bright white shine to make her look attentive if you haven't already. At a diagonal from the shine, add a bright blue-green highlight to further emphasize the eyes.
 Clean up any loose lines or colors, shade her lips, and bolden the shading if desired.


Scatter orange freckles over her cheeks and nose. To get a sense of what could use fine-tuning, zoom out of your picture, or lean it against a wall and step back.
Darken and blush to Anna's cheeks if desired. Darkening and adding blush will help to give her cheeks more depth.
 You can add a simple color gradient, or draw a more detailed background if you want to place Anna in a scene.


If you’re drawing digitally, consider tweaking the color to make it look more unified. Most drawing programs will allow you to make a Gradient Map correction layer, which looks best at around 10-25% opacity.
Don't forget to sign your masterpiece!
When signing the image, try using a color from the picture, such as an orange from her hair or a blue from her eyes. This will integrate it more nicely into the image.

