 Choose a popular trend or market – something that a lot of people are searching for, and something that a lot of online readers will find interesting (See Google Trends).
 Weight loss is a popular topic, but it is too broad. People want to lose weight for many reasons: vacations, weddings, summer, the new year, birthdays, and other special events. Choose a specific niche, such as "weight loss for summer" or "weight loss for weddings."

, Find out how many people are searching for that topic by running a web search for, say, "quick weight loss." The quotes will make your search specific, so that the only results will be sites that mention the exact phrase "quick weight loss." Your search engine should list the number of search results that turn up for your query. Try to find a topic that turns up fewer than 5,000 results.
 The key to succeeding with affiliate programs is to build a content-rich website with useful information built around a specific theme. Don't just lazily throw up a quick site or blog and string a bunch of affiliate links all over your pages. You have to start by building credibility, and the best way to do that is to write about something you know a lot about.


If you know a lot about the newest smartphones and tech products, try setting up a site that reviews and catalogs new products.
It's also a good idea to own the products you promote so that you can appear more credible to your audience.
 Once your site is well-established and respected for its content, you can begin to link out to affiliate programs. Search the various affiliate networks and look for products that relate to the theme of your website. Grab the affiliate code from your account and paste it into your site. As people visit your site and click these links, you can begin earning money from the referrals in your articles.


Mention products in your articles or blog posts, and use the affiliate code to link out to each product. Use your articles to subtly convince readers that these products or services are worthwhile. Do not sell too hard.
Send out an email newsletter with product links. You can set up a pop-up that prompts visitors to your website to sign up for your newsletter.
Avoid sending out spam. If you send out daily newsletters or aggressive messages, your emails may be flagged by spam filters, and your visitors may even unsubscribe.
 The key is to subtly recommend products and services that fit in with what you are writing about in your content. If you try to market your affiliate products too aggressively, you may mar the credibility of your site.


Try not to come off as a salesperson. Present yourself as a knowledgeable, trustworthy third-party reviewer. Readers can be wary of online marketing tactics, and they may be more likely to click links if they don't think you're trying to sell them anything. Let the interested folks click, and don't force anyone to click on the ad.

