 You want to make sure that your parents have the time to sit and talk to you about your decision. Starting the conversation with too little time, or when people are stressed or emotional, is not a good idea. Try setting a time to talk to your parents when there will be no distractions, and you can be fully prepared for the conversation.A good time to bring up this kind of conversation would be after a family dinner. Bringing it up while a parent is on the phone or working is not a good time.
 Just like timing, placement of the conversation can directly impact how well your parents listen to you. If you know that a parent will be easily distracted at home, try going out for a walk. If you think that your parents will have a hard time processing the conversation in public, have the conversation at home or in another private space.


The middle of a supermarket is probably not a good place to start this conversation, but it might be a great idea to talk about it in the car during a road trip.
 Keep calm and collected, and tell your parents that you need to talk to them about something. If you don’t feel that you can bring it up, or if you are sure that your parents will not listen, you might try writing a letter or an email. They will not be able to interrupt you as they read your note.Approaching your parents calmly and respectfully is important. Starting off with something like “Mom, can I talk to you about my future,” shows that you want to include your parents and that you are willing to open up to them and hear them out.
 Choosing a good time and place can start the conversation off on a good note, but these conversations can often be a point of tension. If you feel tension starting to build between yourself and your parents, it’s okay to take a few minutes to relax. The conversation can even be put on hold until another day to let everyone process what has been discussed so far, and come back with an open mind.Arguing and yelling things like “I hate you,” at your parents will show that you are not handling the situation in a mature way. This will make it harder for them to listen to what you have to say and respect it. Try approaching their concerns in a more respectful way like “I know that you think being a doctor is what’s best for me, but I disagree.”