 If you over-rush you will die. Maybe not a few times, but you will never be able to rush constantly and never die. It's impossible. Pros can't even do it. So don't over-rush.;
, Always use it- it's a key weapon to use in almost any scenario. If you spawn with an assault rifle, pick up the br. Use it a lot, go into customs, and practice. Make it your best weapon. Use the assault rifle in close quarters, for quick and easy kills.


"Four shot" with it! (3 shots to the body, 1 shot to the head)







, Use it get better with it, and conserve your ammo. If you're not sure you can hit him at least once don't shoot. If you don't get a head shot, use the br, and one shot (if it's your secondary). Practice no-scoping with your friends, close and long range, (long range if your getting shot, it will help in clutch situations). Head shots will kill instantly.
 Don't just throw them anywhere! Find out different ways to get people using the right trajectory. Also throw them at the wall of a corner so they bounce and if anyone is there they are hurt and you can go round and pwn them!

, i.e. If on 'The Pit', and if there is a guy with sniper on the top of your snipe spawn you should say, "snipe top our snipe" so everyone knows, and can either kill him or not die by him. This is key if you wanna be a pro or semi-pro gamer.
 Yes halo is full of BS stuff, stuff that SHOULDN'T happen or lag, it's halo it happens. so don't get mad over it. That will affect your game. Another thing, if you go into matchmaking and your teammates are talking BS, then MUTE them, don't get mad with them it's not worth it. Just have fun with it.
 If you're not having fun don't play it, and if your losing it's okay, still laugh about it. I mean it's just a game. And if you don't want to play, then don't, It's just like doing anything else; if you don't want to do it, then most likely, you're not going to do the best you possibly can. Just play a different game until you feel like playing Halo again.
 As in everything in life, you won't be amazing right away or most people won't. You are bound to mess up, and more than likely you do the same stuff, like rush in for that guy camping bottom lift on Guardian. so learn from it, think about what you are going to do next.
 Believe it or not, to be extremely effective in this game you must out-smart your opponent. Tell me...if you shoot a guy and he is one shot, where is he most likely to run? Figure it out before he does it, and you get the kill every time. Basically out-think your opponent. Be able to run away when you are one shot, do new things, and change up your style.
 Share and develop tactics between yourselves. Plus, many eyes are better than one in spotting the enemy.

