 To clean your trumpet you will need a large bin, bucket, or bath tub to place your trumpet in. You will also need two long towels to lay the horn on, a wash cloth, and a polishing cloth to dry the horn with without scuffing the finish. Some dish soap, brushes, including a snake brush and pipe cleaner, will be used to clean your trumpet. Finally, you will need valve oil and slide grease to properly oil your trumpet when you reassemble it.You can usually find the oil and grease at an instrument or music store. If you aren't sure what type of grease and oil to buy, ask one of the workers what they would use for their instrument. You can also purchase kits online that are specifically created to clean trumpets and bass instruments.
If you don't have a polishing cloth, you can use a microfiber cloth or an old cotton t-shirt. If using a shirt, make sure it is one that has been washed a lot and doesn't have any text on it. You want to avoid scuffing your instrument at all cost. Never use a regular towel to dry off your instrument.;
,(Hold your valves when putting it back in) To wash your trumpet, you will want to disassemble it so you can effectively clean all areas of your instrument.Take apart all pieces of your instrument, but once you twist and unscrew the springs and felt pads that are inside the valves, set them aside. You will not clean these as they can get damaged if wet. Be careful not to dent any of the pieces as you take apart your trumpet.Make sure you keep track of how the pieces fit together as you take apart your trumpet.
If your valves get wet it can affect their shape and hinder the valves' performance. If the springs get wet it can lead to deterioration.
Sometimes if your valves are not properly oiled, they can get stuck in your trumpet. Removing these parts and the slides should not require much force, so if you are finding it difficult to take them apart, they may be stuck. Don't force them out as this can damage your trumpet. Take your trumpet to a professional so that they can dissemble your trumpet without damaging it., Fill up your bathtub about halfway with lukewarm water. As the water is filling the tub, squirt a few drops of dish soap into the water. Make sure you plug up the drain in the bath tub so the water doesn't run out.Using hot water can damage the trumpets finish, so make sure that the water is warm to touch. Cold water won't damage your trumpet necessarily, but it also won't give your trumpet the most effective soaking.If you don't have a tub, you can use a large bucket and fill it with water. Make sure the bucket is long and deep enough that you can lay your trumpet flat in the water.
 When you place your trumpet in the tub, you don't want it to dent on the hard surface. Placing a towel down will give it some padding and prevent it from getting banged up while you are cleaning it. Take one of your long towels and set it at the bottom of the tub, spreading it out so it fully covers the bottom of the tub., Once the tub is halfway full, stop the water flow. Then, set the trumpet and its parts down into the water on the towel.(If you wash you're valves it could ruin the felt) Space them out so that they don't bump up against each other in the water. Allow them to soak for 20 minutes or so, letting the dish soap effectively clean them.(The mouthpiece should be in hot water to clean better) , After your trumpet has soaked for some time you can begin to clean it out. Using your snake brush and pipe cleaners, clean out the insides of your slides. Run your brushes through the valve casings a few times. Spend some time cleaning out the area closest to the mouth piece. This area usually gets a lot of build up and bacteria, so you'll want to clean it out thoroughly., Leave your trumpet soaking in the water. Then, take a washcloth and dip it in the tub, getting it soaking wet. Then, gently rub the exterior of your trumpet with the washcloth, cleaning any dirt or dust off your trumpet. Make sure you don't brush roughly as this can create scuff marks., After you have thoroughly cleaned and scrubbed all of your pieces, unplug the drain in the tub. As the water begins to drain, turn the faucet back on and rinse out your pieces under lukewarm water. Place a towel down on the floor outside of the tub. After you have rinsed out a piece, place it on the towel., You want to avoid creating scuff marks on your trumpet at all cost, so make sure you are using a cloth that will not scratch your trumpet. Gently take the cloth and wipe down your instruments, removing the excess water. Then, set them back down on the towel and allow them to air dry the rest of the way.Air drying them will take longer, but it creates the least amount of risk of scuffing your instrument. You can place them in a sunny area for faster drying, or give it a few more hours if you want them to dry inside.
Make sure you have thoroughly dried out your valves. When the felt pads touch the valves, you do not want them to get wet as this will cause them to lose their shock-absorbing ability. Wipe down the inside and outside of the vales until completely dry, and then allow them to air dry even more., After your trumpet has dried completely, you can put it back together (it's okay if the mouthpiece is still a little wet as brass instruments are used to a little moisture). As you put your trumpet back together, grease the first and third slides and oil the valves modestly. Make sure you don't cake the oil and grease on as this can create build up and hinder the performance of your instrument. Put just enough that the slides and valves can effectively be put back together.
When you put the valve back into its casing, try not to rotate it as this can cause excessive wear. Carefully insert it into its casing until you hear a "click.", Brass instruments dent easily and when they are dented it makes the instrument more difficult to play. Be careful with your instrument, placing it back in its case or on your lap when you can. Denting your instrument can cause valves or slides to stick. If this happens to your instrument, take it to a repair store so they can fix it professionally.
 This should be done every day or two. Remove the valves from their casing, paying attention to how they fit so you can properly insert them back in. Then, put three to five drops of oil on each valve. Gently place it back in its casing and repeat a few times a week, or when your valves are sticking., To keep excessive dirt and grime from building up on your trumpet, try to wipe it down daily with a polishing or microfiber cloth. Wipe down all sides of the instrument, especially the areas where you hold the trumpet. This will help keep the trumpet relatively clean between washes.Try to wash the cloth about once a month. Because it will soak up oils and grease from your instrument, it needs to be cleaned along with your trumpet. You don't want to use a dirty cloth, because it won't get the job done.
 While you want to consistently wipe down your instrument when using it, every month or so it will still need a good, deep cleaning. Give your trumpet a "bath" once a month, or once every other month depending on how often you use it. This will keep it in the best condition and allow the trumpet to perform at its best.