 Your child's pediatrician can provide you with information about autism that will help you relate to your child. He or she can also make referrals to specialists whose work focuses on children with special needs.


Specialists who work with autistic children include developmental pediatricians, pediatric neurologists who focus on developmental disabilities, and mental health specialists (counselors, psychologists, and psychiatrists) who work specifically with children.;
, The school's social worker or special education coordinator can help you figure out how the school can help your child.


Under the federal law, Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), children with special educational needs are provided early and on-going intervention from birth to 18 years old. Your local public school system can evaluate your child and develop a customized educational plan.
Other services provided by local schools under IDEA include speech therapy, counseling, and behavior management intervention. Evaluations and services are free of charge in public schools. You can also contact the National Dissemination Center for Children with Disabilities (NICHCY) for assistance in getting your child early intervention services.
You can learn about treatment facilities and programs during interactions with your child's special education team and medical caregivers.
Even when your child goes to college, he or she can still find support. Many colleges have disability centers where they can offer accommodations to disabled students.



Research the websites of national autism organizations to find resources in your area.
 Some operate on very dangerous ideologies that can hurt your child's self-esteem or destroy their ability to function.


Be wary of organizations that demonize autism, don't have autistic people in their leadership,or are loudly criticized by autistic people.Think about their rhetoric: "Would I want anyone to treat my child this way (now or in the future)?" You may be dealing with a hate group.Research therapies closely for ethical violations. Compliance therapies may focus more on being "normal" and submitting to authority,something that can hurt or destroy your child.Don't pursue therapies that use Quiet Hands,or use restraint and seclusion techniques., Most autistic adults have gone through treatments themselves, and can offer insights on what is most effective. There is a large community of autistic bloggers online who write extensively about treating children. Autistic-run organizations also offer great resources and advice.

Try resources like Musings of an Aspie, Emma's Hope Book, We Are Like Your Child, Parenting Autistic Children with Love and Acceptance, and more.
Autistic-run organizations include the Autism Self Advocacy Network (ASAN) and the Autism Women's Network. Britain's National Autistic Society is run partially by autistic people.
 Furthermore, it will allow you to meet other parents, who can share tips for helping your child.

