 You will need five pieces like this.;
, You will need five pieces like this.
 Lay a strip of adhesive out on the burlap to see from top to bottom how long a piece you need to use. Cut ten strips that size.
 It will make taking off the paper much more difficult) and cut ten strips that size. Place each strip individually on the burlap and use an iron to adhere the strip to the burlap. Use the setting recommended by the adhesive strips to iron on the strip.
 Use something like a piece of computer paper underneath so the paint wouldn't make a mess. Determine where you want to center your numbers before you paint them then get the black paint and paint your numbers.


(TIP: use the burlap lines as a guide to help you keep your numbers straight!)
TIP: Draw out a heart with sharpie on a piece of computer paper so that you can see it through the burlap and can easily follow the outline when painting. Allow paint time to dry before continuing to step 6.
 Get a piece of pre-cut material and lay it with the side you want to see face up on the table. Place the burlap on top (adhesive side down) and center it on the material. When centered, hold the burlap in place and flip over. Use the iron on the back of the fabric to heat up the adhesive so that it attaches the burlap to the fabric. Do this for all five pieces.
 Attach adhesive to the ribbon and after the adhesive cools, take off the white paper like before and attach the ribbon to the fabric.
 These holes should be placed at the top of the banner on the fabric at equal intervals with the first and last holes being cut above the edge of the burlap on each side. Don't worry that the holes will be too large because you're going to hot glue the twine in place. You need to measure out about 15 feet (4.6 m) of twine just to be sure you have enough (you can always cut off excess later). Leave a few feet of excess twine for holding. Starting with the first number in your banner, take the twine and thread it through the holes from top to bottom as seen in the picture below. In the middle tie a bow and continue to thread the twine in the same manner so both sides match. Leave a bit of space between each banner piece and continue threading the banner through and adding bows. Be sure to leave another few feet of twine at the other end of the banner for holding. After finishing all pieces use a hot glue gun to hot glue the twine to the back of the fabric and on the knot in the bow to keep it from coming undone.
 It looks amazing and you saved a ton.

