 Coercion is counterproductive to a lasting bond with your shy dog, especially when you’re just getting to know each other. Whether your dog is shy around you, other people, or loud sounds, try to minimize their encounters with whatever intimidates them.Rather than force them to confront a scary stimulus head on, gradually introduce your dog to whatever triggers their shyness. Use rewards to build their confidence and teach them to associate their triggers with positivity.
For example, if your dog is shy around kids, avoid taking them to your nephew's birthday party. Instead, start with having them interact with only one child for a short amount of time. Instruct the child about how to calmly interact with the dog without pulling their fur or petting them roughly. Have the child offer the dog a treat to teach them that kids can be a positive interaction.
 Teaching your dog commands and other forms of training are effective ways of boosting your shy dog’s confidence. Use positive, reward-based training techniques to build your dog’s self esteem and encourage them to trust you.Train for very short periods of time, but train very often.


Begin with a basic command such as sit. Hold a treat over your dog's nose and move the treat backwards, over their head, to lure them into the sitting position. As the dog's butt hits the ground, say the cue word "Sit" and give them the treat. Practice this several times or for a few minutes, but stop before the dog gets bored.
 If your dog doesn’t tolerate being touched, sit calmly on the floor with a treat in one hand and your other extended. Consider rubbing the treat on the hand you extend so it smells extra appealing to the dog. Say “Come,” and give your dog time to approach your hand.


When the dog comes near you to smell your hand, give them the treat and say “Yes!” with encouragement. Repeat the sequence, eventually withholding giving the dog the treat until they make actual nose contact with your hand.
If your dog responds well to the “come” command and becomes less shy around you, use similar strategies to encourage them to accept petting and being handled., Whether or not you run into trouble with training on your own, think about enrolling your dog in a training class. A professional trainer can teach you bonding techniques first hand and help develop a confidence-boosting program for your individual dog. Ask dog-owning friends and family or your dog’s vet for a referral to a local certified trainer.Group classes can benefit some dogs that are shy around other people or animals, but consult with the trainer to be sure. A large group might prove to be counterproductive for your individual dog.
Agility and obstacle courses are also effective ways of building a dog’s confidence. Ask your dog’s vet for a referral to an agility trainer or search online for one in your area.

