 You will be investing a great deal of time and money in any franchise you select. It is important that you find something that you are passionate about, so you will welcome the time that you spend. This heightened interest will put you in a better position to succeed. For example:If you enjoy working with other people and have some knowledge of the real estate business, you might want to invest in a property management franchise, such as All County Property Management or Property Management, Inc.If you enjoy children and have an interest in child development, you may want to get involved in Brick by Brick, a Lego camp franchise, or Engineering for Kids, a franchise that runs science camps for children.;
, Some franchise businesses can be treated as simple investments. You can determine a level of money that you want to spend, hire a staff and a manager, and then wait to earn the income. Other franchises will require much more of your personal time and involvement. You need to decide which scenario is best for you and try to find an investment that is right.For example:


If you want personal involvement, and you qualify to teach, you may want something like Club Z In-Home Tutoring.If you want to invest financially in a franchise without taking an active role in the operations, you might join on with someone as a silent partner., Talk with other franchise owners, either in a particular company that interests you or in other companies in a similar field. Find out from their personal impressions of running a franchise business. Ask them any questions that concern you, and use their answers to help you decide if that business is one that you want to invest in.You may specifically want to ask, “How much time do you spend working on management and staffing issues?” or “Do you enjoy the level of customer involvement that you have?”

, Investing in a franchise business is an expensive endeavor. Before you commit, be sure that you know how much money you can afford to invest. Measure that against the relative cost of the franchise.Different franchises will require different levels of investment. More popular business will cost more, but may have more payoff potential.
Meeting with an accountant or investment manager before you make any final decisions would be a good idea. A professional in this field can help you consider your assets and the potential liabilities you may face.
 As a general rule of thumb, you should avoid investing in any franchise in a field that is either overpopulated or underpopulated. Seeing too many other companies in the field results in too much competition. But if there are few other businesses in the area, then you should wonder if there is enough demand to keep you in business. You need to find a solid middle ground., If you are just beginning your research, you may want to attend a franchise expo. These are like job fairs, where representative of a wide range of franchise companies come together to present their investment opportunities. In one location, you can see different businesses, get some ideas, and talk with franchisers about their companies and experiences.A quick Internet search will take you to links for Franchise Expo West, Franchise Expo South, the International Franchise Expo, and many others. Research these options and find the one that is convenient to you.
For more information about making the most of your research, see Attend a Franchise Expo.
 One of the main reasons for investing in an existing franchise is to build on the name recognition that it offers. If the company is relatively unknown, then you could do just as well starting your own business from scratch. Look for a company with a well-known name and a strong track record in the business., Several resources exist to help you select the right franchise investment. You can use these references to review companies by subject area or by location. There may also be other more specialized search features.For example, the International Franchise Association provides a free online directory of over 1,200 franchise opportunities. These can be searched by category, name, investment level, and other criteria.
Veteran catalogs franchise opportunities that are especially designed for veterans, with special financing possibilities.
World Franchising Network is an online directory of franchise opportunities that can similarly be searched by a variety of criteria.
 To be successful, you are going to need the full support of the franchiser, especially when it comes to training you and your staff. If this support is vague, or not offered at all, take a look at another franchise system that does. You can get real life training by working for another franchisee. For example:


One of the most famous franchise businesses, McDonald's, offers months of training, seminars, conferences, and its own international program known as Hamburger University.Baskin-Robbins offers its franchisees training in franchising, development and construction, operational support and field marketing., Every franchise that is offered for investment must produce a Financial Disclosure Document (FDD). This is a single document that is required by law to provide a specific set of information. By reading it closely, you can best inform yourself about the viability and profitability of any potential investment you make.You should not only review the FDD yourself but also share it with an attorney or financial adviser to get their advice.
 One of the important topics in an FDD is a report of past and ongoing litigation that the company has been involved in. This information will let you know if you should be concerned for possible legal action. A history of litigation will let you know if the company has a public relations problem. You could also learn about any past bankruptcy filings, which might jeopardize the financial strength of your investment., The FDD itemizes all payments that you would be required to make to the company on an ongoing basis. As a franchisee, you will generally be responsible for franchise fees, inventory purchases, staffing costs and other things. It is important that you understand the full financial obligation that you will owe to the parent company., The FDD must disclose all franchisees who have left the business or who have stopped working with the franchiser. If this list is extensive, then you should be concerned about the stability of the company. If possible, you should try to reach some of those former franchisees and ask about their experiences and their reasons for leaving. You can then judge for yourself if the company is one that you want to work with.