 The cap that comes in highlighting kits has tiny holes through which you pull strands of hair to be highlighted. The cap can help you make sure the highlights are evenly distributed. However, if your hair is too long to pull through the cap, or you want to have greater control over the highlight placement, you may not wish to use it.



If you're using the cap, put it on and take a look at where the highlights will go. Use the hook that came with your kit to pull small sections of hair through the holes in the cap. You don't have to use every hole provided; just pull through as much hair as you want.
If you have long hair, look at yourself in the mirror and determine which strands of hair you want to highlight. Use small clips or bobby pins to section the parts off your hair you want to highlight.
 Working according to the instructions included with your highlighting kit, mix the cream and powders to create the highlighting solution. Use the applicator brush to apply highlighting solution. Make sure each strand gets an even coating of highlighter. Work from front to back, so the front strands of hair, which would naturally be lighter, have more time to lighten while you work your way backward.










If you have short or medium hair, apply the highlighting solution to the strands that you pulled through the cap.
If you have longer hair, use strips of aluminum foil to keep the strands of hair you are highlighting separate from the rest of your hair. Place a strip under the part of your hair you are highlighting, use the special applicator to paint highlighting solution down the length of the hair, from the roots to the tip. Leave the aluminum strip in place while the highlighter works.
 Your kit should have provided a clear plastic cap, similar to a shower cap, to protect your hair while the highlighter works. Place it in on your head and let the highlighter sit in your hair for about 20 minutes, or as long as the instructions provided state you should leave it in.



The longer you leave the solution in your hair, the lighter your highlights will be.
Be careful not to leave the solution in your hair for too long. It is made out of strong chemicals that can damage your hair if you aren't careful.
 Remove the plastic shower cap and use the cream provided in the kit to rinse out your highlighted hair, making sure all the solution is completely washed out. Afterward, remove the cap with holes and use shampoo and conditioner meant for color-treated hair to wash and condition your hair as usual.










Make sure to use the cream to rinse out the highlighter before mixing your highlighted hair with the rest of your hair. If you used aluminum strips, wash each strand separately with the cream, then shampoo your entire head.
Using shampoo and conditioner made for color-treated hair helps prevent your hair from drying out.

