 Many dogs escape when they are startled by fireworks. If your pet doesn’t have a collar with a tag that has contact information on it, as well as a microchip with your current information, now is the time to get them.


Your collar should fit securely but comfortably; it should be snug enough that it won’t be easily caught on a branch or other other such thing, but not so tight as to make it uncomfortable for your dog to wear it. Be certain that it doesn't restrict your dog’s air flow – you should be able to fit two fingers between your dog’s collar and neck. There should be a tag that ensures the dog does not have rabies and another with your name and phone number on it.A microchip is a tiny transponder that uses radio frequency waves to transmit information on the chip about your pet when scanned. It is implemented painlessly just under the skin using a large-bore needle by veterinarians and some shelters. Once your dog has a microchip, you must register with the company the microchip is made by; now, if your dog arrives at a shelter, (s)he will be scanned and the microchip will give the shelter your phone number to contact you with. Your microchip must have recent contact information; if it does not, simply contact the microchip company to update your information.;
, Your dog should have basic obedience training, and should easily respond to you. The most vital commands to train are walking on leash, “come,” and “leave it,” in addition to crate training.


If your puppy is young and hasn’t been leash trained, and you intend to bring the dog to parades/parties/fireworks displays, now is the time to do this. For information on leash training, read this wikiHow article.
Your recall command should be rock-solid. If your dog runs off in reaction to fireworks, or after an interesting smell, you must be able to recall him.A related command is “stay”; for information on teaching this, read this article.
During parties or parades, your dog is likely to come across yummy food that’s unhealthy for him to eat. To prevent him from eating anything he shouldn't, your “leave it” command should be very good. Another useful, related command is “drop it”; for information on teaching this, read this article.
A crate is a useful tool during 4th of July celebrations, serving both to safely contain the dog and often calm him/her. For information on crate training, read this article.
 Choose decorations carefully – glow sticks, which are both toxic for dogs and enticingly similar to colorful chew toys, are particularly dangerous. As beer and other people food and drink are toxic for dogs, decide on a place to keep your dog(s) during the party, such as in the house if the party is in the yard. If the dog is friendly and would like to stay with the people, consider keeping him with you leashed; contained by keeping him in a room with a baby gate barring passage if the party is inside; or securely tying him to a tree, fence, or other secure object if the party is outside.


Before the party, research what foods are toxic to dogs. For information on avoiding foods toxic to dogs, read this article.
 For owners of dogs that are extremely reactive to fireworks or other typical Independence Day activities, the best option may be to discuss ways to help your dog with an experienced veterinarian. Topics to discuss include reducing stress for older dogs and the option of sedating the dog using safe drugs.
 If your dog is extremely stressed by Independence Day activities, the best option may be to move him to another place for the duration of the celebrations or during the most active part (such as a parade). It may be possible to locate a “doggy hotel,” friend or relative in a quiet rural area willing to keep the dog; however, expect there to be at least some amount of fireworks or parties, and it can be difficult to locate a business or person willing to care for your dog during the celebrations.



A commercial product of “anxiety wrap,”has been used with great success. Created by behavioral experts, such an item can calm dogs in a manner similar to swaddling an infant.
A crate can be very useful, as stated above. As wolves naturally occupied dens, a dog will find comfort in his own “den,” or a crate. To increase the darkness, cover the crate with a blanket, leaving part of it uncovered so the dog can see passing people and breathe fresh air.
It is possible to purchase relaxing auditory CDs that have been clinically researched to calm anxious dogs; these can be helpful for calming dogs frightened by Independence Day celebrations. Ask your veterinarian for more advice.

