 Beta blockers are drugs that interfere with the sympathetic nervous system by blocking the beta-receptors present in the body, including the heart. They result in a reduced heart rate, and thus reduction in the oxygen demand of the heart muscles.


Beta blockers are used in patients of known ischemic heart disease. Beta blockers that are mostly used in daily practice to slow the heart rate are Bisoprolol, Carvedilol and Metoprolol succinate.
Initial and maximum doses are discussed below. However, you should start these medications only after prescription by your doctor.
Bisoprolol is started at 1.25 mg once daily. Maximum dose is 10 mg once daily. Carvedilol is started at 3.125 mg twice daily. Maximum dose is 50 mg twice daily. (Once daily formulations, Carvedilol CR, are also available. Starting dose is 10 mg once daily. Maximum dose is 80 mg once daily) Metoprololsuccinate CR/XL (extended release formulations) are started at 12.5-25 mg once daily. Maximum dose is 200mg once daily.
 Nitrates have been used to treat patients with chest pain due to coronary artery disease for over 100 years. Nitrates act by dilating the veins and arteries of the body, including the coronary arteries. The most commonly used nitrates are discussed below.


Isosorbide dinitrate is started at 5-20 mg two to three times daily, then raised to a maintenance dose of 10-40 mg two to three times daily.
Isosorbide mononitrate is started at 5-10 mg two times daily to 20 mg two times daily. This is also available in an extended release formulation with a dose of 30-60 mg once daily
Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets, transdermal patches and rectal formulations are also available. Contact your doctor for the dosage according to clinical symptoms.
 These drugs act by relaxing the muscular walls of all arteries including the coronary vessels. Relaxation of the coronary artery will increase its diameter enabling it to carry more blood and oxygen to the heart muscle.


Commonly used calcium channel blockers include Cardizem, Procardia, and Norvasc.

