 Replacing a Social Security card that has been lost or stolen requires the same steps as applying for a new one. Be sure that you have all of the necessary documents available, or are able to acquire authorized copies, if needed., If your Social Security card has been lost, stolen, or destroyed, you can apply for a free replacement from the SSA. However, not everyone needs a replacement card. As long as you know your Social Security number, many adults can get by without having a physical copy of the card.Replacement cards are free. However, there are limits to the number of times an individual may replace his or her Social Security card. All U.S. citizens, regardless of age, are limited to three replacement cards in a given year, and no citizen may replace a Social Security card more than 10 times over the course of an entire lifetime.Replacements due to a legal name change and other exceptional circumstances are exempted from the limits on the number of card replacements available to a citizen., In the case of a stolen Social Security card, be aware of the risk for fraud and identity theft. The SSA does not directly investigate cases of theft or identity theft, but there are some steps you will need to take to prevent identity theft or recover from it.Contact your local police department immediately to file a theft report.Contact the SSA to alert them to the situation and begin the process of requesting a replacement card. You can call the SSA directly at 1-800-772-1213.Review any information that seems out of place. This includes inquiries from companies you have not contacted; accounts you know you have not opened; and debts that you know you did not incur. Close any accounts that you know you did not open and file a police report in the city where you believed the theft to have taken place.
Report any suspected identity theft to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). The FTC is the primary investigative body for solving cases of identity theft, including theft resulting from a stolen Social Security card.You can file a complaint report by visiting https://www.ftccomplaintassistant.gov/#crnt&panel1-2, or by calling 1-877-438-4338. Be sure to print and save your FTC Identity Theft Affidavit the moment you finish it. Once you've left the webpage, you will not be able to recover your affidavit.