 Convention holds that an engagement ring may cost one or two months of your salary, but many people opt to set a smaller budget or a bigger one if the relatives may be interested in the better quality of a ring. When shopping for an engagement ring, do not get wrapped up with this 2-month-salary propaganda. The ring should be a representation of feelings, but not the thing that makes you run into debt. Decide how much you can afford before you start shopping and add ¼ of this price to the initial figures. While choosing the best you are be prepared to double your budget for it. Be ready for cunning tricks of a jeweler to raise the price as well.;
,


Cut is the first of the "Four C's" and has the biggest impact on a diamond's quality.
Cut determines how a diamond reflects light, which determines the stone's brilliance.
Cut ratings typically range from "ideal" or "excellent" down to "fair." The higher the rating, the higher the cost.
Don’t try to skim on the cut, because a properly cut stone has facets, which are positioned in a way to reflect the incoming light. A properly-cut diamond sparkles, whereas a poor-cut one has a rather great influence on the quality of the sparkle.



Diamond color is a rarity characteristic and not considered a beauty characteristic. Thus, remember that colorless diamonds (D-F) will be much more expensive than a near-colorless counterpart (G-J).
Ratings from "G" through "J" are near colorless, and ratings from "K" through "L" only have faint color that most eyes will not detect.
Save money by selecting a color rating from "G" through "K" instead of demanding a colorless stone.
The above depends on the certificate. GIA-Certified diamonds are known to be graded more strictly than is done for other certificates.



Clarity refers to the number of inclusions in a diamond and blemishes on a diamond.
"FL" refers to Flawless while "IF" refers to Internally Flawless. "VVS-1" and "VVS-2" are very very slightly included under 10x's magnification, while "VS-1" and "VS-2" are very slightly included under 10x's magnification.
"SI-1" and "SI-2" are slightly included with inclusions being easily visible under 10'x magnification.
Choose a diamond with minor flaws instead of a flawless stone to help you save.
 Diamond carat weight is the single most determining factor when it comes to pricing a diamond. A heavier diamond will cost you more money, however this has nothing to do with the overall cut quality of the stone.
 Do not trust gradings that are only given by the jeweler.
 A jeweler that offers a lifetime warranty may feel more confident about the quality of the merchandise.

