


The key is not turned to ACC or IGNITION position.

Turn the vehicle key to ACC or IGNITION position.


The power cable has not been connected to the GPS navigation unit.

Connect the power cable to the GPS navigation unit.


Blown fuse behind the GPS navigation unit or in the radio system.

Replace the blown fuse with a fuse of the same amps.


Flat battery.

Replace or charge up the flat battery.


The remote controller is running out of battery power.

Change the remote control battery.

;
,


The GPS navigation unit is on “Mute”.

Press “Mute” key or VOLUME (+/-) key.


The volume it excessively low.

Press VOLUME(+) key.


Front/Rear speaker; Left/Right speaker.

Press the remote control panel “OSD” or adjust the “Option” “Audio”



,


Press “calibration” to calibrate the monitor again.

“Menu”->”Option”->”System”->”calibration”



,


Possible that the system is still processing the previous task given to it

If there is still no response after a long period time, please contact the after-sale service department to have this issue looked at.



Disc loaded inaccurately.

Please load the disc with the graphic side showing towards the windscreen.


Damaged disc.

Please clean the disc before reloading it again.


Disc does not play at all.

Please check the disc format before playing it.



Brightness or contrast adjustment is at the lowest setting

Press “OSD” on the remote controller and re-adjust suitable brightness, contrast and chroma settings.



The radio antenna is not plugged in correctly.

Re-plug in the radio antenna.
This problem can also related to the current position of the vehicle, especially in the areas with tall buildings.
Try it again when the vehicle is away from the built up areas. If the problem persists, please contact your local product distributor/reseller.



Reversing camera is installed, but it is not plugged into the GPS navigation unit.

Connect the reverse camera to the GPS navigation unit, then press the “CDD” button on the remote controller, if it still does not work, please contact your local product distributor/reseller.



GPS antenna is not plugged in.

Plug in the GPS antenna.


No GPS reception in the current location.

Please contact your nearest product distributor/reseller for further assistance.



Some remote areas are not covered in the maps loaded in the system.

Future updated maps might cover those remote locations.





Confirm the address and re-enter it. If the system still can not locate it, it is most likely that the map in the system will need to be updated.



It is possibly that the scale of the navigation map is either too small or too large.

Try to change the scale of the map, you should be able to see the navigation map on the monitor now. If the map still has not appeared, try to make a search again and if the problem persists, please contact your nearest product distributor/reseller for further assistance.



Bluetooth device is not connected.

Pair your cellphone with this Navi system.


Can not find the bluetooth serial port.

Please contact your nearest product distributor/reseller for further assistance.



