 According to many professionals, the peak season for travelers is from late June to August. There is an off-season from late October to April. Factor this into your trip planning.


In addition to peak season and off-peak season, some experienced travelers have identified a middle season where crowds exist but are moderated somewhat. This is often identified as the time from September to mid-October or in the early spring months. Consider this time period for your Florence trip.;
, The weather can have a major effect on a trip, and before going to this Mediterranean location, it's best to have at least a basic idea of what you can expect to find there in terms of temperature and climate.


According to most locals and travel experts, late June through August is simply too hot. With temps hitting 90 to 100ʡF (32 to 38ʡC), this season is only for the brave. Others might want to time a trip in more temperate months for a more pleasant stay.
 If you will be going to Florence hoping to tour some of the important museums or exhibitions, take the time to detail what will be open during a particular time that you have penciled in to see the city.
 Some of these main events can really bring extra sights to your travel experience.


Consider visiting Florence during the Viareggio Carnival season. This several-week celebration happens in February or early March and can be a significant draw for Florence visitors.
Note some of the interesting summer festivals that happen in Florence every year. Dedicated carnivores can check out the Festa della Bistecca, a glorification of the steak, in August. Other events include boat races in June and a spring music festival.
 The Easter holiday and the Christmas season have their own additional appeal to visitors as well.


Get more details on some of the interesting Florentine customs around the Easter season. From the showy Scoppio Del Carro to the Exposition of the Virgin's Girdle, some of the auxiliary events around Easter can add to a trip's experience.
Contemplate all of what's happening in Florence around the Christmas and the New Year season. The Capodanno, or New Year, includes some much-celebrated Florence fashion shows and other events.

