 Perhaps you idolize a writer who has published very little of her work, like Harper Lee, or you love the work of a writer who is very prolific and has published a great deal, such as Stephen King or Joyce Carol Oates. If your favorite author has written many books, you may not have the time to read all of her works. Instead, choose a cross section of the writer’s work that shows the full range and spectrum of her career.


If your writing idol is Stephen King, for example, you may decide to read his earlier novels, such as Carrie, The Shining, or The Dark Tower series. You may then read his non-fiction, such as On Writing, which is a good guide for aspiring writers on the craft of writing. You may then finish your reading with a selection from King’s latest works, such as 2009’s Under the Dome.;
, Your local bookstore may already do this for you, as your favorite author may sit comfortably in the thriller/horror section or the literary fiction section. Your favorite author may create works that seem to defy genres and categorizations, or she may write books that do something unique within a certain genre. Noting this may help you pinpoint why you enjoy her writing and find it worth studying.


For example, the writer Joyce Carol Oates has written over forty novels and many short story collections, as well as writing under various pen names. Though her work may fit within the genre of literary fiction, some of her short stories might fit within the horror genre or the thriller genre. Think about how your favorite author fits within her genre and the ways in which she may not always work within a genre or adhere to the rules of a specific genre.
 Often, as readers, we are drawn to a certain writer for the way they develop their characters and use language to create an engaging character voice.This can apply to non fiction writing as well as fiction writing, as the writer may be the narrator of the book or she may use the third person to tell a story in a more distant or removed way.


Choose several of your favorite passages from your favorite author’s works and focus on how she uses language and description to develop a character and create an engaging character voice. Maybe she uses an internal monologue to shape the character’s point of view, such as the young girl narrator in Joyce Carol Oates’ short story “Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been?”Or maybe your favorite author uses the third person voice to develop several characters in a scene or a story, such as the third person voice in Stephen King’s novel Christine.
Note if your favorite writer uses dialogue in the scene to develop the character and long passages of description, or short passages of description. Some writers may never describe what a character is wearing or their physical appearance, but they will still be able to create an engaging character through dialogue and action.
 If your favorite author writes fiction, she is likely going to use certain elements of plot in your writing. Non-fiction can also be structured around a plot to keep the reader engaged. Analyzing the way your favorite author handles plot can help you get a better sense of how to structure your writing, especially if you are writing a longer piece of writing, like a novel or book. Take one of the writer’s longer works and break down the plot based on Freytag’s Pyramid.Using Harper Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird as an example:Exposition: The novel opens in Maycomb, a small sleepy town in Alabama. We are introduced to the Finches, who have lived in Maycomb for generations in the close knit community. But the town is also influenced by the racism of 1930s America, and the unnamed narrator indicates that a conflict may break out between the anti-racist Atticus Finch and his friendly, but racist neighbors.
Inciting incident: The conflict is introduced with an accusation against a black man, Tom Robinson, of raping a white woman. Atticus is asked to represent Robinson and must confront the town’s racism head on.
Rising Action: Atticus’ daughter, Scout, and son, Jem, watch their father wrestle with issues of race and justice during the trial of Robinson. The children also learn about redemption and prejudice among their friends, peers, and neighbors, as the entire town becomes embroiled in the racial tensions of the trial.
Climax: Despite Atticus’ impassioned defense, Robinson is convicted for a crime he did not commit. Scout and Jem are shocked that the town would sentence an innocent man to death due to their racist beliefs.
Falling Action: One man in the town, Bob Ewell, is open about his racist views and disapproval of Atticus. He threatens Atticus and Robinson’s wife, Helen. Scout and Jem are afraid Ewell will do something to hurt their father.
Resolution: Ewell tries to attack Scout and Jem to hurt Atticus. The Finches’ reclusive neighbor Boo Radley rescues the children from Ewell, grabbing Ewell’s knife and killing him.
Denouement: The mysterious Boo Radley finally reveals himself and Scout has a coming of age moment. She sees Boo Radley not as a monster but as a shy recluse.
 Look for a passage from a scene that contains character development and character voice that seems unique to your favorite author. You may choose the climactic scene in a novel or a scene that does something interesting with language and setting that you admire.


If possible, choose a scene that has several elements of story going on, from dialogue to description to action. This will give you more to analyze and use as a model for your writing.
 Use a highlighter or a pencil to underline any unique description, dialogue or language in the passage. Make notes on how each line of dialogue develops the story or how each description pushes the story forward. A good writer will not waste any line space on unnecessary details or description, and will focus on keeping the reader engaged in the story.


You may want to put a mark next to a line you admire or consider an example of great writing. You can also analyze the passage sentence by sentence to really study the passage in greater depth. Note how each word creates a scene or image in your mind and how the writer uses these images to move the story forward.
 Think about which elements in the passage might apply to a story you are writing or a story you are going to write. What can you borrow from your favorite author to then add to your story? Use elements in the passage like dialogue, description, or plot structure in a scene in your writing.


You can also write a completely new passage that uses your chosen passage as a guide. To avoid plagiarizing, use the created passage as a brainstorming piece that may not make it into your final draft. Consider the passage part of an exercise to get a better sense of how your favorite author writes.
 Though it can be useful to study and analyze the writing of your favorite author, ultimately, you will need to develop your own writing style. The one thing you have as a writer that no one else does is your own voice and approach to writing. Often, readers can tell if you are leaning too heavily on your writing influences or your writing idol to tell a story.Use the writing of your favorite author as an example of one approach to writing. Read it, study it, analyze it, and borrow from it, but try to also allow your own writing style to come through on the page.

