 Since the road kept is fully paved and kept largely clean of debris, a road or touring bicycle is recommended. Hybrid or mountain bikes will certainly work, but the rider must work harder.
 You can either recruit friends or others from your local cycling club, or find a friend or loved one to travel along with you in a support vehicle.
 When do you want to start? How many days will you take to complete the journey? Which direction do you want to go -- will you finish where you started or will you have to turn around and bike back? It is best to plan all this out ahead of time so that you can make arrangements for your evening accommodations. Don't forget that the northern part of the Trace, especially, can get very cold in the winter, which usually ends sometime in March.
 Call ahead to secure places to stay. Since you will need to leave the Trace to find them, determine how you will find them. Since cell and data service are unreliable in very small towns and remote areas like those along the Trace, print off your route sheets to take with you each day. Since most of the route will be on the Trace, they will be relatively simple.In addition, you should secure and bring with you a map of the Trace as issued by the National Park Service to make it easy to find restrooms and other landmarks along the route.
 There are no mountains on the Trace, but there are some moderate to large hills. If possible, your training should include climbing. You should train with at least the same number of miles in each week as you intend to ride. For example, if you intend to average 65 miles (105 km) per day on the Trace, you should train at least 65 miles (105 km) per week. Those who are younger will find that their bodies can adapt more quickly to the distance than those who are older, so older riders may wish to further increase their training regimine.
 The hardest part of any journey is the first step (or pedal). Don't back down -- you can do it!

, No matter how difficult it seems on the trail, if you do not stop pedaling, you will eventually reach your destination! Keep on going: you can do it.

