  When your server says 'clear table 24' or 'bring this to the lady with the glasses' you will be much better off if you can think of where you are going off of the top of your head and get to it without wandering around staring at everyone. ;
, This allows you to know when a new table arrives and you can immediately pour the waters and bring the bread.  You can then also go into the kitchen and tell them 'two top!'(this means two customers at a table, four customers would be a 'four top').  The chefs like to keep a count on how many people they will be cooking for, and helping them earns you points in the kitchen.
  They make the goods.
 On your first day, grab the dirty bus pan and take it back. Channel your inner tough gal/guy and dive into it as quickly as possible. Just go for it and empty that damn thing as quick as possible (in the dishes section of the kitchen), and then bring it back to home base (the busser station).  Especially if you are a girl, impress the male dishwashers with how fearless you are. 

,  It is important to ask every ten minutes or so if she/he needs anything.  But do not bother the waitress/waiter.  Read their faces, if they make eye contact, casually ask if they need anything or if you could get someone's drinks for them.  Even if they don't need you, they like knowing that you are eager to help.
  Make sure that if there are cleared dishes sitting in front of people that you take them and put them in the bus pan.  If people need more water, pour it.  Scan the room for faces that may be asking you for something.  Often people ask bussers for things that their waiters have forgotten, be ready.
  Polish silverware, restock napkins and glasses, refill the ice machine.  There are different things in each restaurant that can be done when work is slow; do them.  Perfect them. If you have no free time, make sure they get done at the beginning of your shift or at the end when things are slowest.  Don't give anyone a reason to complain about you.
  After all the rounds are made and all of the sidework is done, relax.  When everyone is hanging out in the kitchen cracking jokes, join them.  Be part of the team, but earn it.

