 This feature is available with devices that have at least one camera, including Android devices and iPhones, iPod Touches, and iPads . Windows 10 users of the Facebook app who have a webcam, it's here too.
 This process will depend on the device.


For most iOS devices, you'll need to go through the Settings app and open the Privacy item; then select Camera and swipe the button next to Facebook so it changes to green.
Android devices take on a different angle when you try to modify your settings to give it access to the Camera, depending on the hardware and chip you're running. If you're prompted, just make sure you give permissions to Facebook to access your camera.
Windows 10 users: Don't worry. There are no options you need to set for enabling your webcam rights. It'll work right out of the box, assuming the camera is working.
 This will not work from the mobile website. You will need to open up the official Facebook app to produce a streaming video.
 How you do this will depend on your device. The phone app has an easy one-click button just above the "What's on your mind?" status area. For tablets such as either iPads or Android devices, begin a new status message, but instead of typing out the text, tap the "Live Video" button that is available below the sharing status box. On Windows 10 with the official Facebook app, this button will be found as the center button underneath the "What's on your mind?" button.
 Below your name, you'll see a box that says either "Public", "Friends", "Friends except" or "Only Me" drop-down box; you'll need to select this followed by the level you want to broadcast out to to ensure you are reaching the right audience. Tap the Done button to finish selecting your audience participation level for this Live Video.


Recognize that the only way you'll make the map on the Live Video tool on the Facebook website is by clicking "Public". Otherwise, your video won't be featured on the map, but the videos will publish to your Facebook Timeline and the audience you selected.
 Tap on the box that, by default, says "Describe your live video..." Provide a summary or caption that might attract readers or get them interested in your video.
 You can switch between cameras at any time during the recording. Windows 10 app users with a front-facing webcam only will not receive this button due to the devices inability to switch between the front and non-existent second backwards-facing camera (sorry).
, It will give you a three second countdown. There will be big numbers that are white in the center of the screen as it counts down and you'll hear a "ding" when it begins recording. All other buttons will disappear seconds after you press the "Go Live" button when these numbers magically appear and fade.
 Be creative and engaging; it's your personal opinion or video session, so do what you originally set out to do! There is a red counter that will count up which is positioned near the top center of the screen.The word LIVE just means that the video is currently recording.
 It has a white border around the word Finish.
 Otherwise, you can change your audience level here again, if you only want a certain group of people watching the recorded event.
 The Facebook app will display a dialog box that says the video is finished uploading and will be updated shortly with the HD quality video. Confirm this, and you're all set.

