 Have you been hiding your true, effervescent self away from family and friends, or are you just faking it? Write a list of reasons why you are changing your personality/finally letting your real personality show. Make sure you have at least three things before continuing on.;
, Don't change all in one day because it will seem like it's just a one time thing. You don't have to be happy about everything or be bouncy and hyperactive all the time; not only will it be annoying to other people, but you will tire of it faster. Gradually become more and more bubbly and happy, and always look at the glass as half full.
 Wear more bright colors, random, and happy things, if you'd like, to show that you're a fun person. You could also dress in darker colors and surprise people by being all happy and fun even though you dress very dark! Wear things like glow sticks, brightly colored jewelry, accessories with candy on them, shirts with funny sayings (which you can get at places online like www.snorgtees.com or www.6dollarshirts.com), and funky colored jeans. Carrying around a magic wand is something unusual you could do to stand out.
 Don't be afraid to put green tips in your hair and nails. Collect different colors of nail polish to use. Nail pens are really cool because you can draw on different designs with them! miginailart.com sells different sets of them for around $30, and they last a while. As for hair dying, don't go overboard. The most you should bleach you hair is every season, and even then it's not good to dye your hair. Bleach your roots and recolor your hair every time they start to grow out/fade. Try bleaching and dying your hair only once the previously bleached hair has grown out of your hair to keep it healthy.
 Collect a ton of stickers and then add them to notebooks and even put one or two on your face every now and then. As for your room, ask your parents if you can redo your room. If they say yes, go ahead and change it around. If they say no, ask if you can just update a few things, like adding a cute rug, string/beaded curtains, a new bedspread, etc. Hang up posters of your favorite things, and try to cover a whole wall with magazine clippings of things you like! Start a collection of things you like too if you want, like old records, Japanese erasers, giant lollipops, etc.
 Don't go overboard and eat twenty pieces of candy a day; it's bad for your health. It's not worth being unhealthy just to be hyper. Try carrying around a bag of Skittles or something with you. If your parents don't allow candy, substitute it for gum. Don't let anyone have any of your candy/gum. Also, be mindful of the weather- don't stand around in 85 degree heat with a pocket of Snickers!

, Their happiness may rub off on you. If you can't find a group of people, at least find a friend who acts similar to you so that you aren't alone.
 Standing out from the crowd signifies uniqueness, individuality, and non-conformity. Being a leader (and not a follower) is a great thing. This isn't just a phase, it can be a way of life if you put your heart into it.

