 Sounds simple enough, right? Wrong. Standing in soapy water doesn't count as washing your feet. Sit on the edge of your tub and give them a good wash, rubbing with soap and probably a brush if they are very dirty. Brush your toenails too, until they are clean.;
, This may sound girly, but you need to soak before you tend to tough unsightly issues like the thick skin on your heels. Fill a small plastic tub with warm to hot water and add just enough milk for it to turn white. You can add some oil (olive or almond) too, but very little. Sit still until your skin prunes up.
 With a foot file (or a pumice stone) and gentle pressure, try to slough away the thicker skin on your feet such as the heels or balls or the side of the big toe. Multiple scrubbings with gentle pressure get much better results than filing your foot until the skin gets hot.
 Cut the toenails straight across to prevent ingrown toenails and leave a small white strip at the top of the nail. With a small grain file, try to even out the edge of the toenail. This is very important, especially when they are too short to cut. If they are yellow, use an old toothbrush to rub a baking soda and vinegar mix onto them, or maybe rub lemon to whiten them.
 If your feet still have tiny pieces of dead skin attached from the filing or just aren't as soft as you'd like, rub a paste of coarse sea salt and olive oil on the areas you'd like to exfoliate further. Girls should try rubbing with sugar first, as salt may be too rough on your feet. If you wash away the paste, try to pour as little water on your feet as possible, to keep the olive oil next to your skin.
 Push them back slow and carefully with an appropriate tool you can buy at drugstores, or an orange stick. Rub cold cream onto them or, if they are especially dry, Vaseline.
 If you still think your feet are dry, slather the moisturizer of your choice and put on thick socks. Try to do this before bed. If after a couple days you still think your feet could look better, repeat from step 1. Especially when you've neglected your feet for a long time, they can take a while to look good again.

