 Harvard Professor Jeffre Sachs published in 2005 the book "The End of Poverty" . In it, he makes concrete suggestions as to how extreme poverty can be overcome in Africa. His main finding is that Africa itself can not escape the economic hardship. The rich Western countries need to help financially and with personnel. Jeffrey Sachs has developed a concrete plan for overcoming poverty in Africa:


The agricultural income of the farmers could by good advice and some resources (irrigation, fertilizer, high-performance seed) can be doubled easily.
For the larger crop is not eaten immediately, the population growth should be stopped by a specific family counseling and the free distribution of contraceptives.
The funds must democratically be managed by the communities themselves so they do not disappear in the government corruption.
The poor countries must be freed from their debt burdens, so that they have money to overcome the poverty.
There must be an adequate infrastructure (schools, roads, health, electricity).;
, There are examples of ecological self-sufficient communities, where aid workers can be based on. That sustainable development works, proved the actor Karlheinz Böhm in Ethiopia. He has personally supervised four villages and collected donations in Germany. He established an organic agriculture and thus preserves an entire tract of land from starvation. It took more than a decade, but today, the villages are self-sufficient in everything necessary. , The main solution to the world hunger problem is the principle of self-sufficiency through their own country. Every farmer should have the right to have his own piece of land from which he can live with his family. The landless farmers have to get fertile land by the governments.


The landlords must give a portion of their land to the poor. Without land reforms, the world hunger problem can not be solved. Some new agricultural land can also be created. This can happen by the forestation of desert areas. Deforestation must be stopped. Instead establishing mono-cultures (oil palm, biofuel) for export, each country should provide sufficient land for the population.
Small farmers in developing countries must be helped with a good advice from agricultural experts, an effective organic farming, with cooperative structures and a fair global trade.
 It is important to promote the common sense in the world. Without a return to the values of frugality, inner happiness, universal love and mutual aid the world can not be saved. If egoism dominates the happiness in the world has no chance. We need a world family, which consists of many small families, and where everyone helps everyone, so it all goes well.
 The village communities should become places of happiness, so that rural migration ends. If people have arrived in the city slums, it is very difficult to get them back. In the slums we have to built up positive structures in a special way. But everywhere a new culture of civic spirit is very important.
 We need a global change. This can happen only through a global alliance of all positive forces in politics, science, religion and society. By the intensive efforts of many individuals, each in his place and within his means.

