 You must remember that Excalibur always speaks in a more defined tone. He speaks clearly whilst retaining an annoying aura to him. Try to pronounce things with some words missing, but as if you were an English man/lady. But don't miss too many words, otherwise you might sound retarded. Try to skip letters and not words, but don't sound like a pure British. In fact, try to speak like a newscaster, but with no accent and softly so that it annoys others and doesn't simultaneously.;
, You must nearly always retell your legend in the twelfth century. Excalibur always makes this clear to others that this was the year that he was created. Remember to make sure no stories of yours link! Excalibur does this by telling one, for example, 'I always begin my days with a cup of coffee with cream... Nothing beats a cup of herbal tea in the morning... That's why I always start my day with a cup of coffee with cream!!' Remember to make everything sound like you are crazy. Make slight fun of others stupidity and funny outfits. This will surely make you have his confidence and egotistic views. Remember to always act like you are higher than everyone else. Walk with confidence! Who cares what they think?! Remind them that THEY are the odd ones.
 You may need to read the dictionary for this one. Excalibur has been alive for over eight hundred years. Imagine how much he has retained! Even if something doesn't interest you, like a certain subject, learn it quickly and thoroughly so that you can boast about how you were there and make up a story to go with it. Try learning a few words that will make it seem like you definitely ARE higher in intelligence than everyone else.
 Excalibur wears a white top hat, a frilled undershirt, and, for the public, you should wear a shirt bigger than your size, so you can be like him with only a shirt and no pants! Or just get a white tuxedo jacket with the pants too. This will make you look more authentic. Remember to always have a white cane with you. It should be preferred to be just up to your belly button. This way, it an still be light weight and comfy!

, Excalibur only has the finest of ingredients, such as red king crab. This, although expensive, is very unique with sea salt, coriander and a dash of lemon. If it is too expensive for you, just buy salmon and slice it to thin pieces and cook them. It will look like chunks of crab and still taste good! Remember though, don't eat foods you don't like. Although Excalibur tells others not to do something as selfish, he never ate any food he said you still should. A glass of tea, preferably herbal green tea, coffee, with milk and cream, or water will suffice. Remember that only the grandest of toilets will suffice! If you don't have a three story duck toilet, then just settle for your toilet bleached to the whites and looking extravagant.

