 It’s so easy to think the worst and believe you’ve made a fool of yourself. Keep in mind that while you may think your actions were embarrassing or humiliating, others may think it was cute or endearing. People often won’t react as you as expect. You may have misread the person or the person may have totally missed the moment by not paying attention. People may think ill of you, or they may not.


Realize that it’s common to have expectations for how people react (often negative), but these expectations don’t always come true.;
, When you find your thoughts trapped in worst-case outcomes, counter it with some best-case outcomes, an realize that both are possible., Think about whose opinions of you matter the most to you: the thoughts of your family and close friends are likely first; then perhaps co-workers; then neighbors; and finally acquaintances.If you find yourself trying to impress an acquaintance, ask yourself why. Will their opinion of you change anything?


If you are in school or university, think about how long these people will be in your life. You may graduate and never see your classmates ever again. How important will their opinions be in 1 year? Or 5 years?

, It’s impossible to have the approval of everyone in your life for every decision you make. Choose what issues are important to you, and who’s opinion counts.It may be important to you that your family approves of who you marry, but it may be less important if your family approves of you buying one car over another. Remember that you are in control of your life, and nobody can make your decisions for you.


When you need someone’s approval, you give power to that individual. Some people may abuse this power, so be careful who you allow to have this role.
 It’s possible that someone spread rumors about you or said some unkind things about you behind your back. Just because someone is mean to you doesn’t mean there is anything wrong with you or that you should feel ashamed of who you are.No one deserves to be treated disrespectfully or with unkind words or actions.
 It’s okay if people want to share their opinions with you, but don’t put all of your weight on what someone else thinks. Some people may think they know what is best for you, but the reality is, no one knows better than you know for yourself. Your parents may push you to attend one college, but you may feel like you want to go to a different one. Accept their opinion, but make a choice that is best for you. Sometimes, you know it in your “gut”.For instance, if you’re trying on a shirt that you really like but your friend doesn’t like it, don’t make your final decision based off of what your friend thinks, go off of how you feel.
 Surely there are people in your life that you do not like, for whatever reason. Differences of personality, lifestyle, and worldview can mean you get along with some people better than others. Remember that this is true of everyone; rarely can someone get along with every person he or she meets. It’s okay if someone doesn’t like you.


Someone might judge you for where you come from, what kind of job or education you have, or based on your looks.Recognize that these are judgments, and more a reflection of that person than of you.
 Is it worth it to pretend to be somebody else in order to impress someone? People who express the authentic self report having higher satisfaction in their relationships, a sense of purpose, and confidence in their lives.You may feel like your authentic self is weird or too different, but that’s highly unlikely to be true.


If you’re not sure who your authentic self is, start doing the things you love. You may love to create art, sing, dance, or create comedy routines. The closer you get to the things that make you happy, the more authentic you feel.
Don’t be afraid to be silly, goofy, or weird.
 You may feel insignificant or unworthy, but this simply is not true. Remind yourself of your positive qualities that make you unique and make you feel good about yourself.You might be a math whiz or an incredible sculptor. If other people put you down, remember that you have abilities, skills, and traits that make you special.


Focus on your positive qualities such as your kindness, generosity, and willingness to help.
Write a list of the things that you love about yourself, that make you different. Hang it up in your room to remind yourself.
 You can start to run a whole dialog or situation in your head that has either never occurred or never will occur, due to negative thoughts taking over. You may wonder, “What did this person think of me? Did I make a good impression? Did I come off as foolish?” Before you start to worry and dig deeper into negativity, stop yourself.


Ask yourself, “Am I catastrophizing and making a bigger deal of this than it is? Are my thoughts based in reality?”Use affirmations to help you reconnect to yourself when you feel anxious. Affirmations can help you get into a more positive mindset by telling yourself positive things in the now moment.If you’re concerned about an interview, say to yourself, “I am qualified for this job and a good worker. I am good at interacting with other people.”

, You may feel like no one understands you, or that you just don’t fit in at your school. Maybe you are the only gay or lesbian person you know and feel terribly alone. Or perhaps you are the only Chinese person at your school, or the only person you know who speaks a different language at home than at school. Recognize that these things make you awesome and interesting, not weird or an outcast.


If you feel on the fringe of your community, find an online community of people with whom you can relate. You can join organizations that unite people of certain backgrounds, sexual orientations, and cultures, which can help you feel more connected., You may really enjoy playing hockey, dancing, or eating a vegetarian diet. See if there are any clubs, groups, or organizations you can join to meet other people that share similar interests as you. It can be comforting to meet other people who share similar tastes and activities, and it helps you remember that you are not alone.When you meet other people with similar interests, you instantly have something to bond over, even if it’s as simple as you both have a dog.
 Don’t care more about what ‘popular’ people think of you than what your friends think of you. Surround yourself with people that love and support you, no matter what. Having great friends in your life helps support your mental and emotional health and even makes you more resilient to stress.If you really want to be friends with the popular people, ask yourself if you actually want to be their friend or if you like the idea of being their friend. Would they be good friends to you and treat you with respect? Or do you want to have social status, beyond wanting friendship?

, Reach out to a guidance counselor, trusted adult, or therapist. Just because you reach out for help doesn’t mean that anything is wrong with you, or that you are less than other people.It just means you want someone’s help to get you through a difficult time.


You can also talk to a coach, teacher, or spiritual mentor.

