 You will receive some form of notification about an award, prize, lottery winning, or other money in the mail along with a check. Shortly after, you will receive a phone call from overseas explaining that the check was designed to cover fees, taxes or insurance on the award, prize, lottery winnings, etc. They will ask you to deposit the check and wire them money., Most telemarketing scams share similar identifiers. The person on the phone will ask for information or request some things from you. Some common elements to look for in telemarketing scams are:You have “won” something, even though you never applied for or competed for anything.
You have to act immediately, or the offer will be invalid.
You have to give them money and information. They will want you to send a check, give them a credit card, routing number, checking account number, bank information, etc.
You don’t need to check out the company or get advice from anyone.
 When you give them a credit card number or deposit their “check” into the bank to cover the fees, taxes, etc., the check will turn out to be counterfeit or they have already charged your credit card, and there is no prize. Essentially, the overall goal of this scam is to get you to release money to them to secure your prize or award, when no such prize or award exists., There are a number of ways you can avoid being taken by this scam. Some are far simpler than others, but the overall idea is that you should not ever release money, either through check, money-wire, or credit card, to someone who if offering you an award or prize. Think hard about this. When was the last time you won something and had to pay for it? Some simple ways to put an end to this charade are:


Just hang up the phone. This is hard when you feel you could be passing up “free” money. Just know that you won’t be getting that prize or award any time soon.Ask the person to contact your attorney and your bank directly. Banks and lawyers know the ins and outs of these types of scams, can stop them immediately, and will alert the authorities about what is going on.Tell the person you need time to think it over and will get back to them. They will likely try to pressure you and tell you that you need to act immediately. Don’t be swayed. They are liars.