 You can use the fabric just as it is. However, you can also sew it to make a toga that is more in line with a traditional shape. Another option is to simply hem the edges.


While it won't matter with some fabrics, hemming the edges will keep your toga from fraying. If you don't care about fraying, you can skip the hemming process.
 The shape of the toga changed over the years. You can cut your toga to be more like a traditional toga, if you want. However, you can simply leave it as a rectangle, as well, which is how you will get it from the store.One shape was a straight line across the top and a curve across the bottom, creating pointed ends.A later shape was more of a hexagon, with a straight line across the top, with two lines slanting down to points. The bottom was a straight line with two lines slanting up to the same points, though these are slightly curved. This shape is flatter than an regular hexagon.If you want either of these shapes, cut the fabric with fabric scissors, leaving about 2 1⁄4 inches (5.7 cm) around the sides to hem the fabric.
 Whether you are hemming the edges of the rectangle or of the toga you cut out, you can use a simple double-folded hem.If you have any curved edges, you might need to take one extra step of sewing along it before folding.Iron the edge.


To hem the raw edges, fold the fabric in about 3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm).If you're hemming a curved edge, you can make this part easier by sewing along the edge first, about 3/4 of an inch in, then fold it along that line.Iron the edge.
Fold it in again, this time about about 1 1/2 of an inch in. Iron it again.Sew along the inside edge. To tack the hem down, sew it down, closer to the inside edge than the outside edge.You can also sew small weights into the hem to help it hang better., If you prefer not to sew, you can use fabric adhesive. Iron the hem first, folding it over twice like you would if you were sewing. Then either use a liquid adhesive or an iron-hem tape to glue it down.If you use the hem tape, you'll probably need to iron the outside of the fabric to make it stick.
Make sure to not make the glue too thick, or it can show through the other side. Test it first to see how it looks.

