 This is a cover for the dial which sets your shutter speed or aperture. Slide it down to uncover the dial. This is the single most important control on the camera, so play with the dial a little to get the feel of it. ("AT dial" is a hideous term from Canon's literature, borrowed here for lack of a better one, sorry.), The A-1 has three modes that you'll be interested in: fully-programmed AE (which is fully automatic), shutter-priority AE, aperture-priority AE and fully manual.




 Turn your mode dial to "Tv" and the shutter speed to "P" for program automatic.

Programmed AE will make the camera set both aperture and shutter speeds for you automatically. Turn your mode dial to "Tv" ("Time value", which is Canon's silly name for "shutter priority"), and use your AT dial to select the green "P" as the shutter speed. Most of the time, this will be what you want to use if you're not using your aperture for creative depth of field tricks, or if you're not using your shutter speed to creative effect; it generally does a good job of picking something that works for most photos most of the time. (Sorry, but this is 1978; you can't shift the program.)




 For shutter-priority auto-exposure, turn the mode dial to "Tv" and select your shutter speed (here, 1/125 sec).

Shutter-priority AE will allow you to select a shutter speed, and then the A-1 will pick an aperture for you. If you want either very fast or very slow shutter speeds for creative effect, then use this. Turn your mode dial to "Tv" and select a shutter speed. Remember that the speeds in yellow on the dial are shutter speeds in seconds, the white numbers are ones in fractions of a second.




 For aperture-priority auto-exposure, turn the mode dial to "Av" and select your aperture.

Aperture-priority AE will allow you to select an aperture, and then the A-1 will select a shutter speed for you. Use this if you want to use very wide or very small apertures (i.e. if you want creative control over depth of field). Turn your mode dial to "Av" and select an aperture with the AT dial to get aperture priority AE.
Note that this won't allow you to select apertures smaller than f/22, but you shouldn't be doing that anyway.
Fully manual exposure is a last resort for using in extremely dimor otherwise impossible lighting conditions. You can select fully manual mode by setting your mode dial to "Tv", selecting a shutter speed, and turning your aperture ring on your lens off "A" and to your preferred aperture. You'll need an external light meter for doing this; the A-1 shows no indication of over- and under-exposure in fully manual mode.
 Your shutter speed and your aperture (either the shutter or the aperture or both or none could be automatically selected) will be displayed in the viewfinder. If either the shutter speed or aperture readouts are blinking, it means you've selected a shutter speed that is either too fast or slow for the largest or smallest apertures on your camera, or an aperture that requires a shutter speed faster or slower than the camera has available.Select a different aperture or shutter speed if this is the case., The A-1 provides you with two useful focusing aids to ensure that your shots are sharp. One is a split image, right in the center, which splits the images into two pieces, which are aligned when the image is in focus.
The other (more useful) aid is a microprism ring around the outside of the the split screen. this will cause any defocus to be far more obvious than it would be otherwise; when it's out of focus, this area will flicker and display a very obvious "cross-hatched" pattern. Turn the focus ring until either the split image is no longer visibly split, or until the image in the microprism ring is visibly sharp., This feature of the A-1 forces the camera to either under- or over-expose your shot by a given amount. You'll need this in tricky, inconsistent lighting conditions. Press the button to unlock the exposure compensation dial and turn it to give you the desired amount (you can do this in 1/3 stop increments). Turning this clockwise will give you underexposure, and counter-clockwise will give you overexposure.
Actually, the A-1's exposure compensation dial is annoying and difficult to do one-handed, so you might not want to bother with this. The ASA dial, on the other hand, can be changed with a fingertip. Neither the ASA nor exposure compensation dials will give you any indication (other than by looking at them) that you're forcibly over- or under-exposing, and the ASA dial has the advantage of being much easier to use. It's up to you., The viewfinder will temporarily blank out and the shutter will fire. If you're using one of the optional power winders, the film will advance itself to the next frame, otherwise, wind it on yourself.
Keep photographing until you get to the last frame. Don't pay any attention to the frame counter; you're only at the end of the roll when the winder becomes difficult-to-impossible to wind on (don't force it!), or when your power winder (if you have one) refuses to wind it on any further.