 Some investment accounts can be moved in their entirety from one investment or brokerage firm to another. This may be the simplest way to transfer business investment funds because the funds themselves are not altered or disturbed.Stocks and bonds can be transferred in kind, as well as CDs held in a brokerage account.
However, not all kinds of accounts can be transferred this way. For example, commodities and annuities cannot be transferred in kind.
Mutual funds present a special situation, as they typically must be converted to cash first.;
, Before you set the transfer in motion, you will need basic information about the account you want to transfer so you can fill out the required forms completely and accurately.You also need to verify that the firm to which you want to transfer your account manages the same type of account.
The type of information the firm will need about your account will vary among banks or investment firms.
Generally, you should be able to get the information you need from a basic account statement.
At a minimum, you'll need the account number, type of account, and a statement of the holdings in the account.
 The transfer of accounts in kind is governed by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), which produces a standardized form to use. Accounts are transferred through an automated process, although each firm conducts important checks along the way to ensure your assets are transferred properly.Even though the information included on the TIF is standardized, each firm may have its own particular form it uses. Get the correct form from the firm to which you want to transfer an account.
Do not use the form from the firm where your account is currently located. The firm that will receive your account is the firm that must initiate the transfer.
The TIF requires you to provide information about the account you want to transfer, including a complete account statement that shows your name, address, account number, and all assets included in the transfer.
Make sure you've filled out the form completely and accurately. You may want to speak to your financial advisor if you're unsure about any part of the form.
Keep in mind that an incorrect or incomplete TIF can result in significant delays in transferring your assets.
 Once you've completed your form, you need to give it to a broker at the firm to which you want to transfer your account. Depending on the firm, you also may have to pay a small fee to complete the transfer.Make at least one copy of your form before you submit it, so you have it for your records.
Keep in mind that fees go both way. Depending on the firms involved, you may have to pay a fee to the receiving firm to initiate the transfer as well as a fee to the firm from which you're transferring your account.
If the transfer also signals the end of your relationship with the delivering firm, you also may be responsible for account closing fees.
 Once the receiving firm has received your TIF, it will enter your information in the automated system to confirm your account and request transfer of your assets.Different firms may have their own internal deadlines regarding the timing of this process.
However, you should expect the validation and delivery process to take at least a week to complete from the day you submit your TIF.
Some accounts, such as those in which you are the custodian of a minor child, or those held by a bank or credit union that is not a broker-dealer, may take additional time to process.
If you suspect the transfer might take longer than a week, you might want to get a more specific estimate from a financial advisor at the receiving firm so you can plan accordingly.
 You typically will be notified by the receiving firm when the account transfer is complete. At that point, you may have tasks to complete before the account will be online and ready for you to use.For example, some firms freeze accounts during the transfer process. This is for your own protection.
After the transfer is complete, you may have to verify your identity or ownership to unfreeze the account so you can access it again.
 Even though mutual fund transfers are considered "in kind" transfers, many of them must first be converted to cash before they can be transferred to a different bank or brokerage firm.To find out for sure, contact your financial advisor or a broker in the firm that currently handles your mutual fund.
All you have to do is provide basic information about your mutual fund and ask if it has to be converted into cash before it can be transferred to a different bank or brokerage firm.
Generally, you can transfer the account in kind if the firm to which you want to move your account offers the same mutual fund.
If the receiving firm does not offer the same mutual fund, your fund must be converted to cash before it can be transferred to a different mutual fund.
If you are required to convert your assets to cash before you can transfer the mutual fund, this must be done by the firm that currently handles the mutual fund before you can initiate a transfer.
 As with all "in kind" account transfers, you need to get transfer forms from the firm to which you want to transfer your mutual fund, since it must initiate the transfer.This form is similar to the TIF required for all in-kind account transfers, but will have additional information related solely to mutual funds.
Some firms may have separate forms you must complete to transfer a mutual fund as opposed to other kinds of accounts.
In addition, you may be required to open a new mutual fund account before you can transfer your account to the receiving firm. Some firms will open a new account at the same time as they complete the transfer.
 Transferring a mutual fund can result in tax consequences, particularly if initiating the transfer triggers a distribution. A tax advisor can tell you what you need to report as income on your taxes.Keep in mind that if you're just transferring your mutual fund from one brokerage firm to another, it may not feel as though you're getting any income – particularly if that income is reinvested into additional shares.
A tax advisor may be ablate identify the best times for you to make your transfer that will result in limited tax liability. This may mean you have to wait a few months before you initiate your transfer.
 Once you've converted the assets in your account to cash (if necessary), you're ready to fill out the receiving firm's form with information about your mutual fund and the account to which you want those assets transferred.You will need complete account numbers and detailed information about the holdings or amount of cash in the mutual fund account you want to transfer.
Typically you also must attach account statements so the receiving bank can confirm the information you provided.
Look over your forms carefully before you submit them to the receiving firm, and contact a financial advisor if you have any questions or concerns.
Keep in mind that any errors or incomplete information on your transfer forms may cause delays in the transfer of your account.
 As with other in-kind transfers, the firm to which you want to transfer your mutual fund must initiate the transfer. Provided your forms are accurate and complete, the automated process shouldn't take much time.Make a copy of all of your forms before you submit them to the receiving firm so you have a copy for your records.
While some firms don't charge fees for transfers, most do. Expect to pay a transfer fee of less than $100. Keep in mind you may be assessed fees by both the receiving firm and the delivering firm.
Typically the automated transfer process should take about a week from the time all of the information is verified. The receiving firm may contact you if there are any problems or discrepancies.
 Typically the receiving firm will provide you with notice once the transfer has been accomplished, and let you know if there's anything more you have to do.Even once the transfer is complete, you may not be able to access or do anything with your account right away.
Some firms require funds to be held for a brief period of time, typically a minimum of 10 days, after arrival.
Holding periods also may depend on whether you were able to transfer your mutual fund in kind or had to convert it to cash first.
 If you have several investment accounts with the same bank or brokerage firm, you may be able to move money between them easily using online account access or through a mobile app.If you've recently transferred an account from one bank or brokerage firm to another, it may be awhile before you can access that account online – even if you already have online account access set up for other accounts.
The process for setting up online account access varies among banks. You typically can start the process by registering for an online account and verifying your identity.
Once you've set up a user account, you typically have the option of which accounts you want to include in your online profile for quicker transfers.
 If you don't have online account access or need to move funds between accounts held by separate financial institutions, your financial advisor can help you figure out how to initiate the transfer.Most banks and investment firms allow you to transfer funds using electronic funds transfers (EFT) through an automated process.
Your financial advisor can give you more information about the process and how long it takes. These details may vary depending on the financial institutions involved.
 If you're moving money between accounts, you can only transfer funds that are reflected in the account's available cash. This amount may fluctuate depending on whether you have pending transactions.For some types of accounts, you may have the ability to transfer shares or cash. If you're completing your transfer online, your bank or investment firm's website will tell you whether both or only one of these types of transfers is available.
Keep in mind that available cash is updated several times a day, but may not reflect recent trades.
You may want to check available cash several times before you make your transfer, particularly if you are unfamiliar with these daily fluctuations.
 If you're completing your transfer online, you typically can submit your transfer request with the click of a button. However, transfers between accounts held at different banks or brokerage firms may have a more complex process.In some cases, you may be able to initiate a transfer from one financial institution to another online. However, typically online transfers are only available between accounts held by the same financial institution.
Talk to your financial advisor if you're unsure about the best way to complete a transfer. They can provide you information about different methods so you can choose the one that best suits your needs.
Make sure you print or copy any transfer confirmations so you have them for your records in case there is a problem completing your request.
 You typically can determine whether a transfer has been completed by looking at the balance or transaction history of your accounts. Depending on the method and time of the transfer, it may be a few days before the transfer is reflected in your accounts.Your financial institution should give you an approximate time for the completion of the transfer.
If this time passes and the transfer still is not reflected in your account balances, contact your financial advisor.

