 Before you attempt to do a quiff hairstyle, it's important to wash your hair to remove any oils and add some volume.
 Your hair should still be a little damp to the touch, but it should not still be dripping any water.
 You want roughly a quarter-sized dollop of gel in your fingers. Many people use too much, which weighs down your hair and makes it difficult to style. The best product for you will depend on your hair type:









Sea salt spray gives a dry, matte hold which is good for soft, thick hair types.
Wax gives a very firm, strong hold for difficult, unruly hair.
Gel gives a lightweight yet firm hold which is good for fine hair., Focus on the last 1-2 inches of hair, starting with your bangs. As you work, use your fingers to comb your hair to the front of your head.
 Set your dryer to the highest temperature setting and the lowest speed – you can always increase the speed when you feel more confident. Using a vented brush, sweep the hair on the top part of your head (roughly 2cm above your temples) across to one side. At the same time follow the brush with your dryer. Direct the airflow through the vents in the brush and onto the hair, keeping the dryer approximately 3cm from the brush to avoid over-baking your hair. When your hair is 50% dry repeat the method on the other side, working in the opposite direction.









As you dry, use your fingers to work the hair upwards and backwards, from the roots to the tips, in the direction you want the quiff to go (right or left). You can also use a brush.
 Lower the heat and use your brush to perfect your look to your liking. Don't continue using the hairdryer once your hair is dry, as your hair will become crisp and dried out.
 Run your hands over the outside of the quiff (not through the hair) to give it some structure and smooth any flyaway hairs. If you have wax, you can use it to give you quiff a classic shine reminiscent of the movie O Brother, Where art Thou?









Take some strong-hold hairspray and give the quiff a good spritz all over — this will help to maintain the volume and structure.
Depending on the look you're going for, you can take a small amount of gel or wax and use it to either pull out or slick back the shorter hair at the sides of your head.