 Chemotherapy is a medical procedure used to kill cancer cells using medications. These drugs are administered intravenously or orally.When chemo drugs enter your bloodstream, they spread to other organs. This is helpful when thymomas have entered neighboring tissues and organs.Chemotherapy can be used before surgery to shrink tumors that are not removable by means of surgery.Chemotherapy can also be done after surgery to kill remaining cancer cells that might have been left behind.Chemotherapy may be used along with radiation for those who are too ill to receive surgical treatment.Chemotherapy is not recommended for patients whose tumors might be easily surgically removed., The chemotherapy drugs can either be taken through the mouth or injected into the vein or muscle. The drugs are able to enter into the bloodstream and reach the cancerous cells all over the body. This treatment is called systemic chemotherapy because it involves all systems in the body., Chemotherapy may also be given directly to a more specific area of the body where a thymoma has formed. This mode of treatment is localized. Regional chemotherapy destroys the cancerous cells that are in that particular area., There are different chemotherapy drugs that can be given during treatment. They include: carboplatin, cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, etoposide, ifosfamide, octreotide, paclitaxel and pemetrexed.The combinations that are commonly used in the treatment of a thymoma include:


Cyclophosphamide, cisplatin and doxorubicin.Paclitaxel and carboplatin.Cisplatin and etoposide., Chemotherapy is administered in several cycles, each of which lasts for about three to five weeks. Patients rest and recover in between these cycles. An initial round of chemotherapy will usually take four to six cycles to be effective., The side effects from chemo that you experience will depend on the dose and drugs given. Many of these side effects will dissipate after chemotherapy has concluded.However, the common side effects include:


Nausea
Vomiting
Infection
Diarrhea
Reduced appetite
Hair loss
Fatigue

, Octreotide is a synthetic hormone that may be able to shrink and kill thymoma cells.If you have a late-stage thymoma that cannot be surgically removed in its entirety, ask your doctor whether a hormonal option might be possible for you.

