 Like so many other insects, gnats feed primarily upon the food scraps you leave out in the open. The best solution to preventing gnats is to not "feed" them in the first place. By cleaning your kitchen and dining room regularly and quickly disposing of leftover food scraps and cooking remains, you can prevent gnats from invading your house before they ever become a problem.


When you store food, make sure it is in an airtight or wrapped container within a sealed cabinet or refrigerator. Keep fruit in the fridge, to prevent it from becoming overripe and attracting gnats.Never leave dirty dishes in the sink as the scraps of food stuck to them can attract gnats. Wash dishes immediately after use and cover the dish rack with a clean, dry towel.
 You can prevent a gnat invasion by covering your garbage and waste cans around your house and property. If the garbage cans outside your home are open, gnats can feast there and similarly follow their noses into your home. By covering up your garbage, you won't allow gnats a chance to live off off your discarded food.


Avoid keeping bags of trash in the house overnight. Take out all garbage every night and ensure the outdoor trash cans are covered.
Clean out your indoor garbage containers regularly and wipe down the lid and surfaces with bleach. Bleach will kill gnats immediately upon contact.
 Certain species of gnats love hanging around over-watered house plants and laying their eggs in the soil. You can prevent this from happening by keeping an eye on the soil and making sure it is damp rather than wet. Also ensure that the plant has adequate drainage.
 If you happen to notice gnats outside your home, check all of your doors and windows to make sure they are properly sealed with no gaps where gnats could enter. If you need to leave windows and doors open, use a fly screen with a tight mesh, making sure there are no holes in it.
 Gnats love moist places for breeding, so look out for damp corners in the kitchen and other areas of the house. Wipe these damp spots down with bleach or another kind of disinfectant regularly to prevent gnats from invading. Never leave moist towels or clothes lying around, and keep rugs and mats in sunny spots to prevent dampness from developing.