 Your weapon should depend on the kind of match you’re playing. If you’re playing on a large map with plenty of hiding places, long range firearms like sniper rifles should be your choice. For smaller maps, use submachine guns that can fire rapidly at close range.;
, Power ups increases your character’s stats or ability for a specific amount of time. Power ups like “Insta-Kill” allows you to kill enemies with just one bullet, regardless what part you’ve hit them. Approach any green glowing item on any map to get a power up.


Power ups have their own icons (like a skull for the Insta-Kill or a hammer for the Carpenter power up) and can be found on different maps of the game.
 For some modes of the games, like on Zombie maps, you can upgrade your weapon to increase its firepower or ammo capacity. Weapons can be upgraded using the “Pack-a-Punch Machine,” a special in-game object that looks like a slot machine.


The Pack-a-Punch Machine can be found on many Zombie maps. Just approach the object and select the weapon you want to upgrade.
 If you see an enemy hiding behind an object and sniping at you, don’t just rush over to them. Stay calm and try to make your way through using anything in your surrounding as cover.


Expert snipers can kill you with one shot the moment you come within their range.
 Keep track of your teammate’s location using the mini map on the upper-left corner of the screen. Knowing where they are can help you figure out where the enemies may be.
 Turning quickly around corners without taking precautions can easily get you killed. Try peeking along the sides first, and try to see if there are any opponents hiding.


Camping enemies will immediately fire at you once they see you. When this happens, you can easily retreat, using the wall corner as your shield.
 Flashbangs will light up your surroundings, temporarily blinding any opponents hiding around the corner, especially snipers. Throw a Flashbang and quickly walk around the corner while the place is brightly lit.
 Try to avoid becoming a sitting duck by holding your position for more than a few seconds. Keep moving, especially when you get spotted by an enemy. Moving around makes it harder for the other player to aim and shoot at you.
 Once you run out of ammo, go to a safe place or hide behind something before you reload. Reloading in front of an enemy or in between a fight is not a very bright idea will most likely get you killed.
 It takes patience and perseverance before you can be good at something, and video games are no exception. Play through the storyline and multiplayer mode and you’ll be landing headshots before you know it. While you’re at it, don’t forget to have fun!

