 Take preventative safety precautions. If you're walking in a public place, always be aware of who's around. Be attentive (rather than drowning yourself out with headphones). Make it a habit to spot an escape route every time you enter a new environment. Avoid dark alley ways and parking lots, and/or get an escort. Don't face the wall when eating out. Lock your windows and doors at night. Carry a cell phone and some safety devices (such as a loud whistle on your key chain). If you are traveling abroad, carry a local paper or magazine in the local language. Read travel precautions online.



Follow your intuition or gut instinct If you get a sketchy vibe from someone, listen to your gut feeling no matter how irrational. Ducking into a store, changing your route and staying in the presence of others are all good strategies to avoid kidnapping by heeding your instincts.
Vary your routes and times make it difficult for would-be attackers to anticipate your plans. Learn multiple ways to go between your home and office or any frequent destinations.;
, The would-be abductor initially gains the upper hand on his victim because he has the element of surprise in his favor. You can prepare yourself by assessing your situation before an abduction occurs. What kind of abduction are you most likely to encounter? What will you do if someone attempts to kidnap you? Rehearse possible scenarios in your mind and you’ll be ready to act instantly should you actually be attacked.
 Holding a key between your fingers (as a stabbing weapon) can seriously damage the tendons in your own hand; however, it can also do considerable damage to them.


If there are multiple armed attackers seeking ransom who attempt to abduct you in an isolated or hostile place where there is realistically little to no chance of escape, you should be cooperative from the get-go. This is frequently the case in parts of South America, for example, where well-organized kidnappers abduct businessmen for profit. About 95% of people abducted in this manner are released alive and the chance of being killed is highest in the first few minutes of the abduction, when something goes wrong — usually when the victim tries to escape or fight.
If the would-be abductor is unarmed, if the attempt is sexually motivated and if you are in the vicinity of other people and can quickly get help, you should fight or do anything you possibly can to escape the attacker. This is the case in most abduction attacks in the U.S. and other developed countries and it's also usually the case if the intended victim is a woman or child.
 If you've made the quick decision to get away, try to get to a safe public place and continue to scream for help. Don't look back and don't stop until you've reached safety. What qualifies as safety depends on the circumstances. The presence of police officers is almost always sufficient, as is being in a crowd of people (though these situations are only safe if you make sure the police or people in the crowd know what's happening). If you're a foreign national in a hostile country, however, you may not actually be safe until you reach a friendly military patrol or embassy.
 You may not be able to outrun your attacker, but if you can put something — a busy street, a group of people, or even a car (which you can run around as he tries to pursue you) — between you and them, you may be able to delay them enough to get away or to cause the attacker to give up.
 Yell to get help. Do not scream. Screaming emboldens an attacker and makes you look and act more like prey. Direct commands first at the assailant to stop, then at bystanders to call the police. Direct commands are often obeyed, whereas screams are often ignored. You want help, not just witnesses. This technique is especially successful in or near public places, where the abductor hopes to remain inconspicuous lest others intervene or call police. For children, who are relatively less able to fight or flee a would-be abductor, involving others is sometimes the only chance of escape. Do not simply scream in terror or yell "help," as people are apt to ignore this plea. You should yell out the circumstances and a description of the attacker if at all possible: "A man with a knife is chasing me! He's wearing a blue sweatshirt and torn jeans!" (Children should be taught to yell "I'm being kidnapped! I don't know this person!" or "Help! That's not my mom/dad!" to other people or "I don't know you! Leave me alone!" at the attacker). This should have the effect of deterring your attacker, or convincing bystanders that your plight is real and not a joke/game/quarrel, or at the very least, leaving behind a reliable description for the police to work from if you are unable to evade capture.
 Sadly, people are often hesitant to intervene in an abduction. Get someone's attention and make them intervene by grabbing him or her and holding on while yelling commands (never scream) and explaining the situation. The bystander is now involved in the fight against the abductor, which shifts the odds in your favor considerably, especially if you're a woman or child. If there are no people around to grab, hold on to a large object, such as a lamp post, parking meter, or your bicycle. If you can't get away from an abductor, you at least want to prevent him or her from taking you away against your will.
 Fight tooth and nail to prevent the abductor from getting you under his control. While everyone should take a self-defense course, you don't usually need specialized knowledge to ward off an attack. Nor do you need to "win" a fight with your attacker: fighting should usually be used just to get out of the grip of an attacker or to enable you to get a head start running away. If your attacker is a sexual predator and you think your chances of escaping are slim, still put up a fight the entire time. Rapists look for easy targets, not someone who is going to struggle and flail. If you fight hard enough, they may decide you are not a good target and give up. The majority of assaults are stopped at the first sign of resistance. First verbal, then physical. Weapons dramatically reduce the chance of an assault succeeding.


Fight dirty. Do whatever you need to get away: this isn't a boxing match. Pick up and wield any heavy object that is close at hand. If you have mace, pepper spray or a stun gun, use it. (If you own these weapons, practice with them. A weapon forgotten in a purse is useless. This takes practice. Don't just feel safe because you have it on you. Not knowing how to use your weapon merely gives the attacker another tool to use against you.) If an abductor grabs hold of you, don't be afraid or ashamed to make use of your teeth. The seconds you need to escape can be achieved by stunning him with an extreme action like biting off part of an ear, finger, or nose.
Aim for sensitive spots. Poke the abductor in the eyes; hit or kick the groin, nose, throat, or kidneys; scrape your foot hard against his shin; stomp on the top of his foot with your heel, or stomp out sideways into his knee. Your elbows, knees and the palm of your hand are good striking weapons. Your closed fist can be effectively used like a hammer but don't throw punches - without training, you're more likely to break your hand than hurt your attacker. Make your strikes count and do not stop until there is no chance that the attacker will have the ability to continue his attack. One good blow is not enough, it may stun them and make them angry. The idea is to stop the assault, and that requires a critical amount of damage to be inflicted on the opponent. Your aim is never to kill the opponent, just to stop the attack. Death may simply be a side effect of the effort needed to stop the attack. Whatever you do, once you have started the offensive, do not stop until there is no doubt that you can get away safely. They are angry now and probably run faster than you. Hit with elbows and knees until the assailant is no longer capable of pursing the attack. Then go get the police.
Do not flail. Flailing and using your nails wildly will only cause what the police call "defensive marks" on the attacker and usually only provides forensic evidence on your dead body. Biting can work to get out of most grips. Or, get your fingers into their eye sockets, the windpipe on the throat, or the groin. If you bite a small area with the front of your teeth in a "pinch" as this causes far more pain and damage than a full mouth bit. Once you are out of the hold, hit the assailant as many times as possible with an elbow or knees until you are sure you can get away safely.
 If you have a cell phone, dial the emergency dispatch number for your country. If you can put some distance between you and your attacker, or if you can delay them (by locking yourself in a room, for example), police may reach you in time to capture or at least deter the assailant. If, however, you are immediately subdued, try to conceal your cell phone and then call police when your captor isn’t looking. If you don’t have a cell phone, use any phone available. If you can use a payphone, you may be able to hold onto it. If the would-be abductor cannot quickly remove you from the scene, they may flee, knowing that police are on the way. If you've escaped the attacker, run to a nearby house or business, let them know what happened and have them call the police; this 1) puts you in a safe place, 2) summons police and 3) creates witnesses., You should do anything to make the attacker think they're as unsafe as possible. This means lying about advantages you don't have.


"My dad is the chief of police. You don't want to do this."
"I have anhydrous diabetic chronic pneumonia . I have to take my medication every three hours or I'll die. If you take me, you're looking at murder charges, no matter what."
"There's a police station two blocks away. Why are you doing this here?"
Look for anything that seems official and assert that it has cameras: "There's an ATM right there. You know they all have hidden cameras, right?" Or if you see anything that remotely looks like a camera, "You know that's a security camera, right?"
It is best to call the police but if for some reason you cannot (lost cellphone, etc.), you should always tell an attacker that police are on the way. "I dialed the panic button from my cellphone, police are on the way. Just run now, and you'll be safe."
If you are in your neighborhood lie and say that a neighbor or the neighborhood itself has cameras and/ neighborhood watch where they report any suspicious behavior. Anyway if you are on a neighborhood street there would be at least 5 people in their homes so they would hear you.
Another thing to do if in a neighborhood or near a house pretend as if you live there and you just going home. Do not show that it's not your house. Either knock or pretend to knock on the door and say your mom/dad/brother/sister/friend's name to act like you're waiting for them to open the door.
 If your efforts to thwart the abduction are unsuccessful, there are a number of things you can do to help you survive your ordeal.

