 Set up a medium sifter inside a medium mixing bowl. Pour the flour, sugar, baking powder, salt, and baking soda into the sifter. Hit the sifter against the side of the bowl or your hand to sift the dry ingredients into the bowl below. Sifting mixes the ingredients and remove lumps.

To add some extra flavors to the pancakes, you can add ⅛ teaspoon (0.3 g) of cinnamon, nutmeg, and cloves.;
, Crack the egg into a large mixing bowl. Beat the egg with a whisk for a minute to scramble it. Add the buttermilk and vanilla, and whisk all the ingredients together to combine them.Cracking the egg first is a good idea because it gives you a chance to remove any pieces of shell that may fall in.
 Sprinkle the dry ingredients over top of the wet ingredients. Use the whisk to mix everything together, and keep whisking until you have a thick, smooth batter.When the batter is ready, set it aside for five minutes. This will give the starch molecules time to absorb the liquid, and will make for a uniform pancake., While the pancake batter is resting, add the butter to a large griddle and heat it over medium heat. This will ensure the griddle is nice and hot and the butter melted when the pancake batter is ready., Pour ¼ cup (59 ml) of batter onto one side of the preheated grill, and repeat on the other side. Cook the pancakes for three to four minutes. When the bubbles on the surface of the pancake form and then start to pop, flip the pancakes with a spatula.Cook the pancakes on the other side for two to three minutes.
Repeat the cooking process until all the pancakes have been cooked. Add more butter to the griddle between batches as necessary.
 Because you're cooking the pancakes two at a time, you don’t want the cooked ones getting cold while you wait for the rest. There are a couple of ways you can keep cooked pancakes warm, including:

Keep them in a 225 F (107 C) oven. Store the pancakes in a single layer on a wire rack to keep them crispy.Wrap them in foil and wrap the foil in a towel. Be warned that the pancakes may lose some of their crispiness this way.
Keep them in the warming drawer if your oven has one.
 When all the pancakes are ready, portion them out onto individual plates and serve with any combination of popular toppings, which can include:


Butter
Maple syrup or honey
Jam
Peanut butter
Fresh fruit, such as bananas, blueberries, and strawberries
Whipped cream

