 You can buy ones that are already pre-cut from the craft store. You can also buy a wooden beam at a hardware store and cut it yourself, or ask the store to do it for you., This is not completely necessary, but it will give the blocks a nice touch. You can paint them all one color, or multiple colors.

Consider sanding the blocks lightly for a weathered effect. You can also apply a light coat of paint with a dry paintbrush instead for a streaked look., You can glue a photo to every side, or you can leave the bottom part of the cube blank. You will be cropping the photos down, so make sure that the person in the photo is small and doesn't fill up the whole page., If you painted the blocks, crop the photos down to 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) on each side. This way, you will get a nice, painted border all around the photos.If you did not paint the blocks, you can crop the photos down to 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) square, and cover the entire block.

You can crop the photos down using an image-editing program on your computer, or you can crop them by hand using a ruler and craft blade.
 You can apply the glue using a paintbrush or foam brush. Make sure that the layer is thick. Don't worry if it looks white now; it will dry clear.You can use a glossy, satin, or matte finish.
 If you printed the photos on regular printer paper, be sure to smooth out any wrinkles. Make sure that the photo is centered., Make sure that you apply the glue over the entire block face, from edge-to-edge. This will seal in the edges of the photo and prevent them from peeling away., At one point, you will need to stop and let the glue dry so that you can hold the block and continue working without getting your fingers sticky.

Be sure to wipe away any streaks using your brush.
Make sure that all of the photos are pointing in the same direction.
 Once it is dry, you blocks are ready to display! Keep in mind that most decoupage glues are not water resistant, and may warp or bubble if they get wet.