 Origami is the art of folding any kind of paper. Different kinds of paper can help you make a wallet that is large and durable enough for your needs. Make sure your choice suits your intended use for the wallet. Whatever you choose, it should be sturdy and thick.Origami Paper. This is paper designed for origami artwork. It should fold easily, and you will have a wide range of options for color. On the other hand, this is a little more expensive than regular paper, and may only make a wallet large enough for coins and small notes.
Paper Bag. If you are looking for a larger and more durable wallet, you can use a medium-sized paper bag from the grocery store or other shopping trip. You will need to cut a square out of the bag, but you will have much more flexibility in wallet size.;
, Start by laying the paper with the side you want facing outward down on the table. Make a good crease in the center, then unfold, back side facing out. This won’t be a final fold, just a mark in the middle for your next step., You will now fold the paper into fourths by folding each side into the center crease. Once you have done that, open the paper back up. You should have three creases, and the paper evenly divided into four parts., These edge of these folds should line up with the folds you made in the last step. Make sure you get all four corners., They should be symmetrical. You should now have two flaps, with folded corners. Once you are done with these folds, flip the paper over., This fold should be about 1/3 of the way down. A good rule to follow is to make sure a full triangle of the paper’s back side shows.


As you are adding extra folds at this point, you may want to use a ruler or something else to help flatten the paper and keep the folds nice and tight., This is the last step to your origami wallet. You’ll take the bottom part of your paper and fold upward to hold everything together.Fold the up the bottom part of the paper. This fold should slightly overlap the other flap. Crease the fold well.
Insert the bottom triangle corners slide into the top triangle corners. You should be able to see a diamond showing the backside of the paper, with each of the corners in the color of the outside.
 Use the first crease you made to fold in half and finish your wallet. Now you’ll be able to slide cards and coins into the pockets, depending on how big of a wallet you were able to make.Once you are finished, you can also decorate the outside with drawings or stickers to help make your wallet ever more personal, or to remind you what is in there.

