 Most people have bacteria and germs on their skin. However, these germs can cause an infection if they get under the skin through the nicks made by the fiberglass splinters.If the fiberglass slivers are in your hand(s), skip this step. You do not want to push the slivers deeper into your skin.
 Fiberglass splinters have a tendency to break. You do not want them to break off below the skin or be pushed deeper into your skin.Cleanse the area by letting soapy water flow over it, but don't rub or scrub the area. You could force fibers deeper into your skin.


Pour water into any container, rub the soap in between your wet hands, and submerge your hands in the water. Repeat until the water is soapy. If your hands are the affected area, someone will have to do this for you.
The same germs that are on your hands are on the skin around the fiberglass slivers. Once you begin to move the slivers around trying to remove them, there is a risk of infection if the germs get under the skin., Look for fine-tipped tweezers to make grabbing the fibers easier. Bacteria is on every object we use. The alcohol destroys these germs so that you do not put them under the skin as you try to pull out the fiberglass splinters.Rubbing alcohol or ethyl alcohol kills germs by dissolving their outer protective coating; they fall apart and die., Increase your chances of success with removing the fiberglass splinters by working in a well-lit area. The thin fiberglass fibers are a white or light yellow color. They can be hard to see when they are in your skin.
 Focus on the tips of the fibers and grasp them, then pull them slowly away from your skin. Try not to push them in deeper. Use a needle if this happens or if the splinter is already completely under the skin.Use a sewing needle that has been sterilized with rubbing alcohol to gently lift skin or break through skin if you can see the splinter just under the skin. Then you can use the tweezers to remove the fiberglass.Do not become frustrated if it takes several attempts to get the splinters out. They can be small. If the tweezers and needle truly are not effective, try using the sticky tape method.
 The bleeding can help wash out germs. This is another way to keep germs from getting under your skin., Pat the area dry. Apply an antibiotic ointment like Neosporin. You do not have to cover the area you worked on with a bandage.