 Strip all the extra greenery and leaves away, leaving only the bare stems. Work carefully around any thorns and avoid touching the petals as much as possible. If you want to do any stem trimming, this is the best time to do it. The flowers you plan to use in the same bouquet should have stems that are approximately the same length.Some people find it easier to strip the leaves and foliage off when they’re out gathering flowers in the field, but use whatever technique works best for you.
 How you group them together is up to you – by species, purpose or any other way you like. The more stems that are bundled together in one bunch, the longer it will take for them to dry, so try to limit your bundles to about five or six flowers each.In most cases, it is better to dry flowers separately from herbs because their drying times can vary so much.
 Make sure the bundles are secure, but avoid packing them too densely or tightly. You can use twine, wire, string or unflavored dental floss to tie the bunches together, if you prefer. However, rubber bands are the best choice because they will hold the stems securely together when the flowers start to dry and contract.Avoid building your bouquets before you dry the flowers. The blooms and stems will contract as they dry, leaving you with empty spaces and unsatisfying bouquet shapes.
 Attics, garages, sheds, barns and closets are great choices, as long as the area is well-ventilated. Without proper ventilation, moisture can accumulate and mold could start to grow on the flowers. Avoid rooms and other areas with windows, since sunlight can fade the color of the petals.

When you’re trying to preserve vibrant color, the darker the drying location, the better., Hanging them upside-down will ensure that the stems remain straight through the drying process. Space the bundles apart so that proper ventilation is maintained.

Give the flowers two to three weeks to dry completely.Once the petals become crisp to the touch, they’re ready to use.

