 Infants eat fairly regularly, usually about every two to three hours. Nurse on a consistent schedule. If you wait too long to feed, your baby may be more likely to bite down on your nipple.Keep in mind that babies tend to bite when they are really hungry, so pay attention to your baby’s signals to avoid letting them become too hungry.
Every baby is different, so keep an eye out for your infant’s feeding patterns. Watch for signs that your baby is getting hungry, like moving their mouth, making suction motions, crying or becoming restless.This might indicate you should feed more frequently.
 It’s not uncommon for your baby to bite down on your nipple when they develop teeth. You should gently discourage this and train your baby not to bite. When a bite happens, remain calm but briefly stop feeding and firmly tell your baby, “No.”When removing your baby from your breast, hug them closer in towards your breast rather than pulling them off of you. They will usually let go when this happens.If biting is due to teething, give your baby your finger or a teething toy before and after nursing.
 Allow your baby to fully drain the milk from one breast before moving to the other breast. This usually takes 15-20 minutes, but every baby is different; your breast will feel softer once it is empty.Then offer the other breast, or begin with the other breast for the next feeding.


Start feeding on the least sore breast first, unless the cause is mastitis or engorgement.
 If you are between feedings and your breasts are feeling overly full and tender, express a little milk by rubbing or massaging them gently. Use a breast pump to relieve pressure and save milk for your baby if you work full time or are otherwise away from your baby during the day. Try to pump every few hours., Putting unnecessary pressure on your breast with a tight bra or blouse might affect how milk can flow through the ducts. This can lead to mastitis or a blocked duct, two causes of painful breastfeeding. You want bras to support full breasts without squeezing or constricting them.
 Keep your breasts free from bacteria or yeast that cause infections. Nipples can develop yeast infections, causing sharp or burning pain that lasts throughout a whole feeding.Keep bras, pumping equipment, and nursing pads clean by washing them frequently.


Wash your hands before and after you breastfeed.
Do not use shampoo or harsh soap on your nipples; avoid using bath products that can irritate your skin.Gentle cleaning with warm water should be sufficient.
 Wait to give your baby a pacifier until their feeding habits are well-developed, usually after 3-4 weeks. Sucking on a pacifier can teach them poor habits, since a pacifier differs from a nipple.Once they have the hang of feeding, it’s okay to introduce a pacifier.
 Drink at least 8-10 glasses of water every day. Staying hydrated can help to prevent painful causes of breastfeeding like a blocked duct., If you abruptly stop breastfeeding, you will likely experience painful engorgement. Make it a slow process by gradually decreasing how frequently and for how long you nurse every day. Do this over a few weeks, or even months.Use a cold compress on your breast if you do have uncomfortable swelling during this time.

