 Sharing towels, shoes, and socks can increase your chance of spreading athlete's foot to others or of getting it yourself. Make sure that you only use your own towel and wear your own socks and shoes. Do not borrow or lend these items to people., Athlete's foot can get onto your sheets and socks, which may cause it to breed and spread. To prevent athlete's foot from spreading from one foot to the other or from becoming worse, change your sheets every day until your athlete's foot is gone and change your socks every day as well.You should also change your socks if they get sweaty because this will increase the chance that athlete's foot will spread.
 Athlete's foot thrives in damp or wet environments. By keeping your feet dry you can make it more difficult for athlete's foot to infect you. Take some of the following steps to help keep your feet dry and prevent athlete's foot:


If you are at home, and no one you live with has athlete's foot or any other fungal infection, you can go barefoot to keep your feet cool and dry.
If your socks are sweaty or wet you should change them as soon as possible.
Always dry your feet off completely after washing them.
 Your shoes can play an important role in preventing athlete's foot. By selecting shoes that help keep your feet dry and clean, you can reduce the chances of contracting athlete's foot. Keep some of these tips in mind when shopping for shoes:Wear more than one pair of shoes. Try wearing a different pair each day to allow the shoes time to dry between uses. You can also sprinkle talcum powder in your shoes to help deal with moisture.
Find shoes that allow air to reach your feet. This will help keep your feet dry, and reduce your risk of developing athlete's foot.
Don't share shoes with other people. Sharing shoes increases your risk of developing or spreading athlete’s foot.
Avoid shoes that are too tight, as this can increase how much the feet sweat.
 If you find yourself out in a public place, you will want to wear proper footwear. Going barefoot in public will increase your chances of contracting athlete's foot and possibly other diseases.If you're using a public shower, always wear sandals or flip flops.
You should always wear some kind of footwear in a fitness center.
Wear some water shoes if you visit a public pool.
You can go barefoot at home, as long as no one else in your house has athlete's foot.
 Part of preventing athlete's foot involves keeping your feet dry, cool, and clean. To help you do this, you can apply different types of powder to your feet, keeping the dry and preventing athlete's foot from ever setting in.Anti-fungal powders can help your feet stay cool and stop athlete's foot.
Talcum powder can be applied to help prevent perspiration, keeping feet dry.

