 If you are running your computer on a Linux-based platform, there are very few options available for transferring music from your iPhone to your computer. One option is gtkpod, however, and the program is free.


Download the program here: http://www.gtkpod.org/wiki/Home

After downloading the EXE file, open it and begin the installation process. Follow the on screen instructions to complete the process and install gtkpod on your computer.
When the program finishes its installation, you should open it on your computer.
 Connect the iPhone to your computer using a USB cable.


Usually, your iPhone will come with this cable. It will be the same cable you use for your wall outlet, except for the fact that you will need to remove the plug portion of the cable to reveal the computer end of the cable.
 After plugging your iPhone into your computer, a list of song tracks should appear in the main window. Select one track or multiple tracks you want to transfer to your computer.


If the computer does not recognize your iPhone, try closing out of gtkpod and opening it again. It is possible that gtkpod will not recognize a new device connected to your computer with the program already open.
After marking the tracks, select the "Export Tracks from Database" option from the File menu or other corresponding menu option.
 A file selection dialog box should pop up at this point. Navigate to the computer directory you would like to the files to be written to.
 At minimum, you need to specify the output filename in the "Preferences" dialog box by specifying a template.

For example: "%A/%a - %t"
You can specify multiple templates for different file formats by separating them with a semicolon. For example: %A/%a - %t.mp3;%t.wav
If you need a list of identifiers, you can check the tool tip in the "Preferences" window.
 The program will begin transferring your music at this point. All you need to do is let the process finish on its own.

After this point, you can eject your iPhone from your computer and close out of gtkpod.

