 Psychotherapists assist people with bipolar disorder to find ways to manage their symptoms. Intensive psychotherapy can take the form of cognitive behavioural therapy, family therapy, or interpersonal and social rhythm therapy.Patients taking medication have been found to improve faster and stay well longer if they are also undertaking intensive psychotherapy.;
, This therapy targets and identifies negative feelings, thoughts, and behaviours and encourages changing your behaviours and reframing your thoughts and belief patterns. Your therapist will help you recognize triggers for your bipolar episodes and how to cope.


Self-awareness, stress management, and problem-solving techniques are essential skills learned in CBT that can help make your life easier, regardless of the extent of bipolar disorder you have.Mood monitoring, symptom and activity logs, and tracking behaviours are some of the tools used in managing bipolar disorder via CBT.
 When you are dealing with bipolar disorder, having support and understanding from your family is crucial. Family therapy will teach you and your family about the biochemical nature of bipolar disorder so everyone will understand that it is not your fault that you were diagnosed. Your family will learn ways to offer you relief and support and you’ll learn how to work together to cope with your bipolar symptoms.Family therapy can also help you to create a treatment plan that your family can help you to stick to. Family contracts are sometimes created outlining how your family can best help you in times of need, with hotline numbers to call., A strong social support network and a predictable low-stress environment with established routines helps manage rapid cycling.Also called interpersonal and social rhythm therapy, or IPSRT, this therapy also means sleep and meal management and improving interpersonal relationships and emotional stability.A bipolar support group can help you feel you’re not alone and you can learn ways that others cope with and manage their symptoms., Getting a massage can leave anxiety and stress, both of which can aggravate symptoms of bipolar disorder. When you get a massage, your body releases oxytocin, which can help you to feel calm and reduce your bipolar symptoms.Massage fits in with treatment for bipolar for many reasons. People with bipolar are recommended to keep regular schedules, take good care of themselves, and sleep well, and massage facilitates these ideals. Massage aids in the release of oxytocin, the feel-good hormone, and decreases the amount of cortisol circulating in your system, thereby decreasing stress.
 Acupuncture is the traditional Chinese practice of inserting tiny sterilized needles into the skin at strategic points to balance the chi, or life force, stimulate blood flow, and release the body’s natural painkillers.Acupuncture is a safe practice to be done in addition to medical therapy for bipolar disorder.Weekly acupuncture has been found to decrease symptoms in bipolar disorder.Tell your acupuncturist you have been diagnosed with bipolar disorder so she can target your treatment effectively.

