


Fill a spray bottle with a fine-mist nozzle with water. Tuck this bottle into your purse when you leave the house.






When you notice excess static frizz, give the flyaway strands a few quick spritzes of water and gently pat them down into place. Only mist your hair, though. Do not drench it.
The water will give your hair a quick boost of moisture that can keep your hair going for another hour or so.
 Dryer sheets can be a surprisingly helpful and effective tool to use against last-minute surprise static. Carry one in your purse or pocket to help tame your frizziness on the go.


Rub a dryer sheet on your brush or comb before running the hair tool through your locks.
Keep your combs and brushes wrapped in dryer sheets during high-static conditions and times, like in the middle of winter.
Worst case scenario, you can even rub a dryer sheet over your hair to put last minute flyaways in their place.
 Lotion is another tool that can be useful for waging a last minute battle against frizzy, static-infested hair.


Place a dollop of lotion into the palm of your hand. Lightly rub your palms together to spread the lotion over your hands without rubbing it into the skin.
Only use a small amount of lotion. Too much can weigh your hair down too severely.
Run your fingers through your hair to spread the lotion. Focus on the ends and any areas with notable flyaways.
 If static-ridden hair is a frequent, daily problem for you, especially during winter or another dry time of year, a humidifier could provide you with some form of long-term solution.


In winter and other low-humidity conditions, the dryness of the air can steal moisture from your hair, causing it to be more prone to static.
Running a humidifier in any room you intend to spend a long time in can add moisture back into the air and, as a result, back into your hair.



Rubber soles, on the other hand, cause your clothes and hair to build up electrical charges. As these charges build up, your hair is more prone to static-related frizz.

