 The same basic preparations will apply to all types of retinal surgeries. Do not eat or drink anything for between two to eight hours before the surgery (you doctor will advise you), and use eyedrops to dilate the pupils (if your doctor instructs you to do so)., In this procedure, your doctor will suture a piece of silicone rubber or sponge, called a buckle, to the white of your eye, which is called the sclera. The material sutured to your eye will create a slight indentation in the wall of the eye, thereby relieving some of the strain at the site of the detachment.In cases where there are several tears/holes in the retina or when the detachment is extensive and severe, your surgeon may recommend a scleral buckle that wraps around the entire eye.In most cases, the buckle is usually left on the eye permanently.Your doctor may use laser or freezing treatment to create scar tissue around the retina. This will help seal the seal the retinal tear/break to the wall of the eye, preventing fluid from detaching the retina., After a scleral buckling, your doctor will send you home with specific instructions on how to care for your eye and ensure a full recovery. Follow your doctor's instructions, and ask her questions if you're uncertain of what to do. Common post-operative instructions include:


Taking acetaminophen to relieve painUsing prescription eye drops or ointments, Your doctor may give you an eye box to help your eye heal. Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water before handling any eye equipment.Soak cotton balls in the prescribed eyewash solution.Lay the cotton balls across your eyelid for a few seconds to loosen any crust that may have formed on your eye.Gently wipe from the inside of your eye across to the outside. If you are treating both eyes, use separate cotton balls for each eye to avoid the risk of infection., Your doctor may give you an eye patch and an eye shield to help your eye heal. How long you wear these will depend on your doctor's recommendations.


You will most likely have to wear both the eyepatch and shield over the eye at least until your follow-up visit (usually the next day).You may need to wear the patch outdoors to protect your eye and shield the healing eye from direct sunlight. You can also wear dark sunglasses to help protect your eye while it heals.Your doctor may instruct you to wear the metal shield over your eye while you sleep for at least one week. This is to prevent injury to your eye, in case you roll over onto your pillow.