 Always refer to the manufacturer’s instructions and recommendations regarding maintenance and repair for the tool in question. Even if you are very familiar the workings of, say, one make and model of lawn mower, expect others to vary in construction and operation. Ensure safe operation by always deferring to the owner’s manual for that exact tool.If you aren’t confident in your ability to address any issues with your machine, bring it to a professional repair shop.
 Refer to the owner’s manual for your mower, tractor, trimmer, or any other tool that requires oil. Always follow its directions regarding the amount needed for safe operation. Be aware that both too little and too much oil will result in insufficient lubrication of internal parts., Expect these to lose efficiency after 100 hours of active use. On average, this equates to every four years for residential use, but this will vary depending on the frequency of use and the size of your lawn. Keep track of how long you typically use each tool and how often. Replace spark plugs as you near the 100-hour mark., At the start of the spring season and/or winter, give your machine a thorough look over. Identify any parts that need replacing, cleaning, sharpening, tightening, or lubricating. Repeat periodically throughout the growing season. Depending on the tool in question, these could be:Mowers: pull cords; power cords; blades; air filters; belts; chain drives.
Tractors: batteries; cables; electrical connections; blades; tires; belts; chain drives; air filters.
Trimmers: blades; nuts; bolts; debris shields; air filters.
Tillers: air filters; tines; tires; levels; connections; nuts; bolts.
 Prevent damage by inspecting the area in which you will be working. Identify and remove any materials that may cause damage if they come in contact with your tool. For instance:Running your mower over rocks, bricks, branches, or anything tougher than grass can damage the blades and deck. Not only that, but shrapnel could injure you and/or other parts of the machine, such as the power cord if the mower is electric.

