 If you suspect your horse may be lame, you should get him examined by a vet as soon as possible. You do not want your horse to suffer unnecessarily or for the issue to get worse. Your vet will do a basic physical exam of your horse, feeling his feet, limbs, back, and neck to check for any sore spots.Your vet will have your horse walk on a hard flat surface, to start, so they can observe your horse’s gait. The vet will then want the horse top stand in sand or a soft surface, as this may exacerbate minor lameness and make it easier to see.
Your vet may also ask to see the horse move with a rider. This will help the vet assess the degree of the lameness and locate where exactly your horse is experiencing pain. You should therefore bring all your tack (bridle, reins, girth, saddle, and saddle pad) to the appointment, in case the vet asks to see you ride.
 You should also provide detailed information on your horse’s symptoms and medical history. This will help the vet come to a diagnosis and get as much information as possible on the state of your horse.You may tell the vet how long you have suspected that something is not quite right with your horse. You should also note any traumatic events in the horse’s life recently or in the past that may have contributed to the lameness. This might include trailer accidents, falls while riding, kicking stall walls, or catching a leg somewhere.
You should tell the vet about any similar lameness the horse has experienced in the past and if the lameness now appears worse after resting the horse or after a training session with the horse.
 Once your vet has determined the exact area on your horse that is lame, they will recommend a treatment. Your vet may suggest painkillers for your horse as well as frog supports for your horse’s feet.Your vet may also recommend bed rest for the horse so the horse can recover. This just means confinement to a stall with hand walking, if recommended.
You may need to adjust the horse’s diet during the bed rest so the horse does not become overweight. Consult with your vet about this.

