 Maintain enough goal driven purpose, by a sense of desperation to do more than most others will bother to do -- but, you can and should "bother" to do more -- how? Accept your need for a strong desire, being empowered by loving what you do, doing what you should: "not just 'desperate for attention' ".


Suspend immediate gratification (avoid selfishness). Get the needed information. Do the work. Become desperate to always be progressing, making and fulfilling goals, getting smarter (one success leads to another) and better (compared to yourself). Success breeds success.;
, Make your important (bold) efforts each minute, hour and day to use the sense of desperation for energy; not for vanity -- not just for test day, observation, inspection or closing day.


Be prepared for the next goal and always improving, "joyfully". Be worthy of promotion or of good grades, etc.
Commit your ways to do your worthwhile goals. Do not live for selfish motives.
Love what you do, do well, loving others, showing reasonable and meaningful kindness, true affection, not selfishness.
Be desperate enough to "load-up" with energy -- by not just giving your best but doing at least one thing better than anyone else.
 But, more importantly be intense (like white knuckles, but not necessarily both fists clinched) when needed; don't panic. Relax as much as possible between intense bursts of purposeful energy. Take short breaks, to rest, take deep breaths to relax and have moments of refreshing.
 Decide: "Yes! I can make my own chance..." Make your own luck! Refuse to compromise when getting training and adjusting your attitudes to do right (accept responsibility).


How can I get going in my desired field, make a great success -- if I "loll away" time. La La, Twiddle-dee-dumb? You can't.
 Be on point -- ahead of the the under-motivated middle of the crowd. Hopefully you won't hear, "I'm proud of you", and/or "impressed with what you're doing", B-U-T, but "No, we're promoting by seniority" (moving another person up -- not for better work but for only being there longer). Yet, if you do hear that, don't back off or give up. Work smarter and concentrate on learning and demonstrating your quality.
 Be the one who applies what you learn learning the way and speaking the truth to help others as well as yourself. Don't be rounding out the also-ran (stragglers) who do less, or do nothing. Get smarter, better. Be the first one off the bench, if you can't be on the first-team as a starter.


Help someone who wants help and is willing to apply oneself. Share your knowledge. But, don't waste time on lazy, silly or dishonest students or fellow workers -- or those who don't need (or want) your assistance.
Ask your questions, being faithful to your goals. The only dumb question is the one you don't ask -- when you need to know the answer.
Get good information. Research, practice and remember what you learn.
Be enthusiastic and determined to go forward.
 Show the winning attitude. Seize the moment and never let go of your "I get-it!" and "I can do it!" attitude. Cooperate where that's called for.


Find ways to serve your teams' or customers' needs to get a sale or earn a customers loyalty. Build relationships. Love your family, friends, team, customers, etc. Don't take advantage of others weakness for selfish gain. Strengthen one another. Show them how to do what they want in a better way. Don't waste time trying to use false hopes or lies.
 Be organized. Work smarter (not just harder) than ever.


Try good, newer, or better ideas. Do it appropriately.
Get the right tools to get things done better and/or sooner.
 Keep smart and purposeful people around you.



Force? Never force others to do what you need (or want them to do). Don't twist arms, and torment... that's terrorism. Be kind, nice and not intimidated by another's success.
 Yet, don't be up-tight, too anxious. Have a reasonable sense of desperation -- in daily life, in business, or active competitive sport.


Keep up your intense training regimen, which is unlike anything anybody else is doing.
Devise all kinds of scenarios and practice making every effort imaginable.
 Achieve by overcoming complacency (doing and caring more)... Be actuated by a feeling of near failure/hopelessness (but find and keep "new hope" by staying involved and solving the problem).


Time? Avoid age or time traps: bosses often promote persons with more seniority (one who has been there) and longevity (which is not necessarily worthwhile "experience"). Get noticed doing great or someone else may do it. Be an "overcomer"... overcome the odds.
Move? You might need to transfer to a different department or change to a new company where management may be eager for your clear abilities and polished talents to help them advance. Do it.

