 Other possibilities are a poorly prepared surface or too much moisture. To fix peeling paint:


Remove peeling paint by power washing, sanding or calling in a professional to use a torch.
Repair any problem areas in the wood with vinyl spackling compound.
Sand the exterior, particularly the speckled areas.
Paint the patches with an oil-based sealer.
Resume house painting with a quality paint.;
,


Make certain the exterior of the house and the area underneath the siding is dry before painting.
Avoid painting in extreme heat, which is another cause of bubbling known as blistering.
Blistering pops up when paint is too thin or the surface hasn't been prepped properly.



Chalking occurs when the layers of paint are too thin or from ineffective priming.
Prime the surface before repainting with quality paint.
Applying a surface bonder with primer can help coats of paint bond with the surface.
 This also comes from excess moisture.


Replace rusty nails with rust resistant fasteners, such as ceramic coated construction screws or hot-dipped galvanized nails.
When it's not possible to remove nails, sand the nail heads and apply a rust converter to them.
Treat rust stains with a shellac-based primer-sealer that doesn't allow bleed through. Paint finishing coats over the sealer.



Use a quality acrylic latex exterior paint to avoid cracking from changes in temperature.



Remove mildew with a diluted bleach solution made of 1 part bleach to 3 parts water. Let it sit for several minutes before wiping it away.
Prepare and prime mildew-free surfaces.
Use a quality latex acrylic for house painting, because it resists mildew more than other types of paint.



Remove the crusty areas with a stiff brush or power washer.
Apply a masonry sealer after the exterior dries completely and before you apply the finishing coats.
 Darker colors absorb the heat, causing the siding to expand.


Paint with acrylic latex in a lighter color.



Lapping marks in color can be avoided by painting smaller areas at a time and in cooler weather with limited wind.

