 Pour the ½ cup (118.3 ml) of cornmeal, 1 cup (236.59 ml) of all purpose flour, 1 teaspoon (4.93 ml) sugar and 1 ½ (7.39 ml) teaspoon of baking powder into a medium sized mixing bowl.You can also add the pinch of cinnamon, which gives your dumplings a little added flavor.
Some people also like to add their favorite fresh shredded herbs to give the dumplings a little something extra. Some herbs you could add are parsley, tarragon and thyme.;
, Use a whisk to mix the ingredients together until you form a yellowish powdery mixture. You can use a fork or spoon if you don’t have a whisk in your kitchen., Pour warm water into a separate cup or bowl, then add a couple teaspoons (about 9.86 ml) of warm water and mix again with a fork or whisk. Continue adding water, mixing every time to incorporate the water in the mixture., Continue the process of adding water and mixing until the cornmeal mixture becomes a firm but soft dough that is difficult to stir., Once you’ve formed a dough, you will knead it and form it into dumplings before cooking. Begin by cleaning off a countertop or cutting board, then lightly sprinkling it with some of the all-purpose flour so that the dough doesn’t stick to the surface.
 Take the dough out of the bowl and gently form it into a ball with your hands. Then knead it on the countertop or cutting board you prepared with a moderate amount of force for 2-3 minutes.Kneading the dough will help the dumpling to stay together and not fall apart when cooked.
To knead the dough, push the dough down with your hands to flatten it. Then fold the dough in half and push down again. Keep turning and folding the dough, pressing down with a moderate amount of force., After you finish kneading your dough, pinch off a piece of dough, about 1/8 of the total dough ball. Then roll the piece of dough until it becomes roughly the size and shape of a cigar.If you want smaller dumplings, take a smaller piece of dough off of the dough ball. Remember that the dumplings will expand when cooked.
Forming the dough in this cigar-like shape will make dumplings that are somewhat flat and oval shaped, and are often found in Dominican, Jamaican and some Southern cooking. If you want to make dumplings into a round shape like a meatball, don’t form them into the cigar shape. Instead, roll them into a ball.
 After you form the cigar-shaped piece of dough, place it on a clean surface and gently press it with your hands to slightly flatten it, starting from the center and working outward.


You don’t want to completely flatten the dumpling into a pancake. Instead, press on it gently until it has an equal thickness of about ½ inch (1.27 ml).
 Now that you have made the dumplings, it’s time to boil and cook them. If you are adding the dumplings to a soup or stew, prepare the broth of the stew and bring it to a boil.If you are preparing the dumplings on their own as a side dish, place 8 cups of water and a dash of salt in a medium sized pot on the stove over medium heat. Bring the pot of water to a boil.
When making a stew with dumplings, try to make adding the dumplings as the last step. If you cook the dumplings for too long they may get too soft or break apart.
 After your water or stew has reached a boil, drop in your dumplings one at a time. Try to space them out so that they don’t stick together when cooking., Cook the dumplings in the boiling water or stew for 15 minutes. You will see the dumplings expand and get bigger. When they are done, they should float to the top of the boiling water or stew.You don’t need to stir the dumplings while they are cooking.
 Once the dumplings have finished cooking, remove them using a slotted spoon. If the dumplings are cooking as part of a soup or stew, turn off the heat of the stew when it has finished cooking.


Use a slotted spoon instead of draining them through a colander, as the dumplings are somewhat fragile and can break if dumped into a colander.
 If you are making the dumplings as a side dish, serve immediately while the dumplings are still warm. You may wish to add some butter or olive oil as well as ground black pepper to make the dumplings even more delicious!