 Setting goals that are not achievable is a surefire way to reinforce a negative attitude about the world; that it is too difficult, that it is unfair, that the tide is always working against you, etc. Setting such improbable goals can also kill your motivation.Rather than setting goals such as "I'm going to get all As in school this semester", try setting goals such as "I'm going to try my best to do well in my classes"; or, instead of setting the goal of becoming a famous musician, you might set the goal of practicing music regularly.
 The idea that your talents and skills aren't fixed and unchangeable but that you can learn and grow from your mistakes is a great one to tap into. You can use the power of that idea to become more skilled and talented and positive in your life.By seeing failures as opportunities to learn and grow, you will be less likely to become pessimistic in the face of any defeats that come your way.
For example, if you perform badly on a paper at school, rather than beating yourself up about it and calling yourself dumb, you might tell yourself "I really didn't do as well as I wanted to on this paper but I can talk to my teacher and find out how to improve my work for next time."

, If you are having trouble adopting a more positive attitude toward life and yourself, try putting on your happy face. Force yourself to smile for a few minutes each day while you reflect on life and yourself. Studies show that there is a bi-directional relationship between the facial muscles and one's emotional state: while we generally feel happy and then smile, we can also smile and then feel happy.If you want help smiling, try sticking a pencil between your teeth so that the eraser is towards one corner of your mouth and the tip is toward the other corner; holding a pencil between your teeth in this way will cause you to smile.
 We are great at learning from those around us. So, become inspired by the actions of people around you, what they’ve done, by their biographies or simply the life stories of the people you meet. Try to be on the lookout for a unique and inspiring quality in each person you meet.


When you find someone with an attitude toward life and self that you are particularly impressed by, try to adopt the aspects of her attitude that you like best.
 Sometimes little events come up in life that may get you in a foul mood or reinforce a negative or pessimistic attitude in you. However, try to keep in mind that in the grand scheme of things, these minor events matter very little.For example, if you ruin your favorite shirt doing laundry, ask yourself whether you will still upset by this a week or month from now. Chances are you won't be because, in the bigger picture, it doesn't matter all that much.
 Your self-talk is all the unspoken words that run through your mind. Sometimes the ways in which you talk to yourself may be irrational or based on a lack of accurate information. Try to watch out for this kind of negative and inaccurate self-talk so that you can expel it from your mind. For example, if you're telling yourself that you're worthless because you should have finished your college degree by now, ask yourself some questions about this, such as:
Why does the fact that you didn't finish college exactly when most of your peers did make you worthless? Why should college define your self-worth? Was what you went through while not in college a learning experience? Did it help to shape who you are today?
Instead, use positive language to re-frame things. Try this even if you don't feel like being positive. Rather than saying things like "I'm never going to succeed" re-frame your thoughts to be more positive by saying things such as "I will try my best" or "I will give it my all."