 Most of the time, your immune system will kill the virus if it enters your body. You won't develop symptoms. However, other times, it will develop into genital warts, which must be treated by a doctor.Nicotine weakens your immune system. Because of this, smokers are at higher risk of developing genital warts. Stop smoking to help your immune system recover., It actually takes quite a while for warts to develop from the virus, which means you or someone you have sex with could have the disease without knowing it. In fact, you can still pass the disease even if you don't have warts. It can take anywhere from 3-6 months for warts to develop; occasionally, it takes even longer.Genital warts will be the same color as your skin, but they may have the texture of cauliflower.The bumps will not be hard; rather, they will give a little when pushed., If you're a woman and you suspect you have genital warts, your gynecologist will perform a pelvic exam, including a pap smear. She should be able to diagnose warts on sight, though a pap smear helps confirm the diagnosis. For men, your doctor will make the diagnosis primarily made by sight, though genital warts can be biopsied to confirm the disease.Your doctor may also perform a DNA test on the virus, though the CDC does not deem it necessary because it won't affect treatment.This test can determine whether the kind of HPV you have is one that puts you at risk for cancer.It is important to get genital warts examined. Certain kinds of precancerous lesions on the vulva may look like genital warts, but could progress to cancer if not treated.
 Your doctor will likely prescribe a cream for you to use at home. Ask your doctor how often you should apply the treatment. Be sure to follow all instructions for use of medication, including finishing all medication, or you may be at risk of becoming re-infected.These medications may be expensive, so your doctor may recommend burning off the warts instead.
Podophyllotoxin is most often used for smaller warts closer together. You use a stick to drop the liquid on the warts, though you can also apply it as a cream. You use it for a couple of days, then take the rest of the week off.For bigger warts, you'll likely use imiquimod. You use it 3 times a week for at least a couple of weeks by applying it and then rinsing the area about 8 hours later., Like other types of warts, your gynecologist will employ in-office skin treatments to remove major outbreaks. Those treatments may include burning or freezing the warts off.Your doctor may burn off genital warts by applying trichloroacetic acid (TCA). For very hard, small warts, your doctor may give you trichloroacetic acid. Because it can damage your skin, your doctor's office will apply it. It actually burns the wart, so you will likely feel the burning.Other options are laser therapy and even surgery for particularly bad outbreaks., The HPV virus can cause other complications besides genital warts. Knowing the risks will help you understand why you need to protect yourself.Certain strains of the HPV virus can put you at risk for cancer later in life. In particular, you may be at a higher risk for cervical cancer, cancer of the vulva, cancer of the mouth and throat, cancer of the penis, and cancer of the anus.
HPV can also cause problems for you if you become pregnant. For instance, warts can bleed when you deliver or limit how much your vaginal wall can stretch. Although it is rare, you may also transmit the warts to your baby during delivery, resulting in a syndrome called juvenile onset respiratory papillomatosis. This condition must be treated by a doctor.