 This step is especially important for teens with long hair. Oily hair or hair products in constant contact with the face can help clog pores. Even those with short hair can see blemishes around the hairline due to oily hair or hair products. Wash your hair regularly and try to keep your hair off of your face as much as possible., One of the biggest causes of teenage acne is increased oil production based on hormonal changes. Washing your face once a day can still leave oil and dirt behind to clog pores. Instead wash once in the morning and once in the evening with warm water and a mild oil-free cleanser.Use clean fingertips and not a washcloth to clean your face.Do not use a regular bar soap or body wash. Always use a gentle cleanser especially formulated for facial skin.
Do not over wash. Washing the face more than twice a day can dry out the skin, which can actually cause the oil glands to go into overdrive production and make the acne worse.It can take anywhere from four-to-eight weeks of a daily regimen before you notice a significant difference., Depending on the severity of your acne, you should also use an over-the-counter medication once or twice a day. The two most commonly used OTC acne treatments are benzoyl peroxide and salicylic acid.OTC medications come in gels, lotions, creams, soaps, and pads.Gels and creams are good for spot treatments of problem areas whereas pads, soaps, and lotions are more commonly used on the entire face.
In addition to clearing pores, benzoyl peroxide has antibacterial qualities that makes it more difficult for the acne-causing p. acnes bacteria. And benzoyl peroxide reduces inflammation (which causes redness and swelling) of the skin.Benzoyl peroxide formulations are usually a 2.5% to 10% solution and salicylic acid formulations are usually 2% solutions., Since the additional washing and OTC medications can dry out skin, you want to add a daily moisturizer to your regimen. A standard lotion can have oils that will clog pores as well, so find an oil-free moisturizer that is nonacnegenic or non-comedogenic.These words simply mean that the product will not cause acne or clog pores.


If you apply a moisturizer for daytime use, then you should find one with an SPF of 30 as well., While certain cosmetics like eye makeup and lipstick aren’t likely to cause acne trouble, others such as blushes and foundations can clog pores and worsen acne.Make sure than any cosmetics applied to the face say they are non-comedogenic, which means that they will not clog pores. Many major brands provide such products, so they are not difficult to find., Using a clay mask once per week may help to eliminate excess oil and dirt, which may help with acne. You can find clay masks in most drug stores.


Apply the mask to clean skin and leave it on until it dries completely, which takes about 10 to 15 minutes.
Then, rinse off the mask using lukewarm water and your fingertips.
Pat your face with a clean, dry towel and apply moisturizer after you remove the mask.

