 To form Pig Latin words from words beginning with a consonant (like hello) or a consonant cluster (like switch), simply move the consonant or consonant cluster from the start of the word to the end of the word. Then add the suffix "-ay" to the end of the word.Words beginning with consonants would change as follows: the word "hello" would become ello-hay, the word "duck" would become uck-day and the term "Pig Latin" would become ig-pay Atin-lay.
Words beginning with consonant clusters would change as follows: the word "switch" would become itch-sway, the word "glove" would become ove-glay and the term "fruit smoothie" would become uit-fray oothie-smay.
 To form Pig Latin words from words beginning with vowels, all you need to do is add "-yay" (some Pig-Latin speakers may add "-way") to the end of the word. You don't need to change any letters around, just say the word as normal then add "-yay" to the end.For example: the word "it" becomes it-yay, the word "egg" becomes egg-yay and the word "ultimate" becomes ultimate-yay.
This also holds true for the personal pronoun "I", which becomes i-yay.
 Words with the letter "Y" can be tricky, as whether you treat the letter "Y" as a consonant or a vowel changes depending on the letter's location in a word.If a word starts with the letter "Y" it is treated like a consonant and is moved to the end of the word, as usual. For example, the word "yellow" becomes ellow-yay.
The normal rules apply if "Y" is the second letter in a two letter word, such as "my", which becomes y-may.
However, if the letter "Y" comes at the end of a consonant cluster, like in the word "rhythm", it is treated like a vowel and does not move to the end of the word. For example, "rhythm" becomes ythm-rhay.
 Compound words work better in Pig Latin when they are split up, as it makes them less comprehensible to listeners.


For example, the word "bedroom" becomes ed-bay oom-ray rather than "edroom-bay", which is more obvious.
Another example is the word "toothbrush", which becomes ooth-tay ush-bray rather than "oothbrush-tay".
 Learning Pig Latin is no good if you have no one to speak it with. The whole point of the language is so that you can secretly converse with another person in a way no one else can understand. Plus learning the rules and practicing them together will make the whole experience much more fun!


Learning Pig Latin with a friend will allow you to have all kinds of secret conversations. For example, you can invite them over to play video games after school without anyone else knowing, or comment on how disgusting your broccoli is without insulting your mother!
Pig Latin can be tricky to get the hang of, so you'll have to practice a lot to get it perfect. Try speaking it whenever you and your friend are together, at lunch or after school. You can also write coded text messages and emails to each other in Pig Latin, for extra practice.
 If you find someone who can also speak Pig Latin, be aware that they might form their words a little differently to you. This is normal as there are a number of different Pig Latin variations. Some of the main ones are as follows:


For words beginning with a vowel, some Pig Latin varieties add the word "yay" rather than "way" to the end of a word. For example, the word "ocean" would become ocean-yay rather than "ocean-way" and the word "inbox" would become inbox-yay rather than "inbox-way".
Another variation is to add the letter "Y" to the beginning of a word that starts with a vowel, in addition to adding "yay" to the end. For example, the word "extra" would become yextra-yay and the word "orange" would become yorange-yay.
One more variation entails adding the suffix "ay" rather than "way" to a word that begins with a vowel but ends in a consonant. For example, "after" would become after-ay rather than "after-way" and the word "olives" would become olives-ay rather than "olives -way".
 Rather than having to mentally form the Pig Latin every time you want to say something, try learning a few key phrases off by heart that you can say and understand without thinking. This will speed up the communication process considerably! Here are some examples:


What's up? = At's-whay up-way?

How are you? = Ow-hay are-way ou-yay?

What are you doing later? = At-whay are-way ou-yay oing-day ater-lay?

I love you. = I-way ove-lay ou-yay.

I have a secret = I-way ave-hay a-way ecret-say.

The guy next to me has toilet paper stuck to his shoe = E-thay uy-gay ext-nay o-tay e-may as-hay oilet-tay aper-pay uck-stay o-tay is-hay oe-shay.

Can you speak Pig Latin? It's really not that hard. You should try it = An-cay ou-yay eak-spay Ig-pay Atin-lay? It's-way eally-ray ot-nay at-thay ard-hay. Ou-yay ould-shay y-tray it-way.

Holy cow! My goldfish just exploded! = Oly-hay ow-cay! Y-may old-gay ish-fay ust-jay exploded-way!


, Pig Latin can be difficult to understand, even if you know all the rules, so make sure to speak slowly and enunciate all your words correctly when speaking to another person. They'll be able to understand you better and it will save you the frustration of having to repeat yourself all the time!

