 When removing multiple drawers from one piece of furniture, you should start at the top of the piece and gradually work your way down to the bottom drawer.


By removing the top drawers first, you can prevent the piece of furniture from becoming too top-heavy. If the piece were to become top-heavy, it would wobble and may even tip over as you work with the remaining drawers.
 Pull the drawer straight out of the piece, stopping only once the drawer resists and refuses to extend out further.


Position yourself in front of the piece of furniture. Make sure that there's enough space in between you and the drawer for the drawer to extend out fully.
Pull the drawer out by lifting the front handle toward you. If necessary, grab the front face of the drawer from the bottom to help extend it further out. Keep your fingers away from the metal tracks while the drawer is in motion, though.
 Locate the cable attached to the exterior back sides of the drawer. Use a screwdriver to remove the screws holding that cable in place.The anti-tip cable is a safety feature that prevents more than one drawer from being opened at the same time.
On the top and bottom drawers, the cable will be threaded to special inserts at the rear of the drawer.
On the middle drawers, the cable will be threaded through eyelets on the rear center of each drawer and the back panel.
Note that you'll typically need to use a Phillips screwdriver to detach the cable from each drawer.
 Look toward the back of both the left and right metal tracks. You should be able to find a disconnect tab in the center of each one. Press inward on both disconnect tabs at the same time.


Make sure that both tabs are completely depressed. For most drawers, these tabs will not lock into place after pressing them down, so you'll need to continue holding them down until after you've completely removed the drawer.
 Continue pulling the drawer forward, tilting it slightly upward at the same time. You should be able to completely remove it from the piece of furniture.


Note that the drawer will likely be very heavy, regardless of whether it's full or not. Prepare yourself accordingly.
In many cases, you'll need to return each drawer to the same cavity when re-assembling the piece. Many of these drawers will be labeled with number decals to assist in that process, and the top drawer is usually labeled with the number "1."

, If the metal tracks continue sticking out of the front after you've removed the drawer, you should push them straight back into the piece of furniture before working with it further.

