 Not all of the time. When you go shopping and your son sees that new video game that everyone has, there's no doubt he's gonna ask: " Dad/mom, can I have it?" Don't yell No! and leave. If its too much money just say maybe next time or for your birthday/Christmas/Easter. If it's not that much money just buy it for him but make him clean his room, set the table, wash the dishes,etc. This way he will learn to do his chores and get the toy/ game that he's been wanting;
, Boys don't like buying clothes,but people judge you on how much money you have by the way you dress. If he wears a baggy stained shirt and super tight athletic shorts people aren't going to think of you as someone with much money. Just buy him some Nike shorts and a t-shirt from Target for the summer and some jeans and a jacket for the winter.
 If he calls his sister stupid don't yell at him. It's not q big deal. He. was just mad and let it slip out. Just tell him to apologize. Don't spank him or ground him for a week. If he punches his brother, same thing. If they don't look hurt just let one kid get back at the other. Example: if Nate punches Mike in the arm just tell Mike to give Nate a little punch. Most boys believe in revenge so this will seem normal to them.
 Boys are into things like Pokémon, Bakugan, video games, etc. If your son loves Pokémon buy a deck or use some of his cards and battle. If he likes Bakugan, get a starter pack ($10) and battle with him or use some of his Bakugan and battle with him. Let him teach you how to play these games. It will make him feel smart. Also let him make up his own rules.
 If he wants to be a knight and save the princess, let him! You can buy him a foam sword and pretend to be a dragon. It's always fun to play pretend. If he wants to be a ninja or a pirate, let him do what ever he desires, as long as its safe.
 Let him have a nice big room with his toys and a bed. If you have an extra room turn it into the playroom. This way your son will have a nice place to play. Get a dog, a cat, a guinea pig, or a hamster. These are great pets to have. It also teaches kids about having children of there own. Buy a trampoline or a pool. This helps him exercise and have fun at the same time.
 A long trip in the car is never fun but especially for the driver. Not only do they need to operate the vehicle, but they have to listen to a kid in the back ask "Are we there yet?" Every five seconds.Get him a portable game system like a 3DS or make a box filled with toys that he can play with in the car. You could also just get a car with a T.V.
 When your kids are in a fight don't say things like "I thought you were better than this" or " When I was a kid I never fought with my siblings". Just ask them what happened and take them to see a movie or something afterwards.
 You don't think you are embarrassing but to kids, you can be sometimes. When you drop them off at school don't give them a big hug and say I love you! Give them a small hug and a light punch on the arm and say "Bye *Name*, see you later!"

, All kids want to know that they are loved no matter what age they are.

