 Aromatherapy uses essential oils derived from plants for healing purposes. Put a drop of peppermint oil or lemon oil on the insides of your wrists and on your temples.


Check to make sure you don’t have a skin sensitivity to essential oils by putting a single drop of the oil on your wrist. If you are sensitive to it, you may experience a rash, redness or itching. If you do have a sensitivity, try another oil.
Both peppermint and lemon oil have been traditionally used to treat nausea.Several studies indicate that relief from peppermint or lemon oil may be due to direct action on the brain’s center, which influences nausea. It’s also possible that the oils are relaxing, thereby reducing feelings of nausea.In order for this to be effective, use concentrated essential oils. Peppermint or lemon candy or scents are not likely to have real peppermint or lemon oil. In addition, they are not likely to have these substances at high enough levels to be useful.
Use caution when trying aromatherapy if you have asthma. Strong scents such as those in aromatherapy oils can cause wheezing in people with asthma.
 In Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), the body is viewed as having a system of energy meridians networked throughout. Applying needles (as in acupuncture) or pressure (as in acupressure) to specific points along these meridians can re-balance the energy and reduce the symptoms. Try the “p6”, “Nei guan” or “inner gate” point to relieve nausea. This is located about 2 finger-widths below the crease of your wrists (at the base of the palms).


Start with your palms facing you. Feel for two tendons around the midpoint of that area above your wrist.
Using the index and middle finger of the opposite hand, apply firm, but gentle pressure for about 10-20 seconds and release.
Repeat on the other arm.
You can also press on the p6 point while also pressing on the outer side of your wrist at the same time. To do so, use your thumb on p6 and your index finger on the other side of the same arm. Hold for 10-20 seconds and release.
Repeat as often as necessary. You can also hold it for longer periods of time, even up to a minute or two.
Do this before every meal or beverage.