 Different types of plants do well in different climates. If you live in a dry, arid climate, you want to plant things from similar climates. The same holds true if you live in a wetter, cooler climate. Plants that are native to your area are always a good place to start when considering what will grow in your climate.For example, you wouldn’t plant a cactus in marshlands, but it would do really well in a desert climate.
Other low water plants, such as hostas, will do well in drier climates.;
, For any plant that you choose, you should know its soil requirements. Some plants require high levels of organic material in the soil, while others can do without it. You might also run into plants that are sensitive to salt content and other nutrient factors. How quickly your soil drains should be considered as well. Some plants require a quick-draining soil.Crab grass and silky thread grass both do well in most soils and require little water.
 Before deciding where to plant your plants, make sure that there is adequate sunlight. You can measure this by simply noticing when the sun hits the garden area and when the area is taken over by shade. If there are at least eight hours in between, the garden should do fine.Unless the plant(s) you have chosen specifically calls for less, the garden area should receive at least eight hours of direct sunlight each day.
 Low water plants range from grasses to cacti. Look at different plants in a garden catalog or online. You can also visit a local greenhouse or garden store to see plants up close. Plant the ones that are most satisfying to you. A few common choices are:Blanket Flower
Sea Holly
Lavender
Salvia
Kangaroo Paw
Cacti
Hostas

, You should be planting in the fall to spring time frame. That said, planting in fall is typically best. Planting in fall gives the root system time to set in the soil before the summer heat hits the plant. The soil is also subject to less evaporation during the fall than in warmer months., Over watering and under watering are both bad for plants. If you have a group of plants with different water needs, it is easy to flood some in order to give others the water they need. Instead, group plants with similar needs together so that maintaining your garden is as easy as giving each group of plants the right amount of watering., For the first year, the root system will be poorly set in the soil. This means that you will need to water your plant regularly to allow the root system to develop. Even though your plants are low water, they will require regular watering until their roots are well developed., Use a spade to remove the surface soil. Check the moisture near the roots before and after watering. If the soil is dry, you need to water more. If it is saturated, you should use less water next time. Ideally, the soil will be moist but not saturated., After the first year, low water plants will need much less watering. You may still need to water occasionally (once a week or so) in the second year. By the third year, most low water plants require monthly waterings at the most. Many will require no watering at all., Spread mulch over the plant bed to keep the soil cool. This also helps to prevent water from evaporating out of the soil. You should use mulch layer to prevent weeds from growing in your garden and keep the soil from being washed away., If your garden gets too much sunlight, you can plant a tall tree nearby to cast shade over the garden. Another option is to build a lattice or other structure to partially block the sunlight. Make sure that you do allow adequate sunlight into the garden, however, or your plants will suffer.