 Night terrors may frequently be confused with nightmares, but the two are unique. Being able to distinguish the difference between the two can help you understand how to manage and prevent them.Nightmares happen during the rapid eye movements (REM) phase of sleep, which usually occur during the later stages before a child wakes up. The child will be frightened when he or she wakes, and may be reluctant to return to sleep.
Night terrors occur during deeper phases of sleep, which usually take place in the first several hours. Although the child appears to be terrified, he or she won’t respond to comforting and won’t remember the incident in the morning. He or she may easily fall back asleep.;
, There is little understanding of what causes night terrors. However, these disturbances tend to be associated with fever, sleep deprivation, certain medications, and stressful life events.Signs that your child is experiencing a night terror may include:Being aggressive (e.g. hitting, kicking, etc.)
Being difficult to awaken (or being confused upon awakening)
Being inconsolable
Breathing heavily
Getting out of bed and walking/running around the house
Having a racing pulse
Staring wide-eyed
Sweating
Thrashing about in bed

, Mention your child’s night terrors during a routine wellness exam. During this visit, your doctor may conduct a physical exam and obtain a history of your child’s medical status and sleep habits. If your pediatrician suspects a more serious condition is causing night terrors, your child may have to undergo testing, such as an electroencephalogram to study brain activity or a sleep study to check for sleep apnea.If your doctor thinks your child’s sleep disruption is the result of night terrors, there may not be any additional testing.
 Your doctor may provide you with some lifestyle changes, such as modifying your child’s sleep routine, to deal with night terrors. Night terrors aren’t usually a cause for concern or a sign of a medical problem, so there won’t be any medical treatment to relieve them.However, if there is an associated medical problem, such as sleep apnea, then treatment for the underlying problem may be recommended.


On the bright side, night terrors may only last a few weeks from when they first start and your child will eventually outgrow them.
 Because night terrors may be influenced by stress or emotional tension in the household, you will want to take measures to care for yourself while they are happening. These disturbances generally upset parents more than children, so it may help to put your child to bed earlier in the evening. That way, if night terrors occur, it won’t affect your own sleep and cause more stress.


For example, aim to put your toddler down to sleep around 7:00pm (or earlier). Since most night terrors occur during the first 2 to 3 hours of sleep, you can set your own bedtime for around 10:30 or 11:00. That way you won’t be startled awake by your child’s terrified screams.
This strategy ensures that you and your child get adequate sleep. Plus, putting your child down earlier may actually help reduce night terrors since these episodes can be related to sleep deprivation., It’s understandable to be so frightened by your child’s screaming and thrashing that you try to wake him or her up. However, children experiencing night terrors may be difficult to wake and may experience agitation or disorientation if they do wake. Just wait it out. A night terror can last from 1 to 30 minutes, but most last for just a few minutes., Ensure safety during night terrors by clearing your child’s bedroom floor of any objects that he or she may step on or trip over. Shut the door so your child cannot get out and fall down stairs or wander around too far. Put potentially dangerous items or products out of reach.


Be as proactive as you can to keep your child secure during night terrors. Although these precautions won't prevent night terrors from happening, they will decrease the odds of your child getting hurt during the episode., Most night terrors fade over a span of weeks. If your child’s night terrors occur frequently and do not seem to diminish, you may need a referral to see a specialist.


You may also need professional help if the terrors are significantly disrupting your own sleep or family life, if your child is getting injured or injuring someone else, or if night terrors continue beyond adolescence. Contact your doctor if any of these situations apply to you., One way to prevent your child’s night terrors is to start keeping track of when they usually occur. Start keeping a log of each time your toddler wakes due to a sleep terror. If you notice that there is a pattern in the time that your child usually has night terrors, you can begin waking your child about 15 minutes before they usually occur and then keep your child awake for a few minutes.For example, you could gently wake your child and take them to use the bathroom or to get a drink of water.
 Reducing stress or emotional tension that contributes to sleep disruption is generally the best course of action to eliminate night terrors. Problems at school or with family life can lead to your toddler’s night terrors. Consult with a therapist or counselor to discuss coping mechanisms or ways to relieve stress for your child and your family.


For example, if you and your spouse have been fighting, your child may have picked up on the tension even if he or she was not present during a disagreement. Aim to address the underlying causes of stress to minimize night terror episodes., If your child is not getting enough physical activity, it could reflect on his or her sleep habits. When a child gets adequate activity during the day, he or she usually falls asleep faster, stays asleep longer and enjoys a better quality of life upon awakening.


Get plenty of stimulating exercise throughout the day (reduce activity in the hours right before bed) in order to boost your child’s chances of getting a good night’s sleep., Establish a regular, calming routine to prepare your child for a restful night. This sets the tone for better quality, peaceful sleep. Shut off the television and games a few hours before sleep time. Create a sleep routine that includes activities like a warm bath and storytime.Also, ensure that your child’s sleep environment is comfortable and safe. Turn down the temperature a bit. Give him or her a favorite stuffed animal for extra protection. Dim the lights to invite sleepiness.
 Your child’s nutrition could be causing sleep disruption, too. What your child eats during the day—and right before bed—can have a major impact on energy levels and sleep quality. Avoid giving your child caffeine or sugary foods or drinks, which can have them overly stimulated at bedtime.


Instead aim for sleep-inducing, healthy snacks, such as piece of whole-wheat toast with peanut butter, a glass of milk and an oatmeal raisin cookie, or blueberry yogurt with granola. These foods provide complex carbohydrates along with the amino acid tryptophan to promote better sleep.