 The first session will be the longest as it is a kind of "getting to know" session. You need to ask probing questions and listen carefully to the responses. Some ways to ask questions and respond include:


"So, your mom tells me your are failing math (or whatever subject/s), how badly are you failing?"
"Tell me the reasons you think you are failing. It's okay if you think you are the reason - just tell me what you are doing to fail and we can work on that together."
"You are probably not stupid. You may learn in different ways but I find that students are rarely stupid really. We will work to find the ways you learn best. How do you think you learn best?";
, The goal of the first session is to find out what the student needs to work on and learn but more importantly to let the student know that you are his/her support. He or she does not have to bear the entire burden alone anymore. You are here as an expert to direct the process so that he or she can work his/her way out of this failing predicament. This will immediately give confidence to the student. The first session involves a lot of important psychological work that you will build on.


Ways to assess the student include through examination, or perhaps by doing a quick interview with the parents of the child or a look at their previous results.
 For example, a child is doing maths, and is fabulous at algebra, but has trouble remembering his or her timetables. Make sure you nail the timetables into their system; many a source of failure can be pinpointed on a failure to grasp a key underpinning at some point during the studies.


Set goals that focus on the gaps. Then proceed to goals that focus on the future.
 Then make sure the student can do it on their own before leaving. Give the student positive verbal commendation of their good work in this session and thank them for being honest with you.
 The goal of the second and remaining tutorial sessions is to make sure the student is progressing in a positive direction by doing homework, making better grades on tests, and feeling more in control of the subject. Every student will be different as to how much autonomy they have over their life and schoolwork. You have to work with them according to their developmental pace––not yours. Otherwise they will improve to please you not to help themselves. This is very sensitive work and you must keep giving the ownership of the work to them. You are only there to support and help them do the work. Modeling is always appropriate when they forget or a new concept is taught, just make sure they need it. Always be honest and expect them to be honest with you about everything. You will find the relationship very rewarding.
 Extend the student and create an expectation for the student to start doing this for him- or herself. The sooner this is internalized, the better able the student will become at self-disciplining the learning process and doing well.
 Prepare revision points to help go back over materials already covered. Do an end of term exam to see whether there has been any improvement.
 What to charge? You have to check around your community to see what other tutors charge and then consider your qualifications.
 Keep a copy of the expected goals.

