 This is totally up to you as to how wide you want your chair to be. Some people like beanbag chairs which are about the size of a normal chair. Others like the chair to be almost oversized, so that they can rest their arms on the excess fabric. The average width of an average beanbag chair is around 32 inches wide.42 inches wide will get you a large beanbag chair, while 56-70 inches will produce an extra large beanbag chair.
You may want to visit stores which sell beanbag chairs to measure each size of beanbag chair and see how they feel. Because this project is relatively easy, you can afford to make a mistake, and restart with a different size.
 The best thing to buy is a cotton-polyester blended fabric in your local arts and crafts store. Beanbag chairs that are available in stores are usually made with specially designed, elastic fabric which is not easily available. You can of course choose from any design they have available, such as solid colors, polka dots, stripes, animal prints, etc., All you have to do is add 4 inches to the total width of your chair. For example, let's assume that your diameter length will be 60 inches long. Add 4 inches to this length and you get 64 inches. Therefore, you will need to purchase either two separate pieces of fabric, each 64X64 inches, or one continuous piece of fabric that is 64X128 inches.You need two pieces of fabric to form the top and bottom of your chair. Don't worry if you buy one continuous piece of fabric. All you have to do is cut it in half using scissors when you get it home so that you have two even squares.
If the fabric is available directly off the bar, you can get it cut exactly the size you need. If however it is only available prepackaged, make sure you buy a piece of fabric that is larger than what you will need.
 If you have bought one large piece of fabric, now is the time to cut the piece in half so that you have two equal squares. You will then flip both pieces of fabric over on a safe, flat surface so that the design is facing down. Draw a circle on each piece of fabric. Both circles should have the same diameter. The diameter of your circles should be the desired width of your chair (as decided on earlier).If you need help drawing circles, please visit: How to Draw a Circle.
Once you have made a circle on each piece of fabric, cut them out with a pair of scissors.
 Place one circle face up on a flat surface. Place the other circle directly on top of the other circle, face down. Make sure to get the circles as closely matched up as possible. Take out your sewing machine. Place the edge of the two circles underneath the threaded needle.You will first make a 1/2 inch inseam around to stitch your circles together. Leave a hole at the end so that you can get your hand in between the circles. You will then go back in the opposite direction, this time sewing a 3/4 inch inseam. Once more, do not sew over the hole you will need to put your hand through.
After you have stitched your circles together, remove them safely from the sewing machine. Take a pair of scissors and trim off the excess fabric, about 1/4 inch close to the 1/2 inch inseam.
 First, put your hand through the hole you did not stitch. Reach all the way through and grab the seam on the other side. Pull the fabric through the hole flipping it inside-out (design should now be on the outside). Poke your hand back through the hole to push against the seams, and make sure the fabric is poked all the way out.Fill your beanbag chair with whatever you like. You can use standard stuffing material. You can use real beans. Polyester pellets are also a very popular item to use. All of these can be found at your local arts and crafts store.
Finally, sew the hole by hand. You will need a small, sharp needle and some embroidery floss which matches your other thread. For more information about how to stitch, visit: How to Sew


