 Ideally, your shower or bath should be at least ten minutes long. Taking a shower will help you feel and look fresh. Wash your face regularly to avoid unsightly acne. Use a body wash to clean all of your nooks and crannies - don't ignore places like your feet.


After you take a shower, it's a good idea for males and females to apply lotion -- it will keep your skin soft and supple.;
, Make sure your hair stays clean and not greasy. Shampoo strips your hair of sebum, your natural, necessary oil.Even so, you should make sure that your hair smells fresh, feels clean, and is free of dandruff.


You can easily buy shampoos or conditioners created for your specific hair type. Check the descriptions on the bottle and try several brands to see which works best for your hair.
Don't overuse heat products or hairspray because it can damage your hair and make it very dry and difficult to manage.
 Toothpaste, a toothbrush, mouthwash, floss, and a visit to your dentist should do the trick. Brush your teeth and tongue regularly to prevent bad breath and cavities.


Replace your toothbrush every three months to make sure you are actually cleaning your teeth instead of rubbing them with a filthy old brush., If you shower regularly, this shouldn't be too much of a concern. However, always use deodorant or antiperspirant.


You may want to try foot powder to combat sweaty foot odors.
If you choose to use cologne or perfume, use it as an accent - don't try to mask an odor with these products. Remember to use a very light touch with these products in order to keep the smell from becoming overwhelming. Be aware that some people have allergies. If you can smell it from more that three or four feet away, then you are wearing too much.
 This can be a challenge for men and women alike.


If you're a guy, shave daily. If you have a mustache, make sure no hair is covering your lip, and never let it get bushy. If you're going to have facial hair, always make sure it is kept short and neatly groomed. You may need to get electric clippers to keep everything trimmed.
Wax that upper lip. Some women get a little fuzz too. A little bit above the mouth is not that uncommon. Waxing the hairs is a good way to remove the hairs, or you can bleach them to make them less noticeable.Pluck your eyebrows. Two eyebrows are better than one. Men and women alike can benefit from some attention to the eyebrows. Get a pair of tweezers and pull out those pesky facial hairs. You may even want to wax your eyebrows to get the best looking shape for your face.
Trim your nose hairs. Hairs hanging out of your nose can be unsightly and provide a good surface for mucus to cling to and embarrass you. Keep your nose hairs from getting out of control by snipping them once every couple of weeks.

