 While tooth pain can often be at least temporarily alleviated at home, permanently fixing a sore tooth frequently requires the intervention of a dentist.


Call a dentist if any of the following are true: your symptoms have lasted for two days; you have tooth pain accompanied by fever; you have signs of infection (swelling, redness, odor or discharge from the site); or you have trouble breathing or swallowing. If any of these symptoms are severe, even if they have lasted for less than two days, seek medical help immediately.If your tooth hurts when you're chewing, you might have a crack on your tooth. If it's above your gum, it can be treated with a root canal. If it's below the gum, your tooth may need to be extracted.
If you don’t have a regular dentist, call one in your area. If you have a toothache, you should be able to be seen within a couple of days.
 An abscess is an infection that has spread from a crack in the tooth into the pulp inside. From there, it can spread into the jaw and elsewhere, with possibly serious medical complications.In addition to pain, swelling, fever, redness in the gums, and a foul taste in the mouth can be signs of an abscess. Call a dentist if any of these symptoms accompany your sore tooth.
Seek medical attention immediately if you also experience any of the following symptoms: high fever, chills, vomiting, or dizziness. These can be signs of a severe dental abscess.In addition, seek immediate medical treatment if you experience an inability to open your mouth (if you can't fit one finger into it), difficulty swallowing, shortness of breath, or gasping for air when you lay flat. These symptoms indicate that you might have a significant infection compromising your airway.
 Be ready to tell the dentist when your pain started, where the pain is most severe, and if you have any other symptoms.In addition to a visual inspection, the dentist may take x-rays, which can spot an abscess.
Take any and all medication prescribed by the dentist, according to his/her instructions. If you have an abscess, your dentist will probably prescribe an antibiotic to treat the infection before the tooth can be fixed. Your dentist may also give you a prescription for a painkiller such as prescription strength acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or even hydrocodone.
 In the case of an abscess, the dentist will likely perform a root canal and crown. A root canal involves the removal of the infected pulp and the re-closure of the area in order to save the tooth.Root canals can be pricey, depending upon whether you have dental insurance, but they are not usually as painful as is often portrayed on television comedies, for instance.
Root canals can often take one to three office visits to complete. You will likely be fitted with a temporary crown after your root canal and need to return to the dentist for a permanent cap.
Your dentist might also give you the option of extraction, which is significantly less expensive.

