 If your house is older and you are unsure how old your appliances are, you should consider buying a home warranty. Costly appliances that can break down in older homes are refrigerators, ovens, washers and dryers, dishwashers, air conditioners, and water heaters. If you do not have the money to cover the expenses of replacing or repairing appliances, then consider getting a home warranty.


When buying a policy, find out if you can cancel the warranty within 30 days. Many contracts provide a 30-day free trial. This allows you to cancel within 30 days for a full refund, if you determine you do not need it., Before buying a home, ensure that the appliances are working at the time of sale. Warranties usually do not provide coverage for appliances that have pre-existing issues. Try to determine if your appliances have pre-existing issues. Examples of appliances that have pre-existing issues are appliances that have never worked, appliances identified as faulty by an inspector or in previous repair calls, and items that were not turned on or plugged in at the time of inspection during the listing period.


You can also compare the age of each covered appliance to its average lifespan. If the appliance is older than its average lifespan, then it's highly likely that it will break down sooner rather than later. Use the chart from the National Association of Certified Home Inspectors to determine the average lifespan of your appliances. Then, compare the actual age of the appliance to its average lifespan. If you have more than one major appliance that is older than its average lifespan, and you do not have an emergency fund to cover the costs, then consider buying a home warranty.
 For example, if you buy a $600 policy that you use twice in a year, once for a stopped up sink and again to replace a heating element in an oven, then your warranty costs more than your repairs. If you have a $600 policy that replaces a $3,500 air conditioning system, then your home warranty will have saved you money.


Consider the costs to replace your appliances. For example, a boiler can cost around $12,000 to replace. Repairs on refrigerators can be up to $2,000 if a motor needs replacing. And, the cost to repair a surface-heating oven can be up to $1,200.Consider a home warranty if you have expensive taste in appliances. If you have expensive taste in appliances, repairs can be very costly. Consider getting a warranty if this is you.
Also remember that home warranty firms charge a non-refundable service fee when a contractor comes out to see you. The service fee can range from $50 to $100.