 While you may use natural methods to remove moles for cosmetic reasons, you will need to see a doctor for cancerous moles. If you have several moles and one looks different from the others, you should get it evaluated by a doctor. If you’re ever in doubt about a mole, always see your doctor.


Common moles -- Non-cancerous moles are typically pink, tan or brown. They are one color. They can be flat or raised, round or oval, and are typically smaller than a pencil eraser.If you have 50 or more common roles, you are at increased risk for skin cancer and should consult your doctor.
Atypical moles (dysplastic) – See your doctor if you have any large, unusually shaped, or mulit-colored moles, as these may be more likely to develop into skin cancer.Congenital moles (birthmarks) – These are moles that you are born with. Very large congenital moles put you at greater risk for melanoma, so you should consult your doctor regularly to check for signs of skin cancer.Spitz nevi – These moles look like melanoma (skin cancer). They are usually pink or multicolored, raised, and domed shaped. They may bleed or ooze. You will need a biopsy to ensure such a mole is not cancerous. Spitz nevi are more common in children and young adults.Melanoma – A melanoma is a cancerous mole. It will need to be removed. See your doctor immediately if you suspect you have a melanoma.;
, You should check your body for moles once a month. Take off your clothes and stand in a room with bright lighting. If possible, have a full-length mirror and a hand mirror available.Remember to examine your scalp and hairline, behind your ears, and under your arms.
Check your legs, feet, genitals, and the back of your neck, buttocks, and upper thighs.
 Look for the signs of malignancy using the mnemonic ABCDE. The more of the following aspects are true for your mole, the more likely melanoma is:Asymmetry. Cancerous moles can be asymmetrical or uneven.

Borders. Cancerous moles can have uneven, ragged borders, rather than smooth ones.

Color. Cancerous moles are often black or red and can have uneven coloration - some parts may be darker than others.

Diameter. Any mole larger than a pencil eraser may be cause for concern.

Evolving. Most importantly, any mole that is changing - either in size, shape, or composition - may be cancerous and should be treated as such until proven otherwise.
Additionally, the most dangerous form of melanoma, nodular melanoma, has its own criteria:


Elevated. Raised moles are especially likely to develop into melanoma.

Firm. Cancerous moles often become firm or hard to the touch.

Growing. Moles that are growing are special causes for concern.
 If you have any reason to believe a mole may be cancerous, make an appointment with your doctor as soon as you can. Beginning treatment as early as possible is important for successfully curing melanoma, and only a qualified medical professional can guide you to the right treatment plan.