 Your dog might not at first realize that you are going to play naturally with them if they are not used to it and may study you. They may not be sure if they should join in or not. Also remember that your dog may get a bit carried away and nip you during this.
 This is how wolves naturally play with each by playful bites. Simply stop playing to show your dog that the play bite signals the end of the fun instead of the start of it. And of course, have fun!!

, How you can do this is chase your dog around your 'territory' AKA the yard.
Speak excitedly to him and grab his tail every once in a while. If your dog wants, let him chase you, just remember the bit about nipping above.


This is the game where you must watch out for nipping. Most dogs do not nip but some might get carried away during wrestling. wolves in nature wrestle playfully with each to show their love and pack-man-ship with each other.
When wrestling with your dog, began gently. (Gently) slap your dogs sides and face and talk in low but happy voice. You may even pick up your dog and roll it onto its back to flick its stomach. (Caution: Dogs may jump on you or nip you during this)
Let your dog gently chew on your hand, don't instantly pull away or else wrestling won't be fun for him. Only pull away when it begins to get too tight. Stop the wrestling during this time.
 In nature, wolves will take walks with each other to enjoy each others company and explore new parts of the woods. You don't need to say anything just let your dog know that you are there.
See if your dog likes this game by looking at him. If his tail is up or even gently wagging from side to side he is content and happy. Same if his ears are loose or if his tongue is hanging limply out of his mouth. If he is not happy, his tail will be down, ears back and tongue arched upwards.
 Run around by him and shout excitedly for him to find it.
When he does, praise him. wolves will try to find their hidden bones, sticks, etc.. all the time, and they often take a favorite pack member to help out.
 They sing with their pack for hunts, joy, war cries, and just for the heck of singing.
Try to sing with your dog. Make your song as high pitched and with drawn as able. Its ok if your dog doesn't do this. He might even look at you strangely. Not all dogs are singers, but some love to!







, They will smell each other, maybe play one of the other games for a bit, then carry on.
Take your dog to a dog park. Here he can meet some new dogs and react as a natural wolf would.
Stay by your dog at the park and pet the new dogs. This will make your dog feel as if though 'the pack's' confronting the other dogs, not just himself. (Caution: Some dogs will act aggressive towards other dogs just as wolves do. This is completely normal. This just means dog parks are not for your dog.)







