 Bernese mountain dogs have long, silky fur that needs weekly care. Brush her fur at least once a week to keep it from getting tangled and knotted. This will also help her skin development and encourage circulation.


You should also check for ticks and fleas while brushing her. Look close at the skin and run your fingers over her fur while your brush her to check for ticks.
Also use this time to check for any skin abnormalities, such as cysts, lumps, or bumps. Also look for skin irritation and redness. If you find any, you should contact your vet to find the cause.
Bernese mountain dog's fur is not generally cut short but is just kept trimmed neatly., In addition to taking care of her fur, you should also take care of her nails. You can get your vet to do this or you can try it at home. It may be hard to do it at first at home, but after she gets used to it, she will likely let you do it. Just make sure you know what you are doing so you avoid cutting to much off and injuring the quick of her nails. This is painful and may cause them to get infected.


Even if the vet takes care of her nails, you should groom the fur around her paws. It should be kept neatly trimmed but long enough to keep her paws covered., Bernese mountain dogs benefit from brushing their teeth every day. This will help remove plague and bacteria that builds up in her mouth. Never use human toothpaste on a dog because it can cause illness because the fluoride is poisonous to dogs. Buy dog toothpaste and a dog toothbrush, which can be bought at pet stores or from your vet.


You may have to start slow to acclimate her to the feeling of brushing her teeth. Start off by letting her lick the toothpaste off your finger, rubbing it into her gums with your finger, and then brushing a little at a time until she lets you do all of her teeth. This may take a week or more.
While you brush her teeth, also look for loose or damaged teeth and check the overall health of the mouth.5
You can also give her dental fortified treats or food to help fight plaque buildup. If your dog gets a lot of buildup despite bushing her teeth, your vet can clean her teeth as well.