 A cover letter is a manuscript in which you describe your past accomplishments, and how those accomplishments make you the perfect candidate for the job you are applying for.


The cover letter allows your potential employer to draw his or her own conclusions about you based on the work you have already done.;
, When applying for a job, your potential employer may have a specific list of documents the company requires of an applicant. On that list may be a cover letter; if you see a request for a cover letter anywhere on an application, it is very important that you include this letter.


If you are looking at a company’s job listings and you see that they require a resume and a CV, know that this means you must include a cover letter (CV).
 Cover letters can be a great way for a potential employer to become familiar with your specific personality, which they take into account along with your work experience.


Use your cover letter as a way to address certain qualities that the application lists. For example, if the application or job listing states that the company is looking for someone who is enthusiastic and passionate, use your cover letter to demonstrate that you have these qualities.
Cover letters also allow you to convey your interests, which can help your potential employer decide if you are a good fit for the company.
 If you have only a little experience in the field you are applying to, or do not fit some of the other requirements in the job listing, you should send along a cover letter when you apply. This is because your resume, at face value, might not stand out from the other applicants, but your cover letter can attract the recruiter’s attention.


In this instance, use your cover letter to demonstrate closely related skills, experience, or similar responsibilities you have had in the past to those that you would have at the company you are applying to.
Your cover letter can also help your potential employer see your resume through your eyes; you can discuss why you should be considered for the job, despite your lack of experience or skill in a particular area.
 While you cannot mention a referral in your resume, you can mention one in a cover letter. A cover letter can be used to show your relationship to the person that gave you the referral, as well as why you feel this referral is important.

