 You can find most supplies for a green tea body wrap at a health food store. You may be able to find some of the supplies at your local supermarket. You will need the following:You will need a cup of bentonite powder. You can buy this online or possibly at a health food shop.
You will also need two cups of brewed green tea. You should be able to find green tea at most supermarkets. You can also matcha powder, as it may give your mixture a slightly thicker texture.;
, A diuretic essential oil may help improve issues with water retention. You can find essential oils online or at a local health food store. The following essential oils have diuretic properties:Cypress
Fennel
Geranium
Grapefruit
Juniper Berry
Rosemary

, You will need to mix 1 cup of bentonite powder, 2 cups of green tea, and 2 drops of your chosen essential oil. Do not use a metal spoon for mixing the ingredients. Metal can react with the bentonite and draw traces of metal into your mixture.Mix everything together until it forms a thick paste.
If you want a different texture, try adding a little bit more green tea or bentonite powder. If you want a more watery texture, add more green tea. If you want a more solid texture, add more bentonite powder.
Avoid adding extra essential oils, however. One to two drops should be safe and efficient. If you use essential oils frequently, however, 3 or 4 drops may be safe for you., You will need some kind of wrapping to secure the green tea mixture in place. You can use medical bandages, which you can buy at a drug store. You can also cut up an old cotton sheet.Cut the bandages or sheets into small strips so they're easy to handle.
You should also get some plastic wrap. You will wrap this over the cloth wraps to hold everything in place.
 Some people who have used body wraps advocate drinking water prior to use. This may help keep the body hydrated while the body wrap is in place. Before applying the paste to your skin, drink an 8-ounce glass of water., A hot shower may help open your pores. Therefore, it's not a bad idea to take a warm shower just before applying the body wrap.Massage the area where you're applying the wrap with warm water. This may open your pores more in that particular area, possibly making the wrap more effective.
 Where you apply your paste depends on how you're using the wrap. If you want to target cellulite on your thighs, for example, apply the paste there. If you're looking to reduce stomach fat, try adding the paste to your stomach. Gently massage the paste into the skin where you're applying the body wrap.You want your mixture to be warm when you add it to your skin. If the mixture has cooled down since you prepared it, you may want to briefly reheat it in the microwave or over the stove before applying it to your skin. Just make sure it's cool enough that it won't burn your skin.
 Place your cloth wraps over where you applied the mixture. Place enough cloth warps on your body to fully cover the green tea mixture. Then, wrap some plastic wrap around the cloth wraps to secure them in place. You may have to use tape to hold the plastic wrap in place.If may be easier to dip the cloth wraps in the mixture and then apply them to your chosen area. You can do this instead of massaging in the mixture first. You may find the wraps stay on easier this way.
 The Food and Drug Administration says body wraps can actually be dangerous. Wraps, especially when left on for more than a few hours, can cause dehydration. Avoid leaving the wrap on for too long and seek medical help if you notice any signs of dehydration.Signs of mild dehydration include sleepiness, a dry and sticky mouth, increased thirst, decreased urination, a headache, and dizziness.
Severe dehydration is marked by irritability, confusion, extreme thirst, fever, rapid heartbeat, and fever.
If you notice any sings of dehydration, seek medical help immediately. Do not use a body wrap again in the future if your body reacts poorly to it.
 You want to make sure you stay hydrated while wearing your body wrap. Some people believe this boosts the wrap's effectiveness as well.Keep a glass of water or a water bottle by your side the whole time you're wearing the wrap. Periodically take sips.
If you leave the house wearing the wrap, take a water bottle with you. You can also stop at any water fountains you see.
 You do not want to overexert yourself while wearing the wrap. Exercise, especially strenuous exercise, should be avoided while wearing the body wrap. Body wraps cause you to lose water weight, so you can potentially dehydrate if you do too much physical activity while wearing the wrap.It may be best to simply sit and relax while wearing the wrap. You can watch television or a movie to keep yourself entertained.
 This is about how long it should take for the wrap to work. Carefully remove the wrap and discard it after an hour.Take a shower after wearing the body wrap. Make sure to rinse off any remaining green tea mixture completely.

