 Take 20 minutes each day to write about what’s on your mind. This might include your goals, your anxieties, your relationships, your successes and failures, and your likes and dislikes.Keeping a journal will help you get to know yourself better by clarifying your thoughts and feelings, likes and dislikes, and personal goals. It can even help you break through mental blocks and resolve problems.Journaling is most effective when you do it with pen and paper. Motivate yourself by buying a nice book to write in and a nice pen.;
, Meditation has been shown to improve mental stability and enhance overall well-being.It also helps quiet your mind, giving your intuition space to grow.Some popular types of meditation:Guided meditations involve being walked through a relaxing imaginary space or situation.
Mantra meditations involve silently repeating words to calm and inspire — for example, “I am love”.
Mindfulness meditations involve sitting quietly and working on experiencing the moment as fully as possible by keeping a clear mind: when thoughts come into your head, you observe them without judgement, then let them pass.
Aim for 10 to 15 minutes of meditation each day. If you find that daunting, start with 1- to 3-minute meditations and then work up to longer periods of time.
 If you’re having a particularly hard time quieting your mind for meditation, try going for a walk instead. Be mindful during your walk, paying attention to the sensations of walking and breathing, and to the sights, smells, and sounds around you.


Walking is an effective way to boost your mood and clear your mind. Often when our minds are clear, difficult decisions become more clear too., Bring the lessons of meditation and mindful walking into your daily life. Try to live each moment mindfully, paying attention to what’s happening in that very moment rather than thinking about the past or the future.


Don’t be discouraged if your mind wanders as you learn to live in the moment. Even gurus admit to struggling with this.
When your mind wanders, just catch it and bring your attention back to the moment. Over time, you will learn to catch your mind more quickly and put it back on track when it wanders.
 In particular, pay attention to your breath, your stomach, and your chest. Quick breathing, an upset stomach, and a heavy, sad-feeling heart are your body’s way of telling you that something is wrong.Research has proven that our bodies often know what’s up before our minds do. In one study, participants experienced an increased pulse and sweaty palms long before they mentally realized that they were in a negative situation., Is there a song you can’t get out of your head? Do you keep seeing certain words over and over again? These “coincidences” may very well be signals of what’s going on in your subconscious mind.


Taking time every day to clear your mind — for example, through meditation or mindful walking — will help you recognize these signals more clearly and, if necessary, act on them.
An example of this might be that you keep hearing songs and seeing people who remind you of one of your friends who you haven’t spoken to in a while. Upon consideration you might realize that you miss your friend, so you set up a time with them to reconnect.
 Intuition is linked to emotion. If someone or something reminds you of a previous person or experience you’ve had, you’re likely to associate it with the same emotions, good or bad, that you had in the past.


For this reason, you should still question your intuition, because it may be bringing up associations from a past experience that may not be relevant to your current situation., Research suggests that intuition is mostly about matching patterns based on experience and knowledge. For this reason, your intuition is more reliable in areas in which you have more experience.Travel, socialize, and learn new things. The more life experience you have, the better your intuition will be, as you’ll have more data to draw from., Studies have shown that relying only on logic does not guarantee the best possible outcome. In fact, people often have more success starting with a hunch and then testing that hunch with logic.Research suggests that our initial response to a situation is often the correct one, and that overthinking things won’t always yield the most accurate results.