 You can get moisturizer oil-free, extra heavy, or anywhere in between. Oil-free or light moisturizers are best for people with oily, combination, or normal skin. Heavier moisturizers are often necessary for dry skin, but they can be a slippery base for makeup.


Heavy moisturizers add a dewy effect to your appearance. Avoid using dewy foundation on top of that, which can overdo it.
You don't need to use the same moisturizer across your whole face. If you get dry patches in certain areas, use a heavy moisturizer on those spots.;
, Foundation for dry skin usually has moisturizer in it already. If you plan to use this type of foundation, stick to a lighter moisturizer than you normally would.
 If you find it difficult to put on makeup after moisturizer, try this 2-in-1 option. This product moisturizes your skin, while still providing a base that helps your makeup stay in place longer.
 The thin skin around your eyes tends to dry out easily. If your eye makeup often cracks, look for a moisturizing under-eye primer as well. Although some facial primers are safe for the eye area (check the label), an under-eye primer is less likely to irritate this sensitive area.
 Anytime you expect sun exposure (even on an overcast day), one of the products on your face should have sun protection. This could be your moisturizer, or your foundation.


Aim for a Sun Protection Factor of at least 15.
 Scrub your hands to avoid transferring anything to your face. Wash your face with water or your favorite facial cleanser.


Don't scrub your skin raw; just wipe gently.
 Dab on a small amount of moisturizer with your fingers. Spread outward and pat in the moisturizer with your fingers. Repeat until your face is covered, without putting any excess moisturizer on your skin.
 The moisturizer needs some time to form a smooth, even surface over your skin. Wait anywhere from five to thirty minutes before putting on makeup, or you may struggle with uneven application or even acne breakouts.
 If you haven't already put on moisturizing primer, you'll need a layer of primer so your makeup can stay on.
 You can now put on makeup as you normally would. If you still encounter problems, here's a little troubleshooting advice:


If your makeup has trouble staying in place, you may not be using enough moisturizer (or you may need to use a primer).
If your makeup ends up mixing into the moisturizer when you apply it, decrease the amount of moisturizer or wait longer between moisturizer and makeup.

