 You don’t necessarily have to accuse your boyfriend of cheating, but tell him that you feel like something is off with him. Being unable to communicate with your partner can cause significant problems in a relationship, so it’s best to just confront the issue directly.

Make sure to choose a time to talk with your boyfriend when you know you won’t be interrupted. If you want to have a serious, honest conversation, neither of you should be taking phone calls or answering texts.Try to stay as calm as possible. If you immediately put your boyfriend on the defensive, you’re probably not going to get any real answers. Remember that your goal is a conversation, not a confrontation., You don’t want to come across as irrational or paranoid, so it helps to cite the specific evidence that’s led you to suspect him, even if it’s just the fact that he’s stopped calling you pet names or always takes his phone into the bathroom.For the best results, you should be as non-judgemental as possible when you’re laying out the reasons that you’ve come to suspect your boyfriend of cheating, so try to start your sentences with “I” and not “you.” For example, you might say, “I feel like we’re growing apart and I’m upset about it.” That can make your boyfriend more likely to listen to what you have to say., If explaining the changes in your boyfriend's behavior that concern you doesn't lead to the topic coming up, you may want to just ask him directly if he's cheating. You're probably going to be angry and upset, but don't resort to name calling or physical violence. The calmer you stay, the more likely you are to get a straight answer from your boyfriend.Give you boyfriend a chance to answer your questions. Don't yell at him or assume you know what he's going to say. He may have an explanation for his actions that will relieve your fears.
 Unless you have ironclad proof that he’s cheating, your boyfriend is most likely going to deny whatever accusations you level at him. In that situation, you have to listen to your instincts. If you really feel like you can’t believe what he’s telling you, then the trust is already broken in your relationship, and that can be difficult to bounce back from.