 You can use butter, flavorless cooking oil, or non-stick cooking spray. Set the pan aside when you are done., Pour the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and nutmeg into a bowl. Stir everything together until evenly combined., Pour the brown sugar into a clean bowl. Add the egg, melted butter, milk, Greek yogurt, and vanilla extract. Stir everything together until combined., Pour half of the flour mixture into the egg mixture. Stir it with a whisk. Pour in the rest of the flour mixture, and stir it again. Adding the dry ingredients into the wet gradually gives you a smoother batter., Make sure that each bowl gets the same amount. You can use a soup ladle to measure the batter out, if you'd like. You will be adding food coloring into these bowls to make multi-colored batter., Add a few drops of red food coloring into the first bowl, yellow into the second, green to the third, and blue into the fourth. Stir the batter in each bowl until the color is even and there are no streaks. Use a clean spoon for each bowl and color.The more food coloring you use, the darker and more vibrant the batter will be.
You can also other colors as well, such as pink instead of red, or purple instead of blue.
 Use a spatula to help guide each color of batter into a separate piping bag. You will have four piping bags when you are done. Place each one into a bowl or cup so that the batter does not spill. Do not snip the ends of the piping bags just yet., Pick up the red piping bag and snip off the tip so that you get a ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) wide opening. Fill the bottom right corner of each cavity about three-quarters deep with batter.Do not fill the entire bottom of the cavities with batter. Think of them as being divided into four sections. You are only filling the first section.
Do not fill the wells all the way to the rim, or the doughnuts will overflow.
 Once you are done with the red batter, repeat the process with the remaining batter. Add the yellow one into the bottom left corner, the green one into the upper left corner, and the blue one into the upper right. Make sure that all of the colors are touching. Fill each well only ¾ of the way.Do not fill them to the rim, or the doughnuts will overflow., Pick up a toothpick and dip it into the first well. Stir it a few times until the colors swirl together, then move on to the next well.Do not over-stir the colors, or they will mix together and make brown instead., Let them finish cooling on a wire cooling rack for 10 to 15 minutes. During this time, you can start preparing the glaze., Sift the icing sugar into a large mixing bowl. Stir in the vanilla extract and 3 tablespoons (45 milliliters) of milk. Keep stirring the glaze until it is smooth, without any lumps or clumps. You want it to be thick enough to cover the back of a spoon.

If this icing is too thick, stir in 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of milk.
If the icing is too thin, stir in more icing sugar, 1 tablespoon (7.5 grams) at a time.
 Pick up a doughnut and turn it upside down with the bottom facing up. Dip the top part into the glaze, lift it out, and let the excess glaze drip off. Place the doughnut back onto the wire rack. Repeat this step for the other doughnuts.

For easy clean up, place a sheet of wax paper or parchment paper under the wire cooling rack to catch any drips.
 After about a minute or so, you could add some sprinkles on top of the wet icing. Let the icing dry all the way before serving.