 The jazz split is a variation of the traditional split; it involves putting your chest as far as possible down to your leg. This stretch not only helps get your legs limber to go as high as possible––it also helps keep you to maintain great posture, keeping your chest upright when standing up.;
, This is the opposite of a front kick (the type the rockettes do). Lean forward and place your hands on the ground, as close as possible to your foot. Keeping the bottom leg straight, whip your other leg as high as you can to try to get it over your head. Make sure to keep that leg straight too!

, Place your foot as high as you can on a wall, then bring your chest onto your leg. Try to eventually have your whole leg on the wall. This will help keep your kicks high.
 Holding onto a chair or a person, kick as high as you can while keeping your legs straight. A 60 degree kick with straight legs is better than a 180 degree kick with bent legs. Focus on doing the kick with straight legs rather than getting your leg up high. Squeeze all the muscles in your legs as you kick. Make sure to point your toes.


There are two types of kicks: Stagged then straight, and straight the whole time. Stagged then straight refers to the position when the dancer bring up their legs bent to the required height, then straightens them. It's slightly harder than doing a straight kick all the way, but with practice, it will become easy. Straight kicks refer to the position when you bring your leg up to the required height, but keeping them straight all the way. This is the type of kick done in the kick lines.
 The reason the Rockettes are synchronized is not because they are looking at each other––it is because they are all counting at the same time, at the same beat. Keeping steady is essential, not only in kick lines, but for things dependent on others. For example, if you do a wave, you have to wait two seconds before doing yours.
 How do the Rockettes have such perfect upper bodies? By doing extreme amounts of push-ups and planks. Work on them a lot and make sure you do them properly, with perfect form.



When do they usually do their kick line?
How do they kick? Just with straight legs or with some bent too?
What other moves do they do?
What type of music do they dance to?

, Although the Rockettes are girls, not all of your dancers need be girls. While it is best to have a fairly large group of people, it is possible to do this with just two people. If you are dancing with people a variety of sizes, put the tallest people in the middle, while the shortest people go on the end. To make your line seem even, pay attention to things like leg length. Kicks should all be at eye-level. This will make them seem all the same height.
 Clothing such as skinny jeans is a big no-no. You want to be able to move around freely. Choose clothing that is casual, and loose-fitting.
 The counter is someone who counts aloud for the first time to keep everyone  in time. This person must be able to keep a steady beat and have a loud voice.
 When dancing for fun, many people will join by the shoulders, though the real Rockettes either bend their arms or keep them straight and place them around the closest person's waist.
 You can check YouTube to find the type of music the Rockettes dance to. Just type in "Rockettes Music," and results will come up. Connect your computer/phone/iPod to a speaker, and crank up the volume!

, Using the preparation methods outlined in Part 1, kick as high and as well as you can. Kick to the count of the counter. Turn slightly every time you kick (toward the direction in which you are kicking you leg).
 To dance for a performance, you will need an instructor and other girls to practice with. Search online for "Rockettes' training, (your zipcode or city)".
 You may need a different outfit for every performance. Rockettes typically wear short dresses (almost leotards) with skin colored tights, though your performance may require different attire. In addition, some performances feature tap-dancing as well, so you many need tap-shoes (heeled or traditional).
 When dancing for a performance, Rockettes do not only do a kickline, they also do a ripple effect, kickline in a circle, walking back and forth, etc.)


To create a ripple effect: stand in a straight line, with great posture. Staring at the end of the line, fall into your pose directly after the person in front of you has.
To do a circle kickline: stand in a circle. Put your arms right above each other's shoulders, and kick with your leg. After kicking, step forwards.
 Strange as this may seem, if one of you is tired and pulls the other down, it can mess up the entire line. Make it seem as if you are touching by putting your arm about two inches away.
 Often when the Rockettes pose, their hand is anywhere between a 75 to 90 degree angle. This is very important. When flicking your hand down into pose, start with your hand bent slightly backwards, to add flair.
 If you are even one beat behind, it will reflect badly on the entire group. Make sure to count inside your head at a steady beat. Listen to the music, as you usually dance to the beat of the music.
 Practice and patience are key to dancing like a Rockette. Rockettes work much harder then most people realize. Daily practice is essential.

