 They are undergoing tremendous biological change and your behavior must be modified appropriately.;
, By accommodating this need, you convey respectfulness, building rapport with your teen.
 This gives your adolescent some control over the outcome of their choices. It enables them to feel independent, while maintaining family rules.
 By overlooking minor, non-threatening assertions of adolescent individuality, you demonstrate that you love your son or daughter no matter what. Trying to alienate you visually is often a bid for attention, so take the cue and give them your time.
 Listen to whatever they share, resisting the urge to tell them what to do and trying to fix their predicament. After living with you over ten years, they know what is about to be said, and they would rather think of it as their own wisdom than yours. When they ask your advice answer them honestly.
 Be fair. Be patient. Be a wholesome role model. Teens will mimic parental behavior. Telling adolescents to behave differently than you requires that they reject your lifestyle.
 They will appreciate your humility and learn something about accepting responsibility at the same time.
 You will not only model your willingness to do a little research, but you engender respect for admitting a lack of competency.
 Memorizing the names of all the best bands' lead singers is unnecessary, but attentiveness when they share trivia essential to their current fascination opens the door for deeper communication.
 We learn the most by self-correcting, so as long as there is no serious danger, letting teens experience failure can strengthen them and foster self-confidence in their decision-making capabilities.
 Nothing disappoints a moody teen more than making plans and having them fall through. Remember, this is a time when adolescents begin experiencing losses and hurts as they expand their friendship circle, find emotional connections to others and encounter people who may not be very kind. They need to trust that you will offer a comforting, protective place where they feel valued.

