 If you are attending a semi-formal dance, such as a spring social or a holiday dance, you should go for a semi-formal outfit. This could be a semi-formal dress that is long or short.The semi-formal dress should still be made of quality material, like silk, nylon, or chiffon, and follow your school’s dress code. This may mean a short dress with a hemline three inches above your knee, with a modest cut.
Avoid wearing tube style dresses, which are very tight and often made of spandex. These dresses may be against your school’s dress code for semi-formal dances.
 If you decide to wear a top and pants, go for pants made of non-denim material, such as rayon or silk. You may wear a top that is short sleeved, with a modest cut that is not skin tight. Your school likely will not allow you into a semi-formal dance if you are wearing a t-shirt and jeans.Keep in mind most schools will not allow you to cover up an inappropriate top with a jacket or a sweater. The organizers of the dance may not let you into the dance if you are inappropriately dressed.
 You should make sure you wear formal shoes, such as high heels or shoes with a low heel. Your school may allow you to wear flats, as long as they are made of quality material and appear semi-formal.Avoid wearing sneakers, runners, or flip flops, as these will likely not be allowed in a semi-formal dance.
 You can add jewelry to your semi-formal look, such as earrings, a necklace, and bracelets. You may decide to wear one statement piece of jewelry so your look feels semi-formal but not too dressy.


You may also decide to bring a small purse, such as a clutch or a shoulder bag. Most schools will not allow book bags, backpacks, or large purses at semi-formal dances.
 For a semi-formal dance, you may still decide to do a more formal hairstyle, like an updo or a side sweep. But you can also wear your hair in loose curls to add something extra to your hair that is just a touch formal.


You can curl your hair with a curling iron, a flat iron, hair rollers, or by scrunching your hair (good for already curly hair). Make sure you pull the curls apart gently with your fingers once you have curled your hair to create a loose curl look.
 For a semi-formal dance, you may not want to do makeup that is too dramatic, but still polished looking. Follow your normal makeup routine and then add details to your eyes and mouth.


You may decide to apply eyeliner and mascara to your eyes, as well as light eye shadow in tones that play off the color of your gown. If you are not sure about eye shadow, you can also do a winged eyeliner look for a cool, polished look.
Finish your look with lipstick or lip gloss in a bold color that plays off the color of your gown or outfit. If you decide to do a bold eye look, you may choose a more neutral shade for your lips so your makeup is polished but not overwhelming your face.

