 It is about being prepared to look beyond economic objectives to consider the wider implications of your business decisions. From an international perspective, it is becoming increasingly more important, so if you're trading overseas (importing and/or exporting), it's important to bear this in mind.


Treat an ethical trading policy as essential, not as a luxury. Your business will be ahead of many others by considering the need for an ethical trading policy early on.;
, Ask them what they consider are the pressing ethical issues that your business should be concerned about and taking a keen interest in meeting.


As the policy develops, you might also want to include customers in updates or revisions to your policy through surveys, comments, round table discussions, etc.
 This makes sense because the two issues frequently align and interweave with one another, so the more of a focus you have on both, the better your business ethos will be.
 This is found at: http://www.ethicaltrade.org/. You will get lots of inspiration and information from here that can be directly applied to your business.
 Some examples include:



Fair Trade practices, goods, and services
Sourcing your office and sales products from sustainable sources
Using forest products that have been certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)
Looking after the welfare of all staff in the supply chain
Keeping customers well informed of your business practices
Not using bribery or supporting corruption in your business dealings overseas
Ensuring animal welfare, against animal testing or vivisection
Having a willingness to help suppliers improve the quality control of their produce and to improve their own practices (through knowledge transfer)
Making health and safety of all staff and suppliers a top priority
Respecting the environment.
 Put it where anyone can find it, especially on your website. Be prepared to post out copies to customers who ask for it. Transparency of your approach to trading is an essential part of ethical trading.


It can be helpful to look at existing ethical trading policies online to see the sorts of issues they cover and the manner of wording used. Don't copy them slavishly though; your policy must reflect what your company cares about and it must demonstrate your own original approach.

