 While rolling an object under foot isn't necessarily a pose or movement particular to yoga, it often is used in yoga classes that focus on feet. It's a good way to warm your feet up for further work increasing your awareness of your feet and how you use them.You don't need to buy any specific objects or sports equipment. You can use any sort of round, rollable object you have around the house, such as a water bottle or a rolling pin.
Sit down in a chair that enables you to place both feet flat on the floor. Put the object underneath one foot and slowly roll it from your heel to your toe and back.
Roll the object for about a minute, then switch and do the other side.;
, If you want to increase your awareness of your feet, you draw your attention to them while you are standing as you normally stand. Observe how your weight is falling on your feet, how your feet are positioned, and where there is any pain.Don't try to correct any issues – simply observe and note them. Rock back and forth, lifting your toes and then your heels, and observe how your feet feel as you do this.
 When standing in mountain pose you may feel as though you're just standing. However, after having observed yourself in a natural standing position, you should be able to tell the difference.To get into mountain pose, stand with your heels slightly apart but your big toes touching. Spread your toes wide and rock back and forth until your weight is spread evenly through all four corners of your feet.
Lengthen your tailbone toward the floor and firm up your thigh muscles to lift your kneecaps. You also want to think of lifting your inner ankles to strengthen the inner arches of your feet.
Roll your shoulders away from your chest, tucking your shoulder blades down your spine. Widen your collarbones and lift your sternum toward the ceiling. Your neck should be straight with your head a straight line over the center of your pelvis. Hold your arms out to your sides, spread your fingers wide, and breathe deeply for 30 seconds to a minute.
 Provided you can maintain your balance, tree pose is an excellent way to strengthen your legs as well as relieve several foot problems including heel pain. Tree pose also will improve your weight distribution and sense of balance.From mountain pose, shift your weight onto your left foot and bend your right knee so that your lower leg is crossed in front of you. Reach down and grab your right ankle or foot with your right hand.
Pull your right foot up with your right hand, placing the sole of your foot against your left inner thigh or groin. Only go as high as you can without discomfort. Your toes should be pointed toward the floor.
Find your balance and rest your hands on the top of your pelvis. If you're not yet stable, you can keep your right hand on your right foot and stay centered that way.
Stand in tree pose for 30 seconds to a minute, breathing deeply. Focusing your gaze on a spot a few feet in front of you on the floor will help you maintain your balance. Lower your right foot and repeat the pose with the other leg.
 Bound angle pose provides you an opportunity to give the soles of your feet a foot massage to relax and loosen the muscles in your feet, as well as stretching your hips, legs, and ankles.To get into bound angle, come to a comfortable seat on the floor with your legs extended.
Bend your legs at the knees so that the soles of your feet are touching in front of you. Grasp the arches of your feet with your hands and bend your elbows slightly.
Make sure your shoulders are rolled back and your spine is neutral. If you find you're hunched over or leaning too far back, you may need to use a rolled towel or blanket to support your pelvis.
On an exhale, bend forward to lower your chest toward your feet. Only go as far as is comfortable, stopping once you feel the stretch.
Breathe deeply in this position for 30 seconds to a minute, gently massaging the soles of your feet.

