 Over-the-counter skin bleaching creams can be used to treat the mole. They work by slowly discoloring the mole until it is less obvious, particularly for flat moles with no raised borders. The mole will still be present, but not as easily visible.


Look for a cream that contains 2% Hydroquinone, an ingredient that is available over the counter and is FDA approved. Hydroquinone works by reducing the appearance of melanin in the skin on which it is applied.Follow the manufacturer's instructions for use, taking care to test the cream on a small inconspicuous area of skin before using it on your mole. Also be sure to only apply the cream to the mole, and not the surrounding skin.;
, Mole removal creams such as Nevi-Skin are a fairly cost-effective method to treat. Use them with caution, as their claims have not been evaluated by the FDA.


Be sure to carefully follow the manufacturer's instructions, and stop treatment immediately if you have an adverse reaction such as bleeding, irritation, or swelling.
Know that they also sometimes remove more than the mole, leaving pits in your skin and causing scarring.One product, DermaTend, gained popularity as a method of treating moles. It contains extract of a plant called Sanguinaria Canadensi and is said to work by killing the mole at the root and causing it to fall out. The company's claims were not evaluated by the FDA,and in 2014 it was recalled because the FDA worried that use of this product would prevent people from seeking dermatological care and thus could delay diagnosis of skin cancer., Currently, there are three methods you can talk about with your doctor:Excision with stitches: In this process the mole is removed and the area is closed with one or more stitches. Some scarring is a possibility, but this method can be used if a mole is suspicious so that surrounding tissue can also be excised.Shave excision: In this process the mole is cut off at the level of the surrounding skin. Scarring is less common, but this method is not preferred if a mole is suspicious, because surrounding skin (which may contain cancer cells) will remain untouched. Shaving works best on moles that are raised, because moles that are flat have to be "scooped" out of the surrounding tissue, which inevitably leaves a scar.Cryosurgery: Cryosurgery is application of extreme cold to kill an unwanted tissue using liquid nitrogen. You will not need any stitches, and recovery time is generally faster than excision methods.