 If you are meet the eligibility requirements to obtain a driver's license in your state, you'll usually be able to schedule your road test in advance.


While most requirements are fairly similar from state to state, some of the details can vary. You should check with your state Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) to learn about any specific requirements you'll need to meet.
If you're under the age of 18, you can find information about your state's requirements here: http://www.dmv.org/teen-drivers.php

Simply select your state from the drop down menu and read the details provided on the page that follows.


If you're 18 years of age or older, you can find information about your state's requirements here: http://www.dmv.org/apply-license.php

Select your state from the drop down menu to be redirected to a description of your state's regulations.

;
, In most states, you will need to be at least 16 years old before you can schedule a road test.If you are between the age of 16 and 18, you may also need to pass your state driver education class before you qualify to take the road test and obtain your license. You will need to produce proof that you have taken and passed the class at the time of your appointment.
If you are over the age of 18, you probably won't need to take driver education class, but you may need to pass the written knowledge test before you can schedule the road portion of the exam.
 In many states, you will also need to have a learner's driving permit before you can schedule a road test.


Exceptions might be made if you are above the age of 18, can produce a valid, active driver's license from another state, or have a valid license that has only expired within the past six months.
In many states, you will also need to show that you have possessed your learner's permit for at least six months if you are between the ages of 16 and 18 years.
 Some states allow you to schedule a road test by accessing a special online system. States that do not have an online system will usually allow you to schedule a road test by telephone.


Note that many states will provide both online and telephone options for scheduling your road test.
It is a good idea to review the specific instructions on your state's DMV website or at your local DMV office before scheduling your exam.
To find out state-specific information, or to access your state DMV website, visit the appointment summary section of the national DMV website: http://www.dmv.org/appointments.php

Upon accessing the link, select your state from the drop down menu or from the list at the bottom of the page. Doing so should redirect you to state-specific information.
 You will usually need to schedule the road test within a certain time frame, but the specifics will vary from state to state.


As a general rule, plan to schedule an appointment no earlier than eleven weeks in advance and no later than one week in advance. Understand that in many states, appointments fill up quickly.Note that some scheduling services are only available during certain times of the day. If scheduling by phone, you will only be able to call during normal weekday work hours. If scheduling online, you may not be able to schedule between the hours of 3:00 AM and 6:00 AM.
 You may or may not be able to schedule road tests for different types of vehicle driver licenses. If so, you will need to indicate which type of road test you which to take at the time of scheduling.


Any state that allows you to schedule a road test in advance will allow you to schedule for a non-commercial passenger vehicle road test. Many states will also allow you to schedule a non-commercial motorcycle road test.
Many states will not allow you to schedule a road test for a commercial driver's license, but some might. Contact your DMV for more information.
 You may need to present information that proves your eligibility at the time of scheduling.


This will usually include your learner's permit number, driver's license number, state-issued identification number, or social security number.
Prepare to provide your date of birth, current zip code, and contact information (phone number and/or e-mail address), as well.
 Depending on state regulation, it is possible that you won't need to take the road test at the nearest DMV office. In these instances, you will need to choose which office you do wish to test through.


You may or may not need to test within your zip code and/or county.
If you choose to take the test outside of your zip code, you may still need to know the zip code of the desired location.
 After providing all necessary information, you will be given a list of the earliest available dates and times. Select your appointment from these time slots.


Note that new appointment times are added on a regular, ongoing basis. If you do not find a time that fits within your schedule, try again the following day.
After confirming your desired appointment time, you may receive a confirmation notice via text or e-mail if you provided that contact information while scheduling the test.
 If you need to cancel or reschedule a road test, you must do so at least 24 to 72 hours in advance.The exact amount of time will vary by state.
Failure to cancel an appointment before the required time will usually result in a fine, and you may not be eligible to reschedule an appointment for another seven days or so.
In most states, rescheduling an appointment requires you to cancel your original appointment first. You will not be able to hold two appointment slots simultaneously.
 There are some circumstances that may cause the DMV to cancel your road test. In these instances, you will usually need to reschedule your road test from the beginning of the process, but you shouldn't need to pay any cancellation fees.


Typically, road tests are automatically canceled if the governor declares a state-wide state of emergency or a state of emergency for the region of the state in which you're scheduled to test.
If the public school system in your area cancels due to weather-related reasons, road tests may or may not be canceled for the day. To find out if a test has been canceled, contact your local DMV office by phone or online.
 Arrive at your designated road test center at your scheduled time. Don't be late.


As a general rule, plan to arrive for your appointment roughly 30 minutes early.
If you arrive late, your examiner may need to reschedule your test for a later date. This may also count as a cancellation, and you might be charged a cancellation fee.
 When you arrive for your road test, you will need to bring the vehicle you wish to test in and any other required materials.The vehicle you drive during the test must have a valid, active registration and inspection. It should also operate properly.
You must be accompanied by someone with a valid driver's license to legally operate the test vehicle. In most states, this individual must be at least 21 years old.
Prepare to bring your learner's permit and driver education certificate (if necessary), as well.

