 Often times, frequent trips to the bathroom can be indicative of a food allergy or intolerance. Keep a food diary. Write down everything you eat and what time you eat it. When you have a bowel movement, chart this in your diary as well. Eventually, a pattern may emerge. For example, perhaps every time you eat spicy food, you have an increased number of bowel movements.;
, Snacking can add to the amount of poop you will need to get rid of from your body, and also increases the regularity and continuity with which stool progresses to its exit. If you must eat, eat moderately.
 Lactose intolerance is a common condition found in adults. People who are lactose intolerant cannot break down the lactose sugar found in dairy products. Symptoms include abdominal pain, bloating and diarrhea. You may be able to keep eating cheese. Some people with lactose intolerance can still tolerate cheese, as many varieties have low amounts of lactose. Generally, the more aged the cheese is, the less lactose it contains.
Check the label of dairy products. Lactose is a type of sugar, so the less sugar a dairy product has, the less lactose it will likely contain.
 Caffeine stimulates the muscles that are responsible for producing stool. Try replacing caffeinated drinks with water, juice, or tea.
Try cutting down on the number of caffeinated drinks you consume each day. For example, cut down from 4 cups of coffee to 2 cups of coffee per day. Alternatively, try “half-caf” coffee, which has half the caffeine of a standard cup of coffee.
 Consuming an excess of foods with high fiber content can increase the frequency of bowel movements. If you're eating an excessive amount of fruits and vegetables, which contain high amounts of fiber, you may want to cut back. The Centers for Disease Control recommends 2.5-3 cups of vegetables today for adults who exercise less than 30 minutes per day. Those who exercise heavily may consume more vegetables. Foods that are high in fiber include: Raspberries
Pears
Apples
Spaghetti
Barley
Bran flakes
Oatmeal
Split peas
Lentils
Beans
Artichoke
Green peas
Broccoli



