 There are certain environments that increase your chance of exposure to leptospirosis. Factors like climate and land use can make conditions more favorable to the bacteria that cause this infection, so knowing where and when to be alert to those conditions can reduce your chance of infection.The bacteria that cause leptospirosis are found in temperate or tropical zones.
Water is one of the most common places of contamination and infection.
Urine from infected animals is also a common source. Both domestic and wild animals can be infected. These include, but are not limited to, cattle, pigs, horses, dogs and rats.
 Certain hobbies and professions carry a higher risk of exposure to infection. Know which environments can lead to exposure.Athletes who participate in outdoor sports like kayaking and rafting have an increased risk of exposure.Campers who swim or wade in contaminated water can be infected.
Drinking water from contaminated streams or rivers while hiking or camping can be a source of infection.
People who work in professions or industries involving animals have higher risks for infection. Veterinarians, dairy farmers, as well as workers in the fishing industry and slaughterhouse facilities all face the possibility of infection.
There has also been an increase in infection rates among urban children in recent years.
 If you have been exposed, you may or may not exhibit symptoms of infection, so talk to your doctor about activities that may have put you at risk for infection. Depending on your history and what symptoms you do have, your doctor will decide which tests to do and if treatment should be started.Symptoms are typically nonspecific so tests are needed to confirm infection.
Signs of infection are similar to symptoms of other illnesses. If there’s reason to suspect you have been exposed and you develop flu-like symptoms, see your doctor.
Some people are asymptomatic and may not be affected by the infection. You should see your doctor regardless of how you are feeling if you think you have been exposed.
 For many people, one treatment will be enough to cure them of the infection. Some people may seem to get better without having sought treatment at all initially. However, the leptospirosis infection may not actually have been cured.A more serious form of infection may occur after a seeming recovery, usually about a week after the first range of symptoms have cleared up.
For people with a more severe form of infection, symptoms occur in 2 stages.
The first stage of the initial illness will be the milder form, with flu-like symptoms.
The second stage will typically be more severe and last longer than the first stage.
 The second stage of leptospirosis infection, called Weil’s disease, is much more severe and can have long term health impacts, or even lead to death.This second stage can develop after the infection seems to be gone.
The second stage can also overlap with the first stage of infection.
At this stage, bacterial infection can cause serious damage to the kidneys or liver, even leading to chronic kidney disease or liver failure with jaundice.
The bacteria can invade the lungs, posing a serious threat to respiratory health. Severe pulmonary disease, characterized as pulmonary hemorrhage, is a serious complication of leptospirosis. ARDS or acute respiratory distress syndrome is also a complication of leptospirosis.
Signs of lung infection are having a persistent cough, shortness of breath, and coughing up blood due to bleeding in the lungs.
Infection can also spread to the heart, causing an enlarged heart, myocarditis, or cardiac arrhythmia.
Other complications may include rhabomyolysis and uveitis.

