 For anyone who knows the basics of social media, search engine optimization (SEO), Google news and website building blocks, then you can likely learn Internet marketing on your own. A big part of marketing is understanding your competitors, data and market analysis.


Determine your market. This is something that should be obvious from the moment you choose a service or item to market. However, you may need to research what portion of that market is online and what portion is done through phone or in-person sales.
Determine who your main online competitors are. Research how they work, how they market and how big of a market share you believe they have. Sign up for e-newsletters, research their press releases and determine the strengths and weaknesses of each online competitor. You may even need to purchase something from them in order to understand how they complete their sales process.
Determine who your ideal customer is. For any product, you should be able to see who is buying the product. After you determine your demographic, you can determine where they spend their time on the Internet.
 Make reports using Google Analytics, software or spreadsheets that show the market, competition and customer data. You can find software or online programs that can help you make reports or charts to show where your ideal customer is shopping and who your main competitors are.


This is especially important if you have superiors to which you must report about Internet marketing. Although you may be able to turn data into a strategy easily, reports and graphs are essential in order to communicate that data to people who control the budget. Spend time making comprehensive reports and perhaps making a PowerPoint presentation based on your research.
 Use the research and conclusions from your reports to develop a successful strategy to reach your target demographic. Start by using the methods that were successful for your competitors, then look for more innovative approaches.


Your strategy will most likely require a budget to hire writers to do SEO articles, graphic designers to do ads, and web designers to update or create a website. You may also need to hire people to update your business's social media accounts daily.
 Make sure your site uses analytics or use Google Analytics so that you know which methods are successful and which are not. This is an often forgotten rule of Internet marketing, but it is the only way to see your return on investment (ROI).


Internet marketing almost always includes launching many campaigns at once, which is why they are so important to track. A website may be marketing through e-mail blasts, You Tube videos, social media accounts, web banners, affiliate marketers, SEO, blogs and more.
Understand that search engines are the key to most online marketing. Businesses are looking for ways to make sure their site and product are listed on the first page of a Google, Yahoo or Bing search. The main ways of doing this are SEO, meta tags, press releases, social media content, videos and paying for an ad to be placed at the top or side of the search page.
 Sign up for newsletters or blogs that keep you tuned into the newest social media channels, marketing articles and innovative companies. Invest in marketing or programming classes, if you think they would boost your Internet marketing knowledge considerably.

