 One of the 10mm bolt that will be removed later was covered, but is now reachable by moving the power steering hose.;
, If you do not have a spark plug socket, a magnetic pickup probe will extract them.


If you intend to reuse the spark plugs, be careful in their extraction. Careful examination of the plugs may indicate the condition of your engine - repair manuals usually have a chart explaining what conditions of used spark plugs indicate.
 Foreign objects could cause very serious damage to the engine. An easy way to prevent debris from entering is to insert paper towels in the spark plug wells.
 Ideally, use a small impact wrench to loosen it.
 This bump method should only be performed with the spark plugs removed and NEVER while holding the wrench by hand or foot.
To "bump" the bolt loose, reconnect the battery, perform a momentary press of a "remote push-button starter switch". If none is available, wiggle the ignition switch to "nudge and thump" the pulley bolt a very small amount while a longer handled socket wrench is lodged onto the bolt as explained below (never held by hand or foot).


Caution: do not hold the wrench by hand if you are power bumping it loose with the starter motor. Position a break-over wrench with about 2.5ft (75cm) cheater pipe (like 1 or 1.5 inch steel conduit tubing) extending it and positioned at about a 45 degree angle down toward the front of the car to be held firmly against the floor or earth, blocked in place with large stones, or by being inserted in an opening of a concrete block and blocked in with heavy toolboxes to keep the cheater from sliding out. Alternatively, secure the breaker bar by positioning it below the tie bar secured to the tie bar with a screw clamp. Make sure it is tightly secured so it will not move. This method does not require any blocking in of the cheater bar.Then see whether it loosened the bolt--but if not then check that its still on correctly and lined up and try it again. It may loosen on the first two or three tries, when it loosens enough you'll probably hear a something like a "zinging/whizzing" sound. So quiet the area so you can hear any sounds.
Caution: Disconnect the negative battery terminal after this technique so your engine cannot be accidentally turned away from top dead center (TDC) by the starter motor, potentially damaging various engine parts.

