 It's very possible that at some point in your life, you were tested. The numbers aren't necessarily given to you if it was part of peripheral research into your psyche. There are a number of times it may have been given to you:


If you enlisted in the army, you're often given an IQ test to see what you can handle and are capable of. If this could be you, contact your higher-ups to gain the results.
If you had experience with depression or other psychological issues, your psychiatrist may have given you the test. This is especially common if medications are part of your regimen.
If you were noted as "gifted" in school, you may have been given an IQ test. If it was when you were a child and you are an adult, you'll have to take it again; the test for children is different.;
, If you haven't taken it before, seek out all the available resources. It can be as free or as expensive as you'd like it to be. Know however, that free testing online is not accurate. A psychologist does testing that can't be done online.


A local counseling center may be able to test you. Grab your phone book or search the online yellow pages for a center in your area.
A psychologist can offer you the test. This is the better alternative, both for accuracy and money-wise. If you're testing because of a medical reason, like maybe you had a really bad concussion your insurance will cover the fees.
There are a plethora of online tests available. However, this is mainly for fun. This is not a legitimate way to fully test for IQ.
 There are actually a number of variations; you'll want to consult an expert or do some thorough research to find out which one appeals most to you. Each test could give slightly different results as there is a standard deviation.


For adults, common options are Raven's Progressive Matrices, the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, the Stanford-Binet, and the Woodcock-Johnson Tests of Cognitive Abilities. Adult evaluation can be obtained starting at age 17. Your IQ at that age will not change much over the years. It measures potential rather than actual education.All tests will measure your spatial, mathematical, vocabulary, analytical skills, problem solving skills, and short term memory. This is how they get their feel for a "general" intellect.These tests are regarded as having high statistical reliability. That is to say, your true IQ is 95% likely to lie 3 points above or below the score you are given due to accepted deviation. Clinical psychologists generally regard them as having sufficient statistical validity for many clinical purposes.