 Hygiene is important for feeling more confident, which in turn makes you more attractive. Hygiene gives others a better perception of you--who wants to sit next to someone who obviously hasn't showered in five days?


Bathe everyday and wash your hair every other day. Use a shower gel with a delicious scent (have fun trying different ones). If you are allowed to and actually need to, shave your armpits, legs, and bikini line if you are going to be wearing a bathing suit. If you aren't allowed to, don't worry about it! When you get out of the shower, put on lotion (it keeps you from having wrinkles when you get older). Use deodorant after each shower.
Make sure you brush your teeth and floss at least twice a day. If you have to have braces, a retainer, or other dental work done, don't worry! Usually those things don't actually look that bad, and think about how gorgeous your teeth will be when you are done! br>;
, Skin should be clean, soft, and blemish free, and hair should be bouncy and shiny.


For skin, you should wash and moisturize twice daily. Exfoliate twice a week (baking soda is great--use water to make a paste, rub onto skin, and rinse off) and give your skin a treat, such as a facial, once a week. Always wear sunscreen when you go outside.
For hair, try giving it a final rinse in cool water for shine. Avoid blow drying whenever possible, and never brush your hair when wet. Try using a deep or leave-in conditioner once a week, and spray on a detangler after you shower. For instructions specific to your hair type, see the article How to Have Great Hair (see Related Articles, below).
 If you have any blemishes on your face, put on an oil free foundation to cover them up. Don't go overboard though. You don't need anything but maybe some eyeliner (not liquid), mascara, lip gloss, and foundation or concealer. If you're not allowed to wear make up, then that's fine. Don't worry, because you aren't the only one. Just put on some clear or sparkly lip gloss. Also, paint your nails and make sure they're not too long (you don't want to scratch anyone).
 Don't wear what the popular girl at school is wearing, wear clothes that you're comfortable in.


If you don't have a particular style, think about what you would like. Experiment until you find a style that works, and stick with it. If you already have a style, don't change it for anyone or anything! Be true to yourself!
Always wear clothes that fit you and work with your body type, because a curvy girl isn't always going to look good in the clothes in style. If you tend not to fit in those clothes, aim for a more classy or preppy look that will endure through the years so you don't have to always change your style based on what fits you at the time. br>

, Even if you don't feel it, faking it till you make it is the way to go.


Have good posture and make eye contact with people.
Flash a smile from time to time.
Focus on positive things about yourself, and accept compliments with grace. Store them up in your memory, or even write them down!

