 Open a web browser and enter facebook.com in the URL box. You will be taken to the Facebook login page. Enter your registered email address, or username, and password into the fields at the top right. Then click “Log in” to proceed.;
, If you haven’t registered your phone number on Facebook, a “Help secure your account” pop-up will appear asking you to register your mobile number. It will show you your chosen country code above a field that says “Your Phone Number.” Click on this field and enter your mobile number in it.


When you’re done, click “Add Number” at the bottom of the pop-up. An SMS will be sent to you with the confirmation code.
 A new pop-up will appear on your Facebook screen with a “Confirm Your Number” message. Click the “Confirmation Code” field and enter the confirmation code you received in the SMS.


Click the “Confirm” button at the right of the field, and you will have successfully registered your mobile number with your Facebook account.
 Open a new web browser tab or window, and visit the facebook.com. Enter your email address and password into the fields at the top-right of the screen, and click “Log in” to continue.
 By default, you will be taken to your News Feed after logging in. At the top right will be a small upside-down triangle. Click it, and from the options that appear, select “Settings.”

, The Settings page will open. On the left panel are the Settings options. Click “Security” here, and the right panel will change to display Security settings that you can change.
 Options for “Login Alerts” will open to the right.
 The very last section of Login Alerts is “Text Messages.” You are given two options for Text Messages: “Text login alerts to ” and “Don’t get text alerts.” Select the first option. Now, if you or anyone else logs into your account, Facebook will send an alert message to your registered phone number.
 Locate the app on your device home screen or app drawer, and tap it. The app icon has the famous “f” icon of Facebook.
 If you’ve used the app before and did not log out, you will not need to log in again. Logging in is only required if you’ve logged out of your previous session or if you’re using the app for the first time.
 Tap the icon of three horizontal lines to open the main app menu, and from here, select “Account settings.”

,, It should be the first option.
 On the Login Alerts screen, tap “Text messages” and then tap the circle beside your registered number. Tap “Save” below your number when you’re done. Now, if anyone logs into your account from a new device or web browser, Facebook will send a text message alert to your registered phone number.