 Because you are going through an alternative teacher certification, it’s important that you decide the grade level and the subject area you wish to teach. This will then determine your focus during your studies in an Alternative Certification Program, as well as the certification tests you will be required to take.A complete list of subject areas you can be certified to teach in can be found here: https://secure.sbec.state.tx.us/SBECOnline/approvedprograms.asp?s=1&sid=.
 If you have a Bachelor’s degree from an accredited university in a field other than education, you can apply for teacher training through an Alternative Certification Program (ACP). These programs are structured around intense classroom-focused training and many can be completed in one year. You will be given an opportunity to teach as an intern in a classroom with the supervision and mentorship of an experienced teacher.To enroll in an ACP, you will need to have proof of your Bachelor’s degree and be able to demonstrate you understand a certain subject area due to your educational background. The program may also have other requirements in addition to the state-mandated requirements for ACPs.
A list of state approved ACPs in Texas can be found here: http://www.educationdegree.com/programs/alternative-teacher-certification/texas/.
 Your Alternative Certification Program will be able to give you more information about the teaching certification exams and prepare you for the exams.You will be required to take the Texas Higher Education Assessment (THEA), which focuses on basic skills like Reading, Writing, and Mathematics.
You will also need to take certification tests based on the subject or subjects you are planning to teach, called the Exam for the Certification of Educators in Texas (ExCET) and the Texas Exam for Education Standards (TExEs). A complete list of the possible subjects for the exams can be found here: http://www.teaching-certification.com/texas-teaching-certification.html#initial-cert.
 Once you have completed the Alternative Certification Program, as well as your classroom experience requirements, and your examinations, you can apply for a Standard Teaching Certificate in Texas through the Educator Certification Online System, found here: https://secure.sbec.state.tx.us/SBECOnline/login.asp. You will need to complete the online application and provide the following information to the TEA:Official transcripts from all universities/colleges you have attended to show proof of your bachelor’s degree and your completion of the Alternative Certification Program.
Your teaching certification exam scores.
Necessary application fees to process your application.
You will also need to complete a criminal history background check through the FBI, which will require your fingerprints. The cost of a background check and fingerprinting is your responsibility.
Once your application is approved, you will be notified by email that you have received your Standard teaching certificate for the state of Texas.
 Many Alternative Certification Programs can help you locate a position in your area based on your chosen teaching subjected. Often, the school where you complete your internship in the Alternative Certification Program may offer you a full time position once you graduate from the program.You can also do an online statewide job search for open teaching positions by using this database: http://tea.texas.gov/districtSearch.aspx.

