 When probed, the cirrhotic liver tends to feel firm and nodular. Splenomegaly (enlarged spleen) is caused by hypertension that causes congestion in the spleen. Both of these conditions are signs of cirrhosis.
 Like caput medusa, it's also caused by a problem with the way different vein systems in the body connect to one another when there's high pressure in the veins.


The doctor will perform the Valsalva maneuver — a probing technique that increases abdominal pressure. This will allow him or her to hear the murmur more clearly if it is present.
 He or she will draw blood and have a laboratory perform tests useful for a diagnosis of cirrhosis. These tests may include:


A complete blood count that tests for the anemia, leukopenia and neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia commonly seen in cirrhosis, among other things.
A test for elevated serum aminotransferases enzyme levels that might point to alcoholic cirrhosis. Alcoholic cirrhosis typically has AST/ALT ratio greater than 2.A measurement of total bilirubin to compare your levels to acceptable baseline levels. Results may be normal in early cirrhosis, but levels tend to rise as cirrhosis worsens. Note that rising bilirubin is a poor prognostic sign in primary biliary cirrhosis.A measurement of albumin levels. A failing, cirrhotic liver's inability to synthesize albumin will lead to low albumin levels. However, this is also seen in patients with congestive heart failure, nephrotic syndrome, malnutrition, and some intestinal disease.
Other tests include alkaline phosphatase, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT),prothrombin time,, globulins,serum sodium,and hyponatremia.
 Imaging the body can help recognize cirrhosis, but are more useful to detect complications of cirrhosis like ascites.


Ultrasounds are noninvasive and widely available. A cirrhotic liver appears small and nodular on an ultrasound. The classic finding in cirrhosis is shrinking of the right lobe and enlargement of the left one. Nodules seen on ultrasound may be benign or malignant and need to be biopsied. Ultrasounds can also detect increased portal vein diameter or the presence of collateral veins that suggest portal hypertension.Computed tomography isn't routinely done for cirrhosis, as it provides the same information as ultrasound. Furthermore, it involves radiation and contrast exposure. Ask for a second opinion and the doctor's rationale if he or she suggests this process.
Magnetic resonance imaging's use is limited by cost and patient intolerance, as the process can be time consuming and uncomfortable. Low signal intensity on T1-weighted images suggests iron overload from hereditary hemochromatosis., Checking for signs and symptoms and running blood tests are all good methods for confirming a suspicion of cirrhosis. However, the only way to know for certain that a liver is cirrhotic is to allow a doctor to perform a biopsy on it. After processing and examining the liver sample under a microscope, the doctor will be able to say for sure whether the patient has cirrhosis.

