 While scratching an itch might seem like the easiest route to relief, it actually can make it worse. Scratching your itch will only prolong the irritation.


When you scratch your skin it causes a mild amount of pain. The sensation of pain interferes with the itching sensation, so you feel the pain of scratching over the itching.However, your brain will release serotonin in response to the pain to try and relieve it, which can then activate the itch receptor and cause even more itching.Scratching can be tempting. It can be helpful to cover the itchy area in Band-aids or gauze strips. You can also trim your nails short or wear clothing that covers the itch.;
, Cold temperatures affect the nerves that cause itch and can sometimes cause them to slow, resulting in relief from itching. Applying cold water to itchy skin can reduce the sensation.


Run cool tap water over the affected area. You could also place a cold washcloth on the skin until itching stops.A cold shower or bath can help, especially if the itch covers a large area.Ice packs are a good option as well. You can buy commercial ice packs at most supermarkets or drug stores. Always wrap these in a towel or wash cloth and never apply directly to the skin.If you can't find ice packs, you can also place ice cubes in a plastic bag or use frozen vegetables like a bag of peas instead., Oatmeal has been shown to soothe the skin for some people, and a cool oatmeal bath might help relieve your itching.


Colloidal oatmeal is preferred as it dissolves more easily in the water.However, if that's unavailable you can also use a food processor or blender to grind a cup of unflavored oatmeal.Run a tub of lukewarm water and pour the oats into a tub. Stir to remove any clumps.
Soak in the tub for 15 to 20 minutes and, when you're done, pat yourself dry.
 If you have an itch, you should minimize irritation to the area. Oftentimes, the type of clothing your wearing can make an existing itch worse.


Strive for loose-fitting outfits made from smooth textured fabrics.Avoid tight, constricting items of clothing. If possible, choose outfits that do not cover the itchy area.
Natural fibers, such as silk and cotton, do not usually irritate itchy skin. Wool is not recommended.

