 Tickets to view and eat on the set of Hell's Kitchen are in high demand. Most people who have had luck getting into the show's studio audience simply knew “the right person.” As such, if you know someone connected to the show or connected to Fox Broadcasting, make use of that acquaintanceship.


Make your request directly to the person you know rather than going through official channels.
The more influence your contact has within the company or with the show, the more likely you are to succeed in your appeal.;
, While the official Hell's Kitchen e-mail address is provided online for casting inquiries, you can also use it to inquire about ticket reservations.


Send an e-mail to: hellskitchen@theconlincompany.com
Within the body of the message, express your interest in reserving tickets. Provide your full name, the number of tickets you would like to request, your phone number, and your mailing address.
Also ask for additional information regarding ticket requests. You might be instructed to pass your request onto another source.
 Write a quick letter expressing your interest in tickets to Hell's Kitchen. State how many tickets you would like to request, along with your name and address. You should also include a stamped, self-addressed envelope that the show's directors can use to send you your tickets.


When applying postage to the self-addressed return envelope, use "Forever" stamps instead of relying on other stamps or postage paid without the "Forever" seal. Postage rates could go up by the time an opening appears on the show.
You may also want to include your phone number. If a last minute opening arises, you may receive a phone number asking about your availability.
The address to use when writing your ticket request is:

ATTN: Hell's Kitchen Reservation Tickets
FOX BROADCASTING Publicity Dept.
P.O. Box 900
Beverly Hills, CA 90213-0900



, Tickets can only be obtained through Fox Broadcasting or by a direct invitation from someone connected to the show. Many second party websites claim that they can obtain tickets to Hell's Kitchen and other reality TV shows, but more often than not, these websites are scams.


As hard as it might be to believe, real tickets to the show should cost you nothing. If a second party website wants your credit card information or other financial data, that website should not be trusted.
 The show's official website once had a "Reservations" section on its front page, located near the bottom of the screen. As the show rose in popularity, a backlog of reservation requests developed, and producers removed that section from the website. Nonetheless, you should continue to check the webpage for updates on whether or not reservations are actively being requested.


You can always send in a request through one of the other methods described here, even if reservations are not being accepted on the website.
The website can be found at: http://www.fox.com/hells-kitchen/


, Chances are, reservations for the next season or two of Hell's Kitchen are already booked up. If you are patient enough to wait several seasons, though, you might be lucky enough to get a spot sometime in the future.


Additionally, there is some chance that a guest will cancel, creating an unexpected opening as a result. When this happens, producers turn to their back-up list of reservation requests. Your name could be selected as a last minute fill-in, especially if you live in the Los Angeles area, around the location of the show's filming.
 Hell's Kitchen is not an actual restaurant. The kitchen and dining room are on a soundstage, so your dining experience will not be anything like what you might expect at a real eating establishment.Even after you obtain tickets, there is no guarantee that you will actually be able to eat anything there, and you will be asked to sign a form signifying your understanding of that.
Service will be slow, even if you do eat. Expect the visit to take at least three hours. As you wait, however, you will be given free alcohol and bread.
Most people who have visited the set of the show report that the food is decent, but not fantastic. If you still want to go, do so for the entertainment experience and not for the sake of a great meal.
 Gordon Ramsay owns and operates several highly rated restaurants in the United States, United Kingdom, and elsewhere. You can view a full listing of his restaurants on his official website, http://www.gordonramsay.com/


Restaurants in the United States include:

Gordon Ramsay Steak (Las Vegas)
Gordon Ramsay Burger (Las Vegas)
Boxwood Cafe (West Hollywood)
The London Bar, NYC (New York City)
Maze by Gordon Ramsay (New York City)
Gordon Ramsay Pub & Grill (Las Vegas)
Gordon Ramsay at the London West Hollywood (Los Angeles)
Rooftop at the London (West Hollywood)
Gordon Ramsay at the London (New York City)


Restaurants in the United Kingdom include:

Restaurant Gordon Ramsay (Chelsea)
Bread Street Kitchen (St. Paul's)
Foxtrot Oscar (Chelsea)
London House (Battersea Square)
Maze (Mayfair)
Maze Grill (Mayfair)
Petrus (Belgravia)
Gordon Ramsay Plane Food (Heathrow Airport)
The Narrow (Limehouse)
Savoy Grill (Covent Garden)
Union Street Cafe (Southwark)
York & Albany (Camden Town)


Other international restaurants include:

Au Trianon (Versailles, France)
La Veranda (Versailles, France)
Castel Monastero (Tuscany, Italy)
Fortevillage (Sardinia, Italy)
Gordon Ramsay Doha (Doha, Qatar)
Opal by Gordon Ramsay (Doha, Qatar)



, You can book with your restaurant of choice directly through Gordon Ramsay's website. Simply go to: https://www.gordonramsayrestaurants.com/book-a-table/


Make sure that your country is selected in the upper right corner of the page.
Look on the left side of the page. You should see a box labeled "Reservations," and the "Table" tab should be selected.

Choose your desired restaurant from the drop-down "Select a Restaurant" list.
Indicate the date you need the reservation for, as well as the time.
Mark the number of expected guests. When making reservations with this online system, you can only reserve for up to 12 guests.
 You can inquire about reservations for groups of 13 or more guests by phone, e-mail, or online.


To inquire by phone, call: 0207-592-1373
To inquire by email, write to: groupsandevents@gordonramsay.com
To inquire online, access the following form: https://www.gordonramsayrestaurants.com/private-dining-and-events/

You will need to provide your company name (if applicable), first name, last name, job title (if applicable), phone number, mobile phone number, email address, the occasion, the date (including whether or not the date is flexible), the preferred venue, the preferred seating time, and the expected number of guests. You will also be asked to explain more about your event in a separate text box.
 If you prefer to speak to the restaurant staff directly when placing your reservation, you can do so by calling them. Phone numbers are available through Gordon Ramsay's website. Simply locate the restaurant under the "Find" heading at the top of the page, click on it, and locate the phone number on each restaurant's individual page.


Note the following phone numbers for Gordon Ramsay's U.S. restaurants:

Gordon Ramsay Steak: 877-796-2096
Gordon Ramsay Burger: 702-785-5555
The London Bar, NYC: 212-468-8889
Maze by Gordon Ramsay: 212-468-8889
Gordon Ramsay Pub & Grill: 877-346-4642
Gordon Ramsay at the London West Hollywood: 310-358-7788
Rooftop at the London: 310-358-7788
Gordon Ramsay at the London: 212-468-8888


For the Boxwood Cafe (U.S.), you will need to place reservations by e-mailing: grlwh@thelondon.com

This e-mail address can also be used to make reservations with Gordon Ramsay at the London West Hollywood and Rooftop at the London.


Reservation phone numbers for Ramsay's U.K. restaurants include:

Restaurant Gordon Ramsay: 020-7352-4441
Bread Street Kitchen: 0203-030-4050
Foxtrot Oscar: 020-7352-4448
London House: 020-7592-8545
Maze: 020-7107-0000
Maze Grill: 020-7495-2211
Petrus: 020-7592-1609
Gordon Ramsay Plane Food: 020-8897-4545
The Narrow: 020-7592-7950
Savoy Grill: 020-7592-1600
Union Street Cafe: 020-7592-7977
York & Albany: 020-7592-1227



