 You want your distributor agreement to be readable, so select a comfortable font size and style after opening your word processing document. Times New Roman 12 point works for most people, but you can choose a different size and style if you want.


If you intend to use this agreement with more than one distributor, then you can create it as a template. Insert blank lines for information that might change from agreement to agreement.;
, You can title it “Distribution Agreement” or “Exclusive Distribution Agreement” if the distributor has an exclusive right to distribute.Insert the title at the top of the first page and make it stand out by putting it in all caps, bold, or underline.


Center the title between the left-hand and right-hand margins.
 In your first paragraph you should identify yourself and the distributor. Make sure that you include the date the agreement is being executed. Also include each party’s address.


Sample language could read: “Agreement made , between , having its principal place of business at (‘Supplier’) and , having its principal place of business at (‘Distributor’).”, These are the “whereas” clauses that you see in contracts. The recitals summarize why you and the distributor are entering the agreement. They can often be fragment sentences.


Your recitals could read: “Whereas Supplier is the producer of (‘Product’); Distributor desires to secure from Supplier, and Supplier is willing to grant to Distributor, the right to sell and distribute Supplier’s Product. Now, therefore, it is mutually agreed as follows.”, You should think about how long you want the distributor agreement to last. Some people feel more comfortable locking in a distributor for as long as possible. However, some experts recommend that you create shorter agreements lasting only a year.


Your provision could read: “The term of this Agreement shall begin on (‘Effective Date’). The term of this Agreement shall expire on unless terminated earlier pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.”, You need to appoint the distributor to distribute your products. You can also require the distributor to use its best efforts to promote and sell your products.


You can use this provision, for example: “Supplier appoints Distributor as the sole or exclusive distributor for the term of this Agreement for the sale and distribution of the Product in the Territory. Distributor shall use its best efforts to promote, sell, and distribute Supplier’s Product. If necessary, Distributor shall maintain a sales staff for the distribution of products, including Supplier’s Product.”, You might want to limit the distributor to a certain territory. The territory could be a city, state, nation, or continent (such as North America). If you want to limit the distributor, then identify the territory here in your agreement.


A sample clause could read: “Supplier is appointing Distributor with respect to the sale of Products to any purchasers with a principal place of business located in the following territory (‘Territory’): .”, You can also include a provision limiting the distributor’s rights to distribute to only the territory you identified. You should tell the distributor what to do if they receive an order from outside their territory.


For example, you could write, “Distributor shall not solicit orders from anyone with its principal place of business outside the Territory. If Distributor receives an order from a purchaser outside the Territory, then Distributor shall immediately refer that order to Supplier. Distributor shall not, under any circumstances, accept orders from outside the Territory. Distributor may not deliver or tender any Product outside the Territory. Furthermore, Distributor shall not sell any Products to a prospective buyer if Distributor knows or has reason to suspect that the purchaser will remove the Products from the Territory.”, You might want to grant the distributor the right to distribute more products or to expand the territory. You should retain the right to change these terms of the agreement.


Your provision might read: “Supplier reserves the right to expand or reduce the Products covered by this Agreement. Supplier also reserves the right to expand or reduce the Territory. Supplier will not make either change without consulting with Distributor.”, This might sound basic, but it’s a good idea to include a provision stating that the distributor will use their best efforts to market and sell your products in the territory., Also clarify that you have not entered into a business partnership with the distributor.


A sample provision could read: “Distributor shall be considered an independent contractor. The relationship between Supplier and Distributor shall not be that of an employer and employee, a partnership, joint venture, nor agency relationship of any kind.”, You should tell the distributor how to order products from you. You can request that they use purchase orders which list the number of products they want and the delivery date., Pricing is an important issue, so you should spend some time thinking about it. You will set the price that the distributor pays you for each product. You should also retain the right to change your prices. Tell the distributor that you will send written notice of any price change.


A sample provision could read: “If a purchase order is accepted, the prices for Products shall be . From time to time, Supplier may change these prices, effective immediately upon Distributor’s receipt of a written notice.”Generally, the distributor remains free to set the prices it charges customers.
 You should explain how payment should be made and when. For example, you might want the distributor to send you money by wire transfer. Also set the deadline for when payment should be sent.


You could write, “All amounts due and payable with respect to a Product delivered by Supplier shall be paid in full within ten (10) days after Distributor receives an invoice covering such Product. All amounts shall be paid in U.S. Dollars by wire transfer, to the bank Supplier designates in writing. Amounts due shall be considered paid on the day the funds are received by Supplier’s bank.”, You can charge a fixed penalty or interest on late payments. You should clearly spell this information out in the distributor agreement so there are no questions when and if the distributor is late with a payment.
 You might end up sending defective goods (called “non-conforming” goods in contracts). You should tell the distributor what he or she must do to object to these goods and what you will do in return.


For example, you could state, “Risk of loss shall pass to Distributor upon Seller’s delivery of such Product to a common carrier designated by Distributor. All claims for non-conforming shipments must be made in writing to Supplier within ten (10) days of the passing of risk of loss and damage, as described above. Any claims made outside this period shall be considered waived.”, A warranty is a claim or promise made about your goods. For example, you can warrant that your goods are fit for the purpose that they are advertised. You could also try to limit your warranties. For example, your goods might be made by a manufacturer. In this situation, you might only grant a “pass through” warranty, which basically is whatever warranty the manufacturer makes to you.You should think about what warranties you want to make. If you violate a warranty, then the Distributor could sue you. You are probably better off making as few warranties as possible.
 An implied warranty can arise from a course of conduct or from the law. You can explicitly disclaim any implied warranties in your distributor agreement.


A common clause might read: “The foregoing warranties are in lieu of any other warranty, whether express or implied, written or oral (including any warranty of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose).”Sometimes the warranties are put in all caps so that they stand out on the page. However, some people find it difficult to read all caps. Instead, you might want to use a slightly different font size to make the text stand out.
 If the distributor sues you, they may try to get all kinds of money out of you. For example, you might sell defective products to them. They will claim that they are entitled to a refund of the purchase price. However, they also might try to sue you for any “consequential” or “indirect” damages, such as lost reputation with their consumers or lost business. You should include a limitation on liability provision that prevents the distributor from suing you for these kinds of damages.


A sample provision could read: “Supplier’s liability arising out of this Agreement shall not exceed the actual purchase price paid by the Distributor. In no event shall Supplier be liable to Distributor or any other person for special, consequential, or incidental damages, including loss of profits or loss of reputation, even if Supplier has been advised of the possibility of such losses or damages.”, If any lawsuit arises from your distribution agreement, then you can get the distributor to agree to reimburse you for any loss. For example, a consumer might sue the distributor and add you on as a defendant to the lawsuit. If the distributor agreed to indemnify you, then they agree to pay to defend you in the lawsuit and cover any judgment entered against you.


A sample indemnification agreement might read: “Distributor agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless Supplier, its affiliates and officers, employees, directors and agents from all claims, damages, losses, costs, liabilities, expenses, demands, actions and suits arising out of or related to the conduct of Distributor’s operations.”, You should have the distributor agree to maintain business insurance. If the distributor is sued by a customer, then its insurance policy will help cover any amount awarded the customer.


Insert this clause: “Distributor shall maintain an insurance policy naming Supplier as an additional insured during the term of this Agreement and for three (3) years afterward. The policy shall insure against all claims, costs, liabilities, or expenses resulting from or caused by any Product sold by Distributor. The insurance policy should carry coverage of at least $4 million per claim.”, Typically, if one side thinks the other side has broken (“breached”) the agreement, then the non-breaching party can send a notice of breach to the other side. The party that is breaching the agreement then usually has a chance to cure (fix) the violation. You should explain this process.


For example, you could give the other party a certain amount of time (30 days, 60 days, etc.) to cure the breach.
Your provision might read: “In the event of a material breach, either the Supplier or Distributor may terminate this Agreement by sending the other party 60 days’ written notice which sets forth the alleged breach. If the offending party cures the breach within the 60-day period, then the notice of termination shall be void and this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.”, Once the distributor relationship ends, people might still need to be paid. For example, the distributor will still need to pay for any goods it has ordered from you. You should include a provision explaining that payments must still be made after termination or expiration of the agreement.
 You could have the distributor pack up all remaining products and return them to you. However, you might want to give the distributor the right to sell off all remaining inventory after the relationship is terminated.


You could write: “Distributor shall have the right to sell off its remaining inventory of Products after termination or expiration of this Agreement. However, Distributor must comply with all conditions of this Agreement.”, You should specify in the agreement where each side should send its written notice. Include the address where you want the notice sent and also specify how it should be sent (certified mail, fax, etc.), if you have a preference.
 You can choose which state’s law will govern the interpretation and enforcement of your agreement. Typically, businesses choose the state where they are located.

You could write, “This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of .”, You can try to avoid a lengthy and expensive lawsuit by including an arbitration clause. Arbitration is like a trial except a panel of arbitrators hears your case in the place of a judge. Arbitration has many advantages. It is typically faster and cheaper than a lawsuit. It is also private.


Your arbitration clause might read: “Any controversy or claim arising out of this Agreement or the breach thereof shall be settled by arbitration in in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. Any judgment rendered by the arbitration panel shall be final and binding on the parties.”, Sometimes the distributor might claim that you had a prior agreement that is not reflected in the signed distributor agreement. To prevent this from happening, you should include a “merger” clause.


Your merger clause could read: “This Agreement is the entire agreement between the parties. It can only be changed in a writing executed by both parties.”, With this provision, you state that if a judge or arbitrator finds any one provision of the agreement illegal, then the rest of the agreement will remain in effect.


Your severability provision could read: “If any provision of this Agreement is found unenforceable or invalid, then the remainder of the Agreement shall endure.”, At the bottom of the document, insert signature lines for you and the distributor. You should have a line for the signature, printed name, and title.


Just above the signature line, you should insert the following language: “In witness whereof, the parties hereto have signed this Agreement.”, This article describes a basic distributor agreement. You may need to revise it to suit your business. You should schedule a meeting with a lawyer and show him or her your draft. The lawyer can offer suggestions for revision.


Try to find a lawyer experienced in your industry. There are industry norms that a regular lawyer won’t be aware of without sufficient experience in your industry.You can ask other businesses in your industry if they would recommend their lawyer.
If you don’t have any leads, then you could contact your local or state bar association and ask for a lawyer referral.
When you get a referral, call him or her up and ask if they have any experience in your industry.
 You can also check what’s missing in your draft distributor agreement by getting a model agreement for your industry. Many distribution associations have model agreements you can get for free or for a small fee. For example, the National Electronic Distributors Association has a model form.You can also contact other people that you know in your industry and ask if they can look at your agreement.
 You should show the agreement to the distributor. He or she will want to look it over and could recommend changes. You can negotiate back and forth. Remember not to sign the agreement unless you agree with everything in it.
 Once you and the distributor agree to everything, then you each can sign the agreement. Make sure to hold onto the original and send the distributor a copy of the agreement.

