 Depending on the severity of the allergy, your child could become sick or even die if they eat a food they are allergic to. Therefore, it is important to monitor what they eat. You can best do this by examining their collection of Halloween treats at the end of the night. Look at the back of each snack for a small printed section that lists all the ingredients. Identify snacks that they can and cannot eat.If there is no ingredients label on the food, consider it unsafe for your child.Be wary of cross-contamination as well. Check the labels for information about the facility that the treat was produced in to determine if it is safe for your child to eat.
 As you’re reading the labels, separate the candy into two large bowls or baskets. One bowl can hold candies and snacks your child cannot eat. The other bowl or basket should hold the remaining snacks and treats (the ones that are safe for your child to consume), With your child’s Halloween snacks divided into two bowls, hold onto the bowl with snacks your child is allergic to. Do not allow your child to consume these treats. Return the other treats to your child and encourage them to consume a few in moderate amounts.Too many sweet goods can give your child a stomach ache and contribute to poor dental health. Limit their candy intake.
 Depending on your child’s food allergy, it’s possible that most of the candy your child receives will be inedible due to their condition. To prevent your child from being disappointed about being unable to enjoy their candy collection, obtain candies that your child is not allergic to and trade them to your child in exchange for the candies and treats they are allergic to. Alternatively, offer your child the opportunity to trade their candy in for several small toys (or one big toy).You could also invite your child’s peers to the candy trade to allow your child access to other allergen-free treats and sweets. Even kids who don’t have food allergies might enjoy the opportunity to trade candies they dislike for others they prefer.
The size and cost of the toy you provide your child in exchange for the candy is up to you. Negotiate with your child about what they want and find a toy that is both affordable for you, appropriate in relation to the amount of trick-or-treating your child did, and of interest to your child.
Distribute the candy you received from your child to other children who do not have food allergies, or snack on it yourself. Whatever you choose to do, keep it out of your child’s reach.

