 Sit down in a calm, comfortable place with a pen and paper. Write down all the instances when you have experienced a panic attack and the way you were feeling when the attack occurred. You will be surprised how many things come to mind when you start writing it all down! Once you have done that, you will have a better understanding of your own anxiety.Things to write down include:


Think about the situation itself, what happened before the symptoms began, and what the symptoms were.
You should also try to remember how long the attack was and how you were able to calm down—did it go away on its own or did you do something specific?
You can even draw a little chart with the physical, mental and emotional symptoms that you experienced.
 When you deny that you are suffering from anxiety, you may actually be increasing the chances that you will have another attack. To be able to prevent another attack you need to face the reality that you are struggling with fear and anxious thoughts.


This does not mean that you should surrender to the attacks but you should realize that the anxiety you are dealing with exists and that you can do something about it. Without acceptance, there would also be no resolve to kick the anxiety out of your life for good.
 When you are dealing with a lot of stress in your life, doing relaxing activities can really help you to control your anxiety. As discussed in Part 1, your brain and body are very connected. Yoga helps to relieve the stresses of your body while also helping your mind find peace. Enroll in a yoga class and try it out to see if it helps you with your stress., When you exercise, your body releases endorphins that combat stress. The more you exercise, the less anxious you will be. Even taking a brisk walk around your neighborhood can pump out enough endorphins to help you calm down. You can switch up the kind of exercises you do to keep yourself entertained.


Try swimming, hiking, rock climbing, running, biking, or any other activity that gets your blood pumping.
 If you are prone to anxiety attacks, try not to deprive yourself of sleep. Lack of sleep can trigger anxiety attacks so if you are not well rested the night before, the risk of you having an anxiety episode at work or in the car goes up considerably. To make sure you sleep well through the night, engage in things that can help you relax and get ready to doze off.


A warm bath in the tub can be a good way to calm yourself down before bed.
Listening to good music or watching a feel good movie can also help condition your mind to sleep.
 The release of these thoughts can help silence them, at least for the night.
 Sometimes, people with anxiety can tend to isolate themselves. However, this is the opposite of what you should do if you are dealing with stress. Maintain your friendship with people, keep connected, and be open to the people you trust. Social support is a very powerful tool in fighting anxiety attacks. The more you engage with people, the stronger you get emotionally.


Make plans to do stuff with your friends on the weekend. Go see a movie, for a hike, or to the beach.
Call up your family members and catch up.
 Anxiety attacks often surface when the mind is overwhelmed with work and daily routines that are not especially helpful in reducing stress levels. This is the reason why taking breaks throughout your day can help prevent anxiety episodes. Get your mind off your daily stresses and let yourself relax for a bit.


These breaks can include walking to another part of the office building that has beautiful scenery, or going to a nearby park to eat lunch or have a cup of coffee.
 Similar to taking breaks, taking the time to do things you love can really help you de-stress. Make time to pursue hobbies, hang out with friends, or spend some quality ‘me-time’. When you do things that you enjoy, your mind relaxes and can become stronger in the face of anxieties.
 Explain your situation to him or her and ask for information on anxiety attacks. Your doctor can give you the right information for your specific case. Understanding what is going on is important because our brains are programmed to fear the unknown. Once you understand what a panic attack is, and why it is happening to you, you may feel more powerful and in control. Having a sense of control over your anxiety is a key factor to overcoming it.