 Often, the best way to know how you can help is to ask your friend what they need. You can also ask specific questions, such as "Do you need a ride to your chemo appointment?" This will let them know that you are willing to do specific tasks, and you're not just making a vague offer.If your friend has children, offer to take them off of their hands once or twice a week. They can get some rest and you can provide the kids with some fun.
 Sometimes we take for granted our ability to complete what seem like ordinary, everyday tasks. When your friend is diagnosed with cancer, they might feel overwhelmed by everyday life. Offer to help run simple errands, such as going to the post office or dry cleaners'.Often, our natural instinct is to send food (and lots of it) when someone is sick. Unfortunately, cancer patients offer suffer from a loss of appetite. Instead of loading them down with casseroles, ask your friend if you can go grocery shopping for them. Have them provide a list of things that sound good to them.
 Remember, it's not just your friend who is going through a tough time.Their family is also going through a very emotional situation. Try talking to their spouse, parents, or kids, if appropriate. Let them know that you are there to lean on and offer to help in any way that you can.If your friend is married, you could say something like, "I know you're going through a hard time, too. Let me know if you want me to keep Ann company while you go relax with your friends some evening."

, A great way to show that you care is by working to find a cure for cancer. There are many great organizations that have regular fundraising events. Look for one in your area and sign up.Simple ways to show support for friends or family members with cancer include the #NoHairSelfie. One can either physically or virtually shave their head, take a picture, share the image of themselves on social media and raise money for cancer research. In addition to being a symbol of courage for your loved one, sharing your selfie with friends and family brings together a community of support for your loved one.
Alternately, for specific types of cancer such as breast cancer, one can look into walking in one of the three day walks organized by the Susan G. Komen Foundation. Don't forget to wear a shirt with your friend's name on it to further show your support.
No matter which activity you engage in, recruit others to join you. Building a committed and active support network is a great way to show your friend that you are dedicated to helping them in the fight against cancer.

