 If you'd like to read your Kindle books on one specific computer even when you don't have an active Internet connection, you should download the Kindle desktop app.


Note that you'll need an active Internet connection to download the app and any books you plan to read with it, but you do not need that connection once both pieces of data have been downloaded.
Download Kindle for PC here: http://www.amazon.com/gp/kindle/pc/download

Download Kindle for Mac here: http://www.amazon.com/gp/kindle/mac/download

Follow the on-screen instructions to install the program.
 After you finish downloading the desktop app, find the program in your program list or on your desktop.


Click on the name once to open it from your program list. Double-click on the program icon to open it from your desktop.
Note that you might also be prompted to open the app directly after installing it.
 Before you can access your library, you'll need to sign into your Amazon account by typing in your e-mail address and password.


Hit the "Sign In" button to send your details. If your sign-in information is correct, your Kindle Library should open.
 You'll need to download each e-book you want to read from your Kindle Cloud library to your desktop app. Make sure that you're still online while attempting to do this.Look at the "Library" panel on the left of your screen. Any book that is "Archived" is stored in the cloud and marked by a cloud icon in the bottom right corner.
To download a book you want to read, simply double-click on the book cover. Alternatively, you could right-click on a PC (or Ctrl+click on a Mac) and select "Download" from the resulting menu.
 Double-click on the title of an e-book in your desktop library to open that book.You do not need to be connected to the Internet to read books on the desktop app.
The e-book will open to the last known open page. If you're reading offline on your desktop app, that page will be the last page you read on that computer. If you're reading while connected to the Internet, that page should be the last page you read on any device connected to your Kindle Cloud.
 Turn to the next page by clicking on the right side arrow. Turn to the previous page by clicking on the left side arrow. You can also use the right and left arrow keys on your keyboard.


If you wan to go to different locations in the book, you'll need to hover the cursor over the bottom of the screen until the toolbar appears. Slide the progress bar back and forth to quickly scan through pages.
Alternatively, hover over the top of the page and click the "Go to" icon. Select different locations in the book or specific pages from there.
 You can add notes, highlights, and bookmarks as desired while reading the e-book.Highlight a word or set of words with your cursor, then select either "Highlight" or "Add Note" from the options that appear.
Add a bookmark by clicking on the "Add bookmark" icon.
You can also look up a word in the dictionary. Select the word with your cursor, then click on the "More" option and choose "Dictionary."

, If you want to change the font size, words per line, brightness, or background color, click on the Aa icon.


There's also a "Zoom" button at the top of the page. After exiting the app, the zoom will automatically reset to 100 percent.
 If you're connected to an active Internet connection while using the app, you can synchronize your book with your other devices.


To do this, click on "Tools" and choose "Sync to the furthest page read."
If your book has already synchronized or if the option is otherwise unavailable, it will be grayed out.

