 After the reception, many couples choose to exit in a special vehicle. Perhaps it’s a new car, a gift from the parents-in-law, or a fancy rental reserved for the occasion. Whatever the case, sneak out with the other groomsmen just before the wedding commences and decorate the car.


Write a simple declaration of the couple’s marriage on the hood or back window of the car with a bar of white soap or shaving cream. “Just Married” or “Just Hitched,”are acceptable options.
Don’t attach tin cans to the rear fender of the car. It is illegal in some places. Instead, tie pink and white streamers around it.
Don’t use materials that will damage the car like spray paint, whipped cream, or tape.Do not write or draw anything obscene or offensive on the vehicle.
 Keep it sincere and honest.If you don’t know the bride well, for instance, admit as much. But then follow up with the fact that your impression of her is that she is a great match for the groom. Don’t exaggerate, but do share how happy you are for the newlyweds.


Prepare your speech well in advance of the wedding day. Practice it every day for at least two weeks. Read it out loud to a test audience of a few friends and family at least once so you can gauge whether anything you say is confusing or inaccurate. Solicit feedback from your test audience and incorporate it into the final speech.
If you need notes while delivering your speech, feel free to use them.
Deliver your toast early so that you’re not too drunk by the time you deliver it.
Begin the speech by thanking everyone for coming. Compliment special individuals like the mother of the bride who might have had a hand in assisting with wedding planning.
Use a story to demonstrate one of your friend’s best qualities. If he is a thoughtful and generous person, use a story about, for instance, the time he brought everyone lunch after class because you’d all taken a tough test that day. Illustrate what a great person the groom is and how he deserves to have a wonderful life with his bride.
Avoid inside jokes, references to past relationships, and controversial topics like political or religious issues.
 Work the tables and mingle with the guests for at least a few minutes each.Check to make sure everyone has what they need. Ensure drunken family members or other guests do not behave inappropriately.


You might also need to organize guests for photos. Identify who or what the photographer or the newlyweds want in their photos.
When the event is finished, help wrap up. Collect wedding gifts and put them somewhere safe. If the groom wants his tuxedo returned before heading off on his honeymoon, offer to return it for him.
 For instance, it is a custom at many wedding that the best man dances with the bride.If this is expected of you, you should do so. Usually, you will dance with her after she has danced with the groom at least once. Have fun while dancing and ask the groom if he expects you to perform any other special traditions.
 Be sure to get members of both sides of the family in your shots. Ask leading questions like, “What do you want to say to the bride and groom?” Take candid shots of the bride and groom dancing, kissing, cutting the cake together, smiling, and having a good time. Get some exterior shots of the reception location before guests arrive, too, if the location is noteworthy.


Include photos of things other than people, too. For instance, menus, the cake, centerpieces, tables stacked with wedding gifts are all memorable things to photograph.