 Cats will usually only be fertile during the spring and summer, though indoor cats who are exposed to a lot of artificial light may be fertile year round. Ovulation in cats is provoked by the act of mating, and if the cat doesn't ovulate, the cycle of fertile stages will probably repeat several times.Some cats won't demonstrate signs of this cycle in the presence of their owner, so pay attention to the tomcats in the neighborhood too - they will turn up when a female is in heat.The stages of the estrous cycle, excluding anestrus, which is when the cat isn't fertile in the winter are:


Proestrus - this stage may last one to two days, but may be as short as an hour, and isn’t seen in all cats. During this period, she may call to the tom, roll and rub on the ground, but won’t allow the tom near her.
Estrus - this stage usually lasts about a week, and is when the queen should be taken to the tom for mating. The primary sign of this period is her vocal call to the male with a specific type of yowl.This sound is generally a short-ish, plaintive, hollow sounding yowl that sounds almost like “aah-roo-ugh?” (though it can vary between breeds,so be sure to check with a breeder who is familiar with your breed) and will be accompanied by the cat doing all she can to get to any toms in the area. Interestrus - if the cat did not ovulate she will enter this period, which usually lasts about a week before estrous or estrus periods return. She will show no sign of reproductive activity during interestrus.
 The owner of the stud will usually take care of these arrangements, but knowing what to expect is a good idea. No reputable stud owner will hide any of his preparations from you, and you should check to make sure the owner knows what to do.


The tom needs a place to escape to just after mating takes place as the female often reacts viciously.
Be prepared to hear a bloodcurdling shriek from the female - this is normal.Immediately after mating, the female will probably frantically groom herself for about an hour, during which time she won’t allow anyone near her. After this, the estrous period will continue as it was before mating occurred until its natural end.
It is important to make sure a cat is bred more than once during an estrous period since she will not ovulate until after she has mated. Three breedings a day for the first three days of the estrous cycle should produce a 90% chance of the queen ovulating., If your cat does not become pregnant on her first visit to the stud, there are several possible timelines:


She didn't ovulate. If this is the case, she will become fertile again in about a week.
She ovulated, but didn't become pregnant - this period is called metestrus; it lasts 5-7 weeks, and during it she will not demonstrate any reproductive activity.She became pregnant, but the pregnancy was unsuccessful. If this is the case, she will become fertile again 2-3 weeks after losing the kittens. , When your female cat is in heat, she will call to any male within earshot, and desperately try to get outside to mate with any tom who responds to her call,but it isn’t a good idea to let her choose her own mate because then you won’t know anything about the kittens father, and any potential illness or genetic problem he may pass down to them. Even after the queen has been bred by your chosen stud, as long as the estrus cycle lasts, she will try to continue mating, and any of these matings could produce any of the kittens she produces.