 Begin by using a tape measure to determine the total length of your cabinet tops. This will determine the total length of crown molding you need to purchase. If this is your first time working with molding, consider buying about 20 percent more length than you need to allow for mistakes and wasted material.;
, Each joint in your cabinet molding will form a compound angle, meaning the pieces must be mitered to create the right angle as well as beveled to fit tightly against each other. This compound angle can be easily achieved if you have a miter saw capable of compound cuts. Otherwise, you must create a guide fence.


Begin by placing a piece of molding into the miter saw at the same angle that it will sit against the cabinets. The top of the molding should rest against the saw table, while the bottom should rest against the saw fence.
With the molding in this position, position a scrap of dimension lumber against the molding and glue it to the saw table. Once the glue is set, make a 45 degree cut in either direction to clear away the middle portion of the dimension lumber. The lumber will act as a guide fence, ensuring that the molding sits in the correct position and allowing you to cut compound angles in one cut.
 If desired, you can nail or glue the crown molding directly onto your cabinet boxes. However, for a sturdier approach, you should install framing along the cabinet tops. This can be as simple as a length of 1 x 2 in (2.5 x 5 cm) furring strip, cut to length and glued along the tops of the cabinets, flush with the edges. You will affix the molding directly to this framing.
 The first length of molding will butt directly against a wall on one end, with the other end either meeting the next piece at an inside or outside corner along the cabinets. To cut the butt joint, simply place the molding into the miter saw and make a straight cut.
 Outside corners are cut by placing the molding into the miter saw and cutting at a 45 degree angle. Because even inexpensive cabinet boxes are nearly always squared well, you will not likely have to make any adjustments to these cuts to get the joint to fit cleanly.
 You may need to cut an inside corner if your cabinets wrap around an inside corner of your walls. This corner is cut in the same manner as it would be for crown molding on your ceilings. One piece should be cut into a butt joint. The other piece should be cut at a 45 degree angle, and then the excess wood should be cut away using a coping saw. Follow the profile of the molding carefully with the coping saw to ensure a clean fit with the adjacent piece.
 You should nail the molding in place using finish nails. If you chose to install a strip of framing along your cabinets, drive the nails directly into the framing. If the cabinet molding will rest against the ceiling, you can use finish nails to affix the molding to the ceiling. Apply a small amount of glue at each joint, wiping away the excess with a cloth.

