 Lobbying jobs can differ greatly from each other, but lobbyists work hand in hand with legislators to achieve certain political goals.



Paid lobbying vs. free lobbying. Most lobbying happens when a business or professional organization hires someone to represent their interests in Washington. Some lobbyists, however, do decide to work pro bono, in the interest of a special (usually non-profit) cause, or simply because they are already retired. Choosing pro bono representation could help convince others of your refusal to be swayed by money.

Single-issue vs. multi-issue lobbying. Decide whether you want to lobby for a single issue or cause, or whether you want your cause to be broader, encompassing a wider swath of issues. Those who work for the interests of corporations tend to be single-issue lobbyists, while those who work for the interests of unions tend to be multi-illuse lobbyists.

Inside vs. outside lobbying. Inside (or "direct") lobbying is when a representative tries to influence policy by directly contacting legislators. Indirect lobbying is when a representative tries to influence policy by mobilizing a community of people outside Washington, usually by grassroots organization, public relation, and advertising.
 Lobbyists have to be experts on issues they work on, so its important to start learning about political issues and policies as early as possible. While there are no education requirements in place for becoming a lobbyist, it never hurts to be informed and knowledgeable about political issues in general, as well as specific interests you may be lobbying for.
 Internships in state legislatures or interning as a congressional aide provide valuable experience and boost your lobbying resume.


Interns primarily complete research, attend and take notes at hearings, answer phone calls and send out emails, read mail, and learn about issues that are at the heart of your constituency. These positions are usually unpaid and are available throughout the school year and summer months.
 Often, who you know is just as helpful as your qualifications in getting your first job. Much of your job as a lobbyists is forming relationships with key people who can help you achieve your goal. Learning to lobby other lobbyists is a uniquely essential skill.
 As a lobbyists, your most basic job is to persuade a congressperson or a group of people that a particular idea holds traction or that a particular policy deserves attention. In order to do this, you must be charming, persistent, and persuasive.


Start building relationships with the appropriate policymakers. Lobbyists can sit down with a policymaker and help draft legislation that both serves the policy maker's constituency and fulfills the lobbyist's policy goals. In order to do this, you need to both personable and persuasive.
Learn how to fundraise. While it's improper, illegal, and frowned upon to grease the palms of politicians in order to make gears move, it's key for a lobbyist to be able to fundraise for a politician.Get social. Lobbyists can and do throw cocktail parties and dinners in order to rub shoulders with other lobbyists and policymakers in a less intense and adversarial atmosphere. These are great opportunities for you learn information, sell ideas, and make connections. Don't underestimate them.
 You can often accomplish some grassroots lobbying on the local level. Grassroots lobbyists focus on getting the community involved by making phone calls or writing letters to their legislators to sway policy. Grassroots lobbying could provide a welcome break from the intensely gridlocked, closed-room negotiations of direct lobbying.
 Being a lobbyist is not a walk in the park. According to some sources, lobbyists regularly work between 40 and 80 hours per week, with all-nighters becoming the norm right before a bill is up for vote.The silver lining is that a lot of the grueling work you'll be doing is networking, meaning that you won't necessarily be perched behind a desk for early mornings and long nights.

