 Purchase fitted sheet to hug your child’s bed. The set should also come with a flat sheet that lies on top of the fitted sheet, under a blanket or comforter. The set should also come with a toddler comforter or blanket.


If you live in a hot climate, a flat sheet may be all your child needs to stay warm at night.;
, When buying toddler bedding, think about how you want your toddler to be as comfortable as possible when sleeping on it. You’ll want something soft, and nice and smooth; something that will entice your toddler to sleep on her own bed. In particular, look for bedding made of micro fleece, a comforter made of combed cotton.


Micro fleece is a synthetic wool material that is often made of polyester. It is soft, light and easy to wash. It is also hydrophobic (water repellent) and holds only 1% of its weight in water hence it is easy to wash. Micro fleece is the thinnest and most flexible among its 4 thickness variations hence it is the most breathable.
Combed cotton fabrics are generally softer but more durable than regular cotton fabrics and are often more expensive. Because of this, these comforters tend to last longer.
Another thing you will want to consider is the thread count of your bedding fabric. Consider buying toddler bedding made from percale weave. Percale weave produces fabric sheets that are smooth and soft. In the United States, authentic percale sheets need to have a minimum of 180 thread counts running in one direction per square inch of fabric. This will be written as 180TC on the packaging of the bed sheet.
 Sheet sets work well for toddler bedding because parents have the option to add or remove blankets as the seasons change. When seasons change, the weather fluctuates, which means either adding or removing a blanket from your toddler’s bed.


Beddings for toddlers and babies are sold with tog ratings; this refers to the item’s insulating capacity or thermal insulance (how warm it will keep your child). During the summer, use a doona or blanket with a tog rating of 3 to 4.5, while during the winter, use a doona with a tog rating of around 13.5.
 Are you going to use the bedding until your child’s preschool years? Will there be another younger child who will use the bedding next? If you are thinking of using the toddler bedding for a long time, you will find it is better to invest in high quality toddler bed sheets and comforters. This way, you will get the best value for your money.


Make sure the bedding is easily washable and that it doesn’t need to be dry-cleaned and won’t fall apart after the first use. It is basically inevitable that you’ll have to constantly wash your toddler’s bedding so invest in pieces that will withstand this wear and tear.
 You want to encourage your toddler to sleep in her bed as much as possible; if she loves the design on the bedding, she will be much more likely to jump into bed at night.


Look for bedding that is your child’s favorite color, or bedding that has your child’s favorite TV show character on it.
 It is generally better to get sheets that are too big, rather than too small, but you should still try to match the sheets to the bed exactly. Use a tape measure to determine the size of your child’s bed, and take this information to the store with you.


If you do happen to get sheets that are too big, you can either bring them back, or simply tuck the extra fabric under the mattress when you make your child’s bed.
 Toddlers can manage to cause a lot of damage to their bedding. Whether your toddler jumps on the bedding, spills food on it, or wets the bed at night, it is generally useful to have a second bedding set waiting in the wings.
 Almost every department or baby store has a section with toddler bedding. Online retailers also tend to have a large selection of bedding options. Choose a store that matches your style and price range. The simplest way to buy toddler bedding is simply to get a bedding set, which typically includes coordinating sheets, comforter, and pillowcase. You can also buy each piece individually to create your own look or to mix and match brands and styles.

