 Try to think of a personal moment that the two of you shared and make your gift be related to that. Think of what your talents are, and try to create something that uses your strengths. Don’t worry if you’re not the greatest artist. The quality of the art matters less than the significance that the gift holds for him.


If you are not artistic, a photo collage is personal and easy to create.
If you're younger, you can use an extra white shirt and create designs on it with marker, or dye it. Think of creative things you can do with extra clothes to make an awesome gift for them.
You could make him a painting, compose a song for him, or create an installation art piece.
Read Make Handmade Gifts for more handmade gift ideas.
 If you go to the store and buy supplies, you don’t want to waste time going back because you forgot something. Creating a complete list of all the materials you need for your gift will prevent you from giving the guy the gift late, or worse yet, scrapping the project mid way through.


Remember, if you need photos developed, they may take a day, so be sure to plan out your gift according to your time restraints.
It’s better to have leftover art supplies than to run out in the middle of creating it.
 Once you have your idea, you need the supplies required to create it. Go to your local arts and crafts store, or an online marketplace to buy what you need.


Going to the art store and then comparing prices on your phone is a great way to save money.
If you buy supplies online, make sure to factor in the time it takes for it to ship.
 Take your time and create the gift that you had in mind for him. Remember, the more time and effort you spend will pay off with the final product, so don’t skip any corners or try to rush it to completion. Once you are done, store it away in a place where he won’t find it.


Don’t be scared of the gift not being perfect. What matters is the time and meaning you put behind the gift, not its artistic merit.
If you mess up, don’t be afraid to go back and start over.

