 Clarifying shampoos are formulated to cleanse your scalp of built up grease and oil. When applied to dyed hair, a clarifying shampoo will safely and subtly fade your hair color. This method will not damage your color treated hair.


Apply a generous amount of clarifying shampoo to your damp hair. Coat each shaft from the root to the tip.
Work the product into a lather.
When the shampoo begins to turn the color of the dye, put on a shower cap and let the product sit in your hair for several hours.
Rinse the shampoo from your hair.
Comb a moisturizing conditioner to your hair. After a few minutes, rinse the conditioner out of your hair.
Repeat this as desired.
To create a slightly stronger fading agent, mix together equal parts shampoo and baking soda. Apply this mixture to your dyed hair as described above.
Instead of shampoo, you may use dish soap. Dish soap will remove slightly more color than clarifying shampoo. It will also leave your hair drier and frizzier., Laundry detergents contain chemicals that will drastically fade the color of your hair. This method may remove up to 75% of the dye from your hair. If you use this method, make sure the detergent does not contain bleach or bleaching agents.


Apply a tablespoon of detergent to your damp hair.
Work the soap into a lather.
When the soap becomes the color of the hair dye, cover your hair with a shower cap.
As soon as the product begins to burn, rinse it out of your hair.
Coat your scalp and locks with a moisturizing conditioner to rehydrate your hair.
Rinse the conditioner out of your hair.
Repeat as desired.
After treating your hair with laundry detergent, you may want to apply a deep conditioning treatment to your dry tresses., Hair dye strippers and reducers are formulated to remove the color from your locks. Color strippers act like bleach and therefore will cause more damage to your hair than color reducers. Both products are specially formulated to strip or reduce the intensity of permanent, semi-permanent, and/or temporary hair dye.


Always apply the product to your dyed hair as instructed.
Always buy a hair dye stripper or reducer that is compatible with the type of dye you used.