 There is a tremendous amount of preparation needed to run a productive and informative meeting. Unfortunately, most Board Members have limited time in which to prepare for the task of preparing for a Board of Directors Meeting. This article will provide an outline and checklist for Boards, Committees and Managers to follow in order to prepare and hold informative and productive Board Meetings.;
, In most cases, there are at least three (3) key people involved with the preparation of the Board Meeting: the President, the Secretary and the Property Manager, if any. A week prior to the meeting, the participants should confirm the Agenda items with all Directors and Committee persons. The designated person should confirm the location and time of the meeting. The Meeting Notice and Agenda should be printed and distributed to all of the participants.
 Three to four days before the meeting, the designated person should post the Meeting Notice and Agenda at the designated area on site for the Association's Notices. The person in charge should then collect and distribute the Board Member's Meeting packets which will include, but not be limited to, the following:


Meeting Agenda
Notice of Meeting
Minutes of Previous Meeting
President's Report
Treasurer's Report
Manager's Report
Committee Reports
Information Related to Old Business
Information Related to New Business

, On the day of the meeting, the person in charge should print additional Meeting Agendas and Manager's Reports for any Members who may attend. In addition, have extra Board Member packets available in case there are Directors who do not bring theirs to the Meeting. Check to see if the tape recorder is working. Have extra batteries, pens, paper and miscellaneous supplies on hand. Bring the Official Minutes Book, recorded Governing Documents and copies of all of the prior month's correspondence to the meeting.
 Someone should be designated (usually the Chairperson of the Meeting) to give reports for absent Officers and Committees. In addition, it would be wise to have a current financial statement, delinquent owner list and a copy of the current State Statutes, governing your type of association on hand, in case there are any questions of this nature.
 The day after the meeting, the person in charge should remove the Meeting Notices and Agendas from the bulletin Boards. Make all changes, additions and deletions to the previous month's approved Minutes. Make a draft of the current meeting Minutes while they are fresh in your mind. Distribute this to key people on the Board for their changes and additions. Then, these changes should be ready for the next meeting. At this time, arrange for the next month's meeting location and time.
 With this outline and schedule, each Board of Directors Meeting should be easy to prepare and schedule for and the end result should be productive meetings for the Board Members and be an informative meetings for the Owner Members who attend. Depending on the association, this outline can be reduced or expanded for size and complexity of the actual meetings. Always, allow for or make a part of the Agenda which encourages owner participation. Limit the time for any questions or comments. The Board does not have to make any decisions at that time (as that particular question or comment was not specifically on the Agenda) and it can then be made a part of the next scheduled meeting, if important or not. In all cases, use an outline and schedule from month to month in order to insure well run meetings. After awhile, you should begin to see more owners attending and participating.

