 Windows 10 and 8 do not come with DVD or Blu-Ray support. Microsoft has discontinued support for disc-based video playback, so it is not possible to play DVDs in Windows Media Player. There is no official way to enable this without paying for the official DVD Player app from the Windows Store, so you'll need a third-party media player such as VLC or MPC-HC. These players also provide much more robust support for other video formats, such as MKV. Microsoft used to offer an upgrade pack for Windows 8 that enabled DVD playback, but this is no longer available.VLC is one of the most popular video players, and can play DVDs and many Blu-Ray discs. You can download VLC for free from videolan.org/vlc. VLC is an open-source player, and does not contain any advertisements or spyware.
MPC-HC (Media Player Classic) is another popular third-party media player. You can download it for free from mpc-hc.org. Like VLC, MPC-HC is an open-source program, and contains no adware.;
, Run the installer after downloading it to install your new media player. Most users can leave all of the options at their default settings. These new media players will take over as the default player for most of your media files, which you can adjust during installation if you'd like., Depending on your settings, you may get prompted to launch your new media player.
 If you don't receive a message to launch your new player when you insert your disc, launch it from the Start menu or screen., Click the Media or File menu and select Load Disc. Select the type of disc you are loading (DVD, Blu-Ray) and select the drive. The DVD will begin playing.
 Most DVD and Blu-Ray players come with software that can play discs. You may need to use these programs if your disc doesn't work in the third-party player. This is more common with Blu-Ray discs, as they have stricter copy protection.


If you don't have the software that came with your disc drive, you can usually find a free version on the manufacturer's website. The software may have come pre-installed on your computer, and may be found in the "All App" section of the Start menu or screen.

