 If your natural hair is about 3/4" or longer, you can create Senegalese twists.Senegalese twists work with either natural or relaxed hair; in either case, you will have to use synthetic hair extensions.






;
, Two popular types of synthetic hair extensions to use for this style are the ones labeled Kanekalon (silky braiding hair) and Toyokalon (yaki braiding hair).You will need 3-4 packages of hair if you're aiming for a medium-length style.You can also use Marley hair extensions, but the coarser quality of this type of extension means it is better suited for Marley Twists., Open the package of extensions and separate the strands of braiding hair, if woven together, by gently rubbing them between your fingers. Separate the extensions into sections based on how wide you want your twists to be. Then, fold each section in half so that it forms a “U” shape. The bend is the point at which the extension section will be added to your real hair, while the two ends will be woven into the twists.









Proceed to trim the strands to your desired length using salon scissors.
 Wash your hair with your regular shampoo and detangle it using a wide-tooth comb or detangling spray. Dry your hair naturally or with a blow dryer on a cool setting so as to stretch the hair before you braid it.








Do not use any hair oil. You need your hair to be straight (but not slippery) in order for it to coil correctly.
 It is best to do this before separating sections of hair, as the part you create will stay put once you do the twists, and trying to adjust it afterward can be difficult., Choose a section of hair in the lowest layer, closest to the back of your neck. The section should be 1 inch (2.5 cm) or less in width.









Comb the section of hair out to remove any tangles.
Use small hair clips to keep the rest of your hair away from your fingers as you work on each particular section.
 Use your fingers to carefully divide the section up into two halves of equal width.









Do your best to completely separate the two smaller sections. You do not necessarily need to comb them out again, but each section should appear straight, and the two should not be joined together at any point.
 Use your fingers to gradually twist each smaller section to the right. Continue twisting until each section has been begun to twist into a coil.








Grab each section 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) from the scalp and twist from that point.
The two sections should be evenly twisted.
 Lay the center of a prepared piece of synthetic extension hair over the two sections of real hair before you begin twisting and coiling them. Bend the extension hair so that the center remains in between the two split halves of real hair. The ends of the extension should drape over the two sections of real hair already separated out.








Follow the same procedure used for real hair to twist the extension hair in. Grab both your real hair and the extension hair in between your fingers and twist to the right until it coils. This way, you secure the extension hair in place and weave it into your natural hair seamlessly.
 Overlap the right-hand section of hair over the left-hand section once. Coil the combined strands of hair to the right, bringing the overlapping section under and back up once more.









From this point on, you should continue to twist and coil the hair in this manner, working over and under from the right, until you reach the end of the two combined sections.
If done correctly, the twist should be tight enough and even enough to stay in place for a little while without being sealed immediately.
 Separate your remaining hair into similarly sized sections, working on one section at a time.









Each section of hair must be roughly the same size as the other sections. Otherwise, your Senegalese twists may look uneven when finished.
Similarly, you should use the same amount of extension hair for each twist.
 Doing so will hold the Senegalese twists in place for a long-term style.









Bring a small saucepan of water to boil over medium-high heat. Once it reaches a steady boil, remove the pan from the heat completely.
Carefully dunk the bottom ends of each twist into the hot water. Submerge each twist so that all the loose ends are covered. Leave each end in water for 15 seconds.
If doing Senegalese twists on smoother hair, you might need to gently knot the ends before sealing them in hot water or use hair elastics to tie them off.
Allow hair to dry naturally.
 It is recommended to dip the ends in olive oil or Jamaican castor oil after the water dries so as to lock moisture into the ends, preventing them from drying out. Allow to dry naturally once more.
 You should only wash Senegalese twists once a week. Use shampoo diluted with equal parts water.









If you wash your hair more frequently, you could cause the twists to unravel faster.
 Two to three times a week is ideal. Doing this will help hydrate your scalp.









Peppermint, coconut, or Jamaican Black Castor Oil (JBCO) are examples of oils you could use.
 Braid spray or liquid conditioner can keep your hair moisturized and healthy. In order to promote optimal hair health, you should use it once a day.









Avoid creamy conditioners while the braids are in place. Creamy conditioners can leave residue and build-up, and this, in turn, can create knots along the base of your twists.
For an all-in-one option for both your hair and your scalp, mix a little coconut oil, JBCO oil, and conditioner into a spray bottle of water. Apply this solution to both your scalp and hair daily, and skip a separate oil treatment for your scalp.
 Pull the twists back in a ponytail and tie a scarf made from a smooth material around your hair to protect them during the night.







