 You will want to choose a location for your training session that has enough room and seating for everyone attending. Your choice will largely depend on how many people you have attending your training session. As soon as you find a great space, you will want to reserve it for the date of your training session.Make sure you have enough tables and seating for everyone attending.
Leave enough room for any presentation material or equipment.
Consider the cost of the space and the resources you have available.;
, An important part of creating a good presentation is having clear goals for it. Find some key points that you want to make and discover what you want your audience to learn. Your presentation should cover the following three main goals of a training session:Make your learning outcomes specific and clear.
Try to make your goals measurable. For example, have your audience learn five new methods for surf board restoration.
Make your goals realistic. Don't try to present too much during your training session. Focus on what is achievable.
 Practicing your presentation can help you confidently deliver the material to your audience. You can also learn how best to pace the presentation or discover sections that need to be added or removed.You can practice alone in front of a mirror or for a friend.
Pay careful attention introduction and conclusion.
Include any visual aids in your practice to get a good idea of how long your presentation will take.
 Chances are you will need to distribute material covering the topics discussed during the training session. Using hand outs can help your audience understand and retain the information presented. Handing out printed materials is also a great way for them to bring the material home and refresh what they learned.Consider including printed out copies of any presentations given.
Diagrams and fact sheets can be a great addition to the material handed out.
Include business cards and brochures of anyone speaking during your presentation.
Some training plans come with material included.
 Visual aids can be a great way to represent information and present it to your audience. Using these visual aids can also help your audience to understand and retain the information you are presenting. You can try using charts, videos, or images to help make your points easy to understand and appealing.Keep visuals as clean and simple as you can.
Include visual presentations in your rehearsals and practice.
Don't rely fully on visual aids for your training session.
 If you plan on presenting any information using a visual aid, do not distribute information or hand-outs at the same time. This can cause your audience to become distracted and possibly miss some of the information being presented.Hand out any materials before or after using a visual aid.
Keep the audience focused on the visual aid when it is being presented.
 Technology that is used during a presentation to deliver a visual aid may break down or fail. Without a back up plan in place, your presentation may suffer. Always make sure to have another method to present this information should a visual aid become unusable.Have print outs of any images or diagrams that can be distributed.
If a video is unable to be played, be ready to present the information that the video covered.
 After you have practiced and prepared your training session goals and presentation, you will want to focus on the audience. They are the reason you are having the training session and now you will need to engage them and effectively deliver your information.Don't be nervous as you begin. Remind yourself of your preparation and that those attending are ready and exited to learn.
 As you are presenting the information for your training session, you will want to keep an eye on your audience. Watch for signs of how they are receiving the information, levels of interest, and how focused they are. Adjust your pace to keep your audience interested and engaged.Look at the body language of your audience. Fidgeting or looking at the clock can be signs of lost interest.
Judge how attentive your audience is during your training session. If they look distracted, try to recapture their attention.
 Chances are your audience will have quite a few questions about the new training and information you have presented to them. Allowing time in your presentation for a question and answer session can be a great way to clarify any new material or ideas you have delivered.Question and answer sessions are highly engaging, allowing your audience to better understand the topic under discussion.
The entire audience can learn from a single question.
 Implementing a method to have your presentation assessed can give you great feedback and help you improve your next training session. While it can be difficult to learn how your presentation fared objectively, there are a few methods that can be uses to learn what worked and what did not.Try handing out a survey at the end of your training session. These are evaluations that your audience can use to give you direct feedback.
You may consider giving a kind of test at the end of your presentation. This will let you learn how much information your audience retained.
Having a small group project can help by allowing your audience the chance to demonstrate their new understanding in a hands on way.

