 Warm salt water has the ability to melt the fatty coating that protects the viruses that cause the common cold. Gargling several times during the day will break down the protection of the virus as well as soothe your throat and prevent from getting worse.


Take a mouthful of warm salt water and then gargle intensely.
You can help get rid of a virus lodged in your tonsils and adenoids by tapping your Adam’s apple while gargling, so that the solution can trickle deep in your throat.
Note that the viruses responsible for the common cold first come in contact with your tonsils and adenoids before they proliferate to other parts of your body. Your tonsils and adenoids are the first line of defense against microorganisms that enter your body through your breathing passages.;
, Allow the tissues of your body to regenerate while at rest to halt a sore throat's development into a cold. During sleep, the immune system releases cytokines, a protein molecule that tells the cells of the immune system which specific viral cells it should be attacking. Therefore, when you are feeling a bit drowsy due to the symptoms accompanying your sore throat, don’t fight it, sleep instead.


Maintenance, regeneration, and tissue repair happen when there is adequate rest and sleep.
It is recommended that you get a proper sleep of at least 8 to 10 hours a day to aid your body in fighting infection

, Drinking fluids and staying hydrated will allow the membranes surrounding your throat to remain moist and can make a cold less likely to develop. A dry membrane is the breeding ground for the virus to develop and proliferate further into the different parts of your body, so keeping it moist is essential to halting the virus.


Also, drinking lots of water will reduce the viscosity of secretions so that mucus can be easily drained from your system.
Stay away from liquids that are sweet or caffeinated because these can only aggravate your symptoms. Instead, drink warm fluids (soups and tea).
You can also suck on lozenges to keep your throat moist.
 Inhaling steam can help you manage nasal congestion by exposing the nasal passages and throat to hot air. The hot air and moisture will break down the mucus in your throat and nasal passages, reducing the chances of the infection remaining in your body.


For better results, you can add eucalyptus oil or a tincture of benzoin for a more soothing effect.
A hot shower can also be good.
 It is better to eat six small frequent meals than three large meals, because large meals and hard-to-swallow foods can cause pain to the throat. Soft foods such as cereals, soup, and others will help avoid pain when swallowing because of its consistency.
 Ice cream, cold drinks, and popsicles can soothe your sore throat. Cold drinks create the feeling of relief in a sore throat. How they relieve pain is not yet known, but the mechanism may be psychological, as the temperature can mask the pain in the throat.
 Vitamin C boosts the immune system by improving the effectiveness of phagocytes, cells that kill foreign bodies by ingesting them. Be sure to get your daily dose of vitamin C by eating fruits and vegetables during every major meal.


Some fruits and vegetables rich in Vitamin C are: oranges, blackberries, broccoli, cranberries, kale, lemon, lime.

