 A lot of people have dogs, and some old people have trouble walking dogs. So boom! Dog walking businesses are great! Most people will tell you how they want their dog walked, so make sure to jot it down! If they don't, taking it up and down the street should be fine, but perhaps not if it's a short street and an energetic dog such as a Dalmatian.


When deciding how much to charge, take into consideration how easy the dog is to walk, how long/far you're going to walk the dog, and even what kind of neighborhood you live in! (For example, if you live in a poorer neighborhood, you'd want to charge less so that way they can afford it. But if you live in a rich neighborhood, you could charge more and get away with it). Note that you probably want to charge somewhere in between $5 and $20.
 People have to have someone watch their pets while they're on vacation, so why not you! Most people tell you exactly what they want you to do with their pets, so make sure you're paying attention! It varies, but you'd typically charge $10 per day. (If you want to be really professional, figure out what you're going to charge for types of pets per day ).


Be aware that some people will require references and some may want to know that you have never been in trouble with the law.
 Make sure to do lots of research on it. You wouldn't want to show up at your client's house completely clueless! (Note: this is a harder business to do, and it isn't for everyone). Now, since you can't guarantee you're going to be able to train the animals, have a "I'll train your pet or you get your money back" guarantee. The amount to charge really depends on the animal's train-ability, but make sure to have a guaranteed price range so the clients know about how much they'll have to spend.
 Go to a store that sells betta fish and the things they need. Only buy a couple betta fish, and the supplies they need. (A tank, food, rocks, and a decorative plant).


Do not do this if your outdoor weather is too hot or cold for bettas (75-82*F or 24-27*C) Once you are home, do a little research and print/write a couple of pamphlets on how to take care of bettas.
Sell the betta, the rocks, the tank, the decorative plant, and the pamphlet all together. Let the customer choose what they want the combo to be (for example, they could choose the red fish with the blue tank, or the blue fish with the blue tank). But do the math and make sure that whatever combination they choose, you still make a slight profit. And if the bettas don't sell, well, at least you have some pretty fish for yourself.

