 Part of keeping a cat clean is paying attention to her dental hygiene. A cat with dirty teeth and a smelly breath spreads foul-smelling saliva over her coat as she grooms, which makes her coat smell bad.


Food debris, the minerals in food, and the pH of your cat's saliva all play a part in the formation of hard mineral deposits called tartar on the surface of your cat’s teeth. Tartar harbors bacteria and can cause gum inflammation. The latter can lead to gum recession and teeth loosening, which leads to dental pain that may keep your cat from grooming herself properly.
 Just as we brush our teeth twice a day, cat’s should also have their teeth brushed twice a day. Special cat-sized toothbrushes are available, but you can also use a soft child-sized toothbrush. To brush your cat’s teeth:


Moisten the bristles of the toothbrush with water and, with the cat sitting on a table or a surface that is a comfortable height to work at, lift her lip with your left hand (if you are right handed).
Hold the toothbrush in your right hand and gently rub the toothbrush bristles over the outside surface of your cat’s teeth, and repeat on the other side.
 After brushing your cat’s teeth, use a special cat oral-cleansing rinse such as Hexarinse. This is a liquid that contains chlorhexidine, which kills bacteria for 12 hours. Use a cotton bud to apply this oral rinse. To use the rinse:


Soak a clean cotton bud in the oral rinse and then rub it over your cat’s teeth and gums. Try to do this after every time you brush your cat’s teeth.
 Feed your cat dry food rather than wet food if possible. Wet food contains humectants, which stop food from drying out but can also make it sticky. Wet food tends to bind to cat teeth and form deposits that can lead to food decay. On the other hand, dry kibble rubs against your cat’s teeth as she chews, helping to scrape tartar off of your cat’s teeth.


You could also buy your cat food that is specifically designed to promote dental health. One example of this sort of food is Hills T/D. T/D is made so that the fibers in the kibble are aligned in a grid. When your cat bites down on each biscuit, the tooth crown forces through the fiber grid and moves out again, in an action that mimics tooth brushing.

