 The certification process can take anywhere from three months to a year. In the meantime, your business may end up spending tens of thousands of dollars just to earn your first government contract.Once you're certified, you'll be eligible for smaller government contracts that are set aside for specific types of small businesses.
 The Small Business Association (SBA) certifies businesses in three different areas, each of which has its own requirements. You may qualify under more than one certification area.You can be certified if you have a woman-owned business, have a business in certain urban or rural areas, or have an extremely small business that is disadvantaged in some other respect.
Visit the SBA website at sba.gov to review the requirements for each of the certifications and find out if any of them apply to your business.
 Before you go through the process of having your business certified as a small business for government contracting purposes, you need to make sure your business actually could benefit from small business set-asides.The certification process is long and involved, so if you don't see any benefit to your business in getting the certification, there's no point in doing it.
By using SAM, you can self-certify in some areas, such as the size of your business or whether your business is veteran-owned.
 If you believe your business qualifies for one of the more specific set-aside programs, complete an application with the SBA to begin the certification process. You may be contacted by an SBA official.Keep all of your certification materials in one place, and make copies of everything you send to the SBA so you have it for your business's records.
If any of the information changes while your certification is still being processed, contact the SBA as soon as possible to amend your application.
 Many contracts set aside for small businesses simply require your business to have fewer than a specific number of employees. That number varies based on what industry your business is in.The SBA uses the NAICS to set size standards. Get the NAICS classification codes you found for your business.
Type your code into the SBA's size standards tool, available on the association's website at https://www.sba.gov/tools/size-standards-tool.

