 The appearance of blackheads, pimples in the groin or anal area, beneath the breasts, or in the armpits can all be signs of HS. You might find painful, pea-sized lumps just beneath the skin. These lumps can persist for months or even years. Lesions - bumps or sores that leak fluid - may also be present and persist for months.These symptoms often start just after puberty with a single, painful bump.
Women, African-Americans, overweight, smokers and people with familial history of HS are most likely to develop the symptoms of HS.
Some people experience mild forms of HS that can be best treated at home. Others require help from a doctor or medical care provider.
HS affects at least 1% of the population.
 Laying a clean, warm washcloth over your skin for 10-15 minutes may help with pain associated with blocked sweat glands. If you have a painful, deep lump caused by a blocked sweat gland, this compress may provide some relief.You can also use a hot teabag as a compress. Make a cup of tea by steeping a teabag in boiling water. Then take the hot teabag and apply it to the affected area for pain relief.
The warmth will help relieve pain, but it won't get rid of the bump.
 Make sure to use a soap that doesn't irritate your skin. Find a fragrance-free soap that's designed for sensitive skin. Lather and rinse well. Allow your skin to air dry.You may wish to follow your washing with an over-the-counter antibiotic creme.
Avoid moisturizing creams, lotions, etc. as they may block your sweat glands and pores.
 Studies suggest that zinc supplements may help to decrease the chances of additional inflammation. Zinc supplements include zinc sulfate, zinc acetate, zinc glycine, zinc oxide, zinc chelate, and zinc gluconate. These are generally considered safe when taken in the recommended dosages.While zinc appears safe during pregnancy in small amounts, check with your doctor and use with caution. Studies have not ruled out the possibility of harm to the fetus.
Avoid zinc chloride. No studies have been done on its safety or effectiveness.
 Your doctor may prescribe antibiotics to treat existing infections and to prevent new infections from arising. Some antibiotics are prescribed for long-term preventative use.If there isn't bacterial infection, antibiotics may be prescribed to suppress additional flare-ups.
Antibiotics can be taken orally, in pill form, or can be found in ointments to apply to the affected area.
 Corticosteroid tablets (steroids), such as prednisolone, may be prescribed for short periods of time. This option is most effective when the symptoms of HS are acutely painful, creating difficulty in daily living mobility.


Steroids shouldn't be used long-term, as they have negative side effects. Long-term side effects include osteoporosis, weight gain, cataracts, and mental health problems like depression.Injections of steroid medication into the affected area can also be effective for short-term treatment.
 A new class of injectable medications reduces inflammation and stop the progression of HS. These drugs include Infliximab (Remicade ®); Etanercept (Enbrel ®); Adalimumab (Humira ®); Golimumab (Simponi ®) and Golimumab (Simponi Aria ®).These medications are also used to treat inflammatory conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriatic arthritis, juvenile arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn’s and ulcerative colitis), ankylosing spondylitis and psoriasis.
Because they are new, these medications are expensive. Most insurance plans should cover them, but check to see if your policy allows their use.
 For severe cases of blocked sweat glands and HS, surgical treatment is a practical option. Lesions may be connected by "tunnels" beneath the skin, and removing these tunnels is called "de-roofing." This surgery is generally effective at removing the affected area, but other sites may develop.Surgical drainage of swollen area provides short-term relief.
Surgical removal of the skin in all affected areas may be recommended. In these cases, skin grafting will need to be done to repair the areas and close the wound.

