 Fruits and vegetables are two food groups that are a key part to a cleansing and healthy diet. They are rich in vitamins, minerals, antioxidants and fiber. All of these qualities are important for a healthy and cleansing diet.


Include one to two servings of a fiber-rich fruit or a vegetable at each meal. This will help you meet the minimum guidelines of five to nine servings daily.The number of servings will vary based on your age and weight; however, including more fruits and vegetables can help increase the amount of nutrients you can consume from them.
One serving of fruit is generally one small piece of fruit or about 1/2 cup chopped.One serving of vegetables is 1 cup or 2 cups leafy greens.One of the attractive qualities of over-the-counter diet cleanses is that they are often high in fiber. They can clean you out from the inside out; however, adding a lot of fruits and vegetables can provide you with adequate natural fiber for the same cleansing benefits.
Focus on the most high-fiber fruits and vegetables. Include at least one serving of one of these fibrous foods at each meal: cauliflower, broccoli, artichokes, Brussels sprouts, berries (like raspberries, blueberries or blackberries), apples, or pears.;
, Dark, leafy green vegetables are filled with a huge amount of beneficial nutrients. Eating at least one to two servings of these types of foods each day can help support your nutritional cleanse by providing a lot of fiber, antioxidants and other nutrients. They even been touted to be one of the best "cancer-fighting" foods.Dark greens can be eaten raw or cooked. Try: kale, mustard greens, spinach, collard greens, bok choy, or Swiss chard.
Dark greens contain a huge variety of nutrients including: Vitamins A, K, C, and E. In addition they contain a significant amount of folate (which is important for DNA replication and repair) and carotenoids (an antioxidant thought to prevent cancer).Eat dark greens mixed with scrambled eggs, saute them with a little olive oil and garlic for a nutritious side dish or use them in salads.
 100% whole grains are another great nutrient-rich food group. They contain protein, vitamins and are also a good source of fiber.If you're interested in a cleanse and improving your diet, switch your grain choices to 100% whole grain.


Whole grains provide you with a host of benefits. Choose grains that have gone through the least amount of processing and contain little additives. For example, instead of a whole wheat couscous with a seasoning packet, choose to prepare plain whole wheat couscous and add your own seasonings at home.
Other examples of unprocessed whole grains include: 100% whole wheat pasta, 100% whole wheat bread, brown rice, quinoa and oats.
Skip refined, processed grains. Some grains, like refined or processed grains, add little nutritional benefit to your diet. They can be higher in calories, lower in nutrients and promote constipation (as they are lower in fiber). Switch out grains like white bread, white rice or plain pasta for whole grains., Many nutritional cleanses focus mainly on fruits and vegetables. Although this has many benefits, it's important to also include sources of lean protein at each meal.


Protein is filling and keeps you feeling satisfied longer compared to foods like fruits, vegetables or whole grains. In addition, it's important to help maintain your metabolism and muscle mass.One serving of lean protein is about 3-4 ounces. Include one serving at each meal or snack. Examples include: 4 ounces of poultry or lean beef, two eggs, 1 ounce of low-fat cheese, 1/2 cup of low-fat dairy or 1/2 cup of legumes (like beans or lentils).Include a variety of protein sources throughout your day and week. In addition, keep red meat to a maximum of one serving weekly.In general, women need 46 g of protein daily and men need 56 g daily. However, this amount may be different depending on your age, gender and activity level.Although protein is important, don't go overboard. You'll be able to meet your daily recommendations with just a few servings daily. If you're interested in a cleanse and a healthy diet, you should emphasize fruits and vegetables.
 Some foods aid your digestion by providing your GI system with healthful, protective bacteria. Fermented foods have become more popular and are a great way to add those "good" bacteria into your diet.Fermented foods to try include: kimchi, kombucha, kefir and sauerkraut. Serving sizes vary depending on the food. Read the packaging label and try to include one to two servings of these healthy gut-promoting foods daily.
Fermented foods have also been touted to help decrease bloating, constipation and other minor GI issues. These benefits can help support your decision for a nutritional cleanse.Fermented foods have also been shown to help you digest and absorb the nutrients from your foods.They'll help your GI system process food and move waste along quickly.
 Though you may be tempted to avoid anything labeled "fat" when trying to lose weight, fat is actually an essential part of our diet — they are good for your mental health and mood; reduce your risk of heart disease, stroke, and cancer; reduce fatigue; and help keep you mentally sharp.Fats should be consumed in moderation, and certain types of fat should be avoided.Focus on monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats (like those found in avocados, nuts, olives, fatty fish, soy, and tofu) and avoid trans fat (found in commercially baked goods like cookies, pastries, cakes, muffins, and hamburger buns; packaged snack foods like crackers, microwave popcorn, candy, and chips; fried foods; pre-mixed products like cake mix, pancake mix, or chocolate milk; and anything with partially hydrogenated oil).There is a debate about whether or not saturated fat falls into the category of good or bad fat. Consider eating a moderate amount of saturated fats (found in meat and dairy) from high-quality sources.It is recommended a person eat three to nine servings of healthy fats per day.One serving size is equivalent to: 1 teaspoon oil (olive, peanut, sesame, walnut, etc.); 1/2 tablespoon nut butter (natural, with no added sugars); 2 tablespoons or 1 ounce of avocado; eight black olives; 10 green olives; seven almonds; six cashews; nine peanuts; four halves of walnuts.Try eating two 6-ounce servings of fatty fish per week.
Make avocados, nuts, and olives staples of your diet.
 Decrease your consumption of highly processed foods. These particular foods are generally higher in sodium, sugar, fat and overall calories.Including these on a regular basis may slow or prohibit weight loss.


There is a wide range of food processing. Avoid foods that are highly refined and highly processed such as: candy and sweets; processed meats like bologna, sausage or bacon; snack cakes and pastries; cereals; frozen meals; chips or crackers.
Foods that are minimally processed, but still considered a healthy addition to your diet include: frozen fruits and vegetables without added seasonings, bagged lettuce, pre-washed/pre-cut fruits and vegetables, canned beans and vegetables without added seasonings and 100% whole grains without added seasonings.
Highly processed foods may also contain added preservatives, artificial flavorings, colorings or textural flavorings.
Skip the foods with added sugars, sodium or that are highly processed. Stick to minimally processed foods whenever possible. Highly processed foods will not promote a nutritionally cleansing diet and again may slow your weight loss.
 One very important part of a health diet and a nutritional cleanse is ensuring that you consume an adequate amount of clear, sugar-free, caffeine-free fluids. Your body needs adequate amounts each day to stay hydrated and function properly.


Your body relies on adequate hydration for a variety of things including: body temperature control, circulation, bowel function and flushing out wastes and toxins from your body.A general rule of thumb is to drink about eight 8-ounce glass of water daily; however, if you're trying to cleanse your body and improve your diet, drinking more than that might be helpful. The exact amount of fluid you need daily depends on your age, weight, gender and activity level.
Pure water is the obvious choice to keep you hydrated, but remember there is water found in other beverages and even your foods. Milk, tea, and coffee all contain water (though if you're doing a cleanse, you should stick to decaf tea and coffee).
Also consider starting your morning off with a glass of hot lemon water. A few studies show that this acts like a mild and natural diuretic. This may help reduce bloating.Avoid all alcohol, sugary beverages and caffeine. If you're doing a nutritional cleanse, focus only on clear fluids. Ditch the alcohol, sugary/sweetened beverages and caffeinated beverages.
 Before making any large dietary or lifestyle changes it's important to check in with your regular doctor. Tell them about your desire for weight loss and using a nutritional cleanse to help reach your goal.


Ask if there are any supplements that you should stay away from or that may not be recommended with your current medications or health conditions.
Also ask your physician if he or she has any recommendations that may be appropriate for your specific health and medical history. They may be able to give you some pointers on where to start with a new diet or nutritional cleanse.
 Like fermented foods, probiotic supplements may help improve your digestion and reduce minor digestive issues (like constipation or bloating).


Taking a probiotic supplement may help add helpful bacteria to your diet. These types of supplements will be especially helpful to those who are not a fan of foods that contain probiotics or added bacteria or fermented foods. Many of these supplements are odorless, tasteless and easy to take.
There are a variety of probiotic supplements on the market today. They come in chewable tablets, capsules, powders and liquids. Choose a type of supplement that's appropriate for you.
Also, choose a supplement that contains at least 5 billion CFUs per serving. The types of bacteria in the supplement are also important. Not every strain has been proven to show potential health benefits. However both Saccharomyces Boulardii Lyo and Lactobacillus Rhamnosus GG have been shown to be beneficial., Adequate fiber is important to a healthy diet. In addition, fiber can help support a nutritional cleanse by improving bowel health and speed.


In general, the recommendation for fiber intake is 25 g for women and 38 g for men.Generally, you should try to consume the daily recommended amount of fiber from natural sources like fruits, vegetables and whole grains. These foods not only provide you with a healthy dose of fiber, but also contain other important nutrients.
Fiber supplements can be purchased in a variety of forms including a powder, chewable tablet and capsule.Note, that large quantities of fiber can be unhealthy and cause unwanted GI distress and malabsorption of some nutrients. Always add fiber to your diet slowly, over a few days. Also, be sure to drink a lot fluids to help the fiber pass through your GI system easily. This will help prevent unwanted side effects., Consistent and regular physical activity is a complimentary part of weight loss. Add in exercise to help quicken your weight loss with your nutritional cleanse.


It will help burn calories, provide you with energy, support a positive mindset and help keep your GI system regular.Aim for at least 150 minutes of aerobic activity each week and 40 minutes of strength training.Additional time spent exercising may help increase weight loss, further improve health conditions and fitness levels.
Also consider adding in more relaxing, cleansing exercises like yoga or tai chi. These are a great way of adding in beneficial activity and support a cleansing diet and lifestyle.Note, if you are watching calories, limiting your daily food intake or have drastically changed your diet to help support a nutritional cleanse, you may want to consider taking it easy with physical activity. Intense or vigorous activity requires adequate calories (especially from carbohydrates and protein) and if you are limiting your intake, you may not be eating enough to support this level of activity.
 Adequate rest each night is important to your overall health. In addition, sleeping the recommended seven to nine hours nightly can help support a healthy weight and weight loss.Sleeping well is incredibly important for weight loss and weight management. Sleep regulates a variety of processes, but most importantly the regulate of hunger, satiation and your body's ability to use insulin effectively.Although sleep is not a dietary change or generally part of a nutritional cleanse, it has such immediate effects on health and weight, it's importance cannot be overlooked.
To get the recommended amount of sleep daily, figure out what time you need to go to sleep in order to get in at least seven hours nightly. Go to bed early, turn off all lights and all electronics that provide light and sound (including your smartphone). It's also recommended to put down electronic devices at least 30 minutes prior to falling asleep, as the light emitted from these devices can stimulate your brain and make it difficult to fall asleep.