 Sometimes itching occurs for emotional or psychosomatic reasons. Psychological factors that can trigger severe attacks of itching are:


Extreme emotional conditions
Stress
Anxiety
Depression;
, There are a number of skin conditions and rashes that are likely to result in a case of severe itching. These include:


Dry skin, or xerosis: Typically caused by exposure to extreme cold, heat, moisture, or dryness.
Dermatitis: A general term used to refer to a rash that’s itchy, red, swollen, and possibly flaking skin, blistering, forming a crust, or oozing pus.
Psoriasis: A long-term skin disorder that causes skin cells to build up and form patches of thick, scaly, and itchy skin.
Scabies: A highly contagious skin disease caused by an infestation of tiny skin mites.
Lice: Tiny parasitic insects that can be found on people’s bodies, and that cause extreme itchiness.
Chickenpox: A viral infection that many people get at some point during their lives that produces extremely itchy blisters all over the body.
Hives: An outbreak of swollen, itchy, pale red bumps that appear suddenly on the body in response to an allergic reaction, extreme stress, or some other reason.
 The bodily changes that accompany different types of internal diseases can also cause severe cases of itching. The internal diseases most likely to contribute to itchiness are:


Liver disease
Kidney disease
Thyroid disorders
Cancer

, Many types of allergic reactions can cause extreme cases of itching. These include poor reactions to:


Drugs or medications you’ve never taken before
Noxious chemicals or substances
Certain types of food
Insect bites or stings

, Infections from a wound or illness can lead to burning sensations, pain, swelling, and itchiness.
 Skin that’s become physically irritated by an environmental factor—temperature, clothing, or similar factors—can quickly become itchy.
 Any disorder that affects the nerves can sometimes lead to severe itching. The nerve conditions most likely to cause itchiness are:


Diabetes
Herpes
Multiple sclerosis

, Many women experience some sort of itchiness as a result of the hormonal changes accompanying pregnancy. When this happens, the itchiness is usually localized in the following body parts:


Abdomen
Thighs
Breasts
Arms

