 You need to be committed, because you cannot decide halfway through that you can't be bothered. Once you start you're there until the end! Also be sure you know why you are going for the award. Because my friends are going for it or My parents/teachers forced me to go for it are not good reasons.;
, There are 3 different levels, bronze (2 day, 1 night expedition), silver (3 day, 2 night expedition) and gold (4 day, 3 night expedition). Choose which of the levels you are able to pursue. Note that there is a minimum age for each level. Make a timeline for completing the various other components, and be sensible, as 3 months of kayaking in the winter might not be ideal., This costs £10-£15 and means you get a logbook.
 This gives you a chance to get to know your team mates as well as learning skills which will be useful on the expedition.
 You don't need to be ultra fit, but being used to walking for fairly long distances with a backpack can help.
 This will save you from running around at the last minute realising that you don't have a sleeping bag. You may be able to hire/borrow some of your equipment from your school/youth club. If you are buying it yourself, starting earlier means you are more likely to be able to find a good deal.
 Wearing decent socks can also help this. If you do get a blister, cover it up with a plaster and try not to burst it, as this can cause an infection.
 Wrap everything up in plastic or roll-top waterproof bags (of different colours so you can tell your spare clothes from your sandwiches), then line your backpack with one or two thick black bin bags. If your backpack has secure external storage for a bottle stow your fuel bottle there, otherwise wrap it well to prevent fuel leaking. Do not pack heavy items to one side. Remember to leave room for group equipment.
 Look after your teammates and they should look after you. If one person keeps falling behind lighten their load to make it easier for them to keep up. At campsites, share out the jobs that need doing. In a group of 6, 4 can put up the tents, 1 can put the stove on and the other can go for water.
 Don't store it in your backpack, keep it in your hand or in a map case, and keep your location with your thumb. A compass won't magically tell you the way to go - you need to learn how to use it. Be careful with following "footpaths" that aren't footpaths.
 Trace your steps to the last known location or locate yourself using the things you can see around you and orientating the map to them.
, A well documented log of your journey will go along way to convince your assessor that you deserve the award. This doesn't just have to be a boring log - you can use photos and leaflets or even make a film.

