 Most areas require a permit if a building is being constructed over a certain size, so be sure to check and see if you can legally build without a permit.









If you need a permit, then you will most likely have to work with a building inspector. You must have a working set of plans for the shed in this case.
 There are multiple factors to take into account when building a shed. Be sure to give careful thought to all of them in order to avoid a serious hassle once you've finished. Here are some things to keep in mind:

Location of utility lines. Get in touch with your local utilities to find out where gas, electricity, and water lines run through your property. In the US, you can call 811 for the National Digline. Building over these lines can make any repairs that need to be done to them overly difficult or impossible, and can be dangerous to people in the building.













Property lines. Make sure that the entirety of your shed is on your own property. Ensure that the eaves of the shed do not hang over into your neighbor's property.






Moisture. Avoid building the shed in a low area of the yard where moisture collects, and always install a proper drainage system. The ground around your shed will always be soggy. Moisture can also rot wood, rust hinges, and deteriorate whatever you're storing.






Ground angle. You want your shed to be as level as possible. Adjust the ground yourself if you have to by digging out the flat spot and filling in any holes. If the ground cannot be leveled, you will need to build your foundation so that the structure will still be flat.






Surrounding trees. Try to leave a few feet of space on all sides of the shed. This will make the shed easier to access and reduce the growth of mold and mildew. Build your shed in direct sunlight if possible to further reduce growth.










The average 8'x8' shed will require almost 100 pieces of wood precisely cut to construct. Use cedar if allowed in your area as it does not change size very much through temperature changes.
Rafters and trim require wood to be cut at a 45° angle. For this you will need a miter.
Remember the adage "measure twice, cut once." Take your time cutting your materials to avoid wasting time and money. Alternatively, many major home supply stores offer lumber cutting services. Take your plans with you and have the cuts made in the store when you purchase the materials.
Besides the wood, you will need several pounds of nails, roof tacks for the shingles, hinges for the doors, and prefabricated windows for the walls. You will also need gussets (triangle pieces of wood) for the rafters.

