 Code books can be stolen, lost, or destroyed. Modern cryptoanlaytic techniques and computer analysis can oftentimes break even strong codes. Even so, codes can condense long messages into a single signal word, making them great time savers.Codes serve as good pattern identification practice. This skill can be put to use when encoding, decoding, enciphering, or deciphering messages.
Codes are naturally used between close friends. Inside jokes could be thought of as a kind of "code." Try developing your code language with your best friends.
 Knowing the purpose of your code will prevent unnecessary work. If your goal is to save time, you might only need a few specific code words. If you're trying to encode detailed messages, you may need to develop a code book that is more like a dictionary.


Select common phrases that occur in the messages you want to encode. These are prime targets to be condensed in a code word.
Codes can be further complicated by using several different codes in rotation or combination. However, the more codes used, the more code books necessary for decoding., Condense common phrases, like "Reading you loud and clear," to something like "Roy." For every conceivable word in your encoded messages and common phrases as well, designate alternative code words.


Sometimes, partial code can obscure a message sufficiently. For example, if "walk" means "tango" and "museum" means "restaurant" and the previously used code word "Roy" holds its value,


Message: About yesterday. I wanted to say, Roy. I'll tango to the restaurant as planned. Over and out.

Meaning: About yesterday. I wanted to say, reading you loud and clear. I'll walk to the museum as planned. Over and out., Use the code words in your code book to encode messages. You may find that you can save yourself time by leaving nouns (like names and pronouns like I, me, she) as plain text. However, this decision depends purely on your situation.


Two-part codes apply two different code books to encode or decode a message. These are much stronger than one-part codes.
 A key message, group of words, letters, symbols, or a combination of these can be used to encode your message.The recipient of your message will also need this key phrase or key of letters/symbols to decode the message.For example, with the key word "SECRET," each letter of your message would convert to the number of letters between it and the corresponding letter of the key word. As in,


Message: Hello

Encoding:
/H/ is 11 letters away from the key /S/
/e/ is the same (zero) as the key /E/
/l/ is 9 letters away from the key /C/And so on...


Coded Message: 11; 0 ; 9 ; 6 ; 10



, As you receive coded messages, you'll have to make use of your code book or key word/phrase to make sense of them. This may be difficult at first, but will become more intuitive as you become more familiar with the code.To strengthen you encoding ability, you may want to invite your friends to join an amateur code making group. Pass messages to improve your skills.

