 For the fried rice, you’ll need 1 cup (225 g) of uncooked long grain white rice. Before cooking it, place it in a colander and rinse it under cool water at the sink to remove any dusty starch.You can substitute any type of rice that you like. Both white and brown will work, as well as long, medium, or short grain.;
, To cook the rice, you’ll need 2 cups (473 ml) of water. Pour it into a medium saucepan and place it on the stove. Heat it on high until the water comes to a boil, which should take 5 to 7 minutes.For 1 cup (225 g) of uncooked rice, a 2-quart (1.8 l) saucepan is usually a good size.
 Once the water comes to a boil, add the rice to the pan. Stir it in, and allow the mixture to return to a gentle simmer.You may also want to add ½ teaspoon (3 g) of salt to the water when you mix in the rice.
 After the mixture has come to a gentle simmer, place the lid on the pan. Reduce the heat to low, and allow the rice to cook until it is done. Begin checking on it after 18 minutes -- the rice is done when it is firm but no longer crunchy.Be sure to leave the lid on the pan while the rice is cooking so the steam doesn’t escape.
It’s okay if the rice is slightly sticky, but it shouldn’t be gummy when it’s finished cooking.
If there’s still liquid in the pan when the rice is finished cooking, tilt the pan over the skin to drain the remaining water.
 When the rice is finished cooking, turn off the stove. Let the rice sit in the pan for 3 to 5 minutes with the lid on so it has time to finish steaming., After the rice has had a few more minutes to steam, remove the lid from the pan. Use a fork to fluff the rice a bit and allow it to dry out while you prepare the other ingredients.Don’t worry about the rice getting cold as you cook the eggs, veggies, and other ingredients. When you combine it with the other ingredients at the end, it will heat up again.
 Place 8 ounces (227 g) of cooked, diced pork loin in a small bowl. Add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of dark sesame oil to the meat, and toss well until it is fully coated. Set the meat aside for the moment.You can substitute any meat or protein, such as chicken, beef, shrimp, or tofu, for the pork.
 Add 1 cup (150 g) of chopped onion and ⅓ cup (15 g) of grated carrots to a separate small bowl. Toss the two together well so they’re completely mixed, and set the bowl aside.
 Add 1 cup (100 g) of bean sprouts, 3 chopped green onions, and ½ cup (75 g) of thawed frozen peas to another small bowl. Toss them together until they’re well mixed and set them aside as well.You can substitute scallions for the green onions.
Feel free to omit, add, or substitute your favorite veggies in the fried rice. Chinese broccoli and green beans can be tasty additions.
 For the fried rice, you’ll need 2 eggs. Crack them into a bowl, and beat them lightly with a whisk.You can use egg substitute in place of the eggs if you prefer.
 Add 2 tablespoons (26 g) of coconut oil to a wok, and place it on the stove. Turn the heat to high, and allow the oil to melt, which should take about 3 minutes.If you prefer you can substitute peanut or safflower oil for the coconut oil.
 Once the oil is melted and the wok is hot, pour the beaten eggs into it. Allow the egg to cook, swiveling the wok so the runny portion is constantly moving until it sets. Next, flip the egg over, and let it cook on the other side for a minute.If you prefer, you can simply scramble the eggs in the wok by scraping them around with a wooden spoon. That way, you won’t have to chop the eggs up in the next step.
 When the eggs are finished cooking, transfer them from the wok to a plate. Use a knife to chop the egg into small, bite-size pieces.Use a wooden spoon to move the veggies around as they stir fry to ensure that they cook evenly.
 Once the carrots are tender, add the chopped pork loin to the wok. Let the mixture cook for 3 to 4 minutes, or until it is very hot and sizzling.Just as before, make sure you stir the pork and veggie mixture in the wok so it cooks evenly.
 When the pork and veggie mixture is hot, transfer it to the plate with the cooked egg. Set the plate aside for the moment., After you’ve removed the pork and veggie mixture, add 4 tablespoons (57 g) of butter and another 2 tablespoons (26 g) of coconut oil to the wok. Allow them to heat for a minute.If there’s still some coconut oil in the wok, you may not need to add as much as 2 tablespoons (26 g).
 When the butter and coconut have melted, add the cooked rice to the work. Mix in 1 teaspoon (6 g) of salt and ½ teaspoon (1 g) of black pepper to season it as well.If you like, you can also add a pinch of five spice powder to the rice.
 After you’ve seasoned the rice in the work, stir in 2 tablespoons (18 g) of toasted sesame seeds. Allow the mixture to cook for 2 to 3 minutes or until the rice is hot and sizzling.You can add more sesame seeds if you want a stronger sesame taste for your fried rice.
 Once the rice is hot and sizzling, add the egg, pork, carrots, onions, bean sprouts, peas, green onions, and ¼ cup (59 ml) of soy sauce. Stir well until all of the mixture is well blended.You can use whatever soy sauce you like. Both light and dark work well for the rice.
You can also add a little oyster sauce to the mixture if you like.
 After you’ve mixed all of the ingredients together, transfer the rice to a large platter or bowl. Enjoy the fried rice while it is still hot.The sesame fried rice is delicious both as a main course or as a side to your favorite main course.

