 This is the most accurate time to get your weight, before food and water have artificially upped it. Step on the scale in your underwear and make a note of your current weight. Keeping a small journal of your weight fluctuations is proven to keep you on track with your weight-loss goals., It doesn't have to be the same routine that you used to burn the weight, but you need to do something. People who have gained significant weight and spent months not exercising have slower metabolisms, and will have to work harder than someone who was never overweight to keep the weight off. While this is not a fun reality to face, knowing this fact is important to prevent regaining your 7 lbs.Walk 2-3 miles a day, 4-5 days a week.
Sign up for a yoga, aerobic, or spinning class to ensure an hour of exercise 1-2 times a week.
Aim to work out 4-5 times a week, not 1-2 for a long period of time. Regular exercise is better for your metabolism than occasional long runs.
 Muscle building, through weight lifting and strength training, is essential for a fully functioning metabolism that keeps the weight from coming back. You should build muscle 2-3 times a week, work on push-ups, sit-ups, dips, and planks, all exercises you can do at home.If you can, get a gym membership so you can work on muscle building every week.
 Keeping chips and soda in the house, even if you tell yourself they are "just as an occasional treat," means that you will eventually eat them. But if you cut the temptation before the chips even enter the house you will be much more successful at dieting. Just don't buy junk food, and don't keep it in the cabinets. You'll be surprised how little temptation you have when there is nothing around to tempt you.


Go to the grocery store with a list and stick to it. You can plan your meals more effectively from home and ensure that you only buy healthy options.
 Have someone else around to keep you honest, go to the gym with you, and come up with good, low-calorie recipes. Building a social support system is important for keeping your new lifestyle permanent. Surround yourself with good influences, such as other people who want to eat healthy and make exercise a part of their daily life, and you'll keep the weight off naturally., Making a rapid diet switch in an attempt to lose weight quickly often leads to "rebound weight." This happens when, after a grueling 7 days of dieting, you are unable to maintain the extreme habits and instead slide back into bad ones. After your diet is complete, work on gradually shifting your lifestyle to something healthier instead of trying to become super-fit over night.


Make time to exercise for 30 minutes 4-5 times a week.
Substitute one of your normal meals, such as breakfast, with the new low-cal option.
Keep track of your calories -- it prevents you from large swings back towards overeating.

