 Consider a smaller store over a large chain as they may have a smaller stock. This may mean they spend more time with the hamsters, making sure that they are healthy and ready to be sold.
 Make sure they are clean and the hamsters have access to fresh food, bedding, water. They should also have access to exercise.


If there are multiple hamsters in the habitat, they are probably young. Observe how they interact with each other. They should be inquisitive and active if awake. They should not be aggressive toward each other.
The hamsters should look well fed and well taken care of. They should appear to have bright eyes and shiny coats.
 Another way to assess the store is by interacting with the store employees. Ask questions about the hamsters, such as age and breed. They should be knowledgeable and readily helpful.


Ask for references from other customers. If you are unsure if the pet store is for you, ask if the store can provide references from other customers. You may be able to ask questions of these pet owners to inquire about the hamsters after they were purchased.
 If you are thinking about a breed that you plan on handling and interacting with, ask if you can hold your pick before you decide to pick it up. You will want to look for a few good attributes before purchasing.


Tameness. You want to make sure the hamster is not stressed or anxious while being held. It should not nip, bite, or squirm.
Interested rather than anxious. Your hamster should be interested in its surroundings rather than scared. If your hamster is looking around or sniffing for food, it is showing signs that it is relaxed.
 As hamsters have a life-span of about 2-3 years, you want to make sure you are taking home a healthy and happy friend. Observe these obvious traits before making a purchase.


Clear eyes, nose, and mouth
Dry, not runny, nose
Shiny coat
A steady gate
No overgrown teeth
A happy disposition
No hair loss
No lumps in body or fur

, The pet store or breeder may provide a small box to take home your hamster. Your hamster may feel trapped or anxious in the box, so it may crawl, chew, or dig.


It is important to go straight home with your new friend. You do not want to stress it out even more or allow it to escape!

