 Who gives a flying care what others think of your clothes, if they match, or if they came from a thrift store? Furthermore, who cares if you spent $5,000 on that new jacket? The only factor determining whether or not you wear something is whether or not you want to wear it.


Get your clothes from anywhere -- garage sales, thrift stores, high-end shops, big-box stores -- and worry about matching later.
 Again, if you think it looks good, this is more than enough. You're not going to be edgy by copying the same trends you see elsewhere, and you're only going to find new outfits that work if you take some risks first., Don't feel like you have to be unique just for the sake of being unique-- paradoxically, you're still letting yourself be defined by what is "normal," you're just choosing to show the opposite. But fashion isn't so black and white, and neither are you. When you see something you like, an outfit idea to try, or some new accessories worth rocking, go for it. Take inspiration and ideas from everywhere and you haven't really stolen anything at all -- you've just melded it into your personal style.


Always consider the overall tone or look of a style you like. How can you get this same tone across without the exact same clothes?
If you'd like to just wear a "uniform," or the same basic outfit every day, this can be equally edgy. These people, including Steve Jobs (black turtleneck and jeans) and Barack Obama (gray suit), have largely ditched the societal pressure of choosing new clothes and instead wear the same well-cut, good looking thing each day., Just a few key accessories can kick your edginess up a notch. Girls can wear long chains (gold or silver), bangles, or chunky bracelets. Both guys and girls can wear out-there shoes, crazy earrings, or extra dark sunglasses. Carry a pocket watch if it feels like something you'd enjoy. Accessories let you quickly distinguish yourself without breaking the bank.


Guys can use a messenger bag or a funky belt to edge up their look.
 Yes, being edgy is about being yourself, and you should never get a tattoo "just because." That said -- what are you waiting for? The reason there is so much overlap between edgy people and body modification (tattoos, piercings, etc.) is that edgier people tend to regard their body as a temporary canvass. They know that they only get one body, and they might as well "customize" it however they want. The consequences can be damned, because they aren't a big deal -- anyone who doesn't like your tattoo is just too close-minded to be worth the time.


What you choose to get is up to you, but don't discount getting some incredible art just because you love it. Research local tattoo artists and breeze through their collections, or ask them if they'll make a custom design for you.
Get a tattoo because you want it, not because it "probably looks cool." If you like the design still 2-3 days after you first saw it, take the plunge.
Be careful -- tattoos can become addicting!