 Child support is designed to allow a child to enjoy a standard of living that is approximate to what he or she would have enjoyed had the parents lived together. Child support may be ordered when the parents are separated, have never lived together, or are in divorce, dissolution of marriage, annulment, or in the midst of paternity and legal separation cases.Typically, it is paid to the parent with whom the children spend the majority of their time.Child support is not alimony. The purpose of alimony is to rehabilitate or support a former spouse. Though the other parent may financially benefit from child support payments, the purpose of the payments is to benefit the children who no longer live with you.
Child support payments are set by a court or are agreed to by the parents themselves, who then have their agreement approved by a court.Once set, child support payments can only be amended by court order.;
, In most states, the Department of Revenue or the Department of Human Services will file for child support on your behalf. Often, there is an Office of Child Support Services in that department, or the state may have contracted with a private agency to handle child support issues.In most situations, applying for public assistance to help support the child will automatically trigger the state to file for child support on your behalf and help establish paternity, if necessary.
Some agencies will charge a small fee for your use of their child support services. In Texas, for example, the Child Support Division will charge $25 if you end up collecting at least $500 in support payments in a year.
 Family law is complicated and an experienced family law attorney can help you make the best case for child support. Judges also have latitude in how they calculate support payments, and an experienced family law attorney may know the likelihood of a judge to deviate from the state formula.


To find a qualified family law attorney, contact your state’s bar association, which should run a referral service.
If costs are a concern, realize that many attorneys now offer "unbundled" legal services. Under this arrangement, an attorney will perform discrete tasks (such as filing a document or coaching you in preparation for your hearing).
 In most states, child support is determined by a formula. The formula considers the number of children the non-custodial parent will need to pay support for. In Texas, for example, a parent will pay 20% of their income for one child and an additional 5% of income for each additional child, up to 40% of income for five or more children.Many states also allow judges to depart from the formula, depending on the circumstances. Courts will look at a variety of circumstances, including: each parent’s income, whether either parent is responsible for children from other relationships, who is paying childcare and health care, as well as whether either parent lives with a new parent who contributes to household expenses.You can also use a child support calculator to get a rough estimate of how much child support you may be entitled to. Click on your state to get a state-specific calculation.
 If you are seeking child support from a man you believe is the father, then you will need to legally establish that he is the father. There are many ways to establish paternity. Paternity may be presumed, voluntarily assumed, or declared by a court. If you need to establish paternity, contact your state’s Attorney General’s Office. These offices will help bring a suit, if necessary, and often will pay for the cost of a DNA test.


Generally, a man is presumed to be the father when he is married to the child’s mother when the child was either conceived or born. A presumption of paternity will also attach if the man marries the mother and then agrees to have his name on the birth certificate or agrees to support the child. A man will also be presumed the father when he welcomes the child into his home and holds the child out as his own.A man can also establish paternity by signing an acknowledgment form.However, if there is also a “presumed” father, then the presumed father must sign a Denial of Paternity form.Paternity can also be determined by a court. You will initiate a suit to establish parentage. Then you must serve the petition on the man you believe is the father. The man may ask for a DNA test if he denies parentage., Parents have the right to meet and try to work out child support payments between themselves. If you can come to an agreement, you would then need to submit your proposed child support payment schedule to the court for approval.If one of the parents has been the victim of domestic violence, this may not be an option. However, other parents can save themselves time and money by trying to reach an agreement.
Your state’s formula can help act as a guide when deciding the amount of child support. Although you can deviate from the formula, the judge will undoubtedly compare your proposed child support plan to the state’s formula in order to get a sense of how fair the proposal is.
 Mediation is a process where a third party “neutral” discusses the case with you and the other parent. You discuss disagreements that you are having around child support and work toward a resolution that is agreeable to all parties.


Mediation may be court-ordered. Even if court-ordered, you may still be required to split the cost of mediation.The average cost of a mediator can be $100-200 an hour.If you are indigent, you should request a fee waiver or reduction in fees.The mediator cannot force any side to accept a solution. Therefore, you don’t gain anything by stretching facts to get the mediator to agree with you.
 If you and the other parent can come to an agreement on child support, then you should work on drafting an agreement. Be sure to include the amount the non-custodial parent will pay, how the payment will be made, any non-monetary support (such as health insurance), and who will pay for special expenses such as school tuition and extra-curricular activities.Before signing, you may want to have an attorney look at the agreement. Ask if the attorney can spot anything you may have missed.
 You will file for child support in the county where the child lives.If the parent has moved to a different state, then you should try to have your state Child Support Agency seek child support on your behalf. When a parent lives in a different state, you will need to work with the court system in that state in order to enforce a child support order. This can be complicated and time-consuming. Your state's agency has more resources and experience in handling cross-border child support enforcement.
 You will start an action for child support by filing a petition or motion. Your state should have pre-printed "fill in the blank" forms. The form will go by a different name depending on the state and court. In Massachusetts, it is called a “Complaint for Support.”In Texas, the form is called “Petition in Suit Affecting the Parent-Child Relationship.”Ask the court clerk for the appropriate form.


You may also need to fill out other forms. In particular, you will need a worksheet on which you list assets, income, expenses, etc. This worksheet goes by different names. In Massachusetts, it is called the “Child Support Guidelines Worksheet.”In New York it is called a “Financial Disclosure Affidavit.”If you are requesting child support as part of a divorce, then you should have the form in your divorce packet already.
If you and the other parent have come to an agreement, then you will file a “Joint Stipulation.” Ask the clerk if there is a particular form for joint stipulations.
 The typical motion/petition form will ask for personal identification information (your name, address, phone number) as well as information about the children (names, date of birth, and address). You will also need to name the other parent and list their address.


The financial affidavit/worksheet will require information on assets and finances. For example, you may be asked for gross weekly income, health insurance and child care costs, and information on other support obligations., Once you have completed the forms, you will need to sign them. Check the bottom of the form to see if it must be notarized. If so, then wait to sign in front of the notary. Notaries may be found at banks as well as at the courthouse.


Be sure to bring sufficient personal identification when you go to see the notary. Bring either a valid driver's license or a passport.
 After you have assembled all of your forms, make several copies for yourself and one copy for the other parent. Take the forms to the court clerk and request to file. The clerk will need to print off the citation or summons, which calls the other parent into court. Attach it to your petition and other forms.


You will have to pay a filing fee. Fees can vary depending on the court. In Massachusetts, for example, there is no fee for filing though you have to pay $5 for the summons.In Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, it costs $35.50.You should call ahead and ask the court clerk for information on how much the fee is as well as acceptable methods of payment.
If you cannot afford the fee, ask for a fee waiver form and fill it out.
 You may be able to pick up a hearing date when you file. (Alternately, the court may mail you a hearing date at a later time). If you receive the hearing date when you file, ask the clerk if you need to send notice to the other parent.


If you do, you may have to fill out a Notice of Hearing form. You should do this when you file, so that the notice can be served on the other parent at the same time as the summons and a copy of the petition.
 You will need to send the other parent a copy of your petition as well as the summons. You are responsible for arranging service. Generally, service may be done by the mail or by personal service. Ask the court clerk what methods are acceptable in that court.


Typically you can serve notice through the sheriff or a process server for a fee. You should ask the clerk how to arrange service by the sheriff. You will probably need to attach an Affidavit of Service form, which will be signed by whoever serves the documents and returned to you. Once returned, you then file it with the court.
To find a process server, you can check online or in the Yellow Pages.
Often, a court will allow someone over the age of 18 to serve the papers, provided the person is not a party to the suit. Courts generally do not allow you to serve papers yourself.
If the other parent cannot be found, you will need to serve notice by publication. This is a complicated process. You should seek the help of your state’s Child Support Enforcement office if you cannot locate the other parent.
 In most states, the other parent has between 21 or 30 days from the date the motion was served in order to file a written answer. You should receive a copy of the answer, but if you do not then call the clerk and ask if it was received.


If no answer was received, then you can consider asking for a Default Judgment. However, a default judgment may not get you child support if the other parent lives in another state (unless you are working through your state agency).
 In discovery, parties request documents in the custody or control of the other party. Look at the other parent's answer, which should include a financial worksheet listing assets and income. If you think the other parent is hiding income or assets, then you should seek to uncover them in discovery. You can request:Personal income tax returns for the past five years.
Business income tax returns for any business which the parent had an ownership interest in for the past five years.
A list of all bank accounts, including all bank accounts closed in the past five years.
A detailed list of investments.
Copies of bank statements.
Copies of insurance policies.
Any other financial document, including information on trusts, credit cards, real estate, and other property.
 After you file, you will either be given a hearing date at that time or a date will be mailed to you. You should prepare for the hearing by reviewing your petition and the other parent's answer.


A hearing is more informal than a trial. Some states even hold hearings by telephone.You should ask the clerk when filing your motion how hearings are held.
Be sure to bring to the hearing a document that established paternity, e.g., a signed birth certificate, a signed acknowledgment of paternity, or a court order.
Also look at the factors your state considers relevant in setting child support. Although judges use a formula as a starting point, they can adjust the amount up or down if the situation warrants it.
 At the hearing, the judge will attempt to find out how much child support to award. You should be prepared to answer any question related to what you filled out on your financial worksheet.


Arrive early. You should give yourself plenty of time to find parking and get to the courtroom a half hour before you are scheduled to start.
 Remember that the courtroom is a professional place. Accordingly, you should dress in a respectable fashion. As a rule of thumb, dress as you would if going to church.Men should wear slacks and a dress shirt or a nice, solid-colored polo.You should have facial hair trimmed and neat.
Women should dress business casual: a blouse with a mid-thigh skirt or slacks. Dresses are fine if not too revealing.No loud jewelry.
Do not wear T-shirts, jeans with holes in them, halter tops, or shorts., When addressing the judge, say “Your Honor.” Stand when speaking to him or her.Do not chew gum while in court, no matter how nervous you may be. Also do not bring in food or drinks, and turn cell phones off., The judge will probably ask you questions about the paperwork you filed. If paternity has not yet been established, you will be asked why you think the defendant is the father.Be prepared to answer questions without taking too long to riffle through your papers.


Remember that the other parent will probably be at the hearing. No matter how angry you are, you should comport yourself in a professional manner.
 After the hearing, the prevailing party usually prepares the orders. The order should contain in written form what the judge ordered. There should be a blank order form for you to fill out. Give it to the other parent to review, and then hand it in to the clerk.


Once the judge signs the order, a copy should be mailed to you for your records.
 If you believe the judge decided wrong, then you may be able to appeal. You should ask the court clerk for a Notice of Appeal form and fill it out.


You must have legitimate grounds for an appeal. For example, you may believe that the judge did not understand the facts properly or did not apply the law to the facts in the right way.You cannot appeal simply because you are unhappy with the ruling.
 Child support payments may be made periodically (weekly, biweekly, or monthly) or in a lump sum. The court may also require the non-custodial parent to purchase an annuity or set aside property. Periodic payments, if ordered, will be made to the state’s Child Support State Disbursement Unit, who then forwards payments to the custodial parent.The judge will set the start date for payments. The judge may also order retroactive child support payments for the period of time between the parents separating and the date a formal child support order is entered., You should keep detailed documentation of all payments received and payments missed. If the non-custodial parent pays into a state Disbursement Unit, then you can contact them for a printout of payments.
 Even if you didn't use the state Child Support Division when seeking your initial child support order, you can use them to enforce an existing order. They can also help you track down a parent if he or she has gone missing.


If you have not already been receiving support services from the state, then you will probably have to complete an application. Here is an example. The application will ask for your personal information (name, address, Social Security Number, home phone), employer information, and personal information on your children. You will also be asked detailed information on the other parent, include name, address, date of birth, Social Security Number, and physical characteristics (race, eye color, hair color, etc.), If you intend to bring the enforcement action yourself, then you will need to fill out a motion to enforce. Your state should have "fill in the blank" forms for this motion. When you file, be sure to attach a copy of the original child support order as well as a schedule of payments made and payments missed.


You will have to serve notice, just as you did when establishing an initial child support order.
The other parent will also have an opportunity to answer the petition.
 At the hearing, be prepared to talk about the amount the other parent owes (the “arrearages”). Judges have several options for collecting arrearages. For example, a court can freeze bank accounts, offset state and federal income tax returns, place a lien on the non-custodial parent’s property, and seize and sell property.A judge can also revoke state-issued licenses or jail the non-custodial parent for contempt.Think whether or not this is in your best interest. If the non-paying parent loses a license or is jailed, it will be harder for you to collect child support payments.

