 Postlets is a free listing service that shares your ad with a network of other companies. Once you create your listing (referred to as a “postlet” on the site), it is published on all of the other sites. If you have to edit your listing at any time, it is automatically updated on all of the partner sites. Being able to post on so many sites at once boosts the number of people who see your ad.Postlets works with over 20 well-known companies, including Zillow, Trulia, HotPads, Yahoo Homes, HGTV Front Door and MSN Real Estate.Begin by signing up for the service on the Postlets website (www.postlets.com). You will have to enter your name and email address.
Create your postlet by submitting the address, a description of the house, the monthly rent and uploading pictures.
Activate your postlet to send it to all of the partner sites.
You can edit your postlet anytime. Your ad will be automatically updated on all of the sites.
Once someone rents your house, expire your postlet to remove it from the market.;
, Go to the Rentlinx website (www.rentlinx.com). On the homepage, you will be prompted to enter the address of your rental property. Click on the orange “List for Free” button. You will then be redirected to a page where you can enter more details about your property. For example, specify the property type and the number of available units, write a description of the property, provide details about amenities and upload photos of the property. Once you submit your information, your ad is created and advertised on dozens of sites, such as Trulia, Show Me the Rent, Zillow, Realtor.com and Apartments.com.The basic service is free. It includes uploading your ad to dozens of other sites, unlimited photos and email lead tracking so you can follow up with potential renters. It also includes a free renter portal that allows you to communicate with tenants, share documents, receive online service requests and accept electronic payments.
You can upgrade to paid services that link your ad to pay-to-list services.
 This site is used by renters to search for properties. When you go to the site, scroll down to the bottom of the homepage to find the section entitled “List Your Vacancy on Free Rental Site.” Click on the blue “Advertise Now” button. You will be redirected to a page with a form where you can enter all of the information about your property, including the address and a description. You will also be able to upload pictures.Become a “Verified Poster” by clicking on the blue “Get Verified” button at the bottom of the homepage. This means that your address and contact information have been confirmed by the site. It gives you more credibility with potential tenants who are searching the site for rental properties. Properties of verified posters are viewed two to three times more often than unverified listings.

