 This can be done by downloading Steam (containing the game engine that runs CS and its servers) free from the official website (look on google). Once installed, CS:Source can then be purchased through Steam.;
, Then click the "Servers" button from the Steam menu. Wait a while for the massive list to appear. In Counter-Strike, each of those servers has a different game playing. The current map for each game, the number of players and whether the server has a password, are all shown in the servers window. Double click a server to join.
 You'll also develop favourite maps as you play and develop your style. Along with different maps come different game modes; one example is death match, where the emphasis is on getting many kills in a row, each new kill will raise you up to a better weapon in many cases. Another game mode is demolition (a.k.a. de_) where the terrorists can either win by killing all the counter-terrorists or by planting and detonating a bomb, which the CTs can try to defuse.
 You'll know when the loading is nearly done because the screen will say "Sending client info...". Then the fun begins! You'll first have to chose a side (Counter-Terrorist or Terrorist), each have slightly different weapons and spawn at different locations in the map.
 have the point-of-view of another player). Clicking the left mouse button can switch between players to spectate and space-bar allows you different spectating views. These are all default controls.
 At the start of every round in CS, you'll need to buy your toys to play with :) It may seem long at first but there are a few tricks, you can re-buy what you bought last round automatically (though obviously not if you have just joined a game) and the menu can be navigated and the guns chosen using keypad numbers. Soon it will become a reflex and take no more than 2 secs to get 'locked and loaded' as they say.
 There's no hard and fast rule here as everyone has a different style of play, but pretty much everyone agrees that on CT, the M4 Carbine is pretty accurate, on T, the AK is powerful but needs control to manage the recoil. Other guns have their own personalities (wow that's sad?) so you'll just have to get in there and find out for yourself!

, It needs a quite accurate coordination of the W,A,S,D keys and the mouse. The mouse controls where you look and thus where you shoot and is the most important skill for your hand to master. The mouse sensitivity can be adjusted in the in-game options menu. You want to start off low and increase the sensitivity as you get more comfortable with the CS environment.
 This goes for all weapons - especially rifles. CS is rather realistic any more than 2 or 3 shots becomes a spray, a spray is bad because it is not very accurate. Fire a few shots at a time and squeeze the bullets out, don't rap hard on the mouse button. Slow is smooth, smooth is fast, remember? Generally, you should aim for the torso or head. If you do feel inclined to spray (and trust me there are times when it just "happens") aim at the feet, then you might have a chance of nipping his head. Stick to the 2/3 shot principle and you'll go very far.
 You can chat by voice, by typing, and for tactical commands, you can use the in-game pre-recorded commands such as "Go, go, go!" and "Cover me!", which no-one pays much attention to, generally speaking :)

, Don't camp (wait in a corner/shadowed place and shoot people that walk past), it will get you killed faster by people who play that map often and it will just end up making you more frustrated. Also, try to get a sense of your team's abilities and try to add something different to it: for example using a Scout rifle and sniping at the opposition. Grenades are useful in tight situations and for disposing of cornered rats (careful, they bite).
 If you're feeling irritated or annoyed then you're not likely to play very well. The best attitude to try to maintain is happy-go-lucky, taking things as they come and shooting everything that moves!

,