 Everyone deserves respect, and the best way to earn it is to show it to other people. You need to respect everyone in your school, including younger students, upperclassmen, friends, strangers, and teachers. Don’t make fun of, tease, or gossip about your peers.Respect other people’s property as well. Never take something that isn’t yours, and if someone lends you something be sure to return it in the condition you received it.;
, If you see someone, whether it’s a friend or a stranger, being bullied, step in and stand up for the person. Similarly, if you’re being bullied, stand up for yourself. Your peers will respect you for standing up for yourself as well as helping others. The worst thing you can do is stand by when someone is being bullied, and not take action.For example, say to the bully “Hey, man, that’s not cool. You shouldn’t talk to Susie like that.”

, Your peers will respect you if you are someone whom people can come to and feel like they are being genuinely heard. If a friend or classmate wants to talk to you about something, give them your full attention, make eye contact, and demonstrate empathy.For instance, if a classmate tells you that her dog just died, say something like “Wow, I’m really sorry to hear that. I remember how hard it was when my dog, Tally, died last year. Is there anything I can do to help?”

, You can demonstrate kindness by holding the door for the person behind you or helping a peer pick up the books they dropped. Don’t single someone out, tease them, or spread rumors. Doing so will not earn you respect from your classmates., Greet people when you see them and acknowledge them when they are speaking to you. Say “please” and “thank you” often. You should also say “excuse me” and always apologize when necessary.For instance, if you bump into someone in the hallway and they drop their books, help them pick them up. Say “I’m sorry Jack, I didn’t see you there. Let me help you.”

, It can be difficult to be the bigger person in a tough situation, but your peers will certainly respect you for it. If someone attacks or pushes you, be mature and handle the situation the right way. Don’t be afraid to talk to a teacher or counselor if you feel you don’t have the tools or the authority to handle the situation correctly.


For example, if a classmate insults you, laugh it off or walk away. Don’t stoop to their level by calling them names or getting into a physical fight.
 Being a leader will gain the respect of your peers. Leaders are confident and prepared for all situations. To show your peers you are a leader, you can become the captain of a team or club, join the student council/government, or offer to tutor others in areas you excel in., When people recognize that you are active in school teams or groups, they will respect your efforts and see you as a leader. Try out for the soccer team, join the chess club, or become a member of the drama club.
 People who are open-minded earn more respect than those that are close-minded and think their way is the only right way to do something. Accept that people come from different backgrounds, religions, and cultures, and while these factors may make people different, they don’t make them better or worse than anyone else., If you are an asocial person, then you may have a hard time getting the respect you may feel you want from your fellows and peers. Try to find out what you may have in common with your peers, such as strong organizational skills, a talent for basketball, or a love for sci-fi.


Take small steps to relate to others, such as commenting on a classmate’s shirt if it has your favorite band logo on it.
 Starting a conversation with someone you don’t know very well can seem daunting. However, being friendly to others and striking up a conversation can help you earn respect. It’s as easy as sharing something funny that happened to you, or asking about an assignment or project.


For example, say “Wow, I’m super tired. I was up late cleaning because my dog knocked over a can of paint in the living room!”
You could also say “Have you started your history project yet? I’m thinking of doing mine on the Titanic.”

, Both teachers and peers will give you criticism during your time at school. If the criticism is constructive, rather than blatantly rude, say something like, “Wow, thanks for pointing that out, I didn’t notice it before.” Likewise, when someone compliments you, don’t laugh or brush it off. Instead, show the person that you appreciate their words.


For instance, if someone compliments your outfit, say something like “Thank you! I got this at T.J. Maxx. Green is my favorite color.”

, People who lie will quickly lose the respect of their friends and peers. If you are seen as untrustworthy, it’s hard to be respected. Tell the truth, and own up to it when you make a mistake. Taking responsibility for your words and actions goes a long toward showing others that you are mature and deserve their respect., It’s important that you stay true to yourself, and don’t let others influence you negatively. Don’t feel as though you have to change your interests or opinions based on what others like. A strong sense of self will earn the respect of others.


For instance, if everyone in your peer group is eating pizza for lunch, and you don’t like pizza, don’t feel as though you have to eat it too. Select what you like, and if someone comments on it, simply say “I’m not a big fan of pizza. I like getting my lunch from the salad bar better.”

, Show people what you are good at, and encourage them to do the same. Everyone has unique skills, so don’t worry if you aren’t good at everything you try. Simply showcase the things you do well, and appreciate others that can do things that you may struggle with.For example, if you are a skilled runner, join the track or cross-country team.
If someone you know has a great voice, encourage them to join the choir or try out for the spring musical.
 Intelligence is a highly respected trait, so don’t be afraid of letting people see your smart side. You should give all your schoolwork maximum effort, volunteer answers in class, and offer to tutor a student having trouble with something you understand well. Don’t brag or boast about your intelligence, though, just let it speak for itself.
 Make others laugh by telling them a good joke or a funny story. You can even do an Internet search for funny jokes so you have a few on hand at any given time. Just avoid jokes that demean or make fun of different genders or racial groups.
 Confidence goes hand in hand with respect. Accept and love yourself for you who are, flaws and all. Dress in clothes that make you feel good and always have a smile ready to share with friends or peers., This a no-brainer, because participating means you're letting your voice be heard in front of your whole class. If you have a difficult time answering questions posed by your teacher, try asking questions instead. Other students who were wondering the same thing will be glad you brought up the topic., Strong communication skills can help you earn your peers’ respect. If you have difficulty getting your point across, try some exercises to help you strengthen your skills. For example, read a newspaper or magazine article and practice summarizing it. This will help you weed out unnecessary information while providing the key points., Think about how others will react to your actions, and about how your actions make you look to others. Don’t tell jokes that are in bad taste, gossip, or spread rumors. Avoid arguing with your peers and never resort to physical altercations.

