 To get started, stand with your legs shoulder-width apart. Cross your arms over your chest. Lower yourself down slowly as if you’re sitting in a chair. Keep your chest and head up and your eyes forward.Stop squatting when you feel as though you cannot lower yourself any further, and slowly stand back up.
Your knees should not extend past the end of your toes.
At the bottom of your squat, hold the position for about five seconds. Repeat 12-15 times.
If you wish to engage your lateral hip stabilizers, you could step into an elastic band and pull it into position just above your knees before beginning the squat.
A simple variation – the single-leg squat – is performed in the exact same way as the standard double-leg squat, but, as its name implies, you stand on just one leg while doing it.;
, Fold your arms over your chest in an ‘X’. Stand on a foam pad or rubber air disc – both of which are available at sporting goods stores – and place your feet slightly wider than shoulder width apart. Focus your eyes on a point in front of you and bend slightly at the knees. Lower your butt as if you are about to sit while keeping your chest and head up.When you achieve a 60-degree angle at the knees, hold the position for a second or two, then slowly stand back up.
Keep your back straight throughout.
Repeat 12 to 15 times.
 Squat as you normally would in a double leg squat, but stand on an inclined plane with your toes facing downward (toward the lower edge of the wedge). A plane angled at 25 or 30 degrees should be sufficient to achieve increased VMO activation., When performing a squat – either a double leg squat, a squat on unstable surfaces, or another type – do so at about 70-50% of the speed you normally would. For instance, if you normally take two seconds to squat, try squatting over a period of three or four seconds instead.A slow squat will increase muscular strength and help you achieve constant muscular tension.
Do not reduce your squat speed by more than half.
 A good squat will achieve a 60-degree bend in your knees. But if you can get even lower – to a knee angle of 80 degrees – you will activate your VMO even more.A squat of between 50 and 80 degrees is ideal, and will help you exercise your VMO.
 Knee bends are a simple squat variant. Just stand a foot or two away from a wall with your feet shoulder-width apart. Lean against the wall and angle your toes out and slightly to the sides.Slide your back slowly down the wall, keep your knees in a straight line between your feet and hips. Do not allow your knees to bend in towards each other.
When your knees extend to a point where they are about the same distance from the wall as your mid foot, slide back up the wall, tensing your teardrop thigh muscle as you do so.
Place a Swiss ball between your back and the wall for a smoother motion.

