 Write a formal letter when addressing someone you only know in a professional capacity. This includes letters written to government departments or businesses, instead of a known individual.


These letters should be typed, then printed. You can use any text editing software to do this, such as Microsoft Word, OpenOffice, or Text Edit. If the letter is urgent or the recipient prefers email, you can send an email instead.
When addressing your current boss or coworker, you can be slightly less formal. Email is usually fine, and you don't need an address at the top of the page.
 Write your name and address at the top of the page, on the left. If you are writing a business letter, use the company name and address instead, or just write on company letterhead. Either way, skip two lines and write today's date.


Write out the full date. 19 September 2014 (British) or September 19, 2014 (American) are both preferable to Sept. 19, 2014 or 19/9/14.
Skip the date when writing an email.
 Unless you're writing an email, skip another two lines and write the contact information for the person you're writing to. Write each of these on a separate line:


Full title and name
Company or organization name (if applicable)
Full address (use two or more lines, as needed)

, Skip a line again, then greet the recipient with "Dear" followed by their name. You may use the last name, or the full name (first and last), but never the first name alone. Include an abbreviated professional title if applicable.


If you know the job title but not the person's name, you may write "Dear Health Inspector:" or a similar phrase. It's usually possible to find the name with an online search, so try that first.
If you don't have a specific contact, write "Dear Sir or Madam:" or "To Whom It May concern:". These sound a little stiff and old fashioned, so try to avoid it when possible.
 Formal letters should open with a clear statement of purpose. Do not use contractions (write are not instead of aren't), and phrases questions formally (Would you be interested in...? instead of Do you want to...?). Proofread the letter for spelling and grammar when finished, or ask a friend to help you.


If you are writing on official business, keep it short and direct. If you are writing a distant relative or an acquaintance for social reasons, you can be a little more conversational. It's still best to keep it to under a page.
 A complimentary close ends your letter on a good note and establishes a connection with the recipient. Make two hard returns after the last paragraph of the letter, then write the complimentary close. For formal letters, stick to "Sincerely yours," "Kindest regards," or "Best wishes." Sign underneath the close, as follows:


For typed formal letters, leave about four spaces between the complimentary close and your typed full name. Print the letter, then sign your name in blue or black ink in that blank space.
In a formal email, type your full name after the complimentary close.
You may use a courtesy title for yourself when you put your name at the end of a formal letter. For instance, a married woman could sign as "Mrs. Amanda Smith."

, If you're sending a letter through the post, fold it into thirds. Bring the bottom of the sheet up so that it's two-thirds of the way up the page, and crease. Then fold down the top portion so that the crease matches up with the bottom of the paper. Folding the letter this way ensures that it will fit into most envelopes.
 Find the center of the envelope, both lengthwise and widthwise. This is where you'll write the full address of the recipient, like so:


Mr. John Smith
123 ABC St.
New York City, NY 99999

, If the US Postal Service cannot deliver your letter for any reason, it will send the letter back to the return address at no extra charge. Write it as you would the address of the recipient (listed above); the only change is that you might wish to simply list your last name instead of your full name.

