 If you want to make a really real looking bruise, costume paint is the way to go. When you buy a simple palette of colors, you'll have lots of options for making bruises that look so real everyone will believe you.
 Most costume makeup palettes will come with makeup sponges, instead of applicators or other brushes. These are the best ways for applying makeup to look like a bruise.If you don't have one, you can use part of a large, soft, yellow sponge that you might use for washing the car or some other purpose. Ask your parents if one is available., When you have your palette, put it on some newspaper and have some paper towels or other rags that you can use to blot the makeup with while you're working. It's important to be really light with costume makeup so that your bruise doesn't look fake.
 Take one corner of the sponge and dab it in a lighter matte color of red. New bruises have the most blood in them, so this color is appropriate for a recent bruise, or a very severe one.


These makeups are ready to go out of the package, or might require a little amount of water to soften them up. Always follow the instructions that come with them.
 After getting some paint on your sponge, dab it once or twice on the paper towel, or on the rag that you've got with you. You don't want to apply too much, because it'll be difficult to get off if you do.


Some pros use a plastic mixing palette to help do this. If you have access to one, that'd be great to help you dab and mix colors.
 Use the sponge and blot very gently at the spot you want to look like a bruise, going in a circle. You'll only need to blot 2-4 times to get enough paint onto the area to look effective. Be careful not to overdo it.


The sponge helps to make the paint look uneven and spotty, like it came from under your skin.
 With another corner of the sponge, use a little light blue color and blot a very tiny amount over the top of the redness. Take some paint on the sponge, blot it on the paper, and apply it to your skin as before, but a little more lightly.


While this might seem strange, the little capillaries in your skin will sometimes show up blue in some bruises, which is why they turn dark eventually. A little blue helps it look real.
 If you want the sponge to look a little older, you can apply a small amount of greenish color, or yellow, around the outer edge of the bruise as you did the other colors.


Be extremely light. Sometimes, a little red and blue is enough to make the bruise look fine. Don't overdo it with the makeup.

