 Don’t sell the exertion required to shovel snow short. If you would have trouble completing a good jog or weight-training session, you may have difficulty clearing your driveway and sidewalk. Upper body workouts like clearing snow actually put more strain on the heart than activities like running or biking.If you have any reason to doubt the adequacy of your fitness level, consult a physician before undertaking snow shoveling. In fact, you may want to check regardless just to be sure.When in doubt, pay someone else to clear your snow. It is far less expensive than a trip to the emergency room.;
, It may seem fruitless to start shoveling in the middle of a snowstorm, but every little bit of snow you clear during the storm is that much less to clear once it is over. Sweeping away one inch of snow six times is much easier on most hearts than shoveling six inches one time.Pacing your work during the snowfall can help you to pace yourself as well. Take frequent breaks while working, say every 15–20 minutes. Warm up a bit, drink some water, replace wet socks or gloves, loosen up your muscles again, and get back to work., Lifting heavy shovels of snow causes blood pressure to spike and makes the heart work particularly hard. Whenever you can, push the snow out of the way with a shovel or broom instead of scooping and lifting it.When there is simply too much snow to push, scoop up small shovel-fulls at a time instead of trying to overload the blade. Think of it as nibbling at the snow instead of taking big bites.
 You probably don’t normally eat a big, heavy meal right before going out for a run, and you certainly don’t go running without having water handy. The same principles apply when preparing to clear snow — and after shoveling as well.


When you are cold, you may not notice your thirst as much as when sweating in the heat; however, you should drink at least as much water as you would while running on a summer day. Your body is losing fluids just the same, and dehydration does your heart no favors.Skip the heavy meals right before or after shoveling. Digesting large meals causes the heart to work harder, and you don’t need to combine that with the extra effort needed for shoveling.
 No matter how cold it is outside, you will work up a sweat while clearing snow. Impermeable clothing will trap moisture and heat inside, causing (depending on weather conditions) either significant overheating or potential hypothermia as your sweat gets cold. Either of these alternatives can exacerbate heart problems.Dress in multiple layers of breathable fabrics like cotton. Shed the outermost layer as needed if you get too warm while working.
While on the topic of proper clothing, remember that your fingers, toes, and nose are the areas most susceptible to frostbite. Keep them dry and covered with breathable layers of socks, gloves, and scarves, especially when temperatures dip well below freezing., Take no chances if you experience pain or discomfort that may indicate a heart attack. This is especially important if you have risk factors for heart disease, like family history, diabetes, smoking, and so on. The cold weather may make symptoms less noticeable at first, so pay close attention to any signals from your body and act immediately.


If you experience chest pain, shortness of breath, radiating pain in your arm or jaw area, nausea, or other common signs of a heart attack, call for emergency assistance immediately.
 Think of snow removal as a workout, not a chore. Shoveling snow is like a combination of an aerobic and weight-training session. Prepare your body as you would for that kind of workout before heading out into the snow.Stretch out all the major muscle groups of your body. Shoveling snow utilizes the arms, legs, shoulders, neck, core muscles, and the back. The lower back is particularly susceptible to overexertion or injury while shoveling.
 Don’t just grab whatever shovel you can get your hands on and hit the snow. If the shovel is too big, too short, too heavy, or makes you hunch over or bend down while using it, you are more likely to injure your back and other parts of your body.Find a shovel that allows you to stand up straight while the blade is scraping the ground. Curved shafts and handles may be more comfortable for you. Try out different options before buying one.
You should be able to position your hands at least one foot apart while holding the shovel in your working position. Separating your hands provides better leverage against the weight of the snow being lifted.
A bigger shovel blade is not always better. A smaller blade will force you to work with smaller amounts of snow at a time, which puts less strain on your body.
 You hear it when lifting boxes, lifting weights, and lifting snow: lift with your legs, not with your back. Don’t bend over at the waist and use your lower back to raise the shovel blade full of snow. Instead, bend your knees, keep your back as straight as you can do comfortably, and let your leg muscles to the work.The safest way to lift is not to lift at all. Push snow instead of lifting it whenever possible.
Don’t toss snow back over your head, or twist to throw it to your side or behind you. This is an easy way to strain muscles or wrench your back. Throw snow forward, away from your body, with your feet pointed in the same direction as the toss. Reposition your body as needed.Keep your wrists locked while lifting snow. Lifting with your wrists to take pressure off your back is likely just to transfer pain and/or injury from one spot to another. Use your legs to lift.
 Listen to your body. If your lower back begins to ache, you feel a burning sensation in the back of your neck, or any muscle group gets sore, stop shoveling snow and go inside. Get someone else to finish the job for you.Rest, relax, rehydrate, and see if the pain dissipates. If it doesn’t, contact your health care provider. Severe muscle or skeletal pain, or chest pains or other possible signs of a heart attack, should be addressed immediately.
 If the right shovel is the most important tool for clearing snow, a good pair of boots is a close second. In fact, when prioritizing safety, a comfortable, insulated, water-resistant pair of boots that provide excellent traction may be your best ally.If your preferred boots do not provide adequate traction, look into clip-on snow spikes. A good footing not only prevents slips and falls, it makes shoveling easier.
In icy conditions, employ what is sometimes affectionately called the “penguin walk.” This involves taking shorter steps, but that is not all. Instead of walking with your center of gravity spaced between your forward and rear legs, lean out over your front leg more, shifting the center of gravity forward. This way, you will be supporting your weight over a straight leg planted on the ground, not a leg at an angle., While clearing snow, don’t get so focused on the task that you lose awareness of where you are and what is going on around you. Pay special attention when you are near any roadway. Always be cognizant of any approaching vehicles. Remember that cars are less maneuverable and harder to stop in snowy and icy conditions.It is important to prevent frostbite to your face, but never let scarves, hats, or other clothing impede your field of vision. Your hearing ability may be reduced by earmuffs, a hat, or a snowblower (if you decide to use one), so you need to be able to rely on your eyes even more., If there is simply too much snow for you to shovel safely, or you have listened to your body and know it is time to put the shovel away, a snowblower can be a smart alternative. However, snowblowers are just as dangerous as the lawnmower you use in the summer, and you need to be just as cautious in using one.Always read all instructions and become familiar with the operation of the machine.
Never place your hand inside the mechanism unless the power or fuel supply is cut off, even if the engine is shut off.
Wear ear and eye protection, and get rid of any loose-hanging scarves, etc., that could get caught in the machine.
 Today, the simplest way to be ready in case of a fall or other injury or emergency is to have your cell phone with you while shoveling. Keep it in an accessible spot, not buried within layer upon layer of clothing.Let someone know you will be out clearing snow, and give them an idea of how long you expect to be out. This is especially important if you are working in a less-populated area or at night.

