 Many people think that abdominal exercises alone will give them a flat stomach. If you have belly fat, you will not be able to see your abdominal muscles and your stomach may look rounder. While abdominal exercises can strengthen and tone your abdominal muscles, you must do aerobic exercise and strength training to reduce overall body fat and the fat in your abdomen.There is no such thing as spot training. You must do exercises that decrease overall body fat to get rid of belly fat.;
, Aerobic exercise includes activities that engage large muscle groups for an extended period of time. You should do at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise per week or 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity exercise per week.Aerobic exercise helps reduce overall body and belly fat so that you can have a flat stomach.


Activity can be broken up throughout the day. Make sure you are exercising for at least 10 minutes each time.
Examples of moderate-intensity exercise are brisk walking (3 mph or faster), water aerobics, bicycling (slower than 10 mph), and ballroom dancing.Examples of vigorous-intensity exercise are jogging, running, swimming laps, jump roping, bicycling (10 mph or faster), and hiking uphill. , Strength training should be done at least twice a week and target all of the major muscle groups such as your legs, hips, back, shoulders, abdomen, and arms. Weight training, using resistance bands, and body weight exercises (e.g. push ups, squats, pull ups) can all be done to strengthen your muscles.A strength training session should include 8 to 10 exercises that target your major muscle groups. Rest at least one day between your strength training sessions.If you are a beginner, do one to three sets of each exercise and 8 to 12 repetitions in each set.
If you are more advanced, do two to six sets of each exercise and one to eight repetitions in each set., Having an exercise plan will keep you on track and help you set goals. Your routine should include both aerobic exercise and strength training. If you are just starting out, you may need to build up to 150 minutes of aerobic activity per week.Do activities that you enjoy. You are more likely to stick to a plan if you like what you are doing. If you do not like running, try exercise classes, biking, or hiking with a friend.
Switch up which exercises you do each day. Becoming bored with the exercises you do leads to a lack of motivation. Instead of running or walking all the time, try other activities like dancing or swimming.
Create an exercise playlist of songs that will pump you up and keep you motivated throughout your workout.
 Tracking your progress can help you make adjustments to your routine and helps you know if what you are doing is working. Write down the exercise that you complete each day. You may also want to take before and after picture so you can see how your body is changing. Exercise consistently for 4 to 6 weeks and then check your progress.


If you have not seen any changes once you have started your routine, you may need to make adjustments to your program such as increasing the amount of time you are exercising, doing more high intensity exercise, or trying different exercise.

