 If they are telling you that they miss you or miss being around you, this is a clear sign that they still have feelings for you., Exes who are still interested in you or who have feelings will also have a tendency to reminisce. By doing so, they are trying to get you to remember the good times that you had together in hopes that you might want to reconnect.Consider the times that they have brought up trips you went on, inside jokes that you shared, or just fun you had in general.
 An ex that still cares for you might try to make you jealous to see if you care, too. If they regularly talk about their dates or share details about their new significant other, it can be a clear sign that they still have feelings.Notice in particular the times that they bring up who they’re dating completely out of the blue. For instance, if you are talking about homework or your family and they randomly mention their new love interest, then they might be trying to make you jealous.
Remember also how they treated their exes. If they often flirted with and kept open communication with their exes, then perhaps they are just possessive and not really intent on getting back together.
 An ex that still has feelings for you might also try to keep tabs on who you’re dating. If they regularly ask you things like “So, who are you seeing now?” or say “Did you see that movie with someone you’re dating?”, they might still care for you.Make note also if they make jokes about who you date. They might be trying to tarnish that person’s image in your head so that you find them less desirable.
If your ex is shooting dark looks at people who flirt with you or trying to steal you away from spending time with others, this is a sign of possessiveness. They don’t want you to move on without them.
 If your ex compliments you, especially on your looks or on things they previously complimented you on during your relationship, it is possible that they are trying to get on your good side. They might also be trying to make you feel special or renew your shared past.
 An ex that still cares for you might have done a lot of soul searching about your relationship and have come to feel remorse. In order to get back in your good graces, they might be apologizing a lot more now than they did in your relationship. They may feel sorry for what they have done and hope that an apology will help you two reunite.