 Tamarind and prickly pear are the fruits with the highest content of this nutrient. One fresh prickly pear contains 88 mg of magnesium. ½ cup of tamarind contains 58 mg.A medium sized banana, for comparison, provides only 32 mg of magnesium., Cook spinach and Swiss chard. Just ½ a cup of either of these dark, leafy greens contains a good amount of magnesium. Cooked spinach will offer 83 mg of the nutrient, whereas cooked Swiss chard offers 80 mg.Try cooked okra. A delicacy of the American south, okra provides a decent amount of magnesium. A ½ cup portion will provide 50 mg of the nutrient, the same amount as medium-sized cooked potato.
One avocado, meanwhile, provides 44 mg of magnesium., Wheat germ cereals are a great source of magnesium. Just ¼ cup (30 mg) will provide you with just under 100 mg. Even shredded wheat cereals provide a good amount of magnesium. Serving portions of cereal are often much greater than ¼ cup, so a bowl of all wheat germ cereal every day is one of the best ways to get more magnesium from your food.Look for high-fiber foods generally. Avoid heavily processed grain products, as much of their nutrients have likely been removed.
Cereals made with bran are comparably high in magnesium, offering between 85 – 97 mg in the same portion. Some will even be fortified with magnesium, and will be labeled as such.
Eat other grains too. Quinoa will give you just over 50 mg of magnesium in a ½ cup serving when cooked.A slice of whole wheat bread will provide 23 mg, and ½ cup of cooked brown rice offers 42 mg.
 Several types of fish offer plenty of magnesium, even in small portions. Chinook salmon is best, offering 92 mg in a 2.5 oz (75 g) serving. Mackerel from the Atlantic offers 73 mg for a similar portion, and pollock from the Atlantic offers 64 mg.Atlantic snow crab offers 47 mg in the same size portion, when cooked.
 The yeast extract spread popular in Australia (and similar to marmite) offers 66 mg of magnesium in just a 2 tablespoon (30 mL) serving. Enjoy these spreads on a hearty, whole grain bread., Magnesium is present in most hard tap water, some providing up to 30% of your daily needs. Contact your local water supplier and ask how much magnesium is in the tap water as it can vary greatly from place to place.