 Several calling services are available to download through your computer, tablet, or smartphone. Some services, like Skype, offer video and audio calling internationally while others, like FaceTime, are audio apps. Other free calling services include Google Hangouts, Viber, and WhatsApp.


Although you can use Skype on your mobile phone, the audio and visual quality will be best if you're connected to high-speed internet.
 Once you've found an online service or application, you'll need to create an account. You'll need to provide your personal information, contact information for people you'd like to call, and possibly a method of payment.


For some services, you can list your contacts, but you'll have to wait for the person to accept your request to communicate.
 Check to make sure the device you want to use is compatible with the service you've chosen. Since it may take a while to download, plan to give yourself plenty of time to do this before making your call. If you're accessing a service through your computer, you should make sure that your computer has a good camera and microphone or you may need to purchase them.


If you're unsure about downloading an app, some operating systems will offer a preview of certain calling applications before you download them.
 Many of these calling services offer a free calling program for international numbers if the other person is also using the same calling program. But, if you'll be using a service to call a landline or cell phone, you'll probably be charged a fee or international calling rate. Payment options might include:Setting up a monthly payment plan with a fixed number of international minutes
Buy credit to use towards a pay-as-you go rate
Talking with your cell phone provider to make sure you're using WiFi and not the data that you pay for

, Don't wait to try out the online calling service till when you need to make an important phone call. Become familiar with how to make a call, set up your voicemail (if it's an option), and receive calls. If you find that you don't like using the service, you can always uninstall it and try a different service.


While you're testing the service, ask the person you're calling how the audio and visual quality is on their end. If the other person can't hear you or see you, it may be a problem with their setup or with the service itself.

