 Fox even suggests that tweeting at different hosts is “easier than emailing.”


The main Fox News Twitter account is @foxnews. The main Fox News Facebook account is https://www.facebook.com/FoxNews. The main Fox News website is at www.foxnews.com. Rupert Murdoch can be reached on Twitter at @rupertmurdoch.
The hosts who are on Facebook and Twitter have social media buttons above their biographies on the Fox News website. If you click on them, it will direct you to their pages.If you have a lengthy comment to make, a personal comment, or a simple comment but are not a “fan” of Fox News on Facebook, you will need to click on the “Message” button at the top of the Fox News Facebook page to send a private message.
 Fox News offers viewers several ways to contact the network with news comments, story corrections or news tips.To email a news tip, write to foxnewstips@foxnews.com. To email the newsroom, write newsmanager@foxnews.com.
You can also send news tips by tweeting them to the main Fox News account or posting them on Facebook. Fox News is also interested in videos or photos of news happening in your area.
Provide as many details as possible. If sending a correction or story question, specify when the story was on and what it was about. Corrections should be backed with outside, reliable sources. If sending in a tip, indicate the topic and location. Also provide any sources you have to support or verify the tip.
 You can upload visual content (photos, videos) about news breaking in your area to the Fox News uReport section of its website. The uReport website can be found at: http://ureport.foxnews.com/.


You will be directed to a listing of "assignments" under which you can post a picture or video. Browse through these assignments and determine which your content belongs under. Click on that category to go to the assignment page.
On the assignment page, click on the "Submit uReport" button. You will be asked to sign in using a Fox News account or other social media account before uploading and explaining the content.

