 After your dog knows where the boundaries of the pet containment area are, then you will have to teach the dog not to cross them for any reason. Your dog needs to learn that distractions on the wrong side of the boundary wire need to be completely ignored all the time.;
, Help your dog upon hearing the tone to understand to retreat to the safe part of the yard or pet containment area when the warning tone is heard. Your system came packaged with Innotek plastic training contacts. Install these training contacts before beginning your training session.
 When the dog reaches the signal field, immediately spin around and briskly jog back into the yard. The dog will feel the tug and run after you. Praise enthusiastically. If your dog does not indicate hearing the tone, walk your dog to the boundary of the electric fence again and follow the same procedure.
 As the training sessions of the next three days progress, you’ll see that your dog will start to anticipate the signal tone and retreat from the electric fence boundary wire without your prompting.
 Day three is successful only if your dog retreats from the electric dog fence boundary wire without your prompting and refuses to approach the boundary as you approach. For each successful attempt, be sure to praise your dog, praise and praise again. If you are not successful keep the training going as you have been the past two days until your dog retreats without prompting. It’s time for your dog to move to the next phase.
 You will also need a helper for this phase of the training.
 The helper should continue to walk through the boundary of the electric dog fence. Should the dog try to follow, he will receive a correction from the collar.



Note, it is very important that your helper not stop, look back or acknowledge the dog in any way.
, If your dog is avoiding the boundary of the electric fence, with the helper moving freely in and out of the pet containment area, you are ready to add more tempting distractions.


Remember, never pull or coax your dog into the boundary area. This lesson teaches that your dog must resist all temptations to leave the yard or pet containment area. Dogs have trouble connecting the lessons learned with one distraction to another. So, you can’t assume that if your dog won’t chase a ball out of the yard. Your dog won’t chase a bicycle… Or favorite neighbor.
 Before long your dog will connect the dots.


Don’t leave the yard for bikes, neighbors, bouncing balls, moving cars means, don’t leave the yard for any reason.
 This is a very important next step for your dog. This is the first time during your training sessions that your dog will be off lead and you must make certain that you and your dog stay in the pet containment area or yard at all times during this training.
, It’s wise to spend a lot of quality time in the yard with your dog. The more your dog stays on the property for the first month, the less chance of your dog attempting to leave the area. Continue to supervise and play with your dog outside for a period of one week.
 You will know when your dog is ready to be unsupervised inside the pet containment area because your dog will resist all manner of distractions, both on and off the lead. It’s a big step when your dog can be left unattended in the yard with only the electric fence to keep him in the pet containment area.
 This freedom should be brief at first and the amount of time increased gradually.
 Most dogs over 6 months that know the obedience commands, will be able to be trained to stay within the electric fence boundaries.
 After two weeks of successful containment, you can begin removing the flags fro the electric fence boundaries. Start by removing every other flag, every other day until all of the flags are gone.

