 This means keeping it clean, free from junk and distractions, and fresh. Change the sheets weekly, fluff up the pillows daily and try to get at least a little fresh air circulating through it each day. Having your room as a sleep-only area helps enormously. Yes, it is nice having a quiet den where you can do whatever, but having cool and distracting stuff around as you desperately try to catch some 'Z's is disruptive.
 Your body needs time to digest, and does it best when you’re sitting or standing. Laying down as your body processes all the food you’ve eaten will make it difficult to fall asleep quickly. Try eating dinner at least three hours before you go to bed; this will prevent digestion from interfering with your need to sleep.
 Switch any workout routine to the morning; evening workouts can keep you buzzing into the hours when you ought to be soundly asleep. Avoid working out within 4 hours of heading for bed. However, if you don't have a workout routine, make one! Working out does have a huge impact on speed and quality of sleep. It simply must be done at the right times.
 Drinking caffeine later than 8 hours before you go to bed means that the energizing effects are still in-play on your hormones. Stop drinking caffeine by around 2:00 in the afternoon so that your body has plenty of time to process the chemical.
 When you’re totally exhausted and its been a long day, the most appealing thing to do is to take a nap. However, doing so can alter your sleep cycle and make it harder for you to fall asleep at your true bedtime. If you absolutely must take a nap, try to limit it to 20 minutes or less to keep your hormones in line.
 Going to bed and waking up at the same times every day helps your body to know when it should get tired. With a busy work schedule and social life this task can seem difficult, but regulating your sleep schedule will be incredibly beneficial to you and your health in the long run. Make a point to be in bed by the same time every night and set an alarm for the same time every morning. Eventually, you won’t have to keep track of these times anymore and your body will regulate your sleep for you., If you have difficulty falling asleep because of a sleeping partner that you share a bed with, talk to them about your difficulties. If they snore, touch you too much, don’t touch you enough, or any other variety of reasons, try to come up with a reasonable solution so that you can fall asleep fast.
 If you have chronic difficulties falling asleep, you may have clinical insomnia or sleep apnea. If you are concerned about your health as a result of your sleep, visit your doctor or a psychologist and discuss possible tests and options.

