 Heartburn, also known as acid reflux, is treated differently as it is not the same thing as indigestion, although they often occur together. Heartburn happens when acid from the stomach flows up the esophagus. Heartburn is particularly common for pregnant women and the elderly. Watch for the following symptoms:Burning behind the breastbone or in the throat.
Bitter and sour taste of acid in the back of the throat.
 Avoid antibiotics, aspirin and over-the-counter NSAIDs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) such as ibuprofen (Advil) or naproxen (Aleve), as they can contribute to indigestion.Taking estrogen and oral contraceptives may also cause indigestion.When possible, avoid these products or discuss with your doctor how to cope with side effects.
Take medications on a full stomach to reduce side effects.Other medications that may cause indigestion include: steroids (e.g., prednisone), antibiotics (e.g., tetracycline, erythromycin), thyroid medications, blood pressure medications, cholesterol medications (statin), and codeine., Ask your doctor if you have any other conditions that might be responsible for your symptoms. Discuss your indigestion with your doctor as treatments may vary. Keep in mind that the following conditions may be responsible for your symptoms.Celiac disease
Peptic ulcers
Stomach cancer
Gallstones
Small bowel bacterial overgrowth

, Severe indigestion may be an indicator of a serious underlying condition. Describe your symptoms as precisely as possible. Saying you have stomach pain may not be enough to help your doctor diagnose you properly. Call your doctor if you experience any of the following symptoms:Indigestion that persists for more than two weeks and does not respond to home remedies.
Significant weight loss.
Nausea or repeated vomiting.
Stool is dark, bloody, or the consistency of tar.
Symptoms of anemia, such as ongoing fatigue or physical weakness.
Chronic use of antacids for indigestion.
 Your doctor may order a blood test to allow her to test for a variety of conditions.A blood test will allow your doctor to test your thyroid functioning and attempt to rule out any metabolic disorders.


Your doctor can also test your blood for celiac disease, an inflammatory condition that can cause symptoms such as indigestion.Your blood can also be tested for anemia, a sign that you may have Crohn’s disease, an inflammatory bowel disease that causes severe digestive symptoms including indigestion., A stool test can help your doctor discover infection and inflammation.A common bacterial infection, Helicobacter pylori, can cause symptoms of indigestion and may cause peptic (stomach) ulcers.A stool test can also reveal intestinal dysbiosis, an imbalance of bacteria in your digestive system that can cause issues such as indigestion. This can occur if you take antibiotics and do not get your gut flora back to proper levels.Your doctor may test your stool for Giardia lamblia, a common parasitic infection that causes indigestion.If Giardia lamblia is present, your doctor may prescribe a course of metronidazole (Flagyl) or Tinidazole., If your blood test suggests that you may have Crohn’s disease, your doctor may order a colonoscopy. She will use a small, flexible tube and camera to examine the inside of your colon., If your primary physician finds signs of a more serious condition, or if antacids and other medications have not worked to treat your indigestion, you may consider seeing a gastroenterologist. These doctors specialize in treating conditions affecting the digestive system