 There are five different foot positions in ballet, and you can perform a demi-plié (half bend) in all of them.This means that to perform a proper demi-plié from each position, you must first be comfortable with the basic positions.


Each position utilizes turn-out, which is the rotation of the leg from the hip joint.The objective is to have the heels and toes face perpendicular to the direction of the body rather than parallel.
Do not expect to perform a perfect turn-out immediately. Forcing turn-out can cause many injuries. Even some professional dancers do not have perfect turn-out after years of practice. In addition to each position having a different foot placement, each position also utilizes a different arm placement or port de bras.You can read more information on the different ballet positions at How to Do All Five Ballet Positions.;
, Though you can perform a demi-plié in any of the five positions, use the first position for initial practice. First position requires the heels be placed touching (or close to it) with your legs turned out as close to 180 degrees as you can manage.


You also want to have your legs and back straight.The turn-out should come mostly from the leg at the hip joint. Do not place excess strain on the knees or ankles by forcing each foot closer to 90 degrees than you can do normally. Use your muscles to keep your knees over the feet rather than the two being out of alignment.Initially your turn-out in first position will look more like a V than a straight line. A wider turn-out simply comes with practice.
 Your upper body should remain in the same position—shoulders down, head up, bottom tucked—throughout the movement.One of the most common problems with plié form for beginners is due to sticking out one’s butt while lowering as though lowering into a crouch. Don’t stick your backside out or adjust your hips, simply lower at the knees while keeping the rest of the body straight., Demi-pliés regardless of the beginning position require the heels to stay firmly planted on the ground.Do not bend so far that it forces your heels to come off the ground.


Rather than a deep bend, which is the territory of a grand-plié, you only want to bend your knees until they extend just over your toes.
 While ballet dancers do rise quickly out of pliés and use them as springboards for jumps and pirouettes, beginners should practice rising slowly and fluidly to help perfect the form. Rather than simply straightening your knees, you want to push your weight straight down into the floor with your legs and feet to push yourself back up.Using the legs and feet gives the motion much more fluidity, and it also places less strain on the knees.
Continue keeping your shoulders down, head up, and bottom tucked during the upward movement. The motion should look more like the upper body is elevating rather than standing up since the upper body should already be straight., To finish the demi-plié, you will continue rising until the thighs and knees and back together. You will return to first position the same as you were in before performing the demi-plié.
 Once you feel comfortable with the basics of a demi-plié in first position, you can try pliés from the other four ballet positions as well. They are harder, particularly in fifth position, so have patience and practice without rushing yourself.

