 You will be working with lye, which can be dangerous if not handled properly. Put on a pair of goggles, a mask, rubber gloves, and along sleeved shirt.Have an accurate, digital scale ready. Your measurements must be precise, or they may not saponify properly.


You will use the scale to measure everything, including the liquid ingredients.This recipe will make a lot of soap. You can resize this recipe to make a smaller amount, but you will need to use an accurate soap-making calculator to convert the amounts., Measure and pour 38 ounces (1123.79 grams) of cool water into a large pitcher first. Next, measure out 15 ounces (425.25 grams) of lye and sprinkle it into the water.Let it heat to 200°F (94°C), then stir with spoon for 30 seconds to dissolve the lye.Never add water directly into lye, as this will cause the lye to erupt.Use a pitcher designated specifically for this purpose. Do not reuse this cup for anything else.
There are different types of lye used for soap making. You want to use Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH)., Cover the pitcher with lid, then place it some place where it won't tip over. Let the solution cool down to 100 and 125°F (38 to 52°C). This can take 30 min to 2 hours., You will need: 2 pounds (907.2 grams) coconut oil, 2 pounds (907.2 grams) olive oil, 1 pound 6 ounces (623.7 grams) soybean oil, 1 pound 2 ounces (510.3 grams) palm oil, 0.8 ounces (22.68 grams) coco butter, and 0.4 ounces (11.34 grams) shea butter.You can do this in a large pot or in a double-boiler, if you can find one big enough. Heat them up to somewhere 100 and 125°F (38 to 52°C)., Wait for the oil and butter mixture to cool down to at least 125°F (52°C), then pour in the cooled lye solution. Mix everything together using a stick blender set to low speed. Keep the blender near the bottom of the pot.Be careful so that the mixture doesn't splash. It hasn't saponified yet, so it is still caustic and can cause burns.
 Trace happens after 3 to 5 minutes. It will turn runny and pudding like. If the blender leaves marks on the surface when you pull it out, you're at trace. Be prepared to work quickly during the next few steps as the mixture will start to harden., Mix about 1 teaspoon of red iron oxide dye with ½ tablespoon of glycerin or olive oil. Stir it into the soap mixture until it is almost the same color as calamine lotion. Don't worry if the mixture looks a little dark. The zinc oxide in the next step will help lighten it up.You may not end up using all of your prepared dye.
 You will need between ½ and ¾ cups (663.28 and 994.91 grams). Keep adding the zinc oxide until the mixture is the same color as calamine lotion. Combined with the iron oxide, the zinc oxide will help make your skin less itchy. Both zinc oxide and iron oxide are important ingredients in calamine lotion., You will need 4 ounces (113.4 grams) total. You can use any fragrance or combination of fragrances you what. A combination of chamomile, lavender, and tea tree would work especially well., You can also use several smaller molds instead. Some molds will need to be lined with parchment paper or plastic wrap first.Other molds, usually those made from silicone, do not need to be prepared.


Tap bottom of mold against counter to release any bubbles.
Some people like to leave the top of the soap bumpy. If you want it smoother, run a spoon over it.
 Wrap some plastic wrap over the mold(s) first, then cover them with blankets and quilts. This will keep the soap insulated while it hardens and saponifies.you can take a peek every now and then. If you see a crack forming on the soap, it's getting too hot. Remove the blankets., Remove the soap from the mold(s) first, then cut it into bars. Spread the bars out on a baking sheet. Place them some place where they won't be disturbed. Let them cure for 4 weeks. After 4 weeks, the soap will have saponified. It's ready to be used!