 Summer is the time for light, ephemeral scents, while in winter, you can go for heavier scents. Scents fade faster in colder months (because your skin is so dry), so picking a heavier scent will help it stick with you for longer., The base notes of a fragrance are more important in the winter months. Perfumes consist of top notes, middle notes, and base notes. The base notes are the heaviest part of the fragrance, the part the lingers, while top notes fade quickly. Patchouli, vanilla, and sandalwood are common base notes you'll find more regularly in winter perfumes.To figure out the base notes of colognes, you can talk to the people at the perfume counter, who will be glad to assist you. You can also research perfumes online to find out more.
 In the winter months, you may need to move to a slightly denser scent.Eau de cologne is only about 5 percent scent, while eau de parfum is about 15 to 18 percent. Perfume is can go up to 30 percent scent, though it can also be as low as 15. The key is, you want something stronger in the winter, as most scents won't have as much punch as they did in the summer., Winter is filled with cold weather and lots of sweet flavors, such as your favorite Christmas cake. When you're picking a fragrance, picking one that reminds you of those desserts is a sure-fire way to pick something appropriate. Gourmand fragrances fall into this category, as they are quite sweet and are often reminiscent of all things sugary.Some gourmand perfumes to try are Salted Caramel by Shay and Blue, Candy by Prada, or Le Petite Robe Noire by Guerlain.
 Spicy scents are ones that fall into the "warm" category. Think about your favorite winter spices, such as cinnamon, nutmeg, and cardamom. These scents are also known as Orientals, and usually have a rich, exotic smell.Shalimar by Guerlain is a classic example of this type of scent.
 Woody and earthy scents are also a good choice for winter because they have a rich, heavy scent, reminiscent of pine trees and burning wood. Bergamot, patchouli, oakmoss, and labdanum are all in this category. You may find they are paired with something citrusy.Hypnose by Lancome is a perfume in this category.
 If winter is not your favorite, you can simply use your scent to remind yourself of better days ahead (in the summer). Choose something sweet and floral, or simply pick something that reminds you of summer. That way, every time you spray it, you'll be transported back to warm summer days.To make the scent more wintery, pick a floral with a deeper, more intense scent, that has a base of jasmine or tuberose, for instance.Vera Wang's Princess is a good example of this type of scent., Sometimes, visiting the perfume counter can be overwhelming. To help you narrow down what you might like, try taking an online fragrance-finder quiz. That way, you'll have a place to start when you get to the store.You can find a fragrance quiz by doing a simple search, but many major perfume websites also have them.
You can also test out samples that come in magazines or ask people you know what their scent is if you like it.
 When you go to the store, you want a blank canvas, so to speak. Skip putting on any perfume that morning so it won't compete. Also, skip other items you use with strong scents, such as lotions and body washes., The first step to testing a perfume is spraying it on a card. Smell it when you first spray it, but also try smelling it again in about 5 minutes, once it's had time to dry and settle. If you like it both times, you can move on to the next test.Often, perfume counters will have coffee beans on the counter to help you clear out your nostrils. Take a good whiff between scents to help clear your palate, so to speak.
 Next, try it out on your skin. You may wonder why you have to smell it both on a card and your skin. However, each perfume interacts with your skin and body chemistry, giving it a unique scent, different from every other person who wears it. Therefore, you want to make sure you like the smell on yourself before you buy it.Consider leaving it on for a few hours before buying it. You may find you don't like it after having it on for a while.