 If the cable between the latch and hood is sticky or stretched, it may not disengage the latch properly. Most cars are designed to disengage the cable when you press down on the front of the hood. Do this while your assistant pulls the interior latch. If it works, the hood will shift and raise slightly, and can then be opened with the exterior latch., Locate the cable under the dashboard, near the interior release latch. Tug gently on this cable and see what happens:


If the hood opens, your cable may have slipped or stretched. Try to adjust it at the front end, or replace it if you see any damage. (Less commonly, your interior release latch could be broken.)
If you feel no tension at all, the cable is no longer attached to the front latch. Continue to the next step. Once you open the hood, check to see whether you can slip it back on, or whether the cable has snapped and needs replacement.
 At this point, you need a way to reach the latch or cable from another angle. If you're lucky, you can see the latch through the front grille. Investigate with a flashlight and a small mirror until you find a hook-shaped object.Alternatively, the latch may be accessible from the driver's side fender well. In many cars, such as Hondas, the latch cables are run through the inner driver's side fender well. Remove the inner fender well clips and reach in. Pull the cable to pop the hood open. This will only work if the cable itself is still attached to the hood latch.
 Once you find the latch, reach in with a long, thin screwdriver. If the gaps in the grille are small, use a wire coat hanger instead. Hook this over the latch and tug.You can remove the grille to get more direct access. Even replacing a non-removable grille might be cheaper than taking the car to a mechanic, depending on your model.
 If you can't operate the latch from the front, your last chance is to reach under the hood and attempt to tug the cable with a pair of pliers, or reach all the way to the latch. This will be much easier if you jack the car and refer to the owner's manual.


Warning: if the engine was on recently, let the car cool off before reaching under the hood.
If this doesn't work, take the car to a mechanic. Removing the front bumper yourself may end up more expensive than paying for a repair.

