 Once you have been discharged from the hospital, continue to take any antibiotics prescribed to you. You may be given medications such as penicillin for wound botulism. These antibiotics are generally taken for a period of seven to 14 days.Make sure you take antibiotics for the full course of treatment, even if you are feeling better after just a few days. The full treatment is still necessary.
Antibiotics are not prescribed for other types of botulism because they may speed up the release of toxins., Activated charcoal helps rid the body of toxins by preventing absorption in the stomach by binding to the poison.Activated charcoal can react with many medications in your system so be sure to take it only on the advice of a physician.
Do not take other medications within two hours of taking charcoal, as the charcoal may prevent your other medication from being absorbed.
Liquid activated charcoal may settle in the bottle so it must be shaken well before use.
The usual adult dose is 50 grams of charcoal every four hours.
 There is some evidence to suggest that milk thistle aids in healing liver damage due to toxins.160 to 800 milligrams per day of milk thistle has been taken in treating liver damage due to toxins., Use psyllium fibre as a gentle laxative cleanse to help remove any remaining toxins in your colon. Products such as Metamucil feature psyllium, which bulks up when mixed with water and forms a gel-like substance in the colon to help transport waste through the intestines.Speak with a physician before doing a cleanse. Some individuals may not be able to tolerate the treatment.
Take 1/2 to 2 teaspoons of psyllium in one cup of warm water and drink immediately after mixing.
Drink psyllium mixtures before bed for gentle overnight action.
 Goldenseal is an herb said to kill bacteria in the digestive tract. It contains berberine, a chemical that kills bacteria in test tubes and may also do so in humans.Goldenseal may also boost white blood cells which fight off infections.
Try taking one drop of goldenseal extract in water every six hours for one day to help reboot your digestive system.
Goldenseal can have significant interactions with many medications, so check with your doctor before taking this herb.

