 It is not well appreciated by most, but fevers are one of the body’s main defenses against infections. Let a fever run as long as possible without too much discomfort. Fever is most often a symptom of an infection but can also be caused by inflammatory conditions, thyroid disease, cancer, vaccines and some drugs. Temperature is regulated by a small gland located in the center of the brain, the hypothalamus. The thyroid gland also plays a role in body temperature. Body temperature can vary throughout the day, but a normal temperature is considered 98.6 degrees F or 37 degrees C.
During an infection, the infecting agent (bacteria, virus) produce temperature-increasing substances called pyrogens. Some pyrogens are also induced by the immune system. These pyrogens tell the hypothalamus to increase body temperature. This in turn, stimulates the immune system to be more effective at fighting off an infection. Higher body temperature is believed to kill off infectious agents as well., For adults, most fevers are not dangerous and you can let the fever “run its course”. If the fever is sustained at over 103 degrees F (39.4 degrees C) or higher for more than 12 to 24 hours, consider calling a physician.;
, While you can allow a fever to run its course, there are limits to how high you should let a fever go:For infants younger than four months old with a rectal temperature of 100.4 degrees F (38 degrees C) or higher, immediately call your physician for advice.
For children of any age, if their rectal temperature is 104 degrees F (40 degrees C) or higher, immediately call your physician for advice.
Any child six months or older with a fever of 103 degrees F (39.4 degrees C) by measuring on the forehead, ear or armpit, should also be seen.
 It is recommended that if your child has any fever along with any of the following symptoms, call your doctor (or emergency services) as soon as possible:


Looks sick or has no appetite
Is very fussy
Is drowsy
Has obvious signs of infection (pus, discharge, streaky rashes)
Has a seizure
Has a sore throat, a rash, a headache, a stiff neck, an earache
In very young infants, if the soft area on the top of baby’s skull is bulging

, Start off by drawing a lukewarm bath. Have the person with a fever get in and relax while the temperature of the water slowly drops. Because the temperature of the water drops slowly, the person cools down slowly as well. You don’t want the water too cool because you don’t want to drop the body temperature too fast., This treatment is a traditional naturopathic approach. The theory is that cold feet stimulate an increase in circulation and an increased response from the immune system. The result is that the body expends heat and ends up drying the socks and cooling the body. This treatment can relieve chest congestion as well. The wool socks, by the way, serve as insulation. This method works best overnight.


Use a pair of cotton socks long enough to cover the ankles. They should be pure cotton because cotton absorbs a lot of water.
Thoroughly wet the socks in cold running tap water.
Wring out all excess water and put the socks on.
Cover these cotton socks with wool socks. The wool socks should be pure wool because this supplies excellent insulation.
The person wearing the socks should be covered with a blanket and rest in bed for the rest of the night. Most kids will be pretty cooperative because they should begin to feel cooler within a few short minutes.
 Take one or two hand towels and fold along the longer axis. Soak the towels in either very cold water, or, if desired, ice water. Wring out the excess water and wrap the towel around your head, around your neck, around your ankles or around your wrists.


Don’t use the towels over more than two areas. That is, use the towel around your head and your ankles OR around your neck and your wrists. Otherwise, you may cool down TOO much. The cool or cold towels draw heat out of the body and can lower the body temperature.
Repeat when the towel is dry or not cool enough anymore to give relief. This can be repeated as often as needed.

