 Your Samoyed has two layers of hair: a fine undercoat keeps it warm and an outer layer of coarse hair to protects it from the weather.To maintain all of this fur, you need to comb and brush your dog several times a week with the right kinds of tools.


You will need a rake or comb with rotating teeth (to glide through the hair easily) and a pin brush with rounded ends (to prevent you from scratching your dog while grooming).;
, Use one hand to part the hair and section it. With your other hand, comb the hair in the direction of hair growth. Start at the bottom of the section you are wanting to groom and comb down in the direction of the hair growth. Keep combing each section until no more hair falls out.Because it can take a while to completely comb your Samoyed, you may want to take breaks for playtime throughout the process.
Talk to your dog throughout the combing and reassure him what a good boy he’s being.
 You can either go through all of your dog’s fur in this step, or just brush the top coat.The Samoyed breed standard calls for the outer coat to stand out from the body. If you want to do this, brush in the opposite direction of hair growth during this last step.


Only use a brush on your Samoyed’s tail, since this is a sensitive area. Hold the tip of the tail gently in one hand while brushing with the other.Samoyeds “blow” or shed their undercoats completely twice a year. During this time, brush daily to help eliminate loose, dead hair., While brushing and combing your Samoyed, check for fleas and ticks. Also, feel your dog’s body for any new lumps or bumps while grooming him. If caught early, these problems can be easily solved.
 Place a non-skid mat in the tub so your Samoyed doesn’t slip in the bath, and have plenty of towels and treats nearby. Close the door so he can’t escape. Brush your Samoyed before bathing to remove loose dead fur and to prevent knots, and place cotton balls in his ears to prevent water from entering.


Despite their stunning white coats, Samoyeds do not need to be bathed that often. Once or twice a year will suffice, unless your dog gets exceptionally muddy or dirty., After thoroughly wetting your dog, massage in shampoo from the neck down and rinse completely. Then dry with a power dryer for pets and give your Samoyed a final brushing.


Ask your vet for a recommendation for a shampoo for your dog; some suggest using a whitening pet shampoo to enhance your Samoyed’s pristine white fur.Use a washcloth to clean its face so you don’t get water in your dog’s eyes or mouth.
 Samoyed’s nails are strong and grow quickly, so they need to be trimmed regularly to avoid splitting, cracking, and overgrowth.Cut only the clear tip. The dark part that shows through the nail is a vein, and it will bleed profusely and be extremely painful for your dog if it is cut.Nails are easier to clip after soaking them or after a bath. If you aren’t comfortable cutting your Samoyed’s nails, ask your veterinarian or pet shop for a quick lesson.
 Brushing once or twice a week with a dog-specific toothpaste, and giving your dog dental chews regularly, will help prevent tartar and plague. They will also help keep your dog’s breath fresh.


Ask your veterinarian to examine your Samoyed’s teeth yearly. Your vet will be able to completely remove plague and tartar and check for loose or diseased teeth.

