 Oftentimes, people do not realize they're prying. Being open about how you feel can help lessen the onslaught of questions.


Schedule a time to talk so you're prepared to communicate your needs effectively. If you're nervous, write up a list of issues you want to discuss with your folks.
Try to stay emotionless while making a plan to confront your parents. A lot of the time, if we're nervous we let our emotions take over resulting in making excuses to avoid the situation. Be diplomatic in your approach.Start with love. That is, do not go in blaming your parents or open up with a laundry list of everything they've done wrong. Start off with something like, "I know you guys love and miss me a lot, and I really miss you two, and I appreciate you wanting to know what's going on in my life." From there, you can explain why their questions bother you.
Explain why. As we've stated, nosy people often fail to understand other people's boundaries. Tell your parents why discussing certain subjects with them causes you discomfort so they can empathize with your situation as well.
 Nosiness if often rooted in worry or concern. Reminding your parents that you are doing okay can deflect prying before it begins.


Tell your parents you will sometimes make mistakes, but that's okay. Remind them that sometimes messing up provides valuable learning opportunities. This will let them know they do not need to know every detail of your life, as errors in judgment are inevitable part of growing up.When you do talk, bring up the positives in your life. Even if it's just a small detail, like having read a great article online or gone for a nice walk after work, if you sound happy and healthy on the phone you're parents will be less likely to worry something's wrong.
Let them know you have a support system. Sometimes, life is difficult and if your parents know you're going through a break up or you just lost your job their nosiness will be heightened. If you're not doing stellar at the moment, bring up friends and loved ones to your parents and tell them how they're helping you cope. Anything that makes your parents feel more secure in your well-being can deflect nosiness.
 Your parents need to know what subjects are absolutely off-limits and if deflecting and avoiding the questions aren't working, it's time to be upfront.


When the opportunity arises to state your boundaries, take it. If your dad is grilling you on the date you had last Friday, say something like, "I appreciate your interest, Dad, but I'm not really comfortable discussing my love life with you."
State your case in a way that doesn't make your parents feel left out. Let them know if any major changes occur in your life, they'll be the first to know, but that many day-to-day details are off-limits for nit-picky discussion. For example, in the above scenario, try following up with something like, "But, don't worry. If it gets serious, I'll tell you all about her."

