 Combs, while long considered the ideal tool for styling a man's hair, can negatively impact the appearance of volume. Combs have a tendency to pull and tear at the roots of the hair and can pull hairs in an unusual direction, which opens up larger patches of visible scalp. Use your hands to style your hair for better results in increasing the appearance of volume., Applying a volumizing styling product to the roots of your hair can have an adverse effect on the appearance of volume. Again, this is because applying products to the roots of your hair will tend to cause a clumping effect, making areas of the scalp more visible.
 Changing your hair style to maximize the appearance of volume is often a process of trial and error. Spend some time trying various techniques to see what works best for you.








Use your fingers and hands to make the necessary alterations. If you have naturally curly or wavy hair, try breaking up the curls and waves with your fingers to help maximize the appearance of volume.If your hair is straight, try “lifting at the roots” to increase the appearance of volume.Apply more styling product to the areas where the hair seems thinnest and use less on the areas that are already voluminous. This should help ensure that the application of styling products leaves your hair looking naturally thick and not oversaturated with product., When attempting to adjust your hair style to increase the appearance of volume, it is important to ask someone else what they think of your “new” style. Often times, we are the worst judges of our own appearance because we are too invested in, or close to, the problem and the solution. Asking a trusted friend or relative what they think of your new style should allow you to better gauge the effectiveness of your hair style adjustment.


It is important to note here that, sometimes, thinning hair may look better on you than drastically altering your hair style to increase the appearance of volume. Since the manifestation of hair thinness is specific to you, make sure the solution is equally personal.
 If your hair seems to be thinning at the top of your head, it can sometimes be effective to take the areas where your hair is thickest and comb that area over where your hair is thinning. Many men, both with and without thinning hair, choose to employ a “side part” method of style their hair. This method can easily be used to comb hair over thinning areas while looking as if it is a natural style choice.








While comb overs are effective in some cases, a widespread cultural understanding of this method often makes it easy to identify when a man is using a comb over to cover up areas of thinness. Moreover, comb overs are often ineffective if the area of thinning hair is too large or drastic to effectively cover up. In cases like this, comb overs often exacerbate the noticeability of thinning hair., Since all areas of your hair are unlikely to be thinning equally, it can often be beneficial to grow your hair longer to cover up the areas of thinning hair. In particular, if you are experiencing hair thinness around the forehead or the temples, allowing your hair to grow to a length where it is able to “hang” down off of your head can help to increase the appearance of hair volume., In contemporary society, some men choose to wear their hair short as a style choice irrespective of lacking volume. Utilizing a crew cut or simply shaving your head may be a good look for you and can go a long way in covering the appearance of thinning hair.