 Immediately ask someone to call 911 (or another emergency number) as you begin providing assistance to the unconscious person.If you are alone, shout for help as you begin the Heimlich maneuver.;
, Place the choking person on a hard surface (such as a floor) that can support the body while you perform the maneuver., Position your thumb on top of the person's tongue and your other finger under the chin.
 If you can see an object and it is loose, remove it from the person’s mouth.With the person's head turned to the side, use a finger or two to gently sweep the object out of the person’s mouth. Be careful not to push the object deeper.
 If you cannot see what is lodged in the person’s mouth, tilt the head back and lift the chin. This will open the person’s airway.Generally choking victims will not also have spinal injuries, but if the person has suspected head, neck, or spine injuries, use a jaw-thrust to open his airway, not head-tilt chin-lift.
 Lean your head down and place your ear near the unconscious person’s mouth. Listen for sounds of breathing. Watch the person’s chest to see if it rises and falls, indicating that the person is breathing. You can also place your hand on the person’s chest to feel if it rises and falls. Listen, watch, and feel for breathing for five seconds.If the person is not breathing, start performing rescue breathing.

Check the person’s pulse frequently.
If the person’s breathing or pulse stops at any time, perform CPR.
If the person’s back is not injured, roll the person on her side. Bend her top leg at the knee.
Keep the person warm while you wait for assistance.
 Pinch the person’s nostrils closed, using your thumb and forefinger. Cover the person’s mouth tightly with your mouth.
 Keeping a tight seal over the person’s mouth, slowly give two breaths (“rescue breaths”). Pause between each breath. Watch for the victim's chest to rise.If the chest does not rise, reopen the airway, check your seal on his mouth/nose and breathe harder.
, Begin chest compressions if the object is removed but the victim no longer has a pulse.To perform chest compressions:Ensure that the person is lying flat on the floor on a hard surface.
Place the heel of one of your hands on the person’s breastbone, right between her nipples.
Place the heel of your second hand on top of the first.
Lean directly over your hands. Push down with your hands at least 2 inches into the person’s chest, then let the chest rise completely. You will have to push hard and fast. Count out 30 quick chest compressions.
 Pull it out if you can. Attempt a quick sweep again if no object is immediately seen.


If you do not see the object, give two rescue breaths again, with a one second pause between each.
 If the person’s chest is still not rising and falling, keep repeating the cycle of 30 chest compressions, then two rescue breaths, until emergency medical assistance arrives.If another person is with you, switch off with him every two cycles. CPR is exhausting. Do not attempt to continue CPR if you are too tired. Improper CPR is not helpful to the patient.

