


Although Aurora is blonde, it doesn't require you to dye your hair blonde to be like her. Take your own, natural, beautiful hair color and work with it. If you're a brunette or a ginger and you think you have dull hair, get your hair colored, it'll look fantastic! For that summery hair look, try sun lighteners! You could start by taking as many chunks or small strands from your hair as you want, spray them on with a spray on hair lightener, such as Sun-In, and leave it on out in the sun, long enough for them to lighten into sun-kissed streaks. Don't forget to use a good conditioner right after and rinse with cold water to make it shine.
Aurora has quite a bit of hair, so, if you are interested in having those classic long locks, but don't have them yourself, hair extensions are a great way to go. If you have shorter hair, then flatter it! Short hair curled always is a beautiful, classy look.;
, In the film, Aurora has a classy, minimal amount of makeup on. A sheer red or pink lip stain, mascara, and possibly some foundation or eyeliner will work great. Lips are important, for Aurora is said to have lips that shame the reddest rose. For a more daring lip color, trace your lips with a matching lip pencil to define the lips and prevent your lipstick from bleeding. Lightly sweep some translucent powder over it to make it last longer. Matte lipsticks are best for their long lasting power.
 Flowing skirts, flowy blouses paired with figure-flattering vests, thick headbands, bows, pastels, floral sweaters and such are all options. Aurora is very connected with nature, so earthy accessories is also recommended.
 Aurora has a talent for singing. You don't have to be born with a set of excellent wind pipes to do this but at least try. Do it little by little each day. It's okay if you rather do it whenever you're alone. If you want, you can take singing lessons or join the chorus in a church. Sing your favorite songs or whatever comes to mind! She has an operatic style, so practice your head voice!

, This means to carry yourself with grace, elegance, kindness, and poise. Always be polite to others. Don't be rude, lash out of anger, or curse. Have a gentle, caring voice and a lot of patience for everyone. Be friendly! Be sure to still have a great time around your friends and to have a good sense of humor as well. Stand up for yourself if necessary, but know how to handle it maturely. For example, ask to be excused before leaving the table when eating at a restaurant or dinner party with a group of people.
 Believe that if you dream of something more than once, it is sure to come true. So, follow your dreams and believe in their coming true!

, Every princess needs a "Prince Charming"! He doesn't have to be the "hottest dude" around, but at least he needs to be good to you and treat you right. Aurora's happiness lies in her being with Prince Phillip, the stranger she met in the woods.
 Aurora loves them all!

, Aurora is ever stimulated in life and eager to learn new things.
 Aurora is always dreaming about her prince, and even if you don't have a prince yet, always be optimistic and follow your heart., Use sophisticated vocabulary and talk gently and be articulate. People will respect the way you speak your mind.