 Prayer can be considered a more formal way to talk to God because it is primarily rooted in religion. However, you can choose to pray in whatever way feels comfortable to you. While you can pray at any time and in any place, it helps to set aside specific times of the day to pray. Choose a time when you are unlikely to be disturbed and you'll be able to center yourself and pray effectively. Common times for prayer include: before meals or bed, after waking, during stressful times or periods of need, and during solo activities like exercising or a commute.
 Ideally, praying to God should occur in a place where you'll be able to tune out distractions during the few minutes it takes to pray.


If you can't find a quiet place to pray, don't worry. You can pray on busy city buses, in the middle of crowded restaurants, and anywhere you can center yourself. You can pray while you're driving down the highway, as long as you stay focused on the road while you pray.
 As you get ready to pray, some people like to take a few minutes to prepare the space and the self for communicating with God. The way that you choose to prepare for prayer will largely be up to your own personal preferences and/or religious traditions.


Some common practices might include: reading a few applicable verses of a religious text, lighting candles or incense, performing a cleansing ritual, taking communion, meditating quietly, chanting, or singing.
 This can be done beforehand, if there is a pressing matter happening in your life. Or it can be determined as you pray.


You could use prayer as a means to have a casual conversation with God about daily happenings or current events. Here’s an example, “God, today is my first day of class. I’m really nervous, but also excited. I pray that everything goes well today.”
You could use prayer as a way to confess or get something off your chest, or you could pray for a request or a need. “God, I feel horrible that I gossiped about a coworker. I’m afraid she’s found out, and I don’t know what to do to fix it. Please forgive me. Also, please give me the strength to ask her for forgiveness.”
Let’s say you’ve just interviewed for a job. You could say, “Thank you, God, for a great interview. Please let the interviewer see how perfect I am for this position, and decide to hire me.”

, There's no one right way to pray. Prayer should be unique to the individual believer who is praying. While praying in a church or worship center is often quite stylized and ritualized, when you're praying alone, you don't have to follow any particular rules, other than opening yourself up to God and speaking from the heart.


Some people like to bow their heads in prayer and close their eyes, while other religions will practice full prostrations or kneeling. Whatever seems most respectful and effective for you and your personal relationship with God is fine. You can pray with your eyes open and your head high just as its fine to pray kneeling and silent.
It's common to recite some traditional prayers out loud, but it's also very common to pray silently to yourself.
 It can be a powerful experience to pray with a group of like-minded individuals. This can be an excellent way to hear how others relate to God, and learn new traditions and rituals that you can integrate into your own prayer practice. If you don’t currently have a group to pray with, try to find one.


You can find a group in a local worship center or church you attend. You can do a search online for people who share your beliefs to see if there are meetups happening in your area. If you can’t find what you’re looking for, consider starting your own prayer group.
In some religions, prayer groups practice sending group prayers to friends and loved ones in need. Prayer lists are often created regularly to pray for the sick and needy members of a community.

