 If you are familiar with dying your hair and have dyed it before, you may feel comfortable dying your hair white blonde by yourself. If you have dark hair, it may take two tries to achieve a white-blonde shade. Be sure to wait a couple of days between dyes or seek out a professional to be safe.


Be careful if you're dying your hair for the first time. Bleach can damage anyone's hair and it's important to handle the product with care. If you have dark hair, you will likely have to bleach your hair twice, once to achieve the yellow base necessary to dye it white blonde and again to achieve the desired shade.
 Be sure that your hair is in its natural state. If your hair is already dyed, the safest way to dye it lighter is to seek out a professional.


If you apply bleach to chemically-treated hair, there is a chance that you will burn off your hair.
You may want to deep condition your hair the day before you dye it to minimize the hair-drying effect of the dye.
 You will need to purchase bleach powder, creme developer, red gold corrector and toner. You will also need a mixing bowl, a plastic hair wrap, gloves, hair clips and towels.


Purchase your products at a beauty-supply store to ensure the highest-quality chemicals.
Purchase a bleach powder with a concentration of H2O2 between 3 and 6 percent. If it has a concentration of 10 percent or more, it may induce scalp blistering.Some trusted brands include Salon Care and Manic Panic.
If your hair is blonde or light brown, use a 20- or 30-volume developer. If your hair is black or very dark, you may need a 40-volume developer. The lower the volume, the less damaging the bleach is to hair.
The toner you need will depend on the exact shade of white blonde you want to achieve. Read the brands and product reviews to help you get an idea of which one you want to use. Wella T18 Lightest Ash Blonde Toner or Manic Panic Virgin Snow are two of the most popular.
Red-gold corrector will help the hair grab the color most effectively.
 Follow the instructions included with the products to ensure the correct ratios.


Depending on the product, the ratios could be slightly different. Consider purchasing the same brands of bleach powder and creme developer.
A typical ratio could be two scoops of power and 4 ounces of creme developer., It should take about 30-45 minutes. The resulting color of the test strip will alert you if you are using the wrong amount of bleach.


If the strip turns orange, do not apply the bleach mix to the rest of your hair. The most common reason your hair could turn orange is that your hair is too dark to bleach completely in one sitting, so you may have to wait a couple of days and try again with the same test strand.
If the strand is still orange or dark after the second bleaching, try adding a semi-permanent hair color to cover the orange INSTEAD of toning it.If you choose one shade lighter than the current strip color, you will retain a little orange, but keep the lightness. If you choose one shade darker than the current strip color, you will minimize the orange, but darken your hair a little.
 Once you are happy with your test strip, section off hair and apply the bleach mixture evenly throughout your hair using gloves and a brush. After you finish, you can cover your hair with a plastic wrap if you wish.


For the best results, ask someone to help you apply the mixture.
If your hair is very short, it helps to part your hair in a straight line and apply the bleach starting from the root and moving all the way up the strand of hair. When finished, part the next section and do the same thing. Continue until the mixture is applied everywhere.
If your hair is longer than chin-length, consider applying the bleach starting from a couple of inches away from the scalp and letting it sit for 10-15 minutes before you apply the bleach to the hair nearest the scalp. Because bleach is heat-activated, this will ensure a more even coloring.
If you are a brunette, it will be more difficult to achieve an even shade of white. Be extra careful to apply a generous amount of the mixture evenly on every strand of hair.
 Make sure that you are checking your hair every 5-10 minutes, however, to ensure you are achieving the desired results. If not, you can adjust your treatment before it's too late.


If you see that some spots are turning lighter faster than others, correct the darker spots by adding a little bit more of the bleach mixture.
As you wait, you are likely to experience some itching and burning sensations. This is normal. If you cannot stand the itching or burning, however, rinse it out since your discomfort could be a sign that your scalp is reacting poorly to the chemicals. Consider trying a different brand after a couple of days.
You want your hair to turn lighter yellow, not orange. If it does turn orange, wait 5 minutes to see if it turns yellow before rinsing it out and repeating the process in a couple of days or going to the hair salon.
 When you determine that your hair is light enough, rinse out the bleach with cool water and a mild shampoo followed by conditioner. Towel dry and blow dry.


Be careful not the let the bleach sit in your hair for too long or it will burn the ends off.
Remember only to proceed to the toning step if your hair is yellow, orange.
 The red-gold corrector will help your hair keep the color.
 Leave the toner in your hair until it reaches the desired color. Usually this step will take 30 minutes, but be sure to read the instructions on your toner product.


The longer you leave in the toner, the more silvery the resulting shade of hair., Wash the toner out of your hair. Consider using shampoo for bleached or blonde hair to help your hair retain its new color. Follow the shampoo with conditioner.

