 Online information should not replace a conversation with your doctor. The wrong medication or the wrong dose could injure or kill the fetus, and some medications do not mix well with one another. Your doctor can give you individual advice based on your medical history, body type, and other factors.


This includes over-the-counter medications. Even a vitamin supplement should be cleared with a doctor.
Even a doctor can't memorize every drug interaction, but they should have access to special databases to look them up. If you have any doubts, ask your doctor to confirm the advice.;
, Even if you're visiting for an unrelated reason, tell your doctor about the pregnancy. It is important that your doctor knows about the pregnancy, so that he can avoid prescribing drugs that could potentially cause harm.


Even if the signs of pregnancy are obvious, don't assume that your doctor will notice. There's no need to risk serious consequences when you can avoid them by saying "I'm pregnant."

, The pregnancy category system rates the potential of a drug to cause birth defects if used during pregnancy. If your doctor has prescribed medication, but you are still worried about its safety, look up its pregnancy category. If you discover any concerns, bring them up with your doctor, or find a second medical opinion. Make sure your doctor knows whether or not you are taking the medication; do not change your mind without telling her, and do not mix medications without first researching their interaction. In the US, the FDA's pregnancy category works as follows:


Category A: Well-controlled studies have failed to demonstrate a risk to the fetus.
Category B: Animal reproduction studies have failed to demonstrate a risk to the fetus, but there are no adequate studies in pregnant women.
Category C: Animal reproduction studies have shown harm to the fetus, but there are no adequate studies in pregnant women. You and your doctor must weigh the risks and benefits of taking this medication during your pregnancy.
Category D: Evidence shows risk of human fetal harm. You and your doctor must weigh the risks and benefits of taking this medication during your pregnancy.
Category X: Evidence shows significant risk, which almost always outweighs the potential benefits. Avoid taking this medication while pregnant.
Category N: Not yet classified. May or may not be hazardous to a fetus., Each drug should come with an instruction booklet explaining dosage, side-effects, and things to avoid. Drugs can interact positively or negatively with other drugs, herbal supplements, vitamins, or even certain foods. You need to be aware of any relevant interactions and any potential side-effects.


Look for the section on pregnancy and lactation for information on possible risks. If there is no pregnancy section, ask your doctor or search the Internet for the medication's effects on pregnancy.
You may need to take the medication with water, with food, or on an empty stomach. Make every effort to follow this advice, as it may impact how the drug effects you.
 Unless recommended by a physician, most medications are best avoided in pregnancy. This is especially true in the first trimester. The foundations of the baby's organ systems are being laid down in the first trimester, and almost any medication can have a lasting effect on its development.
 Just because something is natural does not mean it is harmless. Herbal supplements often involve high doses and may not have received thorough testing. Ask a doctor for advice. If there is no information available related to pregnancy interactions, avoid the supplement or take it in very low doses.


This applies to medicinal herbal teas or homemade herb treatments as well.
Herbal supplements often have poor labeling standards. One "dose" may have an unpredictable strength.
 Even if your doctor has recommended a pill, the same drug in a different form may not be safe. For example, liquid medications often contain alcohol, which can damage the fetus.


Anything that needs to soak into the skin, i.e. medical creams, should be avoided.

