 They should be able to explain and show the movements well. If your teacher's movements are coarse or abrupt, that should raise questions. When explaining what certain movements are for, there should be a balance between grand concepts (cultivating chi, uniting movement and intent, etc.) and very tangible examples (opening the hips, developing balance by conditioning muscles, aligning the body to negate physical force, etc.). If the instructor spends a lot of time talking about extraordinary abilities or talents they developed but can't show you, this is again questionable.;
, A solid, always relaxed stance in another good sign. Also key is that every movement in Tai Chi should be connected, whole body movements. The waist (center, or Tan Tien) is the initiator and drive behind everything we do.
 Whether it's ten minutes or two hours, do what works but do it everyday. Your Tai Chi time should be as integral and unquestioned an activity as brushing your teeth.
 Tai Chi is a lifelong process and every step along the way is enjoyable. It's never quantity of movement that matters with the Internal Arts. Far better to deeply know a couple of postures from the form and train them several times a day than to superficially know a (or multiple) whole forms and run through them every day. You will have a much more satisfying experience from the deeper practice.
 There are specific Yichaun postures or you can use any posture from the Tai Chi form as your standing meditation. Yichaun is incredibly valuable both in priming your mind for the practice and developing the ability to relax and root your body. Try it out by holding a posture for ten minutes; smooth, long breaths into the abdomen; gaze off over the horizon; all of the joints relaxed and open; whenever a thought or distraction comes up, let it go and come back to watch the breath. Stand through discomfort but not through pain. If you start to shake that's great; it's your body shedding deep stored tension. If ten minutes is too much at first, no problem, start with five, or two. As your stand becomes easier, follow that retreating limit and let yourself stand longer.
 You should feel challenged by your practice but enjoy every minute of it.

