

This is the easiest solution to the problem of a cursing coworker. Generally, a cussing coworker will ease up on their use of colorful language when they realize that they’ve irked you. After all, nobody wants to cause tension in the workplace.

To suggest that a cursing coworker tone it down, you could say, “Peggy, I’m uncomfortable with the language that you’re using. Could you please ease up on the cursing? I’d really appreciate it.”

, Cursing at anyone, especially a coworker, is an act of profound disrespect.

Do not allow yourself to be verbally abused or cursed at by anyone in your workplace (or in your private life). Tell your coworker in a calm, even tone, “Do not speak to me like that. I do not speak to you with such language and I do not deserve it.”

Even though you might be angry -- and rightly so -- stay cool. Do not respond with anger or violence. Doing so will only escalate the situation. Try deep breathing to calm your nerves, and walk away if you have to.
 Workplace friends engage in different types of communication than coworkers who are not friends. Workplace friends use profanity when in conversation with one another more than they do when conversing with non-friends.

For instance, if you have worked in a place for a long time, you might begin to hear someone speak to you in a more informal way and lace their conversation with curses. This could mean that the coworker considers you a friend.

If you do not want to be that person’s friend, or are uncomfortable being spoken to with profanity, tell them so directly. You could say, “Please do not speak to me with that language. It makes me uncomfortable.”

, If you tell your manager that a certain coworker is making you uncomfortable by using certain words, the coworker could be dismissed or disciplined for creating a hostile work environment.Individuals affected by a hostile or intimidating person (such as a cussing coworker) could and should be proactive by informing management of their feelings.


If your immediate supervisor is unresponsive, contact the human resources department where you work. Sometimes you have to go over your direct manager’s head to get results.
If your company as a whole is unresponsive, talk to a lawyer. Lawsuits involving hostile work environments are taken very seriously.

