 A good natural method of removing permanent marker from skin is to make a salt scrub.









Measure out a tablespoon of coarse sea salt and mix it with just enough water to form a paste. Rub this paste gently onto the marked skin for several minutes, then rinse off with warm water.
The sea salt will exfoliate the skin, removing the top layers of ink. This method may not remove the marker completely, but it will certainly fade it.
 Fat-rich substances like olive oil can help to lift the ink from the permanent marker from the skin, without the need for harsh chemicals.









Take a generous amount of real olive oil and rub it into the marker stains. Take a piece of paper towel and use it to rub in the fat. You should see the ink coming off on the towel.
As with other natural methods, this may not remove the stain completely, but it will significantly fade the ink. Be sure to wash off any residue oil afterwards with soap and water, of course.
 Mixing baking soda and water forms an exfoliating paste which helps to scrub marker from skin.









Mix one teaspoon of baking soda with just enough water to form a paste and rub into the skin for a minute or two, before rinsing off with warm water.
Alternatively, you can mix one part baking soda with one part toothpaste to form an extra-effective scrub.
 Some people claim that banana peel can help to significantly fade permanent marker stains on skin.









Take the peel from a ripe banana and rub the inside of the peel onto the marker-stained skin, using a circular motion.
Continue for several minutes, then rinse your arm, pat it dry and repeat the process with another piece of banana peel.
 Finally, another natural option for removing permanent marker is simply to soak in a bathtub and allow the water to fade the ink.


If you like, you can add some baking soda or a couple of drops of tea tree oil to the water to help the process along, but regular bubble bath will work fine.
Try to keep the marked skin submerged beneath the hot water for as long as possible, and use a sponge or loofah to scrub the area clean.

