 To build your base chain into a hat, you will need to crochet in the round. Crochet in the round means to crochet a small circle – the base for your hat (the part at the very top). When you pull the hook through, you’ll have started a second row that is adjacent to the first, in a spiral.








As you crochet your hat, make sure that you continue to crochet in a spiral. Do not change the direction at any point.
 From now on, you’ll have to use a double stitch for your hat. This will attach all your new rows of stitches to the spiral in the center, so that you don’t end up with multiple loose rows.









To do a double stitch, you start with your hook with a single loop on it.
Slip the hook through the loop and into the chain under/next to it (attached to the spiral). You now have two loops on your crochet hook.
Finish by doing a regular stitch; wrap the yarn around the hook, pull this yarn through the two loops on your hook. You’ll always end with a single loop on your hook when you complete one double stitch., Once you’ve made the base round, you’ll change your stitch pattern just a bit to increase the body of your hat. For every row of stitches, you’ll start with a double stitch, do a single stitch, double stitch, single stitch, et cetera until you complete the row.
 The first few rows are easy, but as you move on you’ll need to begin counting your stitches.A double stitch counts for 2 stitches, and a single stitch counts for 1. For example, if you were doing a row of five, it would be 1 double stitch, 1 single stitch, one double stitch - finished. Here is how your counting should go:









First row: 5 stitches
Second row: 10 stitches
Third row: 30 stitches
Fourth row: 45 stitches
Fifth row: 60 stitches
Sixth row: 75 stitches
Seventh row: 90 stitches

, To complete your hat, you’ll do additional rows of single stitches. This will add length to the hat, rather than continuing to make it wider and wider. Start your rows of single stitches when you reach the desired circumference. To finish your hat completely, you’ll need to tie a slipknot and hide the tail end of the yarn by weaving it back into the hat with your hook.









To hide the end piece of your hat, you can weave it into the hat. Leave about 6” of yarn after you tie the slipknot and then use an embroidery needle to weave the end through the edge and into the inside of the hat. Then, tie off the end after you have woven it a few inches into the inside of the hat.