 You'll need a series of screencaps of good quality. These should be taken very close together and from a clean, clear video source. Netflix is a good option, if you have access to Netflix.


Naming them in order will help a lot. When you save the original screencaps, name them something like 1, 2, 3, etc.
If you don't know how to take a screencap, see this wikiHow tutorial or the equivalent for your OS. Generally, you will use the Print Screen button and paste the file into an imaging program.
 Starting with the first image as Layer 1 in a new Photoshop file, drag and drop each successive image into a new layer in that same file. Make sure to keep them in order.


You'll need to open each file in Photoshop in order to drag it into the main file. If drag and drop doesn't work, just use copy and paste, making sure the image goes into a new layer.
Make sure that the images are properly aligned.
 Click the eyes next to all of the layers in the layer menu, except for the one with the first image, in order to hide the layers.
 Click Window from the upper bar and open the Animation window.
 Click the "New Layer" button (looks like a sheet of paper being folded) in the animation window and then click the eye button for the next image. Alternate between New Layer and reveal to set each one of the frames to an animation "cel".
 If you have extra stuff that you want to cut out from the screencap, such as the rest of your desktop, use the cropping tool to get your images down to the right size. The standard sizes for GIFs can be readily found online. Use the specific settings in the upper menu set the size, not manual cropping or the more common Image Size menu.
 If the animations move too fast, you can create in-betweens. The button that brings up the menu is found next to the New Layer button on the animation menu. Fiddle with the settings until your animation looks correct.


You'll need to set the opacity to 79% for every in-between frame you create.
 Click "Save for Web" from the File menu up at the top. In the menu that opens up, you should make sure that it's set to GIF and that the colors are set to 256. You should also have selective diffusion and dither at 100%. Once the settings are correct. Hit the save button.
 Enjoy your gif!

