 But beyond that, you aren't only thinking of their problems, but use problem solving, Posing, strategies, and answering their problem questions before they even know you, or choose to do business with you. You're giving solutions to their issues. Coincidentally, this is exactly what https://www.wikihow.com does.;
, It demonstrates your credentials, without you having to flaunt them which no one likes, anyway. And it helps you build Trust and relationships with the exact people that need your help. You already have valuable information to share. Don't get hung up on "giving it away for free". Consider it an investment for the common good. And, an investment in your business as well. Newbies, especially when it comes to advertising on the web, need help understanding the fundamentals. Work with them. You will have no regrets.
 So if you're in the business of answering questions, you should be doing it where the questions are being asked. Places like https://www.google.com, http://answers.yahoo.com, https://www.linkedin.com/answers, https://www.wikihow.com and http://search.twitter.com.
 Imagine having valuable information to impart, and giving a presentation in your living room. Then imagine a bigger forum, like a hotel ballroom, or school cafeteria. Then imagine a football stadium. These all pale compared to the worldwide scale of the Internet. So have something of value to say, say it once, and say it in the right places on the Internet. YouTube videos are a great way to do that, as are articles that will be found by search engines. Combining this approach with the 1 to 1 answers in the previous step, will establish your credibility, and make sure the maximum number of people are exposed to your expertise.
 You can create valuable content once, on a particular topic, and not have to create it again! Unlike a face-to-face presentation which would have to be re-delivered each time, your education has been recorded, and can be reapplied. It frees up your time, allowing you to focus on other aspects of your business.
 It's important to remember that people don't need more information. We're all inundated with information. What they need is an easy-to-understand break down of the information already available. Demonstrating the big picture of the information. Or demonstrating the step-by-step approach the informations are too incredibly valuable to the people out there.
 As you embark on this adventure of becoming an attraction marketer, and give up the addiction to traditional advertising. You'll want to consistently create more advanced levels of content. This gives you an ongoing conversation with your prospects and customers. For example: YouTube video, blog posting, articles and eBook webinar. The idea is not to guide people to step one, and then dump them. But to show them how to do step one... when they need that information. And then to show them how to do step two, at the appropriate time. And so on.

