 If you absolutely feel as if there is no other way to calm down your dog, you can try the traditional alpha roll. This should be a situation where the dog will not listen to commands or where you cannot remove the dog from the situation.Yawning, staring, licking their tongue, or tensing their body are signs that a dog might bite. The best thing you can do in this situation is stay still and avoid eye contact until the dog relaxes. An alpha roll may increase your chances of being bitten., The goal is to force the dog onto their side. Lean over the dog, and lift their front legs. Gently nudge them until they are on their side. Do not slam the dog against the ground.If the dog is threatening to bite you, do not do this. Your face will be very close to theirs, putting you in a vulnerable position to be bitten.
Small dogs can be picked up and rolled over.The larger the dog, the more difficult it will be to roll them over, and the more dangerous it may be to provoke them with a rollover.
A submissive dog will voluntarily expose their belly to someone they trust. Dogs who are forced to roll over will often fight back., Hold them down by placing a flat hand on their chest or neck. Do not squeeze or choke the dog. If you splay your fingers, you can keep them pinned without using much force or pressure.Do not hold a snarling or snapping dog by the muzzle or your hand may be bitten., Contrary to some advice, you should not hold down your dog until they calm down. This will increase their fear, and it could even make them more aggressive. You only need to hold them down for a few seconds. Once you release them, walk away for a few minutes before you interact with your dog again.If your dog urinates, this means that you have frightened them.Release them immediately. Fear is not an effective training tool, and it cause your dog to act unpredictably aggressive in the future.
 Growling at your dog or making aggressive eye contact will only increase their aggression. It will not calm them down, and it may provoke them into attacking you. It can also damage your relationship with your dog in the long term, as your dog may grow to be afraid of you.Hitting your dog or pulling on a choke chain can also increase aggression in a dog.