 Taking care of your own schedule should be fairly easy, but the hard part is figuring out how to make sure your partner is free. If you plan the trip for a weekend, you may have less interference from work. If you plan it on short notice, you should be able to find out if they have plans already.A good trick you can use is to get a friend of your partner to make plans with them for the same time that you are planning the trip. Tell the friend that you need them to make fake plans. Your partner should end up keeping their schedule clear.
For example, call your partner’s best friend and say, “Hey, I want to take John on a surprise trip this weekend. Would you make some fake plans with him so he’ll keep the weekend open?”
If you’re planning a multiple day trip, you may only need the fake plans to be for part of that time, as long as your partner keeps the rest of the time open.
If you are willing to give away part of the surprise, you can simply tell them, “I’m making plans for us for this weekend, so keep your schedule open.” It accomplishes what you need, but it does not give the whole surprise away.
 So many people travel around holidays that it can be a little tricky to take your romantic getaway at those times. Tickets and housing can be a little more expensive, and travel can get more hectic. All of this can add some stress to the situation which can easily take away from the romance of your getaway.If you want to make the trip part of the holiday experience, you can plan the trip for a weekend before or after the holiday time.
Sitting in traffic, walking through crowded airports, and dealing with packed hotels will most likely cause stress, not romance. For these reasons, holidays are best avoided.
 A great way to surprise someone is getting tickets to an event they would enjoy. You could pick a concert, a stage play, or a convention of some kind. If you find a fun event, this will determine the date of your trip and you can work the other details out around it.


Most events are scheduled pretty far in advance, so this will help you with planning.
Focusing on an event will also help you narrow down where you’re going to travel.
You could also start with a location that you want to visit and find out what events are going to be in that area. This will most likely give you a good number of specific dates to choose from.

