 Add 3 tablespoons (39 g) of coconut oil to a large non-stick skillet. Turn the heat to medium-high, and allow the oil to fully melt, which should take approximately 3 minutes.You can also use a cast iron skillet to make the home fries.
If you prefer, you can substitute butter or olive oil for the coconut oil.;
, Once the coconut oil is heated, add 1 ½ pounds (675 g) of sweet potatoes that have been chopped into ½-inch (13-mm) cubes to the skillet. Allow the potatoes to cook for 4 minutes.When you add the potatoes to the skillet, stir them in the oil so they are fully coated. Leave them to cook undisturbed after that, though.
 When the sweet potatoes have cooked for a few minutes, mix in 1 large, sliced yellow onion. Stir the mixture well to incorporate the onion, and let it cook for approximately 8 minutes, or until the potatoes and onion are browned.Stir the mixture once or twice while it’s cooking to ensure that potatoes and onions don’t burn.
 After the sweet potatoes and onions are lightly browned, add 5 cloves of minced garlic, 1 ½ teaspoons (4 g) of chili powder, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of paprika, and 1 teaspoon (5 g) of sea salt. Stir the mixture well, and saute it for 4 minutes.Stir the mixture constantly as it heats to ensure that it cooks evenly.
You can adjust the amount of salt in the home fries to suit your taste.
 When the seasonings have cooked with the potato and onion mixture for a few minutes, stir 4 to 6 tablespoons (60 to 90 ml) of water into the skillet. Cover the pan with a lid, and allow the home fries to cook for 4 to 8 minutes, or until the potatoes are cooked through.Start by adding just 4 tablespoons (60 ml) of water to the skillet. If it isn’t enough, you can gradually add up to 2 more (30 ml) tablespoons.
 When the sweet potatoes are tender, remove the skillet from the heat. Use a slotted spoon to place the home fries on a platter or individual plates, and serve them with other breakfast foods.The home fries pair well with protein-rich breakfast foods, such as egg dishes, bacon, and sausage.

