 Close relationships require a certain degree of emotional connection and intimacy. It’s hard to experience that when you’re mainly communicating through social media messages or status updates. Use your newfound free time to schedule a weekly get-together with the people who are most important to you.You can schedule one-on-one visits with family and friend as well as group gatherings. Ask your loved ones what’s been happening in their lives, and truly listen. Laugh and make eye contact. Hug one another when you depart. These aspects of social connection can’t be found online.;
, In many families, social media has even taken over the dinner table. Teens sneak their phones into their laps and adults have trouble detaching from their professional networks. Take back your family dinners, and forge deeper bonds with those you love.Prepare a meal together as a family, giving everyone a task. Talk as you ready your meal. Then, sit down and eat together. Comment on the taste and quality of the food before you. Have everyone share something interesting about their day.
 Getting something in the mail is almost a luxury in today’s technology-driven world. Surprise your loved ones with a special card or note to stay connected.

You might draw a picture (or have your child do so), make up a story or poem, or add your most current pictures to the package. This helps you stay connected without having to depend on social networks., If you’re a student, take advantage of your social media-free life to get involved in different extracurricular activities. If you’re an adult, consider joining a professional organization to build your network, or an interest-based group to pursue a hobby.

Getting involved in a local organization is a great way to connect with new people and enhance your personal skills. For instance, you might become a volunteer with Habitat for Humanity or sign up to join a local Toastmasters chapter.Try to engage in hobbies that are not internet related, such as a camping trip with friends, playing a board game, or learning a new musical instrument.

