 It may be tempting to tell your friends, siblings, or cousins about your online diary, but try not to. The way to find your journaling website is more likely to get out if people know about it. If you must tell someone, try to tell it verbally instead of sharing it through text, email, or social media., Set out a “fake” diary on your dresser or in another easily accessible place. You won’t actually use this diary to write your real entries in. Instead, write some “fake” entries. You don’t have to go into elaborate detail. The entries can be simple and short.Act surprised or annoyed if you find someone reading your diary.
 Purchase a box that is big enough to put your diary into. Make sure the box has a lock that has to be opened with a key or combination. You may have to ask someone to buy it for you if you can’t go to the store without your parents. Once it is locked in the box, put it in a place that is not in plain site, like under your bed or in a closet.


You can also get a diary that comes with a lock and key. Make sure to hide the key away from the diary. If possible, keep it with you in your pocket or purse.
 Don’t begin a new diary on the first page. Instead, write on the third or fourth page of the diary. It will make a person with prying eyes think the diary hasn’t been used yet, unless they flip the page a couple of times.You can also choose to write a message on the first page. It can be a warning message, or a message asking for the person to not read the diary.
 Use a code for your journal. This way, if your parents do find it, it will take effort to figure out what has been written. Some common codes to use are Morse and Pigpen cipher. Pigpen cipher exchanges letters for symbols based on a grid design. You can also make up your own code or write in another language that your parents don’t know.Don’t keep a guide to the code near your diary.
 Find a string that won’t be easily noticed. A thin piece of thread will do. A strand of hair will work too. Wrap it around the diary. You can also choose to just wrap it around the lock. You will know that someone has opened or attempted to open the diary if the string has moved or broken.


It is also an option to put a small object, like a pebble, on top of the diary.

