 Don’t assume that you will be able to find extra supplies on your trip, especially if you are heading off the beaten track. You will almost certainly not be able to find the specific brands and products that you like to use. Even if you do, you do not want to interrupt sightseeing just to find them., Of course, you should never flush pads or tampons, but you may find yourself in an area where you cannot flush anything. Since waste disposal practices vary among cultures, there also may not be trashcans in bathrooms. You will need to be prepared to hold on to your materials until you get back to where you are staying. Wrap your used pads or tampons in tissues or toilet paper, store them in a Ziploc bag, store the bag in your purse or backpack, and clean your hands.When you do have access to toilets, take advantage of them, but depending on where you are going, don’t necessarily expect to find them regularly.If you are using a menstrual cup, make sure you have an adequate supply of clean (bottled) water with you to rinse it out.
 Getting your period while on vacation is not only inconvenient — between cramps, bloating, and other issues — it can also be uncomfortable. But you don’t want to miss out on the fun, and being active can actually alleviate some of these symptoms. So ditch the tight jeans, and revel in the comfort of yoga pants, soft t-shirts, and knit dresses., As much as you might want to stay in your hotel room, physical activity can alleviate the symptoms of a heavy period. Go for a long walk that takes you past as many landmarks as possible., Healthy snacks can also alleviate some of your period symptoms. Seek out local produce and other healthy foods that you wouldn’t be able to get at home.While there is no evidence that food can reduce bleeding, many women find that following a healthy diet can make heavy bleeding easier to deal with.Since very heavy bleeding can lead to anemia, seek out iron-rich foods like meat, legumes, leafy greens, and whole grains.