 The basic tactical wheel is similar, as each tactic will defeat the one before it, and be defeated by the one following if executed properly. The pieces are as follows:Simple Attack (an attack executed as one quick action) is defeated by Parry and Riposte (defending with the blade and/or distance, and then attacking) is defeated by Compound Attack (an attack executed with multiple "feints" to close distance and draw out the final parry) is defeated by Counter Attack/Attack on Preparation (a timed Simple Attack into the early, non-threatening phase of the Compound Attack) is defeated by Counter Time (a feint or preparation used to draw the Counter Attack so the ATTACKER may then make Parry and Riposte) is defeated by Feint in Tempo (a compound counter attack used to evade the Counter-time) is defeated by Simple Attack (the wheel comes full-circle.).;
, For example, instead of answering Parry and Riposte with Compound Attack, a subtle fencer may make her next attack just out of distance, to allow time for a 'counter-parry and counter-riposte". Her first action would thus be called "Second Intention Simple Attack". Actions can also be made in The Third (or Fourth) Intention, but discerning and employing this level of subtlety can be extremely difficult.
 Keep this in mind when watching bouts.
 The referee's decision about which fencer has priority when a touch occurs determines which fencer is awarded points, if any. Try to determine the fencers' intentions while you watch. This will help you to understand why some touches are awarded, and some are not. In Epee fencing, the first fencer to hit scores and there is no priority or right of way. When both fencers hit simultaneously (within 1/25th of a second), both score. Understanding the tactical wheel will help you to "get inside the fencers' heads", increasing your enjoyment of the sport.
 If either fencer asks the referee to "reconstruct" (the proper way, according to fencing etiquette, for a fencer to ask for an explanation), listen carefully to the words of the referee. It will often make what you missed clearer. Some referees explain regardless of such a request, but many simply award the touche (the formal name for a point in fencing) with no explanation or hand motions. Experienced referees in foil and saber will always use hand signs to reconstruct the right-of-way. Reading the motions of a referee may be difficult, so remember these basics: a finger pointed towards the ground on one side of the referee signifies the initial attack (the initial right-of-way) for the fencer on that side, an arm sticking straight out in one direction signifies the direction of an offensive action (an attack or counterattack or riposte) that landed (scored on valid target area); arms crossed in the air signify a parry made on the side of the referee on which his or her arms are crossed, and a hand held up in the air (sometimes with the arm showing attack or counterattack still extended) signifies a touch for the fencer on that side of the referee.

