 Go to the home page of YouTube at www.youtube.com and click “Sign in” button at top right side. Enter your Gmail address and password in the required fields then hit “Sign in” to log into your registered YouTube account.;
, Browse your video channel for a video to add music to.


Click on “My Channel” on top left sidebar to browse the video list of your channel.
Click “Video” under the channel cover image to view the video list.
Browser and select a video from the list by click on its title link. The selected video file will open in the video player.
 You need to go to the Video Editing page through “Video Manager” of your channel.


Click “Video manager” under the video player. You will see all the videos of your channel listed from top to bottom.
Click on “Edit” next to the selected video you want to add music to. The video editing page will be opened.
Click on “Audio” at the top of the video player. A list of “Featured Tracks” will open on the right side.
 You should search and choose a music file matching the content of your video. The length of the music file should also match the length of the video.


Click on the drop-down “Top tracks” menu to open the music categories. There are different popular genres you can select: Ambient, Cinematic, Classical, Country and Folk, Dance & Electronic, Hip hop & Rap, Jazz & Blues, Pop, R&B & Soul, Reggae, and Rock.
Choose one of these categories to view the music track list under the chosen category. You can also choose the default category, “Top tracks,” to view the most popular track list.
 If you have a song title in mind, you can directly search for it using the Search bar under the music playlist box. Type the keywords for the desired song in the Search bar. You can type the title or artist name of the music track as your keywords.


Press the “Enter” button on your keyboard to start searching. You will see the search result matching your keywords in list under the video player on left side. Scroll down the page to see the searching result from top to bottom.
 If you’re not satisfied with searching the categories or using the Search bar, try the Audio Library. You can customize your searching result by genres, mood, instrument, duration, and popularity.


Click on the “Sound effects” tab next to “Music” to see a list of sounds only. Copy the title of the music track from the “YouTube Audio Library” and put it in Search bar on Audio Editing page to find and select it there.
Find music tracks with similar duration to your video file by checking the “Only show songs of a similar length to this video” box at the bottom of the page. Click on the box to check or uncheck it.
You can search for the music files that have no ad features with them. The music files that have ads will show ads on your selected video player page during playing. Uncheck the box “Show ad-supported songs” to view the music playlist having no ads.
 Before adding a track to your video, you should compare the duration of video file and audio file. You will see the duration list next to each audio track on playlist.
 Click on the selected music track from the playlist on right to add it to your selected video on left side. After clicking on an audio track on the playlist, the audio file will be added to your video for preview.
 You should see the selected audio title under the video player with some editing options.


Click on “Position audio” at the right side of the audio file bar to customize and adjust the audio and video’s position and length. Move your mouse pointer over the beginning bar or ending bar of the audio file to trim the length of the track, to match the length of video file.

You can trim the audio file duration from both beginning and ending by dragging your mouse pointer. When you are done, hit the “Done positioning” button under the editing bar.


Click on the “Slider bar” button on left side of the “Position audio” button to adjust the mix level of the selected music track. Click and hold the “Slider bar” button to move it on left or right side.

You can set it to “Favor Original Audio” by moving the “Slider bar” button to the left and or set it to “Only music” by moving the “Slider bar” button to the right.
The “Only music” option indicates the complete preference of selected music file.
 After you finish editing, save the edited file. You can save your edited video by replacing the existing video or saving it as a new video file.


Click “Save” or “Save as” at the top right corner of the video player to publish the edited version of the video with the added music track.
The saving process takes a little time to process and publish, so be patient.

