 When you’re upset over the loss of a friend, you may find it difficult to get a good night’s sleep, but the lack of quality rest can leave you irritable and make it harder for you to deal with your feelings.Try going to bed a little earlier in case you do have trouble falling asleep and need extra time to get your rest.


Ensure a night of good sleep by making your bedroom as comfortable as possible, with room-darkening window shades, earplugs, and new bedding.Avoid caffeinated beverages such as coffee and soda for a few hours before you go to bed for better sleep.
 We all love Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and other social media apps, so it may be difficult, but you don’t want to be obsessively stalking your former friend’s accounts. Not only will it hurt you to see photos and updates of things going on in her life that you aren’t involved in, but it may be even worse if you discover that she’s blocked or unfriended you. Take a small break from your accounts until you’re feeling like you’ve processed the end of the relationship better.It can be tempting, but try not to post a rant against your former friend on social media. Airing your problems in a public space can make you appear petty, and isn’t going to help resurrect your friendship.
 Keeping busy can help distract you from the loss of your friendship, so it helps to fill the time that you used to spend with your friend with new hobbies or activities. If you always met your friend for lunch on Fridays, start visiting the gym instead. If you usually went to the movies with her on weekends, take a trip to the mall instead.Consider looking for activities that allow you to meet new people. You might sign up for a cooking class or join a softball league, so you can make new friends who share similar interests.
 When you're upset over the end of a friendship, you can help yourself heal by pampering yourself a little bit. Find activities that are calming and soothing, so you can do something just for you.A spa day can be a great pick-me-up. Get a facial, massage, manicure, or pedicure, and try to focus on yourself. If you're on a budget, even a spa day at home with a bubble bath can lift your spirits.
Go shopping and buy yourself those shoes or sunglasses that you've been wanting for a while.
Plan a movie marathon of all your favorites films, complete with popcorn and candy.
Have a nice meal at restaurant that you've been dying to try.
Even something simple like indulging in an ice cream cone or smoothie can help boost your mood.
 When you’re trying to deal with the hurt of your lost friendship, having an unexpected meeting with your former friend can be very upsetting. That’s why it helps to come up with a plan for how you’ll handle it if you do run into her. Only you can decide the best way to handle the situation, but no matter what you choose, come up with a plan so you’re not caught off-guard.If you're not sure that you can control your emotions, ignoring your friend may be the best option. Just turn and walk in the other direction, so you don't feel uncomfortable.
If you don't want to walk away, you can just offer up a polite hello and move along. That can help show your friend that you're starting to move on.
If you feel like you can't get closure until you tell your friend how much she hurt you, go for it. Just try to remain calm and avoid yelling or berating your friend. The point is to get your emotions across without attacking her, so start your sentences with "I" instead of "you"," and be ready to walk away if she's not receptive.

