 Go to File > New or Ctrl + N and set the size of the document to a vertical letter-sized canvas. Once you have created the vertical canvas, add guides, which is explained in the next step.


Add guides by creating a symmetrical rectangle using the rectangle tool, (W:8.5in, H:11in). After, drag the guides on each center of the bounding box, which you will find on the page.;
, This tool will be on the tool bar. To specify the line’s measurements, click on the Line Segment Tool icon and then click your mouse on your canvas. An options box will pop up. Input a length of 5 inches (12.7 cm) and an angle of 180 degrees.
 Select the line and change the stroke of the line to a weight of 10 pts by using the arrows provided.You can change the color of the stroke by following this color combination: C=70, M=78, Y=5, K=0.
 Input a width of 0.13 inches (0.3 cm) and a height of 0.14 inches (0.4 cm). Change the weight of the stroke to 5 pts.
 You can do this by selecting the line and the square and then clicking on object > path > outline stroke.
 Go to your swatches panel, click on the upper right corner tab (or the panel menu) and then switch the view to small list view.
 Note: rename the swatch to “Line” or to whatever you choose.
 Rename it “Small Square.” This is to remind you what is what ans where to put it in the canvas.
 Go to your brushes tab and click once more on the panel menu. Follow this pattern: New Brush > Pattern Brush > Okay.


After clicking okay, a dialog box will appear called Pattern Brush Options. From this box you can see the pattern swatches you’ve created. Scan through them to see your swatches and what you could use.
 Next, click the second tile and select the small square swatch. Make your pattern brush a stretch to fit brush by choosing the stretch to fit option.


You now have a newly created pattern brush. The next thing you need to do is create a 3x4 inches rectangle using the rectangle tool and apply the pattern brush. To apply the brush select the rectangle and click on the pattern brush.
This is now the final artwork using your newly created pattern brush.

