 This consists of two parts. You should find one part near the meter on the street side of your house. The location of the second part depends on where you live. If you live in a warm climate, look on an outside wall or in an underground box. If you’re in a colder climate, look in the basement., First, open all faucets in the house. Then, shut down both parts of the valve. Make sure that the water flow coming from the faucets stops after a few minutes. If it doesn’t, re-check both parts of the valve and tighten them as best as you can. Call a plumber if you can’t shut off the valve or if any part of the valve breaks.


If you receive well water, turn off its electrical switch to prevent the well from pumping water inside., Take this step if you have automatic outdoor watering systems that prevent you from shutting off the main water supply. Look for round or oval handles. Turn the handles clockwise (“righty tighty”) to close the valves. Shut off valves to appliances involved in significant drainage. These include:


The dishwasher
The washing machine
The ice maker on the refrigerator

Look for this valve either under the sink or in the basement., Look for leaks, rust, cracks, and other evidence of damage. If any areas are damaged, replace them with hoses coated in braided stainless steel. These are more durable than rubber hoses. Call a plumber if you need assistance., Add a battery backup to the pump in the event of a power failure. Pour water into the pit. It should drain the water by itself. If it doesn’t, make sure the pump is plugged in and the breaker is switched on. If it’s still not working:


Make sure the motor is running normally.
Check the pipe for evidence of freezing or clogging.
Clean the discharge line.
Call a plumber if all else fails., This includes the hose and the sprinkler. Disconnect everything in the winter or before the temperature in your area drops below freezing. The water inside the hose can freeze and back up into the spigot until it reaches your pipes. Any pipe that freezes can burst.


You can also replace your spigot with one that prevents the water inside the house from reaching the cold exterior. These frost-free spigots are level with the connecting pipe., You can protect it from causing problems in one of three ways:


Wrap it in foam rubber insulation.
Open the spigot to drain any excess water from the connecting pipes.
Replace it with a spigot that shuts off the supply of water to pipes in the walls., If you live in an especially cold climate, ask a plumber to inspect your work to make sure you left no loose ends. Have them also drain the water heater. For an added bit of precaution, you could also ask them to empty water left in drains and traps and replace it with non-toxic antifreeze.