 It sounds simple, but changing what you ingest daily can have a huge impact on your anxiety levels. If you notice yourself feeling anxious, panicky, or stressed every day, plan to implement at least one of these dietary changes. Rethink your consumption of the following common anxiety provokers:


Coffee. The most popular “energy drink” of all time may also be one of the leading causes of anxiety.If you drink coffee every morning, try switching to decaffeinated tea or just water for a few weeks. It may be hard to give up, but chances are you’ll see a reduction in your stress levels over this period of time.
Sugar and starch. People often see eating sugary and starchy treats (like ice cream, cookies, or pasta) as an option for stress reduction, since comfort foods temporarily provide a feeling of calm. However, the rise and fall of blood sugar that occurs after eating these foods can actually cause emotional strain and stress.Alcohol. After a stressful day at work, many unwind over a few drinks. Alcohol makes stress feel far away in the moment, but the after-effect cancels out the temporary sense of relaxation. Drink sparingly, and when you do drink, make sure to hydrate to reduce the chance of getting a very stressful hangover. ;
, Keeping yourself healthy with a balanced diet can go a long way toward stabilizing your mood. If you’re getting the right nutrients, your body will be better able to ward off anxiety during stressful situations. To avoid the negative mental-health effects of coffee, alcohol, and sugar, try replacing these foods with fruits and vegetables.


Consume more foods high in antioxidants such as blueberries and acai berries. These help to raise mood levels and lower the hormones responsible for stress.Try foods that are high in Vitamins D, B, and E, such as eggs, almonds, and salmon.
Foods high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as walnuts or flax seeds, may also help.
Foods high in minerals like magnesium, such as whole grains (pasta and bread), maca root, and seaweed.Most people do not get the recommended amount of magnesium which can results in a variety of symptom, including anxiety.
Foods and drinks that have GABA, a type of neurotransmitter that increases sleep and relaxation, should be consumed on a regular basis.Some of these include kefir (a cultured dairy product), kimchi, and oolong tea.
 Studies have shown that regular exercise relieves symptoms of everyday anxiety and also helps to treat anxiety disorders. It improves feelings of well-being both while you’re exercising and for hours afterward.Cardiovascular exercises such as running or biking as well as weight training and other muscle-building exercises all serve the purpose of reducing anxiety.


Consider giving yoga a try. The soothing atmosphere of yoga studios, and the chance to be quiet and internally-focused for an hour or so, make this physical activity particularly conducive to calming anxiety.
If the thought of exercising itself makes you anxious, try incorporating low-impact physical activity into your routines. You don’t have to play a team sport or join a gym to get enough exercise; simply walking around your neighborhood can go a long way toward boosting your mood every day., Breathing deeply and slowly will immediately decrease your stress level. Most people practice shallow chest breathing, drawing breath into their lungs and exhaling at a rapid rate. When we’re feeling stressed, we tend to breathe even more quickly, which stresses us out even more. Instead, focus on breathing from your diaphragm or belly.Your stomach should balloon up.


Breathing deeply and slowly will draw in more air than breathing through the lungs would, and also helps decrease your blood pressure, relax your muscles, and calm you down.
Try breathing in for a count of 4, holding for a count of 3, and breathing out for a count of 4. Keeping your total number of breaths to 8 or less in one minute will help to immediately reduce anxiety levels.
 Often, anxiety builds up when you don’t get a chance to detox from life’s problems. Take at least ten minutes during your day to practice a hobby or pastime which brings you peace. This may be reading, playing sports, playing music, or making art. Giving yourself an outlet will help to remove the anxiety from your mind both immediately and in the long run.


If you have a little free time, look into taking a new class in a field of interest to you. If you love jewelry, look into a local ring making class. If you’ve always wanted to learn a new language, start taking lessons from a local teacher or audit a language class at a local community college.
During the times that you are doing your favorite things, make a conscious decision to avoid thinking about your stressors.Removing them from your thoughts will allow you to enjoy your activity much more, and help prevent future ruminations.
 When you’re at home you should be totally anxiety free. Your home, and the people you love, should be your sanctuary. When you are dealing with a lot of anxiety, take some time and relax at home. Make sure that you give yourself ample time to spend with those closest to you, in happy and non-stressful scenarios.Take a hot bath, listen to calming music, and avoid anything that might worsen your anxiety.
If you’re not around anyone at your home, call a friend, or ask someone to come over. It can be comforting to spend time with people you love.
Talk to a family member or friend about how you’re feeling. Say something like, “I’ve been very anxious lately, and it’s been preventing me from feeling happy. Do you ever feel this way?”

, Vitamin D deficiency may contribute to your anxiety.The best way to increase your Vitamin D is to go outside in the sun for at least fifteen minutes a day. You can also take Vitamin D supplements if necessary., If you keep a busy schedule, bring work back with you from the office, and stress about perfecting your school papers, you’re likely often overwhelming yourself and creating more anxiety than is necessary. Keep a schedule of your necessary activities and cut everything else out for a bit. Giving yourself alone time to deal with your anxiety will help you to overcome it in the long run.


Although getting together with friends regularly is always nice, doing it too often can cause anxiety about letting them down and not having time to yourself. Spread out friend dates with plenty of time for yourself in between.

Learn to say “no” to some requests. Whether it be another commitment from work or piling on errands, turning down invites is okay from time to time.
 A lack of sleep can leave anyone feeling haggard and worn out, and it’s worse for individuals who suffer from anxiety. Insufficient sleep can cause your anxious, worried thoughts to worsen. Make sure that you’re getting 7–9 hours of sleep every night.Try going to bed and waking up at the same times every day. This will help to regulate your sleep cycle, which will help you to get better nights of sleep.
If you’re having a hard time falling or staying asleep, try using melatonin supplements. Melatonin is a hormone your body creates to help you fall asleep. You can buy the hormone in low dose pills from most health food stores.
Avoid using your phone, laptop, and television in the hour before you go to bed. These devices can inhibit healthy sleep and prevent proper melatonin production in your body because of the bright light they put off.