 Obviously, a plant that needs full sun doesn't have much of a chance in a windowless copy room, but figure out where you can put plants in your office and determine how much natural sunlight they'll get on average. However, when in doubt, low light (shade-loving) plants will do fine in most office settings (such as the top of a cubicle in the center of the floor or away from the windows). Some plants will do well if placed near the fluorescent lights in the office. If you have access to south-facing windows that offer a lot of sunlight, you'll have more flexibility in choosing plants.;
, Get an idea both of the floor or counter space and the vertical space available.
 Some plants require more maintenance than others, and sometimes it can be difficult to find time in the workday to water or prune them. Be honest with yourself in appraising how much attention you and your coworkers can give to the plant(s).
 Different plants can do different things for you. If you mainly want to brighten a space, you'll probably want a flowering plant or one with colorful, variegated leaves. If you're looking to remove as much carbon dioxide--or add as much oxygen--as possible, you should look for a green plant with a lot of leaf area. Certain plants, such as the Areca palm, Kentia palm or Dracaena 'Janet Craig' are exceptionally effective at removing airborne chemicals commonly found in offices.
 While some plants can be very expensive individually, the more plants you plan to own, the more important your budget will be. Figure out how much you want to spend purchasing the plants. Also figure out how much effort you can put into their long-term maintenance.
 Once you have your specifications, you can take them to your local garden store and ask a professional to suggest some plants that might work. You can also research plants on the internet to determine which will match your needs. Here's a short list of some commonly successful office plants to consider:


Ivy
Philodendron
Peace lilies
Spider plants
Aloe vera
Aroid palm
Wave petunias
Dragon trees
Crotons

, You can buy from your local garden store or farmers' market, or you can do your shopping online. Whichever you choose, make sure you get healthy-looking plants that are free of mold, rot and pests. This is easier to do if you can see the plants, of course, but many online stores will offer you a guarantee to offset the risk. If you have the budget you can try a company who sells plants, grown specifically for offices.
 Place a catch tray beneath the plant to collect excess water, and make sure that the base of the plant is stable. Additionally, if the plant will require frequent watering, put it somewhere that won't require you to use a ladder or chair to reach it.

