 Overweight women are significantly more likely to develop breast cancer, and, when they do, they are also significantly more likely to die. The relationship between body weight and breast cancer rates become even stronger in post-menopausal women.;
, To reap the maximum benefits, exercise strenuously for a minimum of 45 to 60 minutes at least 5 days every week. In addition to aerobic exercise, strength training is important and should be done at least twice each week.
 Drinking as little as 2 glasses of alcohol per day can increase your risk of developing breast cancer by more than 20 percent.
 If you must use HRT, do so at the lowest possible dose and discontinue use as soon as you can.
 Research has shown that oral contraceptives increase your risk of breast cancer, and that risk continues for up to 10 years after you stop taking them.
 This lowers your estrogen levels, which in turn, lowers your breast cancer risk.
 If you do smoke, quit. If you are frequently around someone who smokes, encourage them to quit. Second hand smoke can increase your risk of developing breast cancer, particularly if you are frequently exposed after you have gone through menopause.
 Vitamin D deficiencies have been correlated with an increased breast cancer risk, so it is important to make sure that your body has a sufficient amount of vitamin D. During your next physical, ask your doctor to order a test to determine your vitamin D serum level. If it is low, you can increase it by increasing sun exposure, taking a supplement, or eating foods rich in vitamin D like salmon, mackerel, and catfish.
 You can do this by installing blackout shades in the bedroom. If you use a nightlight, use a red or low-wattage bulb. If you can, avoid turning on the light when you go to the bathroom. If you must use a light, using a lower wattage will decrease the risk.
 HCAs are chemicals that form on meats cooked at extremely high temperatures. They are most often found on meats that have been grilled, barbecued, smoked, or blackened. If you must eat meat that has been prepared this way, choose leaner cuts, use a meat thermometer to avoid overcooking, and use a lower temperature when grilling. Additionally, applying an herb marinade to the meat can reduce HCA levels.
,