 Other programs allow you to obtain an undergraduate degree in any subject as long as you satisfy prerequisite courses, which typically include a fundamental accounting course, calculus, linear algebra, statistics and probability.


Check the prerequisite list of the specific program you’re interested in applying to. If you are unsure, contact the university department directly with your questions. This can help you see if the classes you took at one school will transfer to another university.
Common perquisites include linear algebra, multivariate calculus, and an understanding of integration and differentiation. An MBA-level statistics course is a good class to take as well.;
, To prepare yourself for a PhD in accounting, you’ll need at least two years of graduate-level econometrics, statistics, and mathematics.The best way to get an understanding of these topics is through a master’s degree program. While not every PhD program will require a master's degree, getting a master’s before embarking on your PhD program is the best way to prepare.


Earning a master’s will also make your university application much stronger.
In addition to earning a master’s, some programs prefer applicants to have worked or conducted research in the accounting field prior to applying. For instance, a job as a CPA or independent auditor could strengthen your understanding of the field.
 Graduate students in accounting will need to take the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT). Some programs prefer the GMAT, whereas others accept only the GRE. Other schools will take either.Check with the program you're applying to in order to find out which test you should take. Apply to the schools you're interested in as soon as possible after taking these tests; in most cases, your test scores cannot be accepted if they are more than five years old.


The GRE is a general proficiency test covering verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning, and analytical writing.The test lasts about four hours, including short breaks allowed between the test sections. There are a variety of test prep materials available for free at https://www.ets.org/gre/revised_general/prepare/. You can take either a paper-based or computer-based test, and sign up for either online at https://www.ets.org/gre/revised_general/register/centers_dates/.
The GMAT is a general proficiency test covering analytical writing, integrated reasoning, quantitative problem solving, and verbal comprehension. The exam lasts 3.5 hours.There are a variety of test prep materials available online at http://www.mba.com/us/the-gmat-exam/prepare-for-the-gmat-exam.aspx. You could also check out your local library or bookstore for GMAT handbooks and sample tests. To sign up to take the GMAT, visit https://accounts.gmac.com/Account/Register.

