 Set your oven to 425 degrees Fahrenheit (220 degrees Celsius) and allow it to preheat for at least half an hour. Make sure the oven racks are positioned in the upper third and middle of the oven, and set a pizza stone on the top rack.If you don’t have a pizza stone, use an inverted, round baking sheet instead and place it on the top rack.;
, Take your prepared pizza dough, and place it on a piece of parchment paper that’s been brushed with olive oil. Use a rolling pin to roll it out into a 10-inch (25-cm) round, using your hands to stretch if necessary, and set aside.Once you’ve shaped the dough, you may want to brush the top of it with olive oil to add some flavor to it.
 In a small bowl, combine 2 tablespoons (44 ml) of barbecue sauce with 1 teaspoon (5 ml) olive oil. Use a pastry brush to brush the mixture onto 1 8-ounce (240 g) skinless, boneless chicken breast and place in a baking dish.Before applying the barbecue sauce, season the chicken breast with salt and pepper to taste.
If you’re short on time, you can use an already-cooked rotisserie chicken from the grocery store.Shred or chop the chicken and toss it with the barbecue sauce mixture instead.
 Place the chicken in the oven on the middle rack. Allow it to bake until cooked through, which should take approximately 20 minutes. Let the chicken cool for 15 to 20 minutes, or until it’s comfortable enough to handle, and then cut into ½-inch (1.27 cm) cubes.Don’t turn the oven off after the chicken is done baking. You want to make sure that the pizza stone remains heated when it’s time to put the pizza on it.
 Cover the pizza dough with the remaining ⅓ cup (80 ml) of barbecue sauce, making sure to leave a ¾-inch (1.9 cm) border around the edges. Layer the cooked chicken, ⅔ cup (67 g) of grated smoked gouda cheese, ⅔ cup (67 g) of grated mozzarella cheese, and ½ of a small red onion that’s been thinly sliced over the sauce.Feel free to add whatever other toppings you might like to your pizza. Consider chopped red peppers or caramelized onions.
 When you’re finished preparing the pizza, use a pizza peel or an inverted baking sheet to carefully slide it onto to pizza stone. Allow the pizza to bake for approximately 20 to 25 minutes or until the cheese is melted and the crust is golden.The pizza stone will be extremely hot when you slide the pizza onto it, so take care not to burn yourself.
When the pizza is finished baking and still hot, sprinkle some fresh cilantro over the top for garnish.

