 The caveat to this, however, is that the majority of people who develop RSI are those whose livelihood depends on computer use. If this is the case for you, speak to your employer to see if there are any alternate duties you can take on for a while, instead of constant computer use.


If your pain is particularly severe, you may want to look into a leave of absence from work for a while as you recover. This may or may not be covered under your insurance.
If your work does not require a computer but you have developed RSI from excessive computer use at home, discipline yourself to spending significantly less time on your computer as you recover.
Consider meeting with friends in person, or watching shows on TV, as alternate modes of entertainment to substitute for being on your computer.;
, Make sure you have a comfortable seat to sit in while typing, to minimize stress on your shoulders and neck as you do your computer work. Also make sure that the screen is positioned so that your work is easily visible, without having to be in an awkward position to see your computer screen. Ensure that the keyboard is positioned at a comfortable height and distance from you to minimize stress and strain on your wrists as you type., Breaking up your typing pattern will help to prevent ongoing repetitive motions, all of which contribute to worsening RSI. Even getting up for 10–15 minutes can help to loosen up your muscles. An added bonus is that the mental break may also clear your thinking and allow you to be more productive when you return to the computer!


Try setting a timer to remind you to get up every hour.
 If you are finding that work is a draining environment for you emotionally and psychologically, consider speaking to your boss and/or your coworkers about strategies to reduce your stress. You may very well find that, as your mood at work increases, your pain diminishes, as a number of studies have shown this correlation.
 However, exercises releases endorphins, which are natural pain-killers in the brain. Therefore, regular exercise has been correlated with significant pain reduction throughout the body. Try swimming, riding a stationary bike, or whatever activity interests you. As long as you do it for at least 20–30 minutes, three or more times per week, and as long as it is something that gets your heart rate up and breaks a sweat, you will reap the benefits!

, People who receive treatment sooner have been shown to end up with better healing and results than those who wait to have their RSI evaluated by a professional.

