 In order to ride legally in Vietnam, you'll need a valid Vietnam motorcycle license, ownership papers for the motorcycle you're riding, and insurance, which you can buy cheaply from the same agent where you got your license.;
, Check online at sites like Craigslist or Travelswop, which also has information about the more common bikes available in Vietnam.
 Just bear in mind that they will add their commission on, so don’t pay too much. Buying from a dealer in secondhand bikes doesn’t guarantee anything either. Make sure you check the bike thoroughly before buying even from someone who appears honest and reputable.


There are a few people trading bikes in Saigon and Hanoi due to the popularity of the route, not all of them are honest! However choosing the ones with a good online reputation can save you gambling and buying the wrong bike from a backpacker.
 In terms of budget, you should be able to get a suitable steed for $300 US. Don't spend much more than this on something secondhand as it will generally be overpriced unless it’s very new. Bikes in the 50 to 125cc range, larger capacity bikes are available but unless you have the appropriate Vietnamese motorbike license, you will draw unwanted attention from the police.
 Does it look clean? Is anything hanging off? Paint jobs range from clean to Hammerite with a brush but will you be able to sell it again? If it looks like its been through the wars, then the next potential owner will spot that too and probably walk away or offer peanuts.
 Is it straight? Any suspicious looking welding? A small amount of surface rust is OK but have a good poke at areas of rust that look like they have been painted over with a pen or similar prodding device. If the pen goes through anywhere, then walk away.
 What are the tyres like? Do they have tread on them? Are they inflated? Check on the sides of the tyre for any cracks or bits missing.
 Do the electronics work? Check everything twice, front light (dipped and main beam), back light (headlight on and brake light), indicators, horn, started motor (if fitted).
 Does the suspension work smoothly, you should be able to bounce the bike without hearing any strange noises. The suspension should return to the extended position after being pressed down without any subsequent bouncing.
 Any strange noises? Is the acceleration smooth and progressive? Does the bike cruise ok on a constant throttle? Lights, indicators and horn still working?


Also grab the wheel at each side when checking bearings and alternately try to rock it (pull with one hand and push with the other) do this for both front and back wheels.
Check the rubbers here for any movement this can lead to loose handlebars while riding it makes the upper pinch bolts come loose too.
 If you find any minor issues then politely tell the seller about them and factor them into your offer price. Here is a small price guide (in VND).

Front tyre – 120,000
Rear tyre – 150,000
Oil change – 80,000
Small wiring fix e.g. headlight not working – 20,000
Rear wheel hub – 250,000
Wheel bearings (per wheel) – 50,000
Indicator – 30,000
Inline fuel filter and carb clean – 70,000

, Unlike the UK you don’t need to transfer the bike into your name. You should receive a blue ownership card (usually laminated) when you hand over the cash, ask to see it beforehand and make sure all the details match the bike in question.


If you don’t have this card and the police stop you or you are involved in an incident then you will need to pay a hefty bribe or your bike will be confiscated.
Keep it on your person at all times when you are riding your bike. It should look like this and DO NOT be fobbed off with anything else, being offered something that looks different with an explanation like ‘This is the old type of paper’ is rubbish.

