 Flip for the best location. The team with the winning coin toss gets the uphill location, or better vantage point. The other team has to make do with the other location. Keep both locations within throwing distance though, to keep things fun.


Try to find a spot uphill from your opponent's fort. Throwing downhill is easier than throwing uphill. It is also easier to defend an upward spot from invasions because the enemy has to climb uphill. If you want to invade the enemy's fortification you can slide downhill, throwing snow balls, rather than climbing up. Generally speaking, uphill is better.
Alternatively, both build on a flat spot. At least you're equal in advantage then.;
, This is done by shoveling snow into a large pile on the top of the location.
 With shovels and your hands, push the snow together to make a more solid front wall. The head will be hit the most by snowballs so it needs to be strong. The final product should have a head almost as tall as you and double as wide as all the players.
 On each side, pile up snow a bit lower than the head. The sides will be important in case of an invasion.
 Just as you packed the front wall, pack the side walls. The side walls should each be up to your waist. The taller the better.
 In part of your fortress, dig enough snow out to hold a good amount of snowballs. The more you have already made, the faster you can aim at your opponent.
 The water will freeze, creating a layer of ice around the fort which strengthens it.
 You could add team colors as banners, shields or signs.

Consider awarding prizes for best built and best decorated fortress. These prizes could form part of the "booty" to be stolen during the snow battle.
, Work out the method for attacking one another. This is just about tossing snowballs at each other, it's also about taking the fortress of the opposing team. This means that you'll need rules for invasion, including whether it's okay to destroy a fortress (or not).

Have a points system for snowball hits on people and on the fortress. For example, every 5 snowball hits could equal a major injury and the team player has to sit it out for five minutes, or 10 hits is fatal and the player has to go inside and make hot chocolate for everyone. Or, fifteen hits to the fortress could be considered damage. Come up with your own preferred rules, or perhaps play for a bit to find out what works best, then make the rules.
Have a points system or rules for invasion of the fortress (for example, only one person inside could mean one point while having the whole opposing team inside means the fortress is now lost).
Don't physically destroy either snow fortress if you want to play the game again. When you've all decided you're sick of it though, actual fortress destruction could form part of the last game played. Be careful to ensure that nobody is inside when the fortress is dismantled.
 You could take turns in making and ferrying snowballs, then throwing them. This gives everyone a chance to play different roles.,