


Turn off your iMac and remove the power cord and all other cables from the computer. This will prevent you from being electrically shocked as you install the RAM.
Allow the iMac to sit for at least 10 minutes after you turn off the computer. This will allow the hot, or warm internal parts of your iMac to cool down completely before you install the RAM.
Spread a soft, clean towel across your flat work surface, then gently lay your iMac face down on the towel. This will prevent your screen from becoming scratched during the RAM installation process.;
,


Use a Phillips-head screwdriver to remove the RAM compartment door from the bottom of your iMac. The RAM compartment door is shaped like a long, thin rectangle and is located directly below your iMac's raised stand.
Set aside the RAM compartment door, then examine the compartment to locate tabs or ejector clips. If you are using an iMac model from the year 2007 and later, there will be tabs to secure the RAM into the compartment. If you are using an iMac model from 2006, there will be ejector clips on either side of the memory compartment.
"Untuck" the 2 memory compartment tabs by gently pulling them down. If an existing RAM SO-DIMM card is already in place, you will see 1 tab below the SO-DIMM card that can be pulled to remove the existing RAM. If there are ejector clips, open them by placing your thumbs on the inside section of the clips, then pull them out and away from the inside of the memory compartment door.



Insert the RAM into the memory compartment with the "key-way," or "memory modules" on the RAM facing up. You will hear a small click from the memory compartment after the RAM has been inserted properly.

Replace the tabs you untucked earlier by pulling them back into place over the new RAM you inserted. If there are ejector clips, close them by pushing the clips inside toward the new RAM.

Use the Phillips-head screwdriver to replace the door of the memory compartment.
Place your iMac in its normal upright position, reattach all the cables and power cords, then power the computer back on.
 After you have inserted the new RAM into your iMac, you can verify that it has been properly installed and can be recognized by your computer.


Wait for the desktop to load and display after you have powered the iMac back on.
Click on "Apple" from the menu bar in the upper-left corner, then select "About This Mac." You will then see the total memory for your iMac, which should be significantly larger depending on the amount of RAM you installed.
