 Getting into a calm state of mind before you even leave your house can help you to stay calm during the party. Set aside at least 15 minutes before the party to do something that is relaxing for you. Some things you can try include:Deep breathing
Progressive muscle relaxation
Yoga
Meditation
A relaxing bath;
, Even a few minutes away from the holiday party can help you cope with your anxiety by separating you from what is stressing you. It will give you the time, quiet, and space you need to calm down.Step outside for a moment or two. Try saying, “I’ll be right back. I need just a moment.”
If you need to, make an excuse like, “I’m just running to the car to grab my phone charger. I’ll be right back inside.”
Go to another quieter room like the bathroom for just a few minutes to calm yourself down.
 Deep breathing can help lower your heart rate and blood pressure and decrease other signs of stress and anxiety.When you feel yourself becoming anxious, take a few breaths to calm yourself and help you cope with what is going on.


You can inhale slowly through your nose. Try to feel the breath in your stomach. Hold it for a few seconds. Then slowly exhale through your mouth.
Repeat this as many times as you need to. Try to focus on your breathing and nothing else when you are doing it.
 There is a respectable amount of research that suggests that using mindfulness techniques can reduce anxiety and help during an anxiety attack. These strategies can help you cope by allowing you to acknowledge your anxiety without becoming overwhelmed by it.Try to focus only on what and how you are feeling. Give each sensation a name or label, but don’t judge it as good or bad.
For example, you might think to yourself, “I’m feeling really nervous and my stomach feels queasy. It’s not bad or good, it’s just how I feel.”
Allow the feelings and sensations to pass without trying to stop them or rush them to end. Notice when they start to go away and let them.
For instance, you might think, “I’m feeling a little less nervous and my stomach feels completely better. My anxiety is going away.”

, These are not a good way to cope with your anxiety when you are at a holiday party.You might think getting drunk or using drugs will make you feel more comfortable or friendlier, but in the end, you could end up embarrassing yourself or hurting yourself or someone else.

