 Even when you are experiencing negative thoughts, try to start up a conversation with your husband. Begin by discussing trivial matters like the day’s plans, etc. Keeping the conversation lines open will allow you to develop additional trust in your husband.


In addition to the small things, make sure that you talk about important matters such as finances. Being the sole financial planner in a relationship can foster resentment. To begin a conversation, you might say, “Tonight after dinner let’s talk about what our bills look like for the next month.”If you feel yourself about to say something negative and potentially harmful, count to five in your head. This will usually give you time to cool down.
 Misinterpretation and miscommunication is a problem in many marriages. It is possible that some of your negative feelings stem from communication errors between you and your husband. Make sure to ask what your husband means if you are unclear. Don’t just assume the worst.You might say, “I’m not sure what you mean. Explain it a bit more.” Ask how he feels and what he thinks about various scenarios. Tell him how you feel/what you think.
 Practice gratitude on a daily basis. Make a point to say “thank you” at least once a day to your husband. If you recognize his efforts, he will start to appreciate you more as well. Express gratitude for even the little moments. If he helps you find a book you were looking for, say “thank you.” , Go to someone you trust and who will keep private whatever you tell them. Explain your negative feelings, giving specific examples. Discuss possible solutions and ways to improve your situation. You may find that your situation is not all that unusual.


Try to be specific about the issues if you can. Instead of just saying, “We don’t get along,” you might explain, “We don’t go out and do things together like we used to.” Your friend might suggest more outings as a possible solution.
 Going to see a counselor by yourself or with your husband is a great option if you need a safe space to discuss your feelings or need an unbiased party to mediate discussions. Find a marriage counselor in your area by searching online for “marriage counseling.” Read online reviews to find the best fit for you.


Counseling is particularly helpful if you and your husband experienced a traumatic event. A counselor can help you move forward from the blaming process.

