 There may be a strong urine smell in your home due to your cat’s litter box or due to your cat marking spots in your house. Tackle the urine odor by using a cleaner made of white vinegar. Put one part water and one part white vinegar in a spray bottle. Then, spray the cleaner on spots in your home that smell of urine. Let the vinegar evaporate, taking the urine smell with it.For large areas that smell of urine in your home, you can apply a clean cloth soaked in the vinegar cleaner.
For carpeted areas, you can use a carpet cleaner filled with the vinegar cleaner to remove urine odor.;
, An enzymatic cleaner contains enzymes that break down pet smells, such as urine odor. Removing these enzymes will also discourage your cat from marking these spots again. Look for enzymatic cleaners at your local pet store or online. Follow the instructions on the label to apply it to spots with pet odors in your home.Do not use an enzymatic cleaner with other cleaning products. The ingredients in other cleaning products can weaken the potency of the enzymatic cleaner.
 Another way you can remove cat odors is to use an all natural air freshener made with baking soda. Combine 1 teaspoon baking soda with 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon ground cloves, and 1 cup dried herbs like rosemary or lavender. Sprinkle the cleaner on your carpet or on furniture that has a smell. Let it sit for at least an hour and then vacuum it up.Keep the air freshener on hand so you can sprinkle it on smelly spots in your home as needed. It is a great finishing touch after you have wiped up any cat urine or feces in your home as it will get rid of any lingering smells.
 If your house reeks of cat doors and regular cleaners are not working, get a professional cleaning done. Hire a professional carpet cleaner to address any cat related stains or smells on your carpets. Have a professional floor cleaner come in to get rid of smells on hardwood or tile. Most professional cleaners will be well versed in removing cat related odors in a home.

