 It's easy to blame the third party, whether that person is the unassuming partner of your beloved, the interloper to an existing relationship, or even a faithful, monogamous spouse. However, it's likely that your anger is based in rationalization of your own actions.Your anger may also be covering up shame, guilt, confusion, and other hurt feelings.


Write your feelings in a journal, where you are safe to explore your emotions without hurting another person.
It's okay to cry, or to hit something soft, when your feelings are overwhelming. This doesn't mean that you're wrong, weak or bad. It just means you're human.
You're allowed to take time apart from the person with whom you're angry. Sometimes a short walk around the block will suffice. Other times, you may need a weekend or more apart.
 Feelings of guilt and worthlessness are common among all parties involved in a love triangle. When these feelings arise, don't allow them to consume you. Instead, notice that they're present, and let them go.


Remember that it's your actions that matter in dealing with a love triangle. Your feelings are likely to change, but your actions can impact yourself and others forever.
A lot of anger comes from mourning events that have not yet come to pass. For example, thinking about lonely holidays yet to come, or being alone in old age, can be the source of much suffering. Remember that none of us can actually predict the future, and no matter what it looks like now, your life circumstances are still a work in progress.
 The single largest predictor of affairs is opportunity, according to experts.If you don't want to participate in another love triangle, you may wish to look the factors that tend to encourage them.


People whose work involves a great deal of travel away from home and family report higher levels of extramarital activity. Work-related travel often causes a person to miss their partner as and provides an opportunity to meet new people.Situations that reduce self-control, such as drinking or drug use, frequently increases the likeliness of participating in a love triangle.
 While it is difficult to move on from a relationship, it is possible. You’ll want to recognize that the relationship is over and while you will feel terribly, the hurt won’t last forever.Don’t prolong the pain by not accepting that your relationship is over.
Focusing on the future by not ruminating on the past will help you to move forward.
 Talking to someone about your problems can make you feel better. Therapists are professionally-trained listeners. Seeing one can help you get to the root of your problems, overcome emotional obstacles, and make positive changes.If you feel you may have an addiction to sexual relationships, consider joining a 12-step program or a mental health therapist to help you better understand your behavior.
If you find yourself feeling violent as a result of a love triangle, immediately seek professional help from a therapist

