 Your parents want to help you and support you. If you are struggling, consider asking your parents for help and guidance.They may share how things were difficult for them when they were your age, and what helped get them through difficult times at school.
 There may be other kids at school who feel similar to you. If you know other kids that are struggling, reach out to them. Maybe they have been bullied, had rumors spread, or are having a hard time adjusting. Whatever it is, offer your friendship to other people that struggle and show them that you understand and are there for them.


If several of your friends feel bullied by someone, approach the person altogether. There’s strength in numbers, and standing in unity will show that you are strong together.
 Especially if people are mean to you at school, talk to an adult at your school that you trust. You may just want to talk about the situation, or seek some action toward the people hurting you. Even if talking about it doesn’t change the situation, it can change how you feel.You can also talk to a coach, friend’s parent, or spiritual leader.
 If you struggle deeply at school and feel like nothing you do will make it better, ask your parents about seeing a therapist. A therapist can help you work through the emotions you have, find ways to cope with negative feelings, and help you become more self-aware.Seeing a therapist doesn’t mean you’re “crazy” or incapable of handling your own problems. It just means you’re reaching out for help from someone who’s been trained to support you and help you grow.
 Even if it feels really hard, remind yourself that you deserve to be treated with respect, by other people and most importantly, by yourself.You are worthy and valuable, no matter how people treat you. Remember that other people’s perceptions of you doesn’t make up your identity, you choose who you are. Above all, treat yourself kindly. When you emotionally beat yourself up (“I’m so stupid” or “nobody likes me”), be your own best friend and stick up for yourself.


Find ways to respond to your negative thoughts in a way that makes them untrue. If you think, “I’m stupid”, think of all the things that make you smart, and it doesn’t have to be school. You may be smart in math, or in building things, or problem solving difficult situations.

