 After the turkey has finished roasting, measure out ¼ cup (60 ml) of the pan drippings and place it in a medium saucepan. Turn the heat until medium-high and allow the pan to warm.It’s very important to measure the drippings carefully. If you don’t add enough, the gravy will wind up lumpy.;
, Add ¼ cup (31 g) all-purpose flour to the drippings. Use a wire whisk to incorporate the flour, stirring constantly. Move the whisk quickly to ensure that the flour and drippings are fully blended and there are no lumps. Allow the gravy to cook for 2 to 3 minutes or until the mixture is smooth and bubbling slightly.








Make sure to stir the gravy constantly while it’s cooking to prevent lumps.
While the gravy shouldn’t have lumps, it will be very thick and gloppy at this stage. It will take on a thinner consistency when you add liquid to it.
 Stir 2 cups (470 ml) of chicken or turkey broth into the drippings and flour mixture. Adjust the heat to high, and allow the gravy to come to a boil, making sure to stir constantly.








In addition to chicken or turkey broth, you can use turkey juice or water as the liquid to thin out the gravy. In fact, you can use any combination of the liquids that add up to 2 cups (470 ml).
 Once the gravy comes to a boil, allow it to cook through for 1 minute. Be sure to stir the pan with the whisk the entire time, though, so lumps don’t form.








The gravy should thicken up as it cooks, so if you aren’t happy with the consistency, allow it to cook a little longer.
 When the gravy has thickened properly, add a few drops of browning sauce, ½ teaspoon (2.84 g) of salt, and ½ teaspoon (2.5 g) of pepper, and stir until well blended. Taste the gravy, and see if you want to add any more of the sauce, salt, or pepper., Once you’re happy with the flavor of the gravy, remove it from the heat and transfer it to a gravy boat or other serving bowl. Serve it alongside the turkey, mashed potatoes, and stuffing.The gravy will last up to a week in the refrigerator and 3 months in the freezer. Make sure to reheat over low heat and whisk it periodically while it heats to prevent it from separating.

