 Though some of these platforms may have a large word count, the most effective profiles will still be concise and to the point.


Facebook: An “About You” section, including the freeform “Write About Yourself” prompt, Work and Education, “Professional Skills” area, and “Favorite Quotations” section. There is no cap on word count.
Twitter: A 160-character bio, plus space for a link and your location.
LinkedIn: A headline section and a summary section. There is also a section for your resume and skills.;
, Look up several social media profiles on several platforms that use a limited word count to their advantage.


Hillary Clinton’s Twitter profile: “Wife, mom, lawyer, women & kids advocate, FLOAR, FLOTUS, US Senator, SecState, author, dog owner, hair icon, pantsuit aficionado, glass ceiling cracker, TBD ....” In 160 characters, Clinton has managed to include factual details about herself as well as humorous details. Her profile is informative but also entertaining and unique.A short but sweet Facebook profile: Scroll through your friends’ Facebook profiles and look for examples that avoid rambling on in their “About You” section and the “Write About Yourself” prompt. If a friend is trying to create a professional profile on Facebook (which is smart, as employers may do a Facebook search), notice if she uses appropriate content that is still interesting and personal. Ask yourself: if I didn’t already know this person, would I want to be friends with her based on their Facebook profile?
A LinkedIn profile by Corporate Communications specialist: “Even though I am a PR person by trade, I’ll always be a reporter at heart. I’m incapable of pitching something I myself don’t believe in. I have a passion for uncovering unique and compelling ways that people are using a product, service, or site and revel in knowing that I can help thousands of people tell their story.” This introductory paragraph is specific, assertive, and professional. But the author also includes personal details about herself to add some personality to the introduction., Most personal profiles for social media sites like Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Google+ only allow you to use a limited number of characters to describe yourself. So it's important to maximize your word count and KISS - Keep It Simple Sweetie.


A good personal profile for a site like Twitter, with its emphasis on short, brief tweets, can almost become a postmodern work of art.Though it can be challenging to cram your persona into a very small profile, think of it like a copywriting exercise. Or an attempt at a six-word memoir.
 Start by making a list of your basic information, like your name, what you do (or what you’re good at), where you live, and any links or tags to other social media sites, like your blog. Remember that readers want to know what they can expect for your social media account and what value you will bring to their Newsfeed, Twitterfeed, or LinkedIn feed.


If you are creating a profile for Twitter, be sure to include any other handles for any other Twitter accounts you also own. For example, if you are creating a profile for your personal Twitter, but also run a Twitter account for your business, include a handle (@ExampleCompany) at the end of your Twitter profile.
For example, a basic Twitter bio could be: “Jane Doe, writer based in California. Also tweets for ABC press @ABCPress”.
 How much or how little personal details you include in your profile will depend on the social media platform you are writing the bio for. Often, social media profiles work well when they have a sense of humor.This could mean a witty descriptor, like Hillary Clinton’s “pant suit aficionado” note, or self-deprecating humor, like a writer who “is sorry/not sorry about correcting your grammar” or a student who is “addicted to caffeine in all its forms.”
Facebook does not have limited space, so you can expand quite a bit on your interests and your background. If you’re creating a professional Facebook profile, it could read very similar to your LinkedIn profile or your Twitter profile. Don’t be afraid to reuse a well-written profile on another site.
Twitter does have limited space, so you will want to say to most you can in the fewest words. You could keep your profile short, such as: “Jane Doe, writer based in California. Also tweets for ABC Press @ABCPress.” Or you could expand it to include personal tastes and some humor, such as: “Jane Doe, word junkie, living the dream in California. Find more of my witty (but clean) tweets @ABCPress.”

, Now that you have your basic information, edit it so it has some personality. But try to stay away from buzzwords, which are words that are considered overused by most readers.


LinkedIn recently put out a list of the buzzwords to avoid.The danger of using buzzwords, such as “responsible”, “creative”, or “efficient” in your profile is that you end up sounding generic or boring.
Think about other terms or phrases that are more specific to who you are. For example, in the Corporate Communications LinkedIn bio, the author avoids buzzwords by expanding on her personal approach to PR: “I have a passion for uncovering unique and compelling ways that people are using a product, service, or site and revel in knowing that I can help thousands of people tell their story.” This is a more compelling sentence than: “I am a responsible, creative PR person who can get the job done.”, If you’re creating a profile for a personal social media account, you could include humor, slang, and catch phrases. If you’re creating a profile for a professional social media account, you may want to be more formal and polished with your language. It’s important to tailor your bio to your audience, and think about how you want your followers or readers to view you.For example, a Twitter bio for your personal account could be: “Jane Doe, word addict, lover of West Coast living, 24/7 sun, and tacos. Also in charge of witty tweets for ABC Press @ABCPress.”
A Twitter bio for a professional page may be more formal. However, most professionals on Twitter still keep their tone pretty casual and light. For example: “Jane Doe, word enthusiast, based in California, also tweets for ABC Press @ABCPress.”

, As your skills, interests, and expertise evolve, so should your bio. Check it every few months to make sure it still reflects you.Revising your bio to include sharper, funnier descriptions and language can also help you get more readers and followers. Paying attention to your personal profile on social media will also show your current followers that you care about how you present yourself, and can do it well.

