 Take into consideration every factor of the process from beginning to end:


Resource restraints (budget and timing)
Style research
Fitting
Practice;
, You don't want to set yourself up for disappointment by setting unrealistic standards for your current situation.


Make a budget range for your dream dress to fall within.

Be sure that the amount isn't too high that it causes you undue stress, but not to low as to severely hamper your ability to choose something that is going to represent you at your very best!
Keep in mind the cost of alterations when planning your budget- this cost is many times overlooked, but is very important. Also budget in for accessories you will need- shoes, jewelry, undergarments, etc.


Do you have a very small or no budget? Prepare to get creative! You may have to compromise on some points depending on how stringent your resources are, but you can still pull off a fabulous look. Check out the tips section for more ideas.
Once you've established a comfortable figure, have an idea of a time frame for your purchase- for example, if your pageant is in May, plan to purchase your gown at least one month beforehand in April, allowing time for a fitting preparations and time for you to practice walking in it. This also allows you the time to create a budget goal if you are saving up for the gown.

Example time frame for a pageant on May 30th:

January- Set budget and timing plan, begin style research
February- Complete style specifics and begin gown hunting
March- Narrow down your dress choices and search for the best place to purchase with the most value to you
April- Purchase your gown and assess further changes you need to make
May- Practice walking, sitting, and moving in your gown, schedule dates for consultation and last minute fitting no more than a week before your pageant
May 30th- Rock the stage in your signature style!





, To do well in the Evening Gown competition, the key is knowing yourself well enough to find your ideal signature style, then revealing to the judges your poise and confidence. To do that, you must first establish a gown style that is unique to you.


To reveal your gown style, ask yourself these questions:

Which of my physical features make me feel great/unique/special and how can I make them pop? Have great shoulders? Choose a strapless or one shoulder gown! Amazing legs? A gown with a higher slit would be gorgeous on you! You get the idea- choose your favorite features and plan to play them up. Take into consideration your skin tone, hair style, and preferred make-up combination as well.
What are some circumstances of competition that may affect my gown choice? Are you competing in a Teen, Miss or Mrs. pageant? Teens may be more trendy, Mrs. may remain a little more conservative, where the Miss may be more fashion forward and risk taking. If you are unsure, don't be afraid to ask your pageant director or mentor for his or her thoughts on this.
Take into consideration the atmosphere when choosing your gown-

Where is the pageant being held- an auditorium, banquet hall, or outside? A bright color or white may be a good choice for on stage- black curtains can make a dark gown disappear, or nudes could wash out your skin tone.
Think of the season and time of year. Is it a Spring pageant? Winter? Try to choose a gown to fit the general mood as well as your style and attributes.
Consider your back-stage needs and make it as easy on yourself as possible. Pageants usually have very quick changes with little room and few hands to help. Dresses with a complicated corset or special requirements end up stressing you out and could even cause a last minute wardrobe malfunction. Choose a gown that is "easy-in, easy-out" or be sure of your ability to recruit the help you need to make the smoothest transition on stage.


Do your homework. Arm yourself with the information you need to make the best decision. After you've narrowed down your budget, atmosphere, and features to flaunt,  it all comes down to your own personal sense of style to make your "gown profile". Need help narrowing it down? Here are a few ideas:

Think of your "signatures." Do you have certain aspects of your style that make you you? A favorite flattering color? A penchant for sparkle? Choosing something meaningful in your dress gives you that one-of-a-kind feeling and will give you that "it" factor on the big day.
Poll your Mom, Sister, friends, or whoever else may give you some insight into your style. Ask them their impression of your style and what flatters you. Remember to stay true to yourself, but honest, straight forward advice from people you trust may open your eyes to things you may not have considered. Chose one or two of these confidantes to go gown shopping with you! Supportive, patient helpers are a godsend!
Get to your style source! Choose celebrities whom you admire for their style and search for photos of them at award shows or red carpet events. Search actresses or models who have similar features as you, and see how they accentuate their look. Browse blogs or fashion magazines for inspiration.
Google it! That's right- time to browse! Search around for the options that fit your gown profile. Depending upon your above-mentioned stipulations, many websites selling gowns have handy search features to filter your choices by price, color, style, and trend. Don't be afraid to browse a little outside of your profile- you may be surprised by a color or cut you hadn't thought of. Locate stores near you that carry prom, bridal, and occasion wear. Most of these stores have online inventories or have links to the designers they carry.


Go shopping around. Take your confidant or go solo and actually put some gowns on. Feel how different styles and fabrics fit you. Move in them- walk, sit, stretch- make sure they are comfortable and fit correctly. Most importantly, bring with you heels and a bra and undies you may possibly wear the day of. Good undergarments make all the difference! Make notes of your experiences, and take note of the dress size, designer, and style number, located on the tag. Make yourself a master list of dresses and try to narrow them down to your top two choices. Remember to be a confidant, considerate shopper. You have come prepared, and you are the one ultimately wearing this gown!

 In the experience of some, sales ladies and gents can be extremely helpful or hurtful, and everywhere in between. It is suggested only working with those you are comfortable with. You are well within your rights to say "No thanks, I think I am okay browsing on my own for now. Is it alright to ask for you when I find something I like?" A good salesperson will give you your space and attend to needs like helping you find another size, color, or style you like. They can also use dressing clips to show you how a dress might look if altered or give you suggestions.
Never feel pushed or pressured into a gown you aren't head-over-heels about. Chances are, this is an investment for you. Why let someone else spend your money for you on something they aren't wearing?
Always be polite and courteous to everyone who (tries to) help you- you may even make a new friend or great contact for future wardrobe purchases!





, Choose that gown that makes you feel the most special, fits your body correctly, and emulates your style and best features. Shop around online and in-store to find the best value for your budget and go for it!

, At least once per week, get in that dress to check for fit, and take it for a walk in a clean, flat surfaced environment. Be aware of a long train, floating skirt, or anything that may impede your pageant walk. Practice walking at a much slower pace than usual. When you are finally on stage, it feels like an eternity up there, but you are giving the judges the MOST time to admire you! Also, train your feet in your heels by wearing them whenever possible and practicing walks and turns. This is to make you feel as at ease as you possibly can be come pageant time!

, Once your gown is purchased, you are probably nearing the one month marker for pageant day. You are amping up your fitness routine to look your very best for the competition. This means that your size is likely to change between now and then.


Search around your area for a seamstress who is knowledgeable about formal wear alterations and schedule an initial fitting to speak about where the dress will need altered closer to the pageant day. Remember to bring your undergarments and heels!
Make the last minute changes to your gown at your last fitting within 5-7 days of pageant day. Pick up your final fitted dress, pressed and ready, and lay it flat when transporting it to the pageant. Hang it up immediately upon arrival and bring a steamer with you to get out last minute wrinkles.
 Seriously, you put so much care and effort into looking like your very best you- present yourself as if you were born to wear your dream gown and take their breath away! Give the judges your best eye contact and smile. Breathe and begin your slow, confident, graceful walk, sweeping your dream gown effortlessly across the stage. Don't forget to look over your shoulder while turning and exit, knowing you did your ultimate best!

