 This will teach your child to decorate and associate fun experiences, rather than possessions, with the holidays.
 Go outside in the fall and gather large pine cones. These can be saved for many other craft projects.


Set up a craft station on a low table or by placing a blanket over the floor. Place 1 cup of white rice in a small plastic bag. Add 10 drops of green food coloring and 1 tsp. of water. Shake the bag. Place it on some wax paper to dry for 10 minutes.
Give your child glue and a craft stick and tell them to cover the entire pine cone with glue. They should have fun and get fairly messy. Your child will need to wash their hands before the next step.
Hold the pine cone over a paper plate. Let your child sprinkle green rice all over the surfaces while you hold it. Don't stop until every surface has been covered. Shake the pine cone off to get rid of extra rice. Let your pine cone dry for 10 minutes.
Take a snack break and return to decorate your tree. Glue on sequins for ornaments. Use silver pipe cleaners for tinsel. You can also use ribbons, buttons or candy to add extra embellishment. Let it dry and display it.
 This is an excellent craft that can be done in the kitchen with kids of any age. You will need to cook a package of spaghetti ahead of time.


Lay down a cloth or drop cloth for easy clean up. Get out black paint and paintbrushes. Paint a paper plate black. Let the paint dry while you get the spaghetti and spider ready.
Place the spaghetti in a bowl and cover it with 1/2 cup glue and 1/2 cup white paint. Mix it well. This will form your spider web. Use less glue and paint, with a ratio of 1 to 1, if you make a small batch of spaghetti.
Take black pipe cleaners and loop them until you have a spider with 8 legs. You may need to cut the pipe cleaners into smaller pieces.
Have your child pick up spaghetti strands 1 by 1 and lay them on the black paper plate. Your child can choose any design they like. When they are finished, place the spider on top of the gluey spaghetti and let it dry overnight.

