 In order to make an informed decision you first need to think about the different options you have. Know that people who chose an abortion versus another type of option, fare about the same in general in terms of psychological outcome.Write down or think about your options. For example, you can choose to: parent, put the child up for adoption (open or closed), sign over guardianship to a family member or someone close to you, or you can terminate your pregnancy. Weigh your situation with these options.
Write down the pros and cons of each, including practical issues and your own emotions.;
, Some people cannot stand the idea of abortion, some are ambivalent, and others believe it is a human right. You may be anywhere along the spectrum. It is also important to consider your own feelings towards being a parent. Your thoughts and feelings are important.Do you have strong religious views about abortion?
How do you feel about other people who have abortions?
Do you feel ready to be a parent?
If you keep the pregnancy, would you want to be able to see the baby?
Would you be okay with people knowing, and potentially judging you, if you aborted the pregnancy?

, Envision different futures for yourself: one in which you keep the pregnancy and the baby, one in which you carry the pregnancy and then put the baby up for adoption, one in which you terminate the pregnancy, et cetera.Can you afford to have a child?
What would be your future, and your family's future, if you had a child?
Are you willing to tell a parent or go before a judge if your state requires it?
Can you psychologically handle an abortion? Could you handle it with extra support?
Can you psychologically handle being pregnant?

, Support will help you weigh your options and prepare for whatever choice you want.Support helps you feel more confident in your ability to deal with the situation.Whether it’s a parent, a friend, a mentor, a clergy member, or a counselor, you need someone to be able to turn to for comfort and support.


Get support from your partner, if you have one.
Get support from parents if possible.
You do not need to people who aren’t supportive. Individuals who try to get support from people who are not supportive have more psychological distress.(If you are 18 or over, you are not obligated to tell anyone.)Find support elsewhere if you do not get it from your partner or parents. Try talking to friends or siblings.
 If you found out you are pregnant by using an at-home pregnancy test, you may want to confirm you are pregnant by seeing a doctor. If you haven’t decided on whether or not you want to terminate the pregnancy, you can learn more information to help you make your decision.


Ask a lot of questions at your initial appointment.
Every Planned Parenthood has staff members trained to discuss your concerns., People who have an easier time making the decision, who are content with the choice, and who terminate unwanted pregnancies, show an easier time dealing with the abortion process.Take time to think about it. A hasty decision may be one you regret.Take time to weigh the options and settle on what you think is best.
 Abortion is a largely safe procedure, with only about 1% of people experiencing complications.Most people do not experience significant psychological consequences following an abortion, but a few do.The risk of psychological harm increases when there are other stressors or mental health issues that exist.


Know your mental health history. If you have a history of emotional problems, you may have a harder time dealing with an unwanted pregnancy or abortion.
Identify other stressors in your life. If you have low financial ability, you may have a more difficult time dealing with the effects of an abortion.
Understand your support network. If you have experienced domestic or partner violence, or do not have an adequate support system, you also may have a more difficult time.
Personality characteristics can also influence the psychological outcome of an abortion. Individuals who do not have healthy ways of coping may experience more distress.