 Most mild cases of folliculitis will eventually go away on their own. However, it's possible to speed this process by taking good care of the infected area. Twice a day, use a gentle antibacterial soap to cleanse the infected area and kill any folliculitis-causing bacteria.Rinse and dry with a clean, dry washcloth or towel.


Be sure to wash gently. Don't use a harsh soap or scrub roughly - these things can irritate the area, worsening any redness and inflammation.
If you happen to have folliculitis on your face, choose an antibacterial soap that's specifically labeled for facial use. These are often gentler than run-of-the-mill antibacterial soaps.;
, Also known as Burow's solution, aluminum acetate is an astringent and antibacterial that is commonly used as a cheap over-the-counter treatment for a variety of minor skin conditions. Aluminum acetate can be used to kill folliculitis-causing bacteria and to reduce swelling in the infected area, lessening irritation and speeding recovery.To use Burow's solution, simply dissolve one packet in the recommended amount of warm water. Soak a clean washcloth in the aluminum acetate solution, wring it out, and then apply to the affected area gently. Hold the washcloth there, intermittently wetting the cloth in the acetate solution as needed.
When done, clean out the receptacle used for the aluminum acetate and run the washcloth under cool water. Do not re-use the washcloth; clean and dry it thoroughly before re-using.
 Believe it or not, oatmeal has long been used as an ingredient in home remedies for skin irritations due to its anti-itching properties. Try soaking your body (or just the affected area) in a homemade oatmeal bath or covering the area with an oatmeal lotion. Enjoy the gentle soothing sensation of your oatmeal cure, but, to avoid aggravating your folliculitis further, avoid prolonged exposure to even these mild solutions.


As above, be sure to use a clean towel or washcloth to gently dry the affected area.
 Warm compresses are rags or other absorbent materials soaked in warm liquid and held against the affected area to sooth irritation, promote drainage, and speed the healing process. Using salt water for your compress conveys an added antibacterial benefit (albeit a minor one). To create a salt water compress, first dissolve a few spoonfuls of table salt in a cup or two of warm water. Soak a clean cotton ball or washcloth in the salt water and hold it gently against the affected area.


Apply twice a day — once in the morning, once at night.
 Minor skin ailments like folliculitis are easy targets for a wide variety of holistic or "natural" cures. Some practitioners swear by these types of cures, though they are often not supported by the medical establishment. If you decide to use a holistic cure, use common sense - don't do anything that's likely to aggravate your folliculitis, introduce additional bacteria to the affected area, or prevent healing. One common holistic cure involving vinegar is described below (many others can be found with a simple online search).


Make a solution of two parts warm water to one part white vinegar and mix thoroughly. Soak a clean washcloth in the vinegar solution, wring out, and apply to affected area. Hold the compress in place for 5-10 minutes, intermittently wetting the cloth in the vinegar solution as needed.

