 If you are hungry, eat! Think about what you are hungry for. You may need protein, simple carbs, complex carbs, vegetables, dessert, or something else entirely.


Get in touch with how you feel after you eat different things. If you eat nothing but chocolate cake, you may not feel wonderful. However, after a full meal with protein and complex carbs and vegetables, that slice of cake might make you feel great.
Stop labeling foods as good or bad: food is meant to nourish us, and cake can do that! Sometimes whole wheat toast might make you feel better than white, sometimes the other way around. You may have a craving for spinach. It's possible. Your body knows what it's hungry for, and it's right.;
, Here's a secret: spinach and carrots and broccoli can all be delicious. Get fresh produce, from the Farmer's Market or the grocery store, and be amazed at how good it can be than the frozen or old stuff.


For example: pick up some fresh spinach, and sauté it in fresh crushed garlic and olive oil. Carrots can be nice plain, but try roasting them in olive oil for a concentrated, caramelized sweetness. Asparagus is also great roasted.
For some lovely broccoli florets, steam them partially in the microwave, and then sauté them with butter, garlic, and a bit of lemon. If you are used to plain, steamed broccoli from the freezer aisle, you may be surprised how delicious it can be when properly prepared. Plus, adding in fresh, tasty veggies to your diet may make you feel good, too! If you want to start somewhere simple, try a Caesar salad.
 Give your food your full attention. When eating, say, a slice of chocolate cake, (chocolate cake is good) try putting a small bite in your mouth. Really focus on the taste and the texture.


You may find that a small bite has a ton of flavor, and realize that eating everything that way would be one giant culinary adventure. A warning, though: don't do this to the point of annoyance. Don't force yourself to inspect every crumb if you don't want to. This should be something you enjoy, not torture as you stare at a plate of food.
 Forget the gym. Does anybody actually find the gym fun? Exercise should make us feel good, from the release of endorphins and using our muscles. There isn't much fun in running in place for an hour, at least not for most people.


Find a type of exercise that you enjoy. If you live somewhere nice, try hiking. You may start walking on the beach and find it hard to stop. Join a soccer team, or ultimate frisbee, or take tennis lessons.
Dance alone at home to your favorite song. Go rock climbing. You may find it more fun to do whatever it is outside. Do whatever gets your blood pumping, and you'll feel great for it.
 Even if you don't drink 12 glasses of water a day, you are still most likely in good health. Many people would love to be so lucky! So have fun!

