 There are various ways to show your affection; some are more obvious than others and the way you approach this will depend on how openly affectionate you like to be personally. Affection is close to but not the same as intimacy––affection is about openly displaying that you care about this person and can be shown any time of day or night, publicly or privately. Think about how you like to show affection to people you care about, such as holding hands, touching an arm, quick kisses on the cheek, a hug, stroking hair, supportive words, mentioning how great someone is in front of other people, etc.


Pet names like "Baby" or "Sweetheart" are a cute way to show your affection for your partner. Try not to overdo this, however. It can be a major turn-off if you call them "Mr. Cuddle-Bear", especially in public. Of all things, good communication is the vital part of any relationship, so make sure that they know how much you like them.
Regular lovey-dovey texts and emails can be a plus, but too many will become overwhelming and you may seem clingy. These types of things do show you're into them, and you want it to last forever, but don't come on so much that you scare them!

, Don't be afraid to be seductive. Most people find it irresistible when a girl is sexy, classy and confident. Confidence means being happy within your own skin; you will exude this without trying if you are accepting of yourself and feel secure about your own worth. You don't have to force yourself to be the most popular, bubbly personality if that isn't your style; rather, be the best you on show by taking good care of yourself and trusting that you're worth their attention.
 When you're in a relationship, it's fun to give each other small gifts. Everyone loves to get presents and giving them one shows that they mean a lot to you. Don't overdo it -- just give them a gift when you're feeling loving and want to let them know how much they mean to you. You don't want them to think you're trying to buy their affection.


Make them something by hand. A paper flower, an artsy heart, something creative that reflects your personality, so that whenever they look at it, they'll think of you and smile. If you're the musical type, or play an instrument, feel free to play them a song or two (bonus points if you play a song you wrote yourself). Add a private video of your song to YouTube.
 You should be loving, but not to the point where you start seeing red the second your partner talks to, or even just mentions, another girl. Nothing will turn your significant other off faster than a girlfriend who is so insecure that she can't stand the thought of other women existing in the universe. Your partner will appreciate you even more if you're nice to their female friends instead of talking about how ugly or annoying any girl you see is.


If they're out with their friends, don't text them every two seconds to make sure they're not talking to other girls. This will only make your partner see how little you trust them.

