 If you don't have a cylinder, find some clear container that's as narrow as possible. But anything from a soda bottle to a mason jar can work -- it's just a matter of how fast your thermometer starts working. The narrower it is, the faster it'll be.


When your jar is narrower, the liquid is forced to move more quickly -- it's why all the real thermometers you see are thin and narrow.
Don't have rubbing alcohol? Just water works too, but rubbing alcohol expands quicker (forcing movement) and water obviously doesn't move when it's frozen! Anything below 32 degrees Fahrenheit (0 degrees Celsius) can't be recorded.;
, Red will mimic mercury, making your thermometer seem more like a thermometer and less like a straw placed in liquid. But why aren't there blue thermometers anyway? Maybe there should be.
 It is recommended that you use a clear straw so you can see the liquid rise. If you'd like, put a drop of oil into the placed straw -- the oil will sit on top, preventing any water from evaporating.
 If it has a lid (like a soda bottle or mason jar), poke a hole into it just big enough so the straw can slide through; you want as few air holes to cover up as possible. Then, grab your clay and create an air-tight seal, molding it around the top of your container or hole you made for your straw. If any air can get in, it'll warp your findings.


Play-dough works, too, as does candle wax or petroleum jelly.
 Begin by leaving your completed thermometer alone. Where does the water sit when it's just at room temperature. Then, hold the bottle with both hands to make the mixture heat up. What does the water do now?


Place your thermometer in different places. In the sunlight, in the fridge, in the closet, on the windowsill. What is happening to the colored liquid?
Do note that this can take a bit of time, especially if you're dealing with a wide container or straw. Changes are harder to see when you're dealing with more area.
 In hotter temperatures, liquids expand. This forces the liquid up the straw, mimicking the mercury effect in thermometers. In colder temperatures, it contracts. So where's the hottest point in your school or home? What's the hottest point of the day?


Try calibrating your thermometer! Write down where the levels are for different spots around your home or school. Can you roughly figure out what levels correspond to what temperatures? Or do you want to make a new scale all your own? Fahrenheit and Celsius are overused, anyway. You have your own thermometer - might as well start using your own scale!

