 A PVC pipe bow will be more authentic than cardboard models or bows made of light plastic. PVC is more ideal for bow-making, as it is rigid enough to provide the tension necessary for firing an arrow, but is not so weak that it will break after a few uses.


CPVC inserts at either end of your PVC bow will serve to reinforce the ends by adding thickness. This will result in a sturdier construction and will also help prevent cracking.
 Gather your long PVC piece and your two 1½-inch long CPVC pieces to begin making your bow. Insert one 1½-inch CPVC piece into the long PVC piece until it is nested completely inside the long PVC piece. The fit will be tight and might require you to twist the smaller piece back and forth, or you may need to tap the small CPVC piece into place gently with a hammer. Do this for both sides.The ends of your short CPVC pieces and your long PVC piece should be even when you finish this.
 You'll also be cutting into the CPVC piece you have nested inside the larger piece. Decide which side of your pipe will be the back of your bow. The back of your bow is the side your string will run along, so your slots will need to be on this side on either end of your long piece.


Your slots should be about ½-inch (1¼ cm) long., Being careful not to cut yourself while doing so, use your saw to cut a straight line from top to bottom on one side of your ¾-inch (1.9 cm) thick piece. This piece will form the handle for your bow., Now that your ¾-inch thick eight inch long piece has a cut from top to bottom, you should be able to feed your long four foot PVC pipe inside of it. Slide your eight inch long handle to the middle of your four foot piece.
 Arrange your handle so that the cut in it faces the front of your bow, which will be the side opposite the slots you've cut in the ends of your four foot PVC piece. Then use your electrical tape to wrap and reinforce the handle.
 Take your paper clip and bend it into the shape of a C, with the bottom end about a ¼-inch ( .6 cm) longer than the top. After this is done, bend the top of the C so that it faces you while the bottom points off to the side. Now you can:


Measure the middle point of the left side of your handle with your tape measure.
Place the bottom of your paper clip at the midpoint with the bottom of the paper clip facing away from the bow and your offset top piece flat against the bow.
Use your electrical tape to attach your paperclip to firmly to the bow.
Note: the top of your paper clip will act as a stopper so your arrow holder does not get pushed back against the bow, but it will allow your holder to move forward and out of the way of arrows when shooting.
 Use your tape measure and cut free a length of paracord that is slightly longer than four feet long. Two to four inches (5 - 10 cm) extra should be ample for the purposes of stringing your bowline and tying knots.Cutting paracord can leave frayed edges. You can "re-seal" the ends of your cord by holding it in the flame of a match or lighter for a few moments until the ends melt closed. Allow at least a minute to pass for the ends to cool., Place one end of your paracord in the upper slot and knot it so that it cannot slip through the slot. Now you can take the other end and pull it through the bottom slot until the line is taut. Knot the bottom end the same as you did the top to fix the bowline in place.If it feels like your knots might come loose, you can add zip-ties around the knot to reinforce it.
 Your 24-inch long wooden dowels will each become a single arrow. Take your dowels one at a time and put an eraser cap on each to give it the appearance of a pointed arrow head.To create a sturdier arrow, you might use glue on the end of your dowel. Do this before putting on the eraser cap to create a seal between the arrowhead and arrow.
If you use glue, be sure to allow your arrows to dry completely.
 Take your finished bow and hold it in your left hand. With your right hand, take an arrow and rest it on the paperclip holder on your handle. Line up the flat base of your arrow with your bowstring, pull back arrow and string, and release to shoot.

