 There are a variety of reasons to crate train your dog. Use your crate:To keep your puppy safe when you cannot watch her.
To keep your belongings safe when you cannot watch your puppy.
When your puppy is home alone.
To give your puppy a place to calm down.
When traveling.
To keep your puppy away from children or other dogs.
To aid in house training and other behavioral training.
 Never use your crate to punish your dog. And once your dog is no longer a puppy and can be trusted not to destroy the house, do not crate your dog when you are away. Save the crate for special times – i.e. guests in the house – and travel. For the most part, your dog should enter her crate voluntarily., The type of crate you use is up to personal preference, though many find that wire crates are the most durable and comfortable long-term solutions for dogs (as well as being used at most kennels where you might board your dog). The most important thing is that you get the right size crate. If it is too small, your dog will not be comfortable. If it is too large, it will provide the den-like space dogs crave.To save money, buy a crate to use for your dog when she grows up, and use a divider to make it the appropriate size for her as a puppy.
Your dog should be able to stand in the crate without hitting her head, to turn around comfortably, and to lie on their side with their paws stretched out.
For a typical adult golden, a 42” crate should suffice. Also buy a divider if purchasing the crate for your puppy.
 Your dog should enjoy her crate. It should provide a comfortable place for her to relax, so much so that she should choose to spend time there. Make sure to:Put the crate in a room where you spend lots of time, so your puppy does not feel abandoned.
Keep it a comfortable temperature: out of direct sunlight and far from fireplaces and radiators.
Place soft bedding inside.
Place chew toys inside to give your dog something to do.
Cover your wire crate with a towel or crate cover. This will give it more of the den-like feel your dog craves.
 Before crate training, you’ll want to teach your dog that the crate is magical place of wonder that produces things she loves. If you do it well, crate training will be much easier.Assemble your crate without your dog seeing it, prop the door open, and place treats around the entrance, just inside, and at the back. Throw some new dog toys in, too.
Let your dog explore the crate on her own. Don’t bring attention to it. Don’t say anything if she goes inside. Let her go at her own speed.
Every hour or so put more treats in the crate when your dog is not looking. Soon, they’ll be going into the crate on their own to check for treats. (Be sure to subtract all these treats from their daily food allowance.)
Also start feeding your dog in the crate. At first, put the bowl just inside so they only have to poke their head in. After 2 or 3 successful feedings, move it to the middle, then all the way back.
 Show your dog a treat and toss it in the crate. As they enter use your chosen command, such as “Crate.” When your dog enters, praise her and give another treat. Move away and wait for her to leave the crate. As she does so, use your exit cue word – “Out!” Praise but do not give a treat; you want treats to be associated with the magical crate.Do this 10 times, take a break of a few minutes, and do it 10 more times. Always use your cue words.
Repeat the whole ritual several times a day until your dog is happily entering the crate to fetch treats. This part of the training shouldn’t take long.
 After tossing a treat in once or twice to warm your dog up, use your command word without a treat. If she enters, praise profusely and give a treat or two. Also praise her when she leaves.Do this 10 times, take a break, and do it 10 more times.
Repeat this training several times a day for two or three days, until your dog is entering and leaving the crate on command.
If your golden puppy struggles with this step, go back to the previous one.
 Ask your puppy to enter the crate and sit. Slowly close the door. If you have to bang it shut before your dog escapes, then she is not ready for this step. When the door is closed, praise and give treats, then open the door and let her leave.Practice in sets of 10, with a break, then another set of ten.
Gradually lengthen the time they must sit in the crate before you let them out. Do sessions of training where they wait ten seconds, then 30, 45, and a minute., When your dog can comfortably stay in the crate for a minute, you will want to start moving away while she is in the crate.


In the first session, move only a few feet away before you come back. Move to different areas of the room and keep looking at your dog.
Next, try training sessions where you move around the room without paying attention to your puppy.
Add moments when you step out of the room briefly and return.
Finally, leave the room.
 At first, stay out for only five minutes. Gradually increase the time you are gone to 30 minutes.If your dog grows overly anxious while you are gone, return and let her out. Go back to the previous step or reduce the time you are leaving her.
Always remove your puppies leash and collar before putting her in the crate, as they are choking hazards., When your dog can stay comfortably in her crate for 30 minutes, it’s time to start putting her in the crate when you leave. For a puppy, these will need to be shorter trips, as a puppy cannot be expected to go more than 3 hours or so without urinating.Even when your dog is grown, you should not crate her during the day for more than 4 hours. She needs to be able to get up and stretch her legs.Exercise your dog and give her a chewy or toy before you go.
Vary the time you put your dog in the crate. Sometimes do it ten minutes before you go. Sometimes five. Sometimes right before you head out the door. You don’t want the crate to become a signal of abandonment.
Don’t make a fuss when you leave. Praise your dog for entering her crate, then go.
 Now that your puppy is comfortable in her crate, she can sleep there overnight, but be sure you can hear her. Puppies often need to pee in the middle of the night., Each dog is unique when it comes to crate training. Some goldens can be trained in a week or less. More timid dogs or those with bad previous experiences may take several weeks. Don’t push your dog too fast. Make sure they are comfortable with each step before moving to the next one.