 Avoid giant variations, like Dutch hybrids, unless you have an abnormally large container. For a standard foot-high pot, go with a variety that grows 12 to 14 inches (30 to 35 cm) tall. For smaller pots, consider a variety that grows no taller than 10 inches (25 cm) high.;
, Bulbs need to be kept cold and dormant for several months in order to grow during warmer spring months. Pot the bulbs shortly after you obtain them, if possible.
 Tulips do not grow well when the bulbs are drenched, so your pot must have drainage holes in the bottom to drain excess water.
 Doing so will help keep water away from the bulbs.
 You should fill the pot about halfway with soil, and the soil should be loosely packed. Use potting soil instead of dirt from your garden, since potting soil has less bacteria in it and contains more nutrients to help your flowers grow. A blend especially designed for tulips will work best.
 This step is optional, but it provides another means of drainage and may help prevent your bulbs from getting waterlogged.
 Keep the pointed end up. You do not need to worry too much about how close together the bulbs are since each bulb only produces one stalk, but for aesthetic purposes, you may wish to place the bulbs anywhere from 2 to 6 inches (5 to 15 cm) apart from one another.
 You should leave approximately one inch between the top of the soil and the rim of the pot.
 Once the dormant period has passed, place your potted bulbs in a warm, sunny spot. Tulips do best with full sun, so place them near a window or in a sunny location on your balcony or patio.
 The soil should be moist but never drenched. Fully saturated soil may cause your bulbs to rot.
 Also remove the leaves as they start to die off, but allow the rest of the plant to die back before removing. This allows the bulb to collect and store energy for next year's flower.
 A combination of tulips that grow to varying heights works especially well.
 Anything shallower than that will not provide adequate depth for multiple layers.
 The layer should be 1 or 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) deep.
 Use a potting soil designed for bulb plants for best results.
 The pointed end should face upward. Leave at least a bulb-sized gap in between the bulbs.
 Cover most of the bulbs, but leave enough uncovered to see where each bulb is located. Pack the soil down firmly.
 Each bulb of the top layer should rest between the necks of the bulbs from the lower layer.
 Leave an inch of space in between the top of the soil and the rim of the pot.

