 "Short" and "review" are key words here. The executive summary is not going to be comprehensive in any way, nor will it be a substitute for the original document. An executive summary should never be longer than 10% of the original document. Shoot to have it somewhere between 5% and 10%.


An executive summary is different from an abstract. An abstract gives the reader overview and orientation, while an executive summary gives the reader more of a summary. Abstracts are more commonly written in academia, while executive summaries are used more for business purposes.;
, Most authoritative sources who write executive summaries agree that certain stylistic and structural guidelines should apply. These include:


Paragraphs should be short and concise.
Executive summaries should make sense even if you haven't read the original report.
Executive summaries should be written in language that is appropriate for the target audience.
 An executive summary needs to clearly define a problem, whether it's supply-chain management or marketing campaigns overseas. Executive summaries, especially, need clear definitions of problems because the documents that they are based on, Requests For Proposals (RFP), are often written by technical people with a poor grasp of conceptual issues. Make sure the problem is defined in clear, understandable terms.
 A problem is always in need of a solution. In order to deliver a claim statement of purpose (and a reason to fund the venture), you need to present your solution so that it effectively tackles the problem. If your problem isn't clearly written, your solution is less likely to make sense.
 An executive summary is not an essay; it doesn't need to be long blocks of text. If they enhance understanding or make the summary more skimmable, it's okay to use:


Graphics. A well-placed graphic illustrating the precise nature of the client's problem could drive home the point of the summary. Stimulating the visual sense is often just as effective as their analytical sense.
Bullets. Long lists of information can be broken down into more digestible bullets.
Headings. Organize the themes of the summary, if necessary, by heading. This will help orient the reader as they dive into the summary.
 Jargon is the enemy of understanding. It just so happens to be popular in the business world. Words like "interface," "leverage," "core competency," and "burning platform" are all words that you should strive to avoid. They obscure real meaning and can make the summary sound vague and devoid of specifics.

