 Before enjoying your dinner, take the biggest pot you have. Rinse it out if necessary and then fill it with clean water. Place it over the fire so it starts to boil while you eat., Once the water is boiling, carefully distribute it between three buckets. One bucket is for washing, one for rinsing, and one is for sanitizing your dishes. Fill each bucket about a quarter of the way full with water., In your first bucket, add a few drops of a liquid dish soap. The soap should be biodegradable to help protect the environment while you camp.Some soaps are specifically made for camping. Before leaving for your trip, see if you can find a camping-specific dish soap online or at a local department or hardware store.
 You can buy sanitizing agents online or at local hardware or camping stores. Check the label to see how many sanitizing tablets you should add to the bucket. Usually, the ratio is one tablet per gallon of water, but ratios will vary by brand.You may not have a means to measure the exact amount of water you're using. Just do your best to estimate.
 Use paper towels or cloths to wipe down your dishes immediately after eating. This removes any obvious scraps of food from your dishes.It's best to scrape your food into the fire. This way, the food will burn up and you won't risk attracting animals to your campsite.
 Place the dirty dishes in the wash tank one at a time. Scrub down the dishes thoroughly with the soapy water and clean rags. After the item is clean, shake off any suds before transferring it into the rinse tank.Start with the cleanest dishes and then move on to the dirtiest ones.
 Transfer the clean dish to the rinse pan after washing it. Dunk the dish in this tank briefly and swish it around to remove excess water.If you notice your dish is not completely clean when you place it in the rinse tank, move it back to the wash tank and give it a good cleaning.
 After your dishes are rinsed, set them in the sanitize tank. Briefly let the dishes soak in the sanitize tank to remove any lingering bacteria. This is especially important for dishes like knives and cutting boards, which harbor a lot of strong scents that can attract animals., Never let dishes stay wet after washing them. Use a clean towel to dry off your dishes after sanitizing them. You can then store your dishes for the night., After washing your dishes, pour all three buckets of water into a single bucket. It's best to dump the sanitize bucket into the rinse bucket and then dump the rinse buck into the wash bucket., Place a metal strainer or a similar device over one of the empty buckets. Pour the water over the sink to strain out any lingering food debris.Any solid waste should be transferred into your garbage or burned in the fire.
 You don't want to contaminate water sources with your dirty water. It's vital to be at least 200 feet away from a water source before dumping your dishes.Estimate if you don't have an exact means of measuring. Always go farther than you think you need to.
 As you dump the water, move the bucket around so it's dispersed over a large patch of land. Dispersing the water in a single spot is an environmental hazard.