 Open any web browser and go to the DollyDrive website. Click the “Log In” button from the header menu to access the login page. Here, enter your username and password, then click the “Login” button to continue.
 Space is the name of DollyDrive’s cloud storage or directory. Upon logging in, you will be brought to your dashboard or the summary page, which displays all details related to your account and your storage. Click “Space” from the left panel menu to go to your main repository of files on Space.
 The list of folders under Space will be displayed. Click the folders and subfolders until you reach the one that contains the file or folder you want to collaborate.
 Once you’re in the proper folder, click the file or folder you want to collaborate on, and it will be highlighted.


You can only share one file or folder at a time.
 Right-click the file or folder to see the task menu, and select “Share” or “Invite to file” from here. A window will open for the sharing properties.


Click the first tab on the window for “Users” and enter the email addresses of the people you want to collaborate on the file or folder.
You may also add an optional message to go with your invitation.
 Click the second tab on the window for “Permission” and tick on “Permission Options” for the users you’re inviting. Permission Options include: Read/Download, Rename/Delete, and Create/Upload.


Read/Download will allow users to view and download your file or folder; Rename/Delete will allow users to rename and delete the file or the folder; and Create/Upload will allow users to modify the file and create or upload new ones to the folder.
The users’ access will be limited to what you set here. You can give them access to just one of these options or all of them.
 Click the last tab on the window for “Visibility.” The Visibility options can be set to Public or Private.


When you set the visibility to Public, anyone with the public link can access your file or folder, with no need for a DollyDrive account. When you set it to Private, only the users you’ve invited will have access, and they will have to be logged into their DollyDrive accounts to do so.
 After setting all these sharing properties, click the “Share” button at the bottom right corner of the window. Invitations will be sent, and the file or folder is now being shared.

