 It is advised not to apply any over-the-counter remedies to the genital area. The genital skin is very sensitive and delicate and applying chemicals without proper knowledge and training can lead to damage.
 Your doctor will perform a routine visual examination of the warts and the rest of your body looking for any additional warts. The doctor may apply a small solution of trichloroacetic acid to the area, which will whiten the warts to make them more visible and which can be used as a treatment to remove the warts. You will want to talk to your doctor for recommended treatment options.


Treatments are based on many factors, including size and number of the warts, the area affected, previous treatments administered, and whether the outbreak is recurrent or not.
Remember also that there is no cure for the virus only the wart itself.
 These medications will boost immune proteins in your body to help it get rid of the wart. These medications are available in various types, including:Imiquimod — Your doctor will apply a 5% imiquimod cream to the area using protective gloves and a pad. They will prescribe a prescription for the cream afterward. At home, apply the cream before bed using disposable gloves or disposable pads. After waking up in the morning (six to 10 hours after applying treatment), wash the area with soap and water to remove it. Apply three times per week for the next sixteen weeks.
Interferon alpha — At the base of each wart, your doctor will inject 3 million international units (IU) of interferon. You will repeat this process with the doctor three times per week for the next three weeks. For bigger warts multiple injection may be done. The warts should disappear after four to eight weeks. If the warts remain after 12 – 16 weeks, your doctor may suggest a second treatment course.
 These drugs can destroy the warts and prevent the spread of them. However, they can also damage normal skin areas. If spilled or accidentally applied to an unaffected area, immediately remove the drug on the area(s) with water and soap. Side effects can include be pain, irritation, itchiness, and redness. Options include:Podofilox — This is the preferred treatment for lesions less than 10 cm². To ensure correct usage (0.5 ml or 0.5g), your doctor will show you how much and how to apply the medication. Apply to the area using a cotton swab if liquid or finger if gel. Repeat for three consecutive days twice a day followed by four days of no treatment. Repeat this process for up to four weeks.
Trichloroacetic acid (TCA) and bichloracetic acid (BCA) are both physician-applied treatments. Your doctor will apply the acid to the warts on a cotton ball. Your doctor may advise weekly treatment for up to four to six weeks. This is one of the most common treatments.
Podophyllin — This is a physician-applied medication for warts less than 10 cm². Your physician will apply to the affected area sparingly. Your doctor will advise you to air dry the affected area to prevent it coming in contact with your clothes. Initial treatment should be left on for 30 – 40 min. Subsequent treatments can be from one to four hours, after which remove with soap and water. This treatment can be applied weekly for up to six weeks.
This drug must not be used in pregnancy or possible pregnancy. Limit exposure to a female partner.
5-Fluorouracil — Your physician may apply the first dose or provide a prescription. Using a cotton swab apply it to the clean, affected area one to three times per week. Use sparingly. Let the cream air dry to prevent contamination of your clothes. After three to 10 hours (specified with your prescriptions), wash the area with soap and water to remove it.
Sinecatechins — Your doctor may prescribe this green tea extract. Use your finger to apply a small layer of 15% ointment to the affected area sparingly. Repeat three times daily with your finger for up to sixteen weeks or till warts have disappeared. Do not wash off and avoid sexual contact.
 There are a number of home remedies targeted for wart removal, though clinical studies are lacking. According to naturopathic physicians, you can use many plant-based creams such as aloe vera, as well as vitamin A, C, and E supplements.Discussing a proper treatment with a naturopathic physician would be advised.


The concept of these treatment options is to correct for any nutritional deficiencies, which in turn will help your immune system fight off the warts. In addition, many of these treatments contain antioxidants that can fight infections.

