 When you are looking into your bank, you have the option of choosing an institution that is smaller and local or national and large.Local banks may offer smaller or fewer fees, but may also offer fewer financial services like foreign currency exchange or investment consulting.Large banks have more branches, which is important if you travel frequently or are planning on moving, and offer more financial services to their customers.Consider how you interact with your bank. Do you visit the bank/credit union weekly or do you mostly do your banking online? If you make frequent visits to your financial institution, then you will likely want to choose one with a convenient location and/or multiple locations.
 If you prefer to do your banking business from your computer, you should consider a bank that offers this capability. You will be able to find out whether a bank offers online banking by visiting their website or talking with a bank representative.


There are also online banks that do not have traditional brick and mortar locations. These banks are entirely online and offer some of the same services that a traditional bank does. This might be a good option for you if you do most, or all, of your banking online already.
 You want to choose a bank that does not charge monthly maintenance fees, has low overdraft fees, and doesn’t have a minimum balance requirement. Big banks are notorious for charging fees that their customers are unaware of when they open accounts. Rather than learning later on that you’re being charged hidden fees, investigate fees while you’re choosing a bank.Choose a bank that does not charge monthly maintenance fees for having an account. Some fees are avoidable, like if you use direct deposit.
You also want to find a bank that doesn’t have a minimum balance requirement, or has one that is very low. When you go under this amount, or you overdraft on your account, you do not want your bank to charge you expensive overdraft fees.
 Like with a credit union, banks will offer different rates for interest-bearing accounts. While these interest rates have become increasingly small over time, they can pay off if you keep a significant amount of money in a savings account.Keep in mind that the bank might require that you maintain a certain account balance in order to be eligible for their advertised interest rate. If your account goes below this amount, you would become ineligible to accrue interest., If you use an ATM frequently to access your account or withdraw money, look for an institution with a wide ATM network. Be sure to ask about their policies regarding using an ATM in a different network — some banks may charge a fee if you use an ATM that is no in their network.


Some banks will reimburse the fees you are charged for using another bank’s ATM, or are part of an ATM network that allows you to withdraw or deposit money at a large number of different ATMs., Bank guarantees ensure that if the bank were to fail, you would receive your money back. This is especially important in a recession or a volatile economy, where it can be hard to feel confident that your money is safe. Check to make sure the bank is insured, and see whether they have any limits on insured account amounts.The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) is a federal agency that regulates nearly every bank. You can also search their institution directory to find a report of the bank’s financial outlook.Check with your nation’s Department of Treasury or Finance to see whether there is a comparable agency that guarantees insurance.