 Being able to recognize where we sabotage ourselves can help us work on bettering ourselves. Procrastination is one of the biggest ways people sabotage themselves. Take a look at your life. Find places where you are inadvertently sabotaging yourself by procrastinating or putting off important things.Do you spend time on your phone instead of working, so you miss deadlines? Do you avoid tasks until the last minute, which makes you unable to put your full effort into them?
Make a goal to do at least two things you usually put off each day. It may be difficult at first, but with practice, it will get easier.
Choose an hour that you don't get on the internet or social media. These distractions will keep you from your goal.
 You may think you are doing everything that you need to be doing, but you may still have many unhealthy habits. Unhealthy habits like addictions and lack of sleep can have a negative impact on your success. Evaluate your life and point out any unhealthy habits.Not getting enough sleep can cause many different problems, like fatigue, irritability, impaired concentration, and even depression. Adopt a consistent sleep schedule where you go to bed at the same time each night and wake up at the same time each day. Try for seven to nine hours of quality sleep each night.
Addictions are unhealthy habits that can impede your success. Addictions come in many forms, such as being addicted to the internet, alcohol or drugs, gambling, or pornography. If you suffer from addictions, you may consider counseling to help you overcome them so you can focus on your goals.
 Sometimes, people sabotage themselves by never going outside of what they know. They get comfortable and settled in their life. Never going outside of your comfort zone can lead you to stall out and stop growing. Every so often, push yourself to do something out of your comfort zone.Going out of your comfort zone may lead to failure. That is okay. Doing things that make us uncomfortable or scare us helps to build our confidence and will to try.
For example, if you have never been to a professional conference, sign up for one, even if it's just to listen to other people's presentations. If you think you have a good idea for a presentation or poster session, go outside of your comfort zone and apply.
 Take a course that will help you professionally or personally, go to a seminar, or learn a new hobby. Doing new things and acquiring new knowledge can give you the confidence to try new things and follow your dreams.
 One way people sabotage themselves is by comparing themselves to others. People may compare themselves to others at work, to people they see throughout their days, or the people they see on social media. Don’t compare where you are with your goals to someone else. You are different people, and everyone is always at a different place in their lives, and comparison is typically the strongest component of self-sabotage.When you compare yourself to others, the other person always seems better because you only see what they want you to see. The only person you should compare yourself with is you.
If you start comparing yourself, take a step back and say, "I am not that person. They have a different job, a different background, and are at a different place in their life. I don't have to be like them."

, If you are trying to change your ways and work on achieving your goals, it might help to have outside motivation. Choose someone who can be your success partner. This person will help keep you focused on your goal and hold you accountable for your actions.Choose someone you trust, like a friend, mentor, family member, or colleague.
This person needs to be someone who can call you out when you are sabotaging yourself or making excuses that are hurtful to your goals.
Once you have your partner, try to focus less time and attention on people who are not supportive of your goals. This can help keep you motivated and moving forward.
 Another you way you may be sabotaging your success is by trying to do too much at once. If you are multitasking, your attention and abilities are spread thin. While you might think you are being more productive, often multitasking leads to half-finished tasks and subpar work.Focus on one task at a time. Finish that task before starting a new one. This can help you feel accomplished since you are completing tasks before moving on.
 You may not want to try something new to achieve your goals because taking a chance takes things out of your control. You may feel in control when you stay in your comfort zone or stay in the familiarity of failure. However, releasing control on your life to see what happens can open up new doors.You can’t control everything, even if you feel like you’re in control of your life. Though loosening your grip on your tightly controlled life might be scary, a bit of space can allow new things to happen.
Letting go is often the best way to achieve your goals. The more you try to control the situation, the more focused you become on things you can't control. Letting go frees your mind from preconceptions and opens you up to new opportunities you might not have considered before.

