 Is your goal to gross-out your audience? Perhaps you want to inject a sense of humor into your decoration. This will have great importance when you get to the optional steps in this guide. Draw a picture of your design idea, if you wish.;
, Write down the measurements.
 The width can be determined by a mix of the available area surrounding the entrance-way and your personal preference.
,, An irregular continuous wavy line works well. Take into consideration that the pieces of plywood will need to line up with each other into a continuous pattern.
, Make alterations as needed.



Cheap rubber masks can be found at dollar stores during Halloween season. Choose your masks also to fit the mood of your gateway. Do you want to go for horrifying, humorous or a mixture of the two? Cut or rip off any backing to the mask. Most of the cheap masks have a fabric hood to hold them on a wearer's head. This is not needed for your gateway. Use a staple gun to attach the masks at various places on your gateway. Vary the angles and positions for chaotic effect.
Another option is to use fake skulls to decorate the gateway. Soft plastic skulls (including ones that glow) can be found relatively cheap at certain stores during the Halloween season (especially during post-Halloween sales!). Use a utility knife to remove the portion of the skull you wish to have "sunken" inside the gore. Cut it so that you create a few tabs to work with while attaching the skull to the wood frame. Use the staple gun on the tabs to attach them to the gateway frame.
Yet another option is to use fake body parts; rubber hands, limbs, hearts, brains, bones, eyes, etc. Let your imagination go wild. This a point where you can really add some personality to your design. Attach them to your frame with a staple gun or nails (whatever gets the job done). Pose them for a variety of effects.
 This can be found at your local hardware store and is typically used to fill gaps and cracks in the weatherization of homes. A common brand is Great Stuff foam insulation. While taking care not to get any spray foam on yourself, hold the tip of the spray nozzle to the wood and begin spraying. The foam expands for a time after leaving the can, so use it sparingly in sections until you get an idea as to how much to put down for the effect you wish to achieve. Move the spray can around in chaotic loops and whorls to create a disgustingly tendril/intestine appearance. Take care not to completely cover the objects you have already attached to the frame. Bring the foam up to their edges and slightly on to them. Occasionally get more foam on some masks/props to make them further buried in the gore. Spray so that the foam covers all of the wood and hides all edges. Once you start using a can of insulation, make sure to use it up. If you set the can down for too long the foam will dry in the nozzle. This plugs the nozzle and possibly the can, possibly making it useless.
 It can also lead to the effect of having gore and blood oozing from the nostrils, mouths and eyes of the faces. You may wish to give some or all of the masks eyes. This can be accomplished with fake eyes purchased from a costume shop or by using ping pong balls. Use your gloved hands to pop the eyes into the eye holes of the mask and the still gooey insulation inside.
 Check on the gateway and see if it needs any more insulation to cover any missed spots and that the effect you wish has been achieved. If you do touch it up, give it a few more hours to dry. Otherwise proceed to the next step.
 Latex paint will not stick to the foam and will peel off. Do not use spray paint directly on the foam, as it may eat away at the foam. Choose a color that best fits your design idea. Blood red is the obvious choice, but a bile green could achieve an interesting (and less gore) effect.
 It is going to take days for the oil paint to dry. Keep checking back on it after the first couple of days. Using a solvent to cause the paint to dry is ill-advised, as it may cause a reaction with the spray foam.
 Spraying a pit of dark purple on some parts of a gory design can make it appear more like guts and viscera. Using a slightly lighter shade of red on the parts of your design that jut out the furthest can add further depth to it (though at night this effect will be less noticeable). Once again, use your imagination to achieve the effect that you have pictured in your head. Another option is to use an airbrush if you have access to one.
 Once dry, your "Gateway of Gore" is ready. Use wood screws to attach the pieces around the entrance-way you intend to decorate. Using an extension on the drill will allow you to sink the screws through the gaps between whorls of insulation. If you don't want to drill holes into your entrance-way, you'll have to figure out some other means of attaching the gateway decoration to the entrance-way.

