 It is never worth saving a few dollars to grab some pliers and take care of that throbbing tooth yourself. You can crack or break off the afflicted and surrounding teeth, cause nerve, gum, or jaw damage, risk infection, or, yes, cause excessive bleeding.


Let a dental professional diagnose your problem and solve it properly, and perhaps even save the tooth in the process., Recommended care will vary by the type of tooth removed, the method of extraction, your medical history, and various other factors.


The following steps offer general advice for bleeding care after tooth removal; they are not a substitute for your dentist’s specific advice.
 A dentist will have you do this soon after a tooth extraction. Dentists usually instruct you to hold it in place for at least fifteen minutes and perhaps thirty or sixty minutes depending on the particulars of your extraction.Keep constant pressure on the wad of gauze, and keep it still in your mouth. You do not want to disrupt clot formation.
If the gauze becomes saturated with blood within fifteen minutes, add new gauze to the existing wad without removing the old. Again, you don’t want to disrupt clot formation.
After the initial gauze packing of 45-60 minutes, you may need to continue applying new gauze wads for three to five additional hours, or even longer. Follow your dentist’s instructions.
 As mentioned in the section on a lost baby tooth, use gravity to your advantage in reducing blood flow to your head and limiting blood drainage down your throat.Also worth repeating from the baby tooth section: Nausea is a common result of swallowing blood, so tilt you head forward a little whenever your mouth (or nose) is bleeding.
 No, don’t drink hot tea — or hot coffee, or any other hot beverage or food for the first day (or as per instructions), which can dissolve blood clots. Rather, rely on the innate pro-clotting qualities found in the black tea itself.


The tannic acid found in black tea promotes the clotting of blood, so try moistening a regular old black tea bag and bite down on it as you do the gauze pads.Hold it in place for fifteen minutes and see if the bleeding has stopped or slowed. Repeat as necessary with new bags.The tea may cause a temporary staining of your surrounding teeth and gums, but this will soon disappear.
 Avoid the claims that tepid salted water will stop mouth bleeding; it is far more likely to dissolve the clots trying to form at the tooth extraction site. Salted water will, however help keep the area clean, so it does have value.


Rinse and spit with a mixture of one cup lukewarm water and about one teaspoon of salt. Do so once or more daily, 24 hours after your tooth extraction, or as advised by your dentist.Other than possibly a quick rinse right after tooth extraction, avoid rinsing and spitting while the blood is clotting in your mouth. Peroxide and alcohol-based rinses in particular can inhibit clot formation.Your dentist may want you to limit mouth rinsing for days after the extraction to prevent dry socket, which is when a dissolved clot exposes the hole left behind after an extraction. This can cause pain or infection.
 Oozing and spotting of blood for several days after are normal and not usually cause for concern, but active bleeding may be a sign of complications from the procedure or an unrelated medical issue.


Blood that is dripping or pooling at the extraction site within 15-20 seconds of removing a gauze pad indicates active bleeding.In addition to keeping your head elevated, limiting exercise for a few days is another way to reduce the chance of continued bleeding. Exercise increases blood pressure, which in turn makes bleeding more likely.