 If you want to convince your parents you have a stomach bug, it’s best to make it seem like it’s been stewing. You need to prepare in advance of the day you’re planning to be sick.


Try not to eat too much the night before your sick day. Eating is the last thing you want to do when you feel nauseous; this helps cement the deception.
Avoid excessive activity. It’s hard to believe you have a developing illness if you’re up and about.
 It’s best to do this when you have some time alone, or somewhere you won’t get caught. Mix a few pieces of bread, oatmeal, water and baby food in a bowl. The solid foods give your mixture the chunkiness it needs, while the water and baby food give it a sludgy overall texture.If you can get away with it, snag some leftovers to prepare your fake vomit. Combine different foods with water until you get the right texture. Using real food will make it more convincing.
 If you’ll only be using your fake vomit several hours later, it’s important to keep it out of view. You can hide it under your bed or in a drawer in your room, somewhere your parents won’t look.


Make sure the container can be securely sealed to avoid spillage. Think sandwich bags or plastic kitchen containers.
 Start this process a few hours before whatever event you’re trying to skip. Make sure you stash the fake vomit in the bathroom in preparation for this. Complain that you’re not feeling very well, and excuse yourself to the bathroom if your parents are nearby. Lock the door and stay for a few minutes before “throwing up”. Make dry heaving noises and groan a bit until you make a clear puking sound. Dump part of the mixture in the toilet.


Don’t go out of your way to show your parents the fake vomit, this will be a strong clue that you’re faking.
 If you throw up too often, your parents may become concerned that something is significantly wrong and take you to a doctor. As such, try to “throw up” no more than three times over the next two hours. This confirms you’re too sick to go to whatever event you’re trying to avoid without seeming too serious.
 Unless both of your parents are away from home for the day, you have to be careful about keeping up your deception throughout the day. You’ll need to act like you’re severely tired and worn out. You’ll have to avoid eating, as this will be seen as a sign of improvement. Forget about seeing your friends that day as well. If you’re seen out and about and it gets back to your parents, you’ll be busted.

