 White is the most common color worn to accentuate a tan. It is the best color to make your skin appear darker than it really is. Bright white is best for cool skin tones. Off-white is best for naturally golden skin tones., Blue is a great choice to complement your tan. Any shade of blue accentuates your tan, but some shades of blue make tans stand out more than others. Colors of the sea are the best shades. Choose warm blue-greens to make your tan glow. To make your tan appear darker, wear lighter shades of blue., Colors like orange, yellow, and lime green look great on people with golden skin tones. Citrus colors will enhance the glow your skin has picked up from a tan, whether you got the tan naturally or unnaturally. Fruity colors like watermelon, melon, and berry will also do a good job of contrasting your tan., Coral and warm pinks do a good job of adding a rosy glow. Consider these colors if you do not like wearing too bright of colors, but want to accentuate your tan., Choose a shade of nail polish that will go well with your clothing. Corals, white, orange, light blues, and bright reds are some good choices to accentuate a tan. O.P.I, Essie, and China Glaze produce these shades, though you can find tan complementing shades in just about any brand., Certain types of jewelry can make a tan stand out more than others. Gold bangles, chains, and hoops are good choices for summery jewelry that complement a tan. White accessories like cuffs, braided leather bracelets, and pearls will also make your tan stand out. Diamond or fake diamond jewelry will attract attention to your tan because of its pale color and shiny quality., Applying bronzer is a good way to get a glow even if you do not have a tan. With a tan, bronzer will enhance your glow and slightly deepen the tan on your face. To use bronzer, get a big fluffy brush, and dip it into the product. Then, apply it to your cheekbones, temples, and and across your nose.Make sure not too apply too much bronzer. Lightly apply the product.
Some shades of bronzers may not be right for your skin. Get the advice of a makeup consultant before purchasing a bronzer.
A few recommended bronzers are: Clinique True Bronze Pressed Powder Bronzer, bareMinerals Warmth All-Over Face Color, and E.L.F Bronzer.
 It is not necessary to change your hair color, but you can think about changing your hair color or adding highlights. Some shades of hair color complement tans better than other colors. Blonde shades are probably best known for complementing a tan. For golden skin tones, choose warm shades of blonde, like golden blonde. Ash and platinum blonde works best with cool skin tones. If you do not want to go blonde, you can choose a medium golden brown, or golden beige highlights to accentuate your tan.Pink is another shade that surprisingly goes well with a tan. Bright or a faded color of pink are the best shades to complement a tan.
 You may already be tan, but if not, you will need to get a tan. There are many ways to get a tan. Some are more dangerous than others. A few ways to get tan are:


Lay out in the sun. To do this, you will need to find a sunny spot, wear a bathing suit, apply sunscreen, and lay out for at least thirty minutes. Don’t lay out in the sun too long or too much. Too much exposure to the sun can cause skin cancer.
Go to a tanning bed. Using a tanning bed is a quick, but potentially dangerous method. You can find a tanning salon in your area, pay for a subscription, and then use the tanning beds as much as you please. Tanning in a bed, however, can increase your chances of skin cancer more than any other method of tanning.
Get a spray tan. This is a safe way to get a tan. You can go to a tanning salon in your area that does spray tans, and pay for their service. Spray tans typically do not last longer than a couple of weeks, and they may rub off on your clothing and sheets. But, they do not risk your health.
Apply a self-tanner. This is the cheapest and safest way to get a spray tan. You can purchase a spray or cream and apply it in your home. It is inexpensive and safe for your health, but it can produce an unnatural color and come off on your clothing.
 Moisturize at least twice a day. You need to moisturize to keep your tan healthy and lasting. Apply moisturizer in the morning and at night. In the morning, apply a cream that has SPF in it. At night, use a hydrating face and body cream.Eau Soleil Body Milk is recommended for the morning. After sun exposure, Biotherm’s Crème Nacrée After Sun is recommended.
 Along with moisturizing, use a tinted oil or cream. Use a cream or oil with SPF in it for added protection from UV rays. Tinted products will add an extra glow to your skin, keep you moisturized, and protect you from skin damage.BB creams are a good and common choice. You can also find tinted creams for specific needs, like oily skin, anti-aging, and dry skin.

