 Ebola can be spread in a number of ways, though primarily via direct contact with patients, specifically the blood and secretions of an infected patient. Contact with objects such as clothing, bedding, and needles have also been linked to the spread of the disease.Ebola requires direct contact to spread, so it cannot be spread through the air, and is unlikely to spread by coughing or sneezing. Mosquitoes and insects are also not known to be carriers.Because the symptoms of Ebola are nonspecific and take time to become severe, the spread of the disease to friends, family, and throughout hospitals is unfortunately common during an outbreak. In a healthcare setting, the reuse of unsterilized needles and the lack of proper hospital clothing has contributed to the spread of the disease near the source.;
, For now, the disease has only been confirmed in central and West Africa, with isolated cases in the U.S. and Europe among returning healthcare workers and within healthcare facilities where patients are being treated. For the most up-to-date travel warnings and information about potential outbreaks, visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website.


In general, you should avoid areas in which the disease has been reported and suspected. If you're already there, try to avoid healthcare facilities, unless you suspect you may be infected. Avoid direct contact with the infected, or anyone you suspect to be infected., Because the disease is spread primarily via direct contact with infected patients, the best way to avoid infection is to steer clear of people who are already sick. Blood and other bodily secretions from infected patients are linked closely with the spread of the disease – remember that you don't actually have to touch the infected person, you only have to come into contact with his or her blood or secretions on surfaces like clothing or bedding.The remains of infected bodies are still contagious, making it important to handle the deceased with extreme care. Avoid direct contact with bodies and with the bedding and clothing of the deceased.
 Researchers suspect that the disease came to humans via animals, probably through the consumption of the meat of primates.


If you're in an area where the disease has been reported, avoid purchasing, eating, or handling wild game to stay on the safe side.