 Although runny nose, dry throat, and mild body aches are also signs of the flu, your child might show distinctive signs of a cold. You might notice your toddler sneezing or coughing more. Their eyes may also water if they have a cold.It can be hard to determine, but if your child has mild headaches, they may have the common cold.;
, If your toddler appears to be unwell, pay attention to how much food their eating at meals and during snack times. If your child has a normal appetite, they probably have a cold. You should also see if your child plays, explores, and interacts with others or if they're too tired to function normally. If your child doesn't seem bothered or overly tired, they most likely have a cold.Ensure that your child is getting enough fluids, if you suspect they have a cold. This will help thin the mucous that they're coughing up or sneezing.
 Small kids that haven't been exposed to as many viruses may develop fevers to fight common colds. Use a digital thermometer to take your child's temperature to see if they're running any fever. A low-grade fever (99 to 100.9°F/37.3 to 38.3°C) probably means they have a cold.Continue monitoring your child's temperature to ensure the fever doesn't get higher.
 Think back to when your child began feeling unwell. If the signs of illness have been coming on gradually, your toddler probably has a cold. For example, your toddler might have first complained of a sore throat or runny nose. Within a few days, they may show other signs, like a stuffed up nose or cough.Most kids get colds during the winter season (or rainy season, if you live somewhere temperate), but colds can happen year-round.
 Keep track of how long your child has had signs of a cold. There is no special treatment for a cold — you should monitor their symptoms and keep them comfortable while the cold runs its course. Most colds will resolve within a week. Your child might have one or two signs of a cold that last a little longer, but the main cold signs should clear up within seven days. If your child's cold still seems bad after a week or seems to be getting worse, contact their doctor. You should also get medical attention if:Your toddler seems lethargic or tired all the time.
Your toddler wakes up with swollen eyes that are covered with pus.
Your toddler has trouble breathing, has blue lips, or chokes or vomits from coughing so much.
Your toddler has a fever above 100.4°F (38°C) for more than three to four days.
Your toddler complains of ear pain.

