 The Facebook Groups icon looks like three white figureheads in a blue circle. This is Facebook's official mobile app for using, organizing, and discovering groups. You can download it from the App Store.


If you're automatically signed into Facebook on your device, you will also be automatically signed into Facebook Groups. Otherwise, enter your email or phone and your password to log in.;
, This button looks like nine dots organized in a square in the lower-left corner of your screen. It will open Your Groups, where you can see a list of all the groups you're a member of.
 It's in the upper-right corner of your screen under Create.
 It will add this group to your FAVORITES list. Your favorite groups appear at the top of your screen when you open the Groups app. You can add as many groups as you want to your FAVORITES.
 It will remove this group from your list of favorite groups.
 This way, you can arrange your FAVORITES list by changing the order of your favorite groups.
 It will save your FAVORITES list, and go back to Your Groups.
 This section is below your FAVORITES. The SORT button will be located on the right-hand side of your screen. A drop-down menu will appear.
 You will be able to choose between Alphabetical, Latest Activity, and Recently Visited.
 A pop-up menu of options will appear. Here you will have more options to edit individual groups.


If this is a favorite group of yours, you will have the option to Remove From Favorites. For other groups, you will be able to Move to Favorites.
Select Add to Home Screen if you want to add an app icon on your device's Home screen that will automatically redirect you to this group's Timeline.
Select Notification Settings if you want to customize the content and frequency of incoming in-app and push notifications from this group.
Select Hide Group to remove this group from Your Groups. You will still remain a member of the group.
Select Leave Group if you no longer want to be a member of this group. You will have to confirm your action in a pop-up window. It will remove you from this group and the group will disappear from Your Groups.

