 A chop saw is an efficient, heavy-duty circular saw. It is supported by a metal base and mounted on a pivoting arm, making it very easy to use. A chop saw can handle a lot of different steel-cutting duties and is able to make exact, square cuts.It’s an affordable tool, making it more realistic than the horizontal saw or cold saw for a home shop setting. However, it can’t make cuts as accurate as either of those tools can.


Chop saws are high-powered. A great deal of heat is generated during the cut, making the steel extremely hot. Handle freshly cut steel with caution.
Along with heavy-duty gloves and eye protection, you need to use ear protection when operating power saws. They are very loud and can damage hearing.
 They are very easy to use – all you have to do is feed the metal into the saw and the blade does the rest. Make sure you’re using metal-cutting (carbon steel or bimetal) blades with your band saw.There are three main blade tooth patterns – raker, wave and straight. For cutting steel thicker than sheet metal, use the raker pattern. For thinner steel, use the wave tooth pattern.The blades get dull easily and need to be replaced to get proper accuracy.
Band saws cut slowly and you may need to grind minor rough edges off after the cut is made.
Band saws have a higher capacity than cold saws, but they don’t cut as accurately., A cold saw is a very expensive piece of equipment and generally isn’t a realistic choice for a home shop setting unless you plan on using it often. Cold saws make clean cuts that are more accurate than what a band saw can do, but a cold saw’s capacity is smaller. If you’re trying to choose between the two, make your decision based on how much steel you need to cut and how accurate you need to cut it.


The cold saw is circular and its blade has a lot of teeth. The blade itself spins very slowly, but the cut is made quickly.A coolant is used with the cold saw to prevent the steel from heating up. The coolant should be immediately wiped off the steel after the cut is made.

