 Before you can treat any injury, you'll need to be able to identify the signs of an injured rabbit. Since rabbits cannot vocalize pain like some other animals can, you'll need to watch your rabbit's behavior and carefully examine any suspected injuries.An injured rabbit may display strange behavior, or it may act perfectly normal.
Look for prolonged lack of movement, extended periods of time spent lying on its side, tilting of the head, falling over, difficulty moving, and an inability to move in a straight line.
Contact your vet any time you're unsure about your rabbit's behavior.
 Sore hocks is an easily-preventable ailment that usually stems from an improper diet and exercise regimen or from a painful or unsanitary living area. Take precautions to ensure that your rabbit is eating healthy (and not overeating), getting enough exercise outside of the cage every day, and has a comfortable space inside its cage.If you use a metal wire cage, make sure your rabbit has some type of surface inside the cage (like a flat board, for example) to sit, stand, and lie on so that the wires do not dig into its paws all day. You should also provide two to three inches of soft bedding material for your rabbit to sit on. This will help to take some of the pressure off of your rabbit's hocks.
If you use a solid, flat-bottomed cage, make sure you keep the floor clean. Wipe away urine and other spills on a daily basis, as exposure to urine will irritate the tissue and burn the skin.
Keep your rabbit on a healthy, regulated diet and give it plenty of exercise time outside the cage to prevent obesity. Being overweight is a common cause of sore hocks in rabbits, and it can easily be prevented.
 One of the most common causes of broken, fractured, and sprained limbs and backs in rabbits is improper handling. Any time you lift your rabbit, you need to be careful and anticipate that it might flail or try to jump out of your arms, which could cause serious injury.If your rabbit struggles when you restrain it or try to lift it, don't try to force your grip.
Let go of your rabbit and focus on calming it down before you try to pick it up or handle it again.
Forcing your rabbit to let you handle it will only cause the rabbit to panic and flail more, which could result in broken limbs (if it falls) or even a broken back.
Get close to the ground before attempting to lift a rabbit. Hold it gently but firmly with one hand supporting the rabbit's back and hind end at all times.