 The main distinguishing feature of the papillon is the butterfly-like ears, from which this bread derives its name. Papillon means butterfly in French.When the ears are erect, they will form an angle of forty five degrees to the head. They are quite large ears with rounded tips.Some papillon have drop type ears, called Phalene, which look similar but tend to droop down.The ears, combined with the colors of the head, make its head seem a lot larger than it really is.;
, The eyes should have an alert expression. They should be dark and round but shouldn’t bulge out. The rims of the eyes should be black., The head of a papillon is small. The skull should be slightly rounded between the ears. There is a distinct stop or corner where the muzzle is attached to the skull. The nose is small and black.The muzzle will taper down to the nose. The length of muzzle should be about one third of the length of the skull.It has a small muzzle, and the eyes are spaced on either of it, rarely with overlap between the eyes and the muzzle.
 A toy breed, the papillon is generally between eight and eleven inches in height.In fact, it may not be recognized as a papillon if taller than twelve inches.The dog should weigh between five and a half and eleven pounds.Look at its size. If you have a massive dog, then you don't have a Papillon. They are generally between 7-10 pounds for males, 6-9 pounds for females.
They stand about 7-11 inches for both males and females.
 This breed is white with patches of any other color. The other color will generally cover the ears and the eyes. The feel of the coat is fine and silky. You may notice a frill on the chest of the dog. If the dog is properly groomed, the hair on the feet will be cut short and the ears will be fringed. However, is has no undercoat.Standard colors include white and black, white and lemon, white and red, white and sable or white black and tan.
Their coat is described as abundant. It is silky, and it is flat on the sides and the back of the body.
 The papillon has a delicate bone structure. It is light and dainty. It is quite an active, light and quick breed., When the tail stands straight up, it should be rigid, and it should arch slightly towards the back. The tail has a lot of fur, generally white, and the skin and bones of the actual tail should not be seen.

