 You can plan for your future happiness if you set goals that are based on your values and that are clear and action-oriented.When your goals are specific you are able to align them with your values and tell whether you have achieved them.


For example, setting a goal to ‘be successful’ may be too vague to achieve. What will you be successful at? How will you know when you are successful?
A better, more specific, goal might be “Be successful at painting by selling at least five works by the time I’m 72.”
Consider setting goals for your top three values. For example, you might set goals for your financial security, social awareness, and education.
 Sometimes when planning for your future happiness, you may set goals that are a bit unrealistic. Setting achievable goals not only increases the likelihood that you will achieve them, but also increases your confidence in yourself. When you are planning for your future happiness make sure you are setting goals that challenge you, but that are also achievable.For instance, planning to be a millionaire within the next month when you have $300 in the bank and no sources of income is a specific goal. It may not be realistic, though.
Set goals that you can reach with some effort. For instance, planning to graduate at the top of your class when you are in your freshman year may be challenging, but it’s achievable.
 Breaking your larger goals into smaller, more concrete action steps will help you achieve them.Action steps are more manageable which may help you stick to your plan better.


If, for example, your goal is to join the basketball team by the next season, you might have several action steps. For instance: practice every day, meet with the coaches, and ask for feedback from others.
Include as many action steps as you need. The goal is to make it as easy possible for you to reach future happiness.
Break your action steps down into individual tasks if you need to. For instance, an action step to practice basketball every day might have the tasks: shooting drills, practice blocking, run for endurance.
 Doing this can help you plan for your future happiness in several ways. Check-ins and deadlines can help you evaluate whether you are on track to reach your goals. It can also help by reminding you of what you need to and by holding you accountable to yourself.Use a calendar, agenda, or planner to set deadlines for your tasks, action steps, and goals.
Schedule check-ins every few months to make sure that you are sticking with your plan for future happiness.

