 This hairstyle is similar to the simplest knotted ponytail, but it’s a bit more intricate and requires medium to long hair. Pick up a section of hair on either side of your head, right above your ears. Bring your hair to the back of your head.
 After you’ve grabbed your sections of hair and brought them to the center of the back of your head, tie them into a knot. Think about your hair like your shoelaces, and loop them around each other the same way you do when you tie your hair. Once you’ve created the knot, pull both sections of hair so that you tighten it against your head. Then, put both of these pieces of hair into one hand.
 While one hand holds the knotted hair in place, use your other hand to collect two more sections of hair, one on either side of your head. If you are familiar with French braiding, this will make sense. You are simply grabbing hair from either side of your head to work into your knotted style. Add a section of hair from the right side of your head into the right strand, and then do the same for the left.
 Once you’ve added more hair to the two strands, create another knot just like you did previously. Loop one strand over the other, and pull tightly to secure the knot. This knot will be right underneath the first one you created.
 Just like you did before, you need to pick up hair from either side of your head and add it to the strands. Hold your knotting strands in one hand, and use the other hand to pick up more hair. Add a section to the right strand and a section to the left strand.
 After you’ve added more hair to each section, you will create one last knot. Just like you did twice before, loop one strand over the other to form a knot, and pull tightly. This will create a third and final knot under the other two.
 After you’ve created your final knot, bring the two strands together. Hold it tightly with one hand. Using the other hand, grab an elastic band and tie your hair. From the hair tie down, it looks like a traditional ponytail. However, the three knots create a beautiful, glamorous looking base.







