 Ask a friend or family member to help you lift heavy furniture. If you’re cleaning your floor alone, place furniture pads under the legs and slide the furniture out of the room. Roll up any area rugs and remove them, as well.;
, This removes the dust and debris. Make sure your vacuum cleaner doesn’t have any rough plastic parts near the bottom or edges. Vacuum cleaners with faulty wheels can scratch floors. If you don’t have a good model, use a broom to get rid of the dust and debris.
 Polyurethaned floors have a hard finish. You can clean them with a small amount of water. On the other hand, shellac or lacquered floors can’t have any water on them and may need to be waxed regularly.If your floor has been shellacked or lacquered, you’ll have to strip and wax it yearly.You can use denatured alcohol and lacquer thinner to test your floor finish. Test a small area of the floor you normally cover with furniture or a rug.

Apply two or three drops of the alcohol. After a few seconds, touch the spot with an old cloth. If it feels soft, it’s shellac.
If the alcohol doesn’t soften the finish, apply two or three drops of lacquer thinner to a nearby spot. If it softens to the touch, the finish is lacquer. If it feels tacky, it’s likely water-based., Mix a few drops of dishwashing liquid with a bucket of water. Wring out the mop until it’s damp. Run the mop along the grain.Use smooth strokes. Start at the interior corner and work outward toward a doorway. This motion will keep you from stepping on your wet floors.
Wipe up excess liquid if you see standing water. It can cause damage and buckling in your floors. Use a clean dry rag or towel. Make sure the surface is completely dry.
Never mop floors that have been waxed. Clean them by vacuuming and sweeping., Get on your hands and knees to buff with a microfiber cloth. If you prefer to stand, use a dry microfiber mop. Move in a circular motion until it shines.


You could also rent a buffing machine if you prefer. Move the machine in the direction of the wood grain., Use water-based (urethane) polish on floors with a polyurethane finish. For other finishes, use a wax-based polish.To avoid toxic chemical exposure, buy polish that’s free of volatile organic compounds (VOCs)., Follow the directions exactly to avoid damaging your floors. Check to see if you have to sand and wax your floors before you polish them. Follow all recommended safety guidelines on the label.
 Even if you know what kind of finish your floor has, you should test the polish to make sure it won’t discolor the wood. Locate an area under a large piece of furniture or in a closet. Apply the polish. Wipe it with a microfiber cloth. If no damage appears, you can polish the entire floor. If you see discoloration, seek advice from a professional contractor.
 Depending on the directions, either spray the polish directly to the floor or apply it to a cloth first.Use a “feathering” technique (wiping the polish in a semi-circle). Overlap your feathering strokes for a streak-free finish.
 Cover 3 by 3 feet (0.91 by 0.91 m) sections at a time. Move gradually across the width of the room to the next corner. Continue along the length of the room to the third corner. Polish to the last corner. Begin to move inward to polish the center of the room. Polish the area by the doorway last to avoid ruining your hard work.


If your floor has been waxed, apply two to three thin layers of polish instead of one thick layer. Wait for each coat to dry completely (about 24 hours) before applying the next one., Your floor will feel tacky or sticky until it’s completely dry. For good measure, wait six to 24 hours before walking on the floor with socks. Don’t wear shoes for at least 24 hours. You can replace your furniture after two days.


Block off the area with a few feet of painter’s tape or a chair for at least six hours.
If you have companion animals, keep them away from the polished area for at least 24 hours. You could also fit them with “doggie socks” after six hours.

