 Notice that when you meet a waiter or waitress that has tried everything on the menu, you tend to listen to their recommendations a lot more. If you want to earn more tips, make a decision to eat everything on the menu and then tell your tables what you enjoyed. They will appreciate it and tip you more.


You should, at a minimum, be able to recommend 3-5 dishes that you've sampled and enjoy. You should also know any common allergens in each dish, as well as basic dietary restrictions (vegetarian or not, gluten-free, etc.)Talk to the chefs about their recipes and food. They can offer you great little bits of information, such as drink pairings and where ingredients come from, that will make you seem all the more knowledgeable.
 When you have higher check totals you get bigger tips. Offer appetizers, drinks and deserts by name. Use enticing and descriptive words like rich, creamy, smooth, spicy, etc. Offer your guest an after dinner espresso or cappuccino. This will warm them up and give them time to think about how great you are and what a giant tip they are going to leave you.


You should always, at the very least, offer your guests dessert and/or coffee.
Be politely assertive about the food, saying "let me bring you the dessert menu?" instead of "would you guys like to consider dessert?, To up-sell, suggest an add on item, like a side of shrimp to accompany a steak or chicken in a salad. Helping a group pair food and wine is a great way to suggest that they get an expensive bottle with their meal.


Be assertive with your suggestions. For example, it might cost extra to get cheese on a hamburger -- but you don't need to explain that. When someone orders a burger, simply ask, "and you'd like cheese on that?"
This may be less productive for you during busy shifts. Adding $5 to a bill results in a small bump in tips, but getting a whole new group to sit down and spend $55 on dinner will result in higher tips overall., When the beverage napkins get soggy, replace them. When they are finished with dishes, take them away. If they make a mess, politely help them clean it. People feel better in a clean, tidy environment, and are more likely to get more food if they don't see the scraps from their last course.


If a dish is empty, politely ask if you can take it for them. Do not, however, take plates from anyone if someone is still eating. This makes the people still eating feel rushed.
Get rid of small things quietly and efficiently. Try and sweep by and avoid distracting the group from their discussion as much as possible.

