 Before you can begin tatting, you will need to find a thread that you’d like to work with. Size 10 cotton crochet thread is a great choice for beginners, or you can go with another kind of thread that appeals to you.Keep in mind that a small number on a thread size means it is actually wider than another thread with a larger number thread size. For example, a size 10 thread will be larger than a size 40 thread.;
, You also need a shuttle to tat. A shuttle is a spool with two pointed ends that are open, but that only allow the thread to pass through when you tug on it. This will help you to control the thread as you tat.


Shuttles can be a little difficult to find. Check your local craft supply stores or buy a tatting shuttle online.
 You will need to cut the thread regularly while tatting. Make sure that you have a sharp pair of scissors handy., The only other tool you use for tatting is your hands. Both of your hands will be engaged when you are tatting. You may want to remove your jewelry to keep it from snagging on the thread., The shuttle has a small hole in the center of it which you will use to start threading your shuttle. Insert the thread through the hole and pull it out by a couple of inches on the other side. Then, place one finger over the hole to hold the thread in place., With your finger still on the thread, begin to wind the thread around the spool. Do this a few times to secure the thread, and then remove your finger and keep wrapping. Wind the thread around and around the spool until the thread is nearly even with the outside of the shuttle.Do not wind the thread so much that it extends out past the edge of the shuttle.
 When you have finished winding the shuttle, cut the thread to separate it from the thread spool.Your shuttle is now ready to use for tatting!

, To position your thread, you will need to have about 18 inches of thread available. Unwind this amount from your shuttle to get started., Grasp the shuttle at its center with the thumb and index finger of your right hand. It is important to hold the shuttle this way so that the thread can flow freely and unwind as you work.Do not hold the shuttle by the sides or tips because this may prevent you from unwinding the thread.
 Next, you will need to grasp the end of the thread. Press the end of the thread between the thumb and index finger of your left hand. It is important to grip the thread in this way so that your other fingers will be free to move the thread around as needed., Once you have a piece of thread pressed firmly between your thumb and index finger, spread out your other three fingers as if you are forming an “OK” sign. Then, loop the thread around these fingers to form a loop and press the other end of the thread between your index finger and thumb to secure the loop.Your shuttle, thread, and hands are now positioned to begin tatting.
 When you are just starting out with tatting, you will need to learn how to do double stiches. This is a very basic stitch that only requires a couple of different movements. The first movement is to insert the shuttle through the loop you have created. Pass the shuttle right through the center of the loop.Double stitches are usually abbreviated at “ds” in tatting patterns., Next, you will need to bring the shuttle up on the other side of the loop and then bring it over the top of the loop. As you do so, come downwards slightly with the shuttle and bring it through the new loop. Then, pull the thread to tighten the knot you just created., The next part of the double stitch is just the opposite of the first part. Instead of coming through the loop, bring the shuttle over the top of the loop., Next, bring the shuttle down and through the large loop. Then, bring the shuttle up slightly to come through the new loop you created. Pull the thread to tighten the knot.This completes one double stitch! Make several of these for practice when you are just starting out in tatting.

