 These can be bright, colorful autumn leaves that you found outside, or they can be silk leaves that you bought from the store. Choose nice leaves, that aren't ripped, torn, dry, or brittle. Also, try to get a variety of colors: red, orange, yellow.


Your leaves don't have to be the same type. You can use a combination of maple and oak, for example.
How many leaves you use depends on the size of your serving tray and your design. You can cover the tray completely with leaves, or leave some gaps.
 Rinse the leaves under cool running water. Gently run your fingers over them to dislodge any dust or dirt. Once the leaves are clean, gently pat them dry between two sheets of paper towel.


If you bought the leaves from the store, you do not have to do this.
 The paper will help keep the pages of your book clean. Next, place several heavy books on top. If you don't have any, you can use other weights, such as a flower pot, a heavy cooking pot, etc.


If you have a flower press, use that instead.
 You can leave your tray as it is, or you can paint it to help the leaves stand out better. Copper, gold, bronze, brown, ivory, or cream are all great options. Black may also work if you want something dramatic and elegant, but consider painting the edges of your tray in gold; this will take away some of the harshness. Let the tray dry completely before moving on.


If your tray is made out of natural wood, consider leaving it blank, or training it a nice, warm color.
Avoid red, orange, and yellow. While these are great autumn colors, they will match the colors of your leaves. As a result, your leaves won't stand out as much.
 Move the leaves around until they are where you want them to be. Experiment with overlapping, positive space, and negative space. Keep in mind that you do not have to use all of your leaves.


You can trim the stems off or you can leave them on.
 Once you have the leaves where you want them to be, pick them up one by one and glue them down. You can do this by coating the back of each leaf with white school glue and a paint brush. Gently place the leaf back onto the tray, and smooth it down.Make sure to get the glue all the way to the edges to prevent gaps.
Go easy on the glue. If you accidentally use too much and it leaks out from under the leaf, wipe it away.
 Your tray is not complete yet, but the glue will help keep the leaves steady during the next step.
 You need to get the type of liquid epoxy that you can pour over tables and dries clear; do not get the clay type of epoxy. Each brand will be a little different, but in general, you need to mix together equal amounts of Part A and Part B in a disposable cup.Work in a well-ventilated area. Epoxy can cause some lightheadedness.
Work on top of some newspaper or a cheap plastic tablecloth to protect your work surface.
 Use your stirring stick to help spread it around; be careful so as not to dislodge any of the leaves.You want the epoxy to cover the entire surface of the tray, from edge to edge, corner to corner. Keep the layer thin. Remember, you can always add more later.
 Epoxy sometimes traps bubbles, which don't appear right away. Blowing on these bubbles causes them to pop and go away!, This will typically take a couple of days, but it also depends as to what kind of brand you are using. Refer to the packaging that your epoxy came in for specific curing times. This will typically take a few days.If you home gets dusty, place a box over the tray to keep the dust from getting stuck to the epoxy.
 Once the epoxy is fully cured, it is ready to use! Unlike glue and decoupage, epoxy is waterproof. You still want to be careful with it, however. Do not leave it sitting in water, and wipe it down with a damp cloth if it gets wet.

