 DMSO is a clear, slightly oily liquid that is applied to the skin to reduce swelling, inflammation and pain. Mix a solution of one part water and two parts DMSO and rub into the skin at least three times a day.DMSO comes in both liquid and gel form. Opt for the 99.9% liquid to avoid itching and irritation.
You may experience mild itching, irritation, and warmth to the affected area. These reactions are temporary and pose no cause for concern.
 There are a few OTC medications that claim to have homeopathic formulas that stimulate the body’s natural healing processes in order to relieve symptoms of cramping. Caplets or tablets should be taken with water every four hours (or as needed), while the ointment can be used liberally and applied directly to the skin.Active ingredients in different OTC products vary from manufacturer to manufacturer, so always read the label carefully. Active ingredients include Cinchona officinalis, Gnaphalium polycephalum, and Magnesia phosphorica.
Check your local pharmacy or online vendors for availability.
Always consult your doctor before taking a new medication if you are pregnant, taking other medications (including OTC medications), have an existing health condition, nursing, or administering to someone under the age of 12.
 Doctors have been prescribing quinine for leg cramps since the 1940s because there have been no other reliable medications developed. Prescribing of the drug remains high despite FDA safety warnings and little scientific evidence to support its effectiveness. Talk to your doctor about all treatment options before considering quinine.The brand name Qualaquin is the only drug containing quinine allowed by the FDA.
Side effects include cardiac problems, rashes and allergic reactions, hearing problems, eye problems, kidney failure, and more.
 Medical conditions such as diabetes, nerve disorders, liver disorders, or thyroid disorders can result in leg cramps.You can treat yourself with self-care measures such as leg stretches, staying hydrated, or medication.If symptoms persist, talk to your doctor immediately.

