 Tension gathers in our muscles. When you feel tense and stressed, try loosening those tense muscles to help you relax.


Give yourself a hand massage. Hands carry a lot of tension, especially if you work on a computer. Apply some relaxing lotion onto your hands, like peppermint or lavender. Then massage the muscle right under your thumb.Loosen your jaw muscle. Open your mouth wide as you breathe. Hold it for 30 seconds, then release.Try acupressure. Acupressure is an Asian body technique where you massage and apply pressure to certain points on your body to release tension.
 Familiar motions have a calming effect. Routines help put your body at ease. Repetitive motions are great for people who cannot seem to relax by being still. You can do something familiar and repetitive while clearing your mind of troubling thoughts.Try brushing your hair, knitting, or washing dishes. Gardening is another great repetitive motion.
 Fill the tub with hot water. Allow yourself to soak in the warm water instead of rushing to clean yourself. Let your muscles relax and restore in the water.Try adding essential oils, like lavender oil. Bath salts, bubble bath, and scented bath petals can also be relaxing.
Light candles and play soft music. Allow your mind to clear and focus on the scents, the water, and the music.
If you have access to one, sit in a hot tub. Steam rooms and saunas can also be relaxing.
 Exercise can help boost your mood and help you relax. This doesn't mean you have to run. Any kind of physical activity, including light movement, can get your blood pumping, raise your endorphins, and make you more relaxed.Go for a 15 minute walk around the block. Try doing light yoga poses. Stretch your body, especially your neck and shoulders. Try head and shoulder rolls.
 Don't spend the hour before bed watching television or surfing the internet. These activities can keep your mind engaged and keep you from relaxing. Drinking alcohol before bed can also result in restless sleep.Instead, spend the 30 minutes before bed bringing yourself down from the day.


Read before bed. Take a warm bath. Spend a few minutes journaling. Meditate or work on your breathing techniques. Decide what is the best way for you to come down from the day so you can full relax and sleep soundly.

