 Wait till your opponent makes a move toward your legs to grab their head. Or if they have their head slightly bent toward you, reach out and pull their head down by clasping your hands behind their neck and pulling down. Get their head at the level of your chest, with their face toward the ground.Wait for any time your opponent comes toward you with their head toward the outside of your body. This is an ideal position for you to perform this choke.;
, With their head still facing down, wrap one of your arms around the back of your opponent’s head. Wrap it all the way around so that your forearm is against their neck.Face the palm of your hand toward your own chest to keep the pressure tight.
 Grasp the wrist of the arm you have wrapped around your opponent with your other hand. Hold this grip tightly so that your opponent can’t remove his head from the bind created by your arms.


You can also try a cup-and-saucer grip by making the hand of your choking arm into a fist and grasping that fist with the open palm of your other hand.
Another variation is to use a chainlink grip, in which the fingers of each hand are cupped to grasp the other.
You can also hold your opponent’s back by hooking your arm under theirs to reach the back and grasping your bicep with your choking arm. Or, hold their tricep or trapezius (top of the shoulder) and grasp your own bicep or wrist with your choking arm., Maintain your hold around your opponent’s neck and pull up with both hands. Imagine you are trying to stretch your opponent out.


Push your hips forward, squeeze your elbows in toward your body, and inhale in order to complete this hold and stretching of your opponent.You may also step forward with one foot and twist your hips in the direction of that foot to trap them in this position., To further the choke, sit back onto the ground with the opponent’s head still within your choke. Place them in a guard position, meaning that you wrap your legs around your opponent’s back as they are on top of you.


Pull with your hands and push with your legs, as if you are stretching your opponent out.