 Ultimately, any deadline you set should be done with relevant knowledge about the marketplace and the actions of your competitors. Without such information, your deadline may be irrelevant, unneeded, or not realistic.


Attend trade conferences. Trade conferences, like the annual meeting of the American Association of Franchisees & Dealers, are great places to network with other small business owners who are in a position like your own.
Gather market research information. You can do this by contracting with a marketing firm, doing your own research on the internet, or going out of your way to meet your competitors in a one-on-one environment.;
, Any deadline you establish should have specifics attached to its completion. Without firm metrics and a specific date, you and your employees will have trouble meeting it.


Create a firm deadline. For instance, if you ask your employees to account for your inventory, give them a specific date on which they must be done.
Provide numbers so you and your employees can measure their progress toward meeting their goals and the deadline. For instance, if you tell your employees that they need to grow sales year-over-year, give them a certain figure they need to reach, like $200,000 in sales., Perhaps the most important thing in setting deadlines is to make sure they are attainable. Setting unattainable deadlines will simply frustrate you and your employees, and create a stressful working environment.


Measure the amount of time for the deadline off the average amount of time it takes your employees to complete similar work.
If by setting a deadline you are asking employees to work more or faster than normal, make sure the increase is not dramatic. For instance, ask employees to work 10% faster rather than 50% faster., Always make sure to involve people who know about or will be involved in accomplishing a given goal in the decision-making process. Without knowledge specific to the project that needs to be finished, you won’t be able to set a realistic deadline.


Talk to workers tasked with helping fulfill the deadline. Employees might better understand unique factors, such as season-associated sales or other issues, that will impact your ability to meet deadlines.
Have a brainstorming session at a meeting. For instance, ask management and employees for ideas about how to achieve a goal. Try saying “I want to set a deadline for our completion of the Johnson deal. Does anyone have any good ideas about getting this done in a timely manner?”
Consult senior members of your organization. Your partners or managers might have a some worthwhile opinions regarding the deadline you want to set.