 One of the best reasons to decide on a diet of wet food for your cat is because of the much higher water content that is present in canned cat food. If your cat is prone to dehydration, this is an excellent way to ensure that you cat gets additional water in its diet.Some common signs of dehydration in cats include panting, sunken eyes, loss of appetite, dry mouth, and lethargy.
If you suspect your cat is dehydrated, you should take it to the vet immediately for a health checkup.;
, If your cat is struggling with weight problems, it may be time to switch your kitty to a wet food diet. Since canned wet foods contain about 80% water, they are actually much healthier for your cat than calorie-dense dry food.Additionally, if your cat is overweight and eating a dry food diet, switching to wet food could help because of the forced change in the method of feeding.
Many cats who eat dry cat foods are free-fed, meaning they eat whenever they want until they are full, not a measured amount each day regulated by their owner.
Wet cat food must be given in smaller amounts several times per day because the food will spoil if it is left out for too long.
 If you are struggling with the decision about whether or not to feed your cat a wet food diet, ask your vet about it. Your vet can inspect your cat, look at its health records, and discuss the best options with you. They can tell you if your cat has any special health needs that should be taken into consideration.It will also ease your mind to get a professional opinion.
 You want to choose a brand of wet cat food that is known for quality and has been around for a while. An older company will have perfected its methods, will probably produce a better product, and will be less likely to disappear on you in the future.Read company reviews online, ask friends and neighbors for recommendations, and consult your veterinarian regarding brands of wet cat food to purchase.
 Choose a brand of wet cat food that produces a variety of products. This will make it easier on you in the long run if your cat has changing dietary needs in the future. Look for a brand that has a budget product, a premium product, a variety of flavors (fish, poultry, beef, etc.), and a wide range of specialty products focused on specific needs (like urinary health, hairball prevention, and products for older cats).Switching products between the same brand is much easier on your cat than changing brands altogether.
 One thing to consider when choosing a wet cat food is the kind and quality of ingredients included in the product. Read the list of ingredients on the label and evaluate the quality of each ingredient. The first listed main ingredient should be a wholesome, genuine meat product.You want your wet cat food to include genuine meat products, not byproducts – like cornmeal or beef byproduct. Products with these lesser ingredients will contain fewer valuable nutrients for your pet and more filler just intended to make your cat feel full.
 While it is true that there is quite a wide price range in wet cat food products, it’s generally not necessary to spend top dollar on the pricier items.As long as you read the label and approve of the ingredients, feel free to purchase a cheaper brand option. There’s no need to break the bank on something that seems fancy, but really isn’t.
 When transitioning cat foods (especially from dry food to wet cat food), it’s important to make the change slowly over time – not just one big surprise all at once. This can confuse your cat and possibly cause it to eat less than it needs to remain healthy.Slowly start introducing the new food a bit at a time while still making the old food available.
 To introduce new wet food to your cat, place some of the new food next to the old food in the normal place where you feed your cat. Let the cat inspect the new food and choose which one it wants to eat.Keeping the routine as much the same as possible is quite important for the transition period.
 During the transition period (usually about two to three weeks), keep introducing the new food while the old food is still present. After a few days of this, you should let the old food run out – especially if the cat is still showing a clear preference for the old food.Let the old food remain empty for several hours to encourage your cat to eat the new food. Then refill the old food again to continue with the transition period.

