 This doesn't mean that sappy stuff that adults talk about like your self image, respecting your elders and being presentable. It means take a look at your perspective on things and make a statement. Look at where you stand in your opinions. In a way, think more closely about the things you do every day, and analyze what you do. You should soon discover that you, as well as everyone else is very hypocritical.;
, No one earns respect by being lazy. Although this is not just talking about doing the dishes, and cleaning your room, it means chores outside of your living accommodations. If your friend needs a favor and you are able to help them, then you probably shouldn't say, sorry, I can't help you right now. Even though it may seem like a good decision at that moment, being a person who only takes and never gives back isn't a very good image.
 Even if they have done some cruddy things in the past, hating them isn't going to change one thing. And its also possible to hate and still respect at the same time, and most of the time, little things that children say to their parents goes a long way. Many time words can be more hurtful than actually hits. But you can show your love to your parents by thanking them when they do nice things, helping them out sometimes and even just giving hugs or compliments. Actions go a long way.
 Someone who has many things in common with you, someone who understands what your going through and who understands how you live. It is much easier in this world with a little support from someone other than your parents or family members. No matter what race, gender or color they are, all that should matter is their personality and how they are as a person. Even if your parents hate you for dating "outside your race", you should always live for you and you alone. Because in the end, its your life, not your parents and not your family's. Yours and you live it the way you want.
 Its sometimes a good idea to have lots of different genres, that way you can have music for every mood. You don't have to listen to rock just because your friends listen to rock. Listen to what you want to listen to, because no one is inside your head except for you. Live for you.
 Don't be a push over, don't think you better than anyone else, because were all equal. Try not to judge because you probably wouldn't want to be judged and you don't know what is going on in that person's life. And most importantly don't let anyone crush your spirit or soul, be strong and stand up for yourself. But that doesn't mean fighting, you can resolve conflicts the "mature and adult way". Talking it out.
 Nothing in this world is perfect, neither are you. When something defeats you, don't cry and whine, don't give up and quit. Try again and give it your all, because at the end of the day, you have to live with your actions.
 One where everyone is close with everyone, there are many secrets and everyone in that circle knows them. The circle is made up of people whom you can trust and people that have your back no matter what. You would do anything for them and vice versa.
 Just know that the grass is greener on the other side. Keep hope and don't give up, because everything happens for a reason. Suicide is never the ideal way to go.

