 It doesn't matter what you do, whether it is to watch replays, read guides, or hire a pro to give you lessons (led, than you should play as much as you can.;
, You can learn a lot from them, and also play games as team mates. You always have an advantage if you know your team mates and your opponents don't know each other.
 Today there are many DotA guides out there, targeting from new/noob players to experienced players. There are lane control guides, hero guides, hero counter guides, overall guides, and much more.
 You can still "fight back" if someone insults you, since they will not likely become your friends =P.
 Juking is one of the most useful skills you might ever learn in Dota. A good juking guide is found within the Lane Control guide above.
 Last hitting normal creeps usually gives you 40 or 50 extra gold. Last hitting simply means giving that final blow on a weakened creep. Denying reduces the exp your opponent will get for the dead creep. Denying means last hitting a creep of your own team, and to attack a creep of your own team, it must be below half of its hp (you usually want to hit it when it's red though).
 Hero denying is a very skillful move, but effective if successful. Hero denying means killing your own hero or a team mates' hero, in order to prevent your opponent from getting exp. You need a good deal of judgement though, since it's better for you friend or yourself to live on then die. Further Hero denying information can be found in the Lane Control guide. A form of denying more common than hero denying is tower denying. To tower deny, the tower's hp has to be red. You want to wait as long as you can to tower deny.
 This is a guide to improve your dota skills, not to healthily improve your dota skills. The more you play, the better you'll get, on any game or on any other thing that involves skills.
 Be aware of other heroes positioning at all times. Put wards in jungle or in rune spots where you can have vision for areas in fog to avoid any ganks being made on you or your team mates.

