 Florida public accountants must have a minimum of 120 semester hours in accounting and a bachelor's degree to sit for the Uniform CPA Examination. The state also requires an additional 30 hours to qualify for a license to practice in Florida.


Applicants for the examination must complete 24 semester hours of upper division accounting courses that must include taxation, financial, accounting information systems and cost accounting. The accountant must have an additional 12 hours of accounting courses to qualify for the state license.
Florida also requires the completion of 24 upper division business courses that includes 6 hours in business law to qualify to sit for the CPA examination. Applicants for a license must complete an additional 15 semester hours in upper level business courses.
Students may complete the additional 30 hour requirement after completing the CPA exam.;
, Applicants who meet the education requirements must submit an application to the Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation Division of Certified Public Accountancy. Applicants must submit official transcripts to prove eligibility.


The Uniform CPA Examination is a national examination the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy administers. The test consists of 4 sections, which students may complete on separate dates.
Florida requires the accountant pass all 4 sections of the examination with a score of 75 percent or higher.
Applicants must submit the scores from the examination to the state board within 36 hours of completion.
 To qualify for a license to practice as a certified public accountant, applicants must have 1 year of work experience. The experience must be under the direct supervision of a licensed public accountant. The work must be in the field of accounting to qualify for a CPA license.


Work experience can not begin until the applicant has completed the bachelor's degree requirement to sit for the CPA examination.
The applicant may complete the work experience in an academic or government setting to meet the qualifications.
 Candidates who meet the education and experience requirements and who have passed the Uniform CPA Examination can apply to the state of Florida for a CPA license.


Only accountants with a license to practice accountancy in the state of Florida may use the CPA designation.

