 If you picked up your driftwood from a natural location, such as a lake, you might see particles of dirt sticking to the wood’s surface. Grab the piece by the end and give it a good shake. Perhaps tap it gently on the ground a few times to loosen any additional grains.


This also helps to remove any pests, like ants, from the wood.;
, If you are working with ‘outside’ wood then you may need to get more serious about removing the grime. Grab a sturdy brush and scrub the wood. Try to go over as much of the surface area as you can. You may want to repeat the scrubbing process after the soaking the wood as well.If you plan to use the driftwood for a craft or furniture project, you may want to carefully consider your choice of brush. A soft-bristle brush will not scratch the wood whereas a wire brush will clean more effectively but can also leave scrub marks behind. It is generally a good idea to scrub with the grain.
A wire brush is a good option if you need to remove bark., Driftwood often contains small nooks that are hard to fully clean. Use a screwdriver or knife to dig into these areas. Carefully apply pressure so that you don’t splinter the wood.If you want a gentler method, push into crevices using the edge of a slightly damp toothbrush. This is especially effective at removing sand.You can also use an air compressor to shoot concentrated bursts of air into deeper holes. This is less damaging then picking and often equally effective.
 Removing the outer layer of the wood is one way to get it clean. Use a garnet sandpaper with a light grit. This type of sandpaper works well with handcrafted projects and will not overly scratch the wood. If you want to dig deeper into the wood (perhaps in a rotten area), upgrade to a higher grit.


If you are unsure about what your driftwood project requires, go to your local home improvement store to feel your various sandpaper options firsthand.
 No one wants driftwood that is infested by insects. Shaking it off will remove some pests, but to get extra reassurance seal your driftwood in a plastic bag and leave it for a few days. Check back for evidence of dead bugs.


A more aggressive way to kill off insects is to spray an insecticide into the bag before sealing it. Be warned that the chemical residue from this method could prove potentially fatal to fish if the wood is intended for an aquarium. This is best used in crafting or woodworking situations.