 If someone asks you your name, you can say, “I’m Bob.” But don’t reciprocate the question, or you will give them the impression that you are interested in conversing. If you ask them questions or start adding a lot to the conversation, the person will assume that you are enjoying the conversation and will continue it. To show that this isn’t true, it is important that you don’t engage with them beyond short answers., If you turn to them while answering and look them in they eye, this will show interest and will forge a connection with them. If you continue with your activity and don’t look up while answering, they will feel like you aren’t really connecting, which makes for a dissatisfying conversation. This should cause them to stop and try talking with someone else instead.
 After they have talked for a bit, if they aren’t getting the hint and aren’t aware that they are having a one-sided conversation, gracefully end the conversation. Be respectful and direct. When there is a pause in the conversation/soliloquy, you could say something like, “It’s been nice hearing all about your family, Mary, but I actually have some work I need to get done now. Take care.” This shows that you heard them and listened, but you simply aren’t able to talk. The other person should respect this and allow you to do what you want to be doing., Some people simply love to talk or aren’t very good at reading body language or understanding social norms. In case they talk to you even after you’ve made yourself unavailable, be kind and honest to them. Say something like, “It was nice meeting you but I’m really tired and need to close my eyes for a few minutes.” You can be kind and still communicate your needs to someone. You never need to be captive to someone else’s words. Any conversation is a two-way street. If one party isn’t interested, then the conversation needs to end., In case someone is downright rude and refuses to respect your wishes to be left alone, relocate somewhere else. At the next stop, walk over to the opposite side of the vehicle and sit there. If the person is making you uncomfortable or seems like they might follow you, this would be a good time to sit near someone else, just in case.This is a last resort. It shouldn’t generally be necessary unless someone is really giving you a hard time. If they are bothering you and won’t stop, consider calling someone for help or leaving the vehicle at a stop where there are lots of people around. Your safety is most important.

