 Transfer all the honey you want to melt into a tall, room temperature glass jar with a lid. Loosely cover the jar.


A glass jar is the ideal container since the glass can withstand hot temperatures while also allowing that heat to be transferred to the honey inside.






Make sure that the jar you use is room temperature, though, and not cold. Glass can shatter under extreme changes in temperature.






Using a lid will help prevent water from accidentally getting inside the jar and into the honey. A lid is not strictly necessary, though, especially if the jar is fairly tall.





;
, Place this saucepan on the stove over high heat, keeping it there until it reaches a rolling boil.


Before boiling the water, make sure that you have enough water in your saucepan to melt the honey. Place the jar inside the saucepan and check the water level. The level of water should approximately match the level of honey inside the jar.
 After the water reaches a steady boil, remove it from the stove and set it down on a heat-resistant surface.


Alternatively, you can keep the water on the stove and reduce the heat to low. Before placing the jar of honey in the water, though, you need to make sure that all simmering stops. Hot temperatures will not make the honey inedible, but temperatures above 110 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius) can destroy some of the beneficial health properties of the honey.
 Sit the jar of honey directly on the bottom of the pan so that it is now surrounded on all sides by hot water.


If you are using a lid, make sure that the lid is on very loose. You want to prevent water from getting inside while allowing air to escape. If you tighten the lid too much, pressure could build up inside of the jar and cause the glass to crack.
 Periodically remove the lid and stir the honey while the jar is still sitting inside the hot water. This can help the honey melt more evenly and at a quicker pace.


Continue doing this until the honey melts. If you are trying to melt crystallized granules out, keep at it until you no longer see any crystals left. If you are trying to melt thick, raw honey, continue melting it in the hot water until it thins to the consistency of store-bought honey.






This process can take a long time depending on how much honey you have. Expect to wait anywhere from 20 to 60 minutes.
 When done, remove the jar from the water and dry it off with a clean dish towel. Tighten the lid on securely and store the honey at room temperature until you are ready to use it.


The ideal storage temperature is 50 to 70 degrees Fahrenheit (10 to 21 degrees Celsius).At colder temperatures, the honey will begin to crystallize. You should also keep the honey away from hot, moist conditions for similar reasons.






Make sure that the lid is airtight. Otherwise, the honey can lose moisture and start to crystallize again.







