 Although you want to reduce the anxiety you feel, you don’t want to ignore it. Ignoring or repressing emotions can make them more powerful and more fear-inducing. Acknowledge that you are afraid, and that there is nothing “wrong” or “bad” about you for that experience., This can help you avoid rumination, that broken-record thought cycle where you can’t seem to stop obsessing about something.For example, perhaps you’re having anxiety about an upcoming plane flight and you can’t stop thinking about what might happen should you crash. Focus yourself by saying “Stop” to yourself, either out loud or in your head.
Next, replace this with something calming and positive. For example, you could replace it with a thought about your vacation with your best friends and how much joy they bring you.
It can take a lot of repetition for this technique to work, so be patient and kind with yourself.
This technique does not work in the middle of a panic attack, because a panic attack may not have a clear thought or cause associated with it. It is helpful for managing general feelings of anxiety, though.
 Using guided imagery can help you relax and reduce your experience of anxiety.Think of a place in which you feel at peace and relaxed; this could be your home, a favorite vacation spot, or being held by a loved one.
As you think of this place, continue adding sensory details to the scene, so that you are focusing your entire mind on imagining it. Feel free to do this with your eyes closed or open, although closing your eyes may make the process easier. Think about what you can see, smell, touch, hear, and taste in your safe place.
When you feel anxiety coming on, visualize your safe place. Imagine yourself relaxed and calm in the spot you have prepared. Once you feel more relaxed, you can come back out of the visualization.
You can also ask yourself some questions. Is it a true and present danger? Most likely, you are using “what if” statements and panicking about something that has not yet/may not happen. Realize that you are experiencing fear, but that you are not in danger. Taking the danger out of the situation will help you to relax a bit.
 If you are prone to panic attacks or feelings of anxiety, keep a diary in which you can write entries explaining your feelings. Write what you feel, what you’re afraid of, what your thoughts and beliefs are about that fear, and how intense the experience is. Writing it down will help you to focus your thoughts, and reading over your entry or looking back can help you to better handle your anxiety.You may notice at first that it feels like you don’t have anything to say. Keep trying to examine the situations that trigger anxiety. Once you practice slowing down and thinking about the situations, you will be able to pick out thoughts and feelings that may have helped boost your anxiety.
Practice self-compassion as you write your entries. Avoid judging yourself or your thoughts. Remember: you can’t necessarily control what thoughts or feelings show up, and they are not inherently “good” or “bad.” You can control your reactions.
 Taking care of your physical health will help you take care of your mental health, too. Healthy exercise and diet habits will not “cure” anxiety, but they can help you manage it.


Do a little exercise. Getting your body active, especially through aerobic exercise, releases endorphins that are responsible for increasing your feelings of peace and happiness.Avoid stimulants. Stimulants such as caffeine and nicotine can make you feel jittery and tense, and they can worsen existing anxiety.Some people mistakenly believe that smoking will calm their nerves, but this is not true. Nicotine dependence can increase feelings of stress and anxiety when you don’t get enough of it, and smoking is incredibly bad for your health.
Eat a balanced diet. There is no “magic food” that will cure or prevent anxiety. However, avoiding processed and high-sugar foods can help, as can eating plenty of lean protein, complex carbohydrates like whole grains, and fresh fruits and vegetables., Sitting and ruminating over your anxiety will worsen your state and make it harder to overcome your panic. Distract your mind and body by performing a task; cleaning, drawing, calling a friend, anything that will keep you busy. Preferably, do something that you enjoy as a hobby.Try a warm bath or shower. Studies show that the sensation of physical warmth has a soothing, relaxing effect on many people.Try adding a few drops of lemon balm, bergamot, jasmine, or lavender oil to your bath. These essential oils have a calming effect., Create a playlist of songs that you listen to to help you relax or that make you feel happy. Then, if/when you experience anxiety, you can listen to the music to help calm you. Use noise-cancelling headphones when possible to help you to concentrate on the music. As you listen, focus on different parts that are being played, the sound, and the lyrics that are being sung. This will help to focus your mind away from your fear.Try to listen to music with slow beats (around 60 per second) and relaxing lyrics (or no lyrics at all).Music with faster beats or angry lyrics may stress you out further., If you are in the throes of anxiety and can’t seem to get out, call a friend or family member for help. Have them distract you from your panic and analyze your fear so that you can overcome your feelings of stress. If you are prone to panic attacks, coach a friend in the different means of treating them so that they are well versed should you call for help.

