 Use a pair of scissors to snip the stems off about an inch below the blossom. This will leave you with a nub just the right length to insert into the cake. Soak the stems of the cut flowers in water for several minutes before decorating to wash away any remaining bacteria or juices.You should soak the stem even if you’ve already rinsed the flower. Flowers stems contain copious amounts of water mingled with botanical elements. These can seep into the cake if you’re not careful.
Fresh flowers don't last long after they're cut, especially in hot temperatures. If possible, add the flowers to the cake right before you serve it. Consider using water tubes to protect the stems (and the cake) after cutting them and allow them to soak up some much-needed moisture.
 If you’ve shopped around for non-toxic organically grown flowers, there should be no problem with pressing the flower directly into the cake. However, if you’re still uncomfortable with the idea, go around the stems a couple of times with plastic wrap or aluminum foil before adding the flowers. This way, the stem never has to come into contact with the cake at all.You may also be able to find some long, cylindrical water tubes to use to cover the flower stems. These will keep the flowers fresh for longer, as well.As a possible alternative, roll fondant into thick shapes, place them on top of the cake and press the flowers into these rather than the cake itself., Decide where you want each flower to go on top of the cake. Push the flower stem down through the cake’s surface, stopping just beneath the blossom so that none of the stem is visible. It will look like the blossom itself is resting gently on the cake. The flowers can be removed prior to serving or eating the cake.Snipping the stems at a sharp angle can help you penetrate the top layer of the cake without making a mess.
 Group the flowers in clusters, or combine different types to create a cake bouquet. Take the same care you would in designing a flower arrangement for a table centerpiece. Once again, consider the occasion, as well as the kinds of flowers that are in season and will provide a pleasant aesthetic with the cake you’ve prepared.Roses and carnations make ideal floral decorations for a traditional wedding cake.
Play around with different sizes of flowers as well as different colors.

