 One way you can keep your spirits up is to write in a journal. In a journal, you can write your private feelings. This includes any frustration, sadness, or happiness. Putting the words down on paper or typing them out can help you let go of bad feelings so you can move on from them and stay positive.Writing in a journal also helps you learn how to express your feelings. This can help you if you want to talk to others about your feelings, like in therapy or support group.
You can also create an online blog if you feel comfortable sharing your experiences with others who can relate and provide encouragement.;
, Sometimes, when you have MS it may feel like that’s all you think about. That can drain your energy and leave you feeling negative. Try to redirect your thoughts by pursuing your interests and hobbies. This helps you to have something you enjoy talking about, stay happy and positive, and ensure that you’re living a fulfilling life.For example, you may read books, garden, travel, or sew. Take up an old hobby or try new hobbies. Find ways to engage in activities and follow interests so you have something positive in your life.
If MS has taken away the ability to do your favorite hobby, find a new hobby that you can do and enjoy with your current abilities.
 With MS, you will probably have good days and bad days. On good days, you can probably do anything. On bad days, getting out of bed may be difficult. Living with MS means that you may feel some days that your body is weak and each step you take in a day is a struggle. However, remember that each day and each moment is important. Try to live life to the fullest each day to your best ability. Keep fighting and going even if everything, including your body, is against you.During bad days, tell yourself, “I want to live my life to the fullest. I want to create memories. I want to live in each moment.”

, Positivity can be contagious. When you surround yourself with positive people, your attitude will change and you will start to feel positive. If you surround yourself with negative people, you will give into that negativity. When you have MS, it is extremely important to find people who can lift you up instead of bring you down.This means you may need to let go of some people who feed your negativity. You may need to have a talk with negative people and tell them, “I do not want this negativity around me. I am focusing on being positive. Can you be positive with me?”
Try finding a support group that has positive people in it. You may also look for people at work who are positive instead of negative. Surrounding yourself by positive people can make a huge change.
You can also work on acquiring a positive mindset by watching or reading about others with disabilities who are still engaged in life despite their disability. This may help you see your situation in new, positive ways.
 It is easy to get into the habit of negative self-talk. You may get frustrated with your body and what you can’t do, and say things to yourself that are defeatist and damaging. To stay positive, work on lifting yourself up instead of bringing yourself down.For example, tell yourself things like, “I am frustrated because I am fatigued, and that is okay. However, I will not let my frustration bring me down or ruin my day” or “My MS is only part of me and doesn’t control all of me. I can be happy and positive despite some of my setbacks.”
Do your best not to isolate yourself; isolation can increase negative self-talk.

