 There are many reasons that it makes sense to travel somewhere popular when going alone. The main factor is safety. Related to this, you’ll have a much easier time finding places to stay that are fun and affordable in popular tourist destinations. Another important consideration is companionship. Even if you’re traveling along to get more in touch with yourself, there will be moments you want to share., There are a few specific factors you should consider about potential destinations in terms of logistical concerns. For instance, it is advisable to go somewhere with an accessible, reliable method of transportation.If you are a relatively large human in terms of height or weight, traveling in certain areas - such as Central and South America, may often be uncomfortable. While this may not bother everyone, it can be rougher than expected several hours in a bus seat designed for a much smaller person, for instance.
If internet connectivity is of high importance to you, be aware that some countries will have far slower - and less commonly available - internet than you’re used to. Malaysia is a good option if you want to visit southern Asia as technological advances have made internet more accessible here than in other parts of the region., Some countries are surprisingly hard to get into, while others don’t require a visa at all for short stays. Depending on where you’re from, you are also unlikely to be allowed into some countries at all. An embassy to your destination country is the best source of knowledge about visa requirements and availability.Some countries in Africa and the Middle East will be especially hard or even impossible to get into. This is especially true of countries where Islam is extremely prominent, or ongoing conflicts give cause for concerns about the safety of tourists.
You may also need certain vaccinations to be allowed to enter certain counties, especially in Africa.
 Another factor than can contribute to safety and ease of travel is a well-established travel route within a certain country. If you’re hoping to move around (as opposed to simply visiting one city), this is especially important.Another benefit of an established circuit is a higher likelihood that you’re able to find temporary traveling partners to share the road with. You’re also more likely to meet people who can give you valuable tips about what to do.
In short, having a bit of an established route can take a lot of stress out of planning, and it won’t prevent you from simply going with the flow whensoever the mood strikes.
 In addition to a somewhat established route, try to plan where you’ll stay ahead of time as well. If staying in hostels, call ahead to see about availability. If they’re pretty open, you can probably just show up and book a spot when you get there - and leave your plans open in the meantime. However, in busier seasons or cities, it’s worth reserving places ahead of time.Either way, flexibility is key to a successful trip. Whenever you’re making reservations, ask about cancellation policies and avoid making bookings that will heavily penalize you for changes. Always have a backup place in mind too, especially when you don’t make formal reservations.
 One of the greatest advantages of traveling alone is that it’s entirely up to you how to spend your time. Though it may seem obvious, it’s worth reminding yourself that you should be doing what you want to do. In fact, consider deleting Instagram and posting minimally, if at all, on Facebook. You can always share photos later. In the meantime, be where you are, and do whatever you feel like!State otherwise, this vacation is all yours. You want to go to the creepy doll museum? Do it. You want to take surfing lessons for the third day in a row. Heck, why not? Without a traveling partner, you’ll be much more free to do literally exactly what you want to do.
 You shouldn’t feel obligated to try to meet people, but it’s worth maintaining casual conversations with people you meet while traveling. You’ll get inside knowledge about the area or worthy stops along your path. It can also be incredibly exciting to meet people and interact with them without much context - which can happen most naturally while you’re traveling.Of course, don’t hesitate to spend time on your own as well. Walking in ancient cities, or through landscapes you’ve seen before can be deeply enriching on your own. You’ll really get to listen to your own thoughts, in a way that being in a new place inspires.
 The one major negative about traveling alone is that you don’t have the security that comes with the presence of others. In fact, if you’re going out at night, you should do so with other travelers. Even during the day, stick to public areas that are frequented by families and professionals.If you’re drinking, keep it moderate. One drink too many can lead to dangerous situations, especially in cities where you may stick out.
Another vital safety measure to take while traveling alone is sharing your whereabouts with someone back home. Further, make sure someone knows how to get a hold of you if need be. Let someone know your itinerary, as well as the specific places you mind up staying along the way.
While you may want to turn your phone off to enjoy your vacation, you should keep it with you, keep it charged, and turn it on once in a while to make sure no one has been trying to reach you.

