 Living with a chronic disease means a person may not be able to do all the things they could do before they became ill. Ask them if there are things you can do to make life a bit easier. Urge them to be clear about specific tasks you can help them accomplish.


Try saying, “Ken, I know you get overwhelmed when you have to go see the endocrinologist. Would it help if I came with you?”
You could also say, “Honey, I know you’ve developed insomnia because of the Graves’ disease. Since you’re sleeping less, would it be helpful if I get the kids up in the morning?”

, More often than not being diagnosed and living with an autoimmune disease is overwhelming and can be frightening. It is critical that you listen to what your loved one is saying when they talk about the physical, psychological, and emotional manifestations of the disease in their daily lives.


Consider a daily check-in. This could be as simple as asking, “Kyla, how are you feeling today?” This allows the person a space to talk about their needs and day-to-day experience living with the disease.
 Physical and emotional stress can trigger the onset of Graves’ disease as well as disease flare-ups. Encourage the person to work with a mental health professional to come up with a plan for managing stress to manage and prevent flare-ups.Suggest the person seek the help of a mental health professional who specializes in stress management and has experience working with people suffering from chronic disease.
Sit down with your family member and make a list of day-to-day stressors and possible ways to alleviate some of the stress. For example, if washing the dishes stresses out your family member because of hand tremors you should offer to take over that task.
 The psychiatric manifestations of Graves’ disease can be severe. Oftentimes patients need psychological and/or psychiatric help as they navigate these symptoms. Urge them to make an appointment with a mental health professional like a psychologist or psychiatrist.


Encourage the person to contact their health insurance company to find out what mental health services are covered by their insurance plan.
Try saying, “Jean, you’ve seemed a little down lately. When I was going through a rough patch I saw a psychiatrist who helped me manage my depression and anxiety. Have you thought about going to talk to someone?”

