 Grease the inside of two 6-inch (15.24-centimeter) cake pans with butter or cooking spray. Dust the inside of each pan with flour, then set them aside.;
, Cut the butter into an electric mixer or food processor. Add the sugar, then beat them together using a medium speed setting for 5 to 8 minutes.
 Add the eggs in one at a time. Beat the mixture well after each egg that you add. At the very end, stir in the vanilla extract.
 Pour the flour into a large mixing bowl. Add the baking powder. Stir the two together with a whisk.
 Pour in half of the flour mixture into the butter mixture. Beat to combine, then stir in half of the milk. Repeat with the rest of the flour and milk. Stir everything together until they are just combined.
 Fill each pan about ¾ of the way with cake batter. You will have some cake batter left over. You can use this to make another cake or a set of cupcakes.


Use a rubber spatula to scrape the bowl clean so that you don't waste any cake batter.
 They are ready when a toothpick poked into the center comes out clean.
 Run a knife along the inside of each pan to loosen the cakes, then remove the cakes from the pans. If the cakes are still warm, let them finish cooling on a wire rack. They must be completely cool before you frost them.
 Sometimes, cakes form a dome on top while baking. If your cakes formed domes, use a long, sharp knife to cut them off.Discard the cut-off domes or eat them.
 You can do this in an electric mixer or a food processor. At the very end, stir in the vanilla extract.
 Add in 1 cup (125 grams) of powdered sugar, then beat it in using a medium speed setting. Add in the remaining cup (125 grams) of powdered sugar and beat it until it is completely blended in.
 Pour in 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of milk, then beat the frosting using a medium speed setting. Add in the rest of milk, and mix again. Keep mixing until the frosting is smooth.
 You can use any color you want, but most people use light blue (for boys) or pink (for girls).
 Cut the tip off of a piping bag, then insert an open star decorating tip.Set the bag down into a tall glass, then fold the top edge over the rim of the glass. Fill the bag with the buttercream frosting using a rubber spatula.


Skip this step if you want to just spread the frosting over the cake for something simpler.
 Place one of the cakes cut-side-up onto a pretty plate. Swirl some buttercream frosting onto the top of the cake.
 This time, set it cut-side-down. Use your hands to make the two layers even; you don't want any overhanging edges.
 Place the tip of the bag against the center of the cake. Using gentle pressure, begin piping out frosting while moving the bag outward in a circle. Think of it as drawing a tight spiral.For a simpler cake: plop icing on top, then use cake decorating spatula to spread it towards the edges and down the sides., Work your way around the first rose that you made until you fill the top of the cake. Continue making more roses along the sides of the cake. You should be able to make about 2 to 3 rows of roses along the sides., Go over your cake and check for any gaps between the roses. If you see any, fill them in with a small squirt of frosting.If you used a coupler, you can switch to a simple round tip for this step.
 You don't have to do this, but it's a great way to bring some color to your cake, especially if you spread the frosting instead of piped it on.Plus, your little one might like the texture when he or she grabs the cake!


Instead of going for the basic rainbow sprinkles, consider using something more creative, such as silver hearts, gold stars, or edible glitter.
 You can find a template online or create one using a word processing program. You can also draw the number on a sheet of paper instead. Aim to make the number about 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) tall.You can use any font you want. Block or bubble fonts work great!

, Place your template down onto a baking sheet. Cover it with a sheet of wax paper or parchment paper, then tape down the edges., Tie off the end or secure it with a rubber band. Don't cut off the tip yet; you will do that later.You can use any color you want, but white, pink, or light blue are great options.


If you can't find any candy melts, you can use white chocolate chips instead.
 Place the piping bag into the microwave, then heat it at 30-second intervals until the candy melts. Knead the bag between each interval. How long you do this for depends on the type of candy melts you are using; some melt quicker than others., Only cut off a tiny bit, or the melted candy will come out too thick. in the next step., Use the piping bag to outline your number with the melted chocolate. Next, fill the number in using a tight, zigzag motion. Make sure that there are no gaps visible., Here is where you can get really creative. You can cover the entire number with sprinkles, or just add a dash. For a textured number, match the color of the sprinkles to your chocolate. For a colorful number, use rainbow-colored sprinkles., Use the baking sheet to transfer the number to the fridge. Leave it there for 10 minutes so that the chocolate can harden., Once the chocolate has hardened, peel the number off of the wax or parchment paper. Set it down onto the cake so that it stands straight up, like one of those number candles.