 One important step to take before you begin cooking is turning off the auto-lock on your phone. This will prevent you from having to fiddle with your phone every time the screen automatically goes black.The specific steps to take to turn off auto-lock with vary from phone to phone. On most, phones, however, you’ll find the option to turn off auto-lock (or to lock the screen in “on” mode) in the “Settings” application.
On Apple devices that operate with iOS, Open the “Settings” app, look in “General,” and find “Auto-Lock”. Select “Never” to keep the screen from going out while you’re trying.
It’s best to make this step temporary, as leaving your screen on permanently will drain your phone’s battery, and may prevent your phone from requiring a passcode to gain access. As such, return the settings to whatever you prefer once you’re done cooking.;
, Believe it or not, one of the best ways to protect your phone while you cook is by using something that’s likely already in your kitchen. Resealable plastic storage bags, such as Ziploc bags, can protect your phone just as well as some of the waterproof bags that are sold specifically to protect phones. Further, they will still allow you to press your phone’s buttons and use its touchscreen.Keep the bag around when you’re done cooking for use next time. Magnet it to the fridge or put it in a drawer with your cooking utensils.
The waterproof bags you can purchase that designed to protect for use are better for things like running in the rain or going kayaking. This is partly because they float, or have lanyard attachments, which are likely features you don’t need in the kitchen.
 If you don’t have an plastic storage bags, you can use plastic wrap instead. Wrap the phone snugly with a few layers, folding initial layers onto themselves before adding the next. Make sure the final layer is sealed well by rubbing it gently all over.The touchscreen will still work with plastic wrap covering your phone, although you won't have access to the headphone jack or charging port. Audio quality from the phone will also be diminished.
 There are many different reliable cases cases available for most phones. If you like to cook with your phone, consider purchasing a case that is waterproof. Often, these cases are also dust-proof and shockproof, meaning your phone will be protected from ingredients like flour or a an accidental drop as well.


It’s a good idea to put a high quality case on your phone, even if you only cook with it occasionally. You can never predict when you may get caught in the rain!
There are too many to list, and recommended cases vary depend on the type of phone you have. LifeProof and OtterBox, for instance, are extremely popular options.
Note that some cases have built-in, fold-out stands that may be helpful if you like to use your phone while cooking.

