 Retinol is a vitamin A compound proven to help improve a number of skin-related conditions like acne and wrinkles.Studies have shown that regular retinol use can also improve the appearance of cellulite.Retinol products are available over-the-counter and by prescription.Use a 0.3 percent strength retinol cream.
Apply the cream twice each day to the affected area(s). Studies have shown results after approximately six months of use.
Talk to your doctor or dermatologist about putting together an effective skin treatment plan that includes retinol.
Ask your doctor about whether it's safe to use retinol during pregnancy, as some studies suggest retinol use may lead to complications.;
, Shockwave therapy is a relatively recent treatment option that has been shown to reduce the appearance of cellulite. Experts believe that shock wave therapy works by restructuring the connective tissues in the skin, though further research is needed on the actual mechanisms that make shock wave therapy effective.There are no side effects to shock wave therapy.
This treatment option is non-invasive and is only administered in relatively short sessions.
Studies have shown improved skin after twice-weekly sessions over the course of six weeks. Read reviews online before choosing a provider so you know that you'll receive quality care from a reliable clinician.
Shock wave therapy can be expensive. Though prices vary depending on your provider and the extent of your treatment, the services can typically run between $130 and $250 per session., One of the treatment options that appears to be the most promising combines laser and radiofrequency technology.The results of these treatments last approximately six months. Search for reviews online to ensure that you visit a clinician who will provide you with good care, and be prepared for a high cost: sessions typically cost several hundred dollars each, depending on where you go. There are several different types of treatment systems but some of the most common components of these systems are:


tissue massage
diode laser exposure
radiofrequency at varying tissue levels

