 Consider both appearance and function. Use fruits that are both attractive to you and appealing to your taste or diet. Look for multipurpose fruits, meaning fruits you can use in various recipes or just on their own. Though it may be tempting, avoid purchasing fruit only for its looks––while some fruit is beautiful, it loses value in your "functional" display if you'll never touch it.;
, It is best to display fruit on or in some sort of "holder." You can use a plate, a bowl, a basket, or anything else that will hold your fruit arrangement in place. Get creative––there are countless holder possibilities for fruit. Keep in mind the size when selecting a container––the holder needs to be able to contain all of the fruit in your display and keep the fruit in place without squashing or bruising it. Holder possibilities include:


Bowls suitable for food
Glassware created for holding food, such as a glass cake stand or a sweets dish
Basket-ware
Metallic bowls, containers or dishes; just be sure that any finishes/glazes/metallic types are food-safe
Purpose-made fruit hangers, etc.
 When displaying fruit, keep in mind the minute details of all of the fruits. Do they fit together properly? Do the colors complement each other? Do their sizes balance out? You can answer all of these questions visually, as you put the display in place. Pair the fruits together and determine which complement each other best. Once you decide where each fruit looks most attractive, put the whole arrangement together.


Making a digital chart (perhaps using digital photos) can help you to remember which combinations look best together, making it easier to quickly put together future displays.
 Put the complementary fruits next to each other. Think of the whole display as a puzzle, with each fruit an important piece to fit in place. Make adjustments as you go––the finished product should look appealing and attractive to you.
 Small details can spice up your display. Adding a small garnish or ornament such as a fig leaf, a bundle of cinnamon sticks or a large bow tied around the container might work well, just as long as whatever you add won't be mistaken as something edible. (This step is optional; you may find that adding more items is unnecessary and makes it harder to remove the fruit for eating.)

, Place the completed fruit display in an appropriate place in the kitchen or other eating space. Find a spot in your kitchen, dining room or other place where the display would look most appealing. It is best if it is a place that makes your fruit easily accessible in case you should decide to eat some!

