 When you run into someone, make eye contact instead of looking down at the floor or seeming distracted. Show that you're not afraid to make a connection and that you're completely confident in yourself. Keep your back straight and your chin up, whether sitting or standing, and let your shoulders relax and pull backward. Great posture not only makes you look confident -- you feel it, too.


Making eye contact shows that you're confident and ready to take things to another level.
Don't let anything sag, especially your shoulders and chin. Keeping these two body parts level and strong will help the rest of your posture fall into place naturally., This doesn't mean "don't be friendly," it means talking about the relationships, ideas, and ideologies that make the world work, even if (especially if) it is the first time you meet people. Challenge others with deep questions, such as their hopes and goals, what they'd rather do than work, and their opinions on the major topics of the day.


Don't be afraid to make people a little uncomfortable at first-- you'll be surprised how many people appreciate deeper conversations than "how about that weather."
Follow your curiosities in a conversation -- don't tailor your topics to what is "polite" or right.
 Edgy people tend to stray towards the extremes when they have opinions. This doesn't mean you need to take a stand on every issue -- quite the opposite. Instead, get deep into the issues that really matter, becoming a passionate advocate and leader on the cutting edge of issues. For the rest, remove yourself. It seems paradoxical, but it is far more edgy to ignore an issue you know nothing about than to hop on a bandwagon and pretend.


Some opinions will be unpopular, such as what you think of your sister's new boyfriend or your political views. Just because your opinion is unpopular doesn't mean you should suppress it.
Edgy people need to be well-informed about new developments and ideas, at least in your favorite subjects. Don't equate edgy with uneducated, even if you hate the education system.
 Don't mince words, offer half-thought ideas, or give compliments when you don't actually mean them. There is nothing wrong with thoughtful silence, especially when the alternative is mealy, useless conversation. The flip-side of this statement, however, is equally important -- when you truly have something to say, say it!


People will fish for compliments or advice, but there is nothing wrong with being honest if you don't have any to give. In fact, it is far edgier than lying or ignoring the question.
 Who really cares what the "popular" crowd thinks? If they make fun of you, just smile and walk away. This doesn't mean you're being mean or off-putting. Rather, you're realizing that you can only control your own behavior and that you rock. If you can't change the haters, don't bother with them at all.


Don't waste your time trying to please people who don't really matter to you.
Do things for you, not because you feel like someone else wants you to do them.
Never forget that the only person you can control is yourself -- and that's a good thing! Edgy people focus on themselves.