 It's unfair if the financial strain is cast upon one person, this can make things incredibly straining for them. Put yourself in their shoes, do you think its fair that they have to spend every penny on phone calls whilst you're out having fun? It is important to try to balance the bills between the two of you. Obviously different money issues might impact on the amount you can spend on them, but that's not saying you can't try to chip in a bit too! If you're the one who suffers with the agonizing bills then perhaps you should ask your partner if it would be possible for them to ring or book tickets next time.;
, Most phone contracts offer a certain amount of minutes and texts, so work out how many you have to use a day. Once you have worked it out, be strict with yourself, its okay to go over your daily budget every now and then, but try not to use too many minutes or texts each day as they will add up and make a bigger bill for you.
 If you talk to your current provider you might be able to tweak your mobile phone plan slightly to suit you. For example you might be able to swap the 20MB of internet that you never use for an extra 200 minutes.
 There's many instant messaging apps that can be downloaded for both computer and phone. You can use these to communicate with your partner without using any texts or minutes at all! In perspective, using an instant messaging service (such as Skype or MSN messenger) is free, provided that you have connection to the internet of course. Some instant messaging apps for your phone may also let you make free calls to your contacts meaning you can ring them without costing a penny. If you're using an instant messaging service on a computer you could both invest in a webcam and talk face to face too!

, Compare the prices of various transport methods and transport providers as some may be cheaper and may even be quicker. Why spend £80 on a train ticket when you could pay £35 for a coach ticket? It is important to plan your journey rather than just buying the first thing you see, you never know you might save yourself a lot of money.
 If you and your partner both have a games console (assuming you have the same console of course) then you could always try going online and talking using a headset or a mic. You both might enjoy taking a break from phone and Skype calls and chilling on a game together.
 Remember pennies add up. Make a savings jar and save up your spare change. You could use this to treat your loved one to a nice meal or to go somewhere special with them the next time you're together.

