 Espresso aficionados love to follow rituals in their espresso drinking, and to argue over which method is superior. Many common opinions and methods are described below, but even experts can't agree on which of these is "best."


If you want to test multiple methods in one sitting, cleanse your palate with water before each shot.;
, Put the cup to your nose and inhale the aroma with a long, slow draw. Scent is a major part of flavor.
 The light brown "crema" layer is the most bitter part of the drink, so "beginner" espresso drinkers often don't want to taste it straight. Here are a few approaches, all of them used by at least some "expert" drinkers:


Stir the crema in with a spoon or swirl the cup in a circle to mix it in with the rest of the espresso. (Don't lick the spoon if you don't want the bitter plain crema taste.)
Sip the crema for a bitter blast to start out. Some people then stir the remaining crema in, but more proceed to drink the rest with the crema still separated.
Skim the crema off and discard. This option may horrify traditionalists, but even some chefs prefer the sweeter, lighter, more evenly textured drink that results., The espresso flavor begins to change (some would say deteriorate) within 15 to 30 seconds of extraction, and the crema begins to dissolve into the cup. Drinking the shot in one or two swallows is worth trying at least once to see how the flavor changes, but expect an extremely intense punch.


Test the temperature of the drink before trying this.
You may want to sip the crema or a crema-liquid mixture for a different flavor to begin with.
 To discover the changing nuances of flavor throughout a cup of espresso, sip the drink without stirring. For a more consistent taste, stir before sipping. Either way, try to finish the espresso before it cools. Cooling will alter the espresso's flavors, or make different notes more noticeable, but this is almost always a negative effect once the drink drops near room temperature.Try stirring and sipping an espresso doppio, or double-sized shot, for a different balance of top and bottom layers., This step is intentionally listed after the plain espresso methods, since most espresso fans dislike adding ingredients to the drink. Try adding a touch of sweetness to a low-quality espresso, or when you're starting out in the espresso world and need to be weaned away from sweeter coffee drinks.
 Some cafés serve espresso with a small glass of sparkling water on the side. Sip this before drinking the espresso to cleanse your palate. Only drink the water after the espresso is finished if you dislike the flavor – and do so out of range of the barista.Recently, a few locations have started making "carbonated coffee"... but be prepared for strange looks if you try to recreate this yourself., Italian cafés occasionally serve espresso with a piece of chocolate. Avoid other strongly flavored accompaniments, especially biscuits or cookies.Of course, espresso is often served alone.


For espresso tasting sessions, serve unsalted crackers and still water to cleanse the palate between shots.
 Add a scoop of vanilla ice cream to your espresso to make affogato. Bolster your espresso with vodka or coffee liquer, or add it to a coffee cake recipe instead of instant coffee. Of course, you can stay in the café world with more complex espresso drinks, such as a latté, mocha, or cappuccino.

