 If you suspect that your child may have ADHD, pay attention to his emotions and reactions for a couple of weeks. Write down what he does and how he reacts. Pay attention especially to his impulses and feelings of hyperactivity, as well as his ability to pay attention and focus.


Ask your child’s teacher and other close adults to pay close attention to your child’s reactions and activities as well. If a child has ADHD, he is likely to exhibit symptoms in multiple environments (such as at school, on the playground, at the grocery store, and/or at home).
Impulse control: Having ADHD may mean that your child has a hard time controlling impulses. He may do things without really thinking them through, or he can be impatient and have trouble waiting his turn. He may find himself dominating conversations or activities, answering people and saying things before they have finished what they are saying, or saying things and frequently regretting them later.
Hyperactivity: With ADHD, your child may feel restless all the time, need to always fidget and fiddle, and talk excessively. He may be told often that he speaks too loudly. He might sleep a lot less than most kids or have trouble falling asleep. He might have trouble sitting still or staying seated too long.
Focus and concentration: Your child may not exhibit hyperactive or impulsive symptoms. Instead, he may make careless mistakes, fail to follow instructions, get bored quickly, or seem like he’s not listening when you’re talking to him., A crowded venue with music and many conversations happening simultaneously, a potpourri of aromas ranging from air fresheners, flowers, and food to perfumes and colognes, and perhaps a variety of lighting effects such as television screens or computer displays may overwhelm an individual with ADHD. This type of environment can make the individual virtually unable to participate in a simple conversation, let alone excel at social graces.
Individuals with ADHD often experience anxiety over unfamiliar situations. These feelings can lead to social isolation.
 While children are often hyperactive, impulsive or inattentive, there are still certain benchmarks that you can observe to notice whether your child exhibits symptoms of ADHD. As you observe your child in various settings, look for developmentally appropriate behavior. Is he conducting himself in similar ways to his peers?For example, does your child keep horsing around after other kids have calmed down? Or, is he noisier or louder than other kids?, A child with ADHD will have similar patterns of behavior in different places and with different people. For example, he will act out at school, at home, and at playdates. As you observe your child over a couple of weeks, notice how he responds when he’s around other children, or when he is having quiet time at home. Look for similar behaviors to see if there are patterns., One of the biggest issues for individuals with ADHD is low self-esteem. For example, your child might lack self-confidence due to others outperforming him at school.Good ways to boost your child's self-esteem through your own interactions include expressing unconditional love and acceptance for him, teaching him problem-solving skills, listening carefully to his thoughts and feelings, and praising efforts he makes.You can also ask your child's teachers to observe whether your child appears to demonstrate low self-esteem at school.

