 With a well-crafted Statement of Purpose you can persuade an admissions committee to accept you. In order to convince them, you must be convinced yourself. You must be sure of what you want, why you want it, and why that particular program can help you.


Why should the school select you over someone else? You must be able to answer that question for yourself. Know your strengths and weaknesses.
Before beginning to write, think. Review your intellectual and personal development over your academic career. When you can clearly articulate the history that led you to decide to apply to a particular program, you are ready to begin writing.;
, Before writing an essay like this, you must have a thesis statement. This is the one sentence that introduces the central idea of the paper. It must be specific. This statement should sum up the basic meaning of the essay, and signal to the reader what to expect.


The first sentence is the most important one because it gets the reader's attention. Create a strong opening paragraph of five sentences or less. Briefly explain who you are, where you're from, why you have chosen the particular field to which you're applying, and why the university is among your first choices.
Make it count. The first paragraph is very important. It is your introduction, and should hook the reader from the start. You want to make him or her want to continue reading.
 Each paragraph should deal with a single central idea. This idea should be introduced early in a topic sentence, telling the reader what to expect in the paragraph.


Several ideas in a single paragraph will only confuse the reader. If the central idea has several supporting points, break it into several paragraphs rather than having one very long paragraph.
Support your ideas, don't just spit them out without backing—it's like writing a cheque without money in the bank. By giving support to your ideas, you convince readers of their truth and accuracy. If you successfully prove your statements, the reader should agree with your conclusion.
Structure the sequence of ideas carefully and logically. Remember, you are mapping a course, leading the reader through the points that support your thesis. You do not want to confuse them, or make them take the long way around. Transition smoothly from paragraph to paragraph to link them together logically. Use connecting sentences to keep the paper flowing smoothly.
 Restate your thesis and the main points supporting it. In the conclusion, add some new ideas or information to challenge the reader to think further.

