 You can get someone to cooperate better by asking nicely than by demanding or threatening. Those with ADHD are even more sensitive to the threats or demands, as they tend to feel that they’re “always” messing up or in trouble. Regardless of your parenting style or personality, it’s extremely important that you keep the input ratio weighted to the positive side: A child with ADHD needs to feel that he or she is being praised more often than criticized. The positive input must significantly outweigh the negative input to counterbalance all the feelings of failure that is encountered in a typical day.Praise your child for struggling and trying to do something good, rather than for success at anything.
 Whenever possible, invert house rules so they read as positives.For instance, instead of admonishing, “Don’t interrupt!” the rule can be reminded as “Wait your turn,” or “Allow your sister to finish what she was saying.”
It might take practice to flip those negatives from “Don’t talk with your mouth full!” to “Finish what’s in your mouth before sharing.” But work to make it a habit.
 With young kids, use tangible rewards to motivate kids to follow routines and directions. As children get older, you can move on to more abstract rewards. Below is this idea outlined with examples and a metaphor.


There’s an adage about a donkey moving faster for a carrot (reward) than a stick (punishment). Are you having trouble getting your child to bed on time? You can offer a stick (“Be ready for bed by 8 p.m. or else ….”) or you can find a carrot: “If you are ready for bed by 7:45 p.m., you can have 15 minutes to …”
Buy a little bucket and stock it with “carrots.” These can be little rewards you can dole out when your child complies with a directive or behaves appropriately. Get a roll of stickers, a bag of 20 plastic army guys at a dollar store or a sack of 12 sparkly rings from the birthday party aisle.
Get creative and add homemade coupons good for a popsicle, 10 minutes on the computer, playing a game on Mom’s phone, getting to stay up 15 minutes later, getting a bubble bath instead of taking a shower, etc.
In time you can cut back to intermittent tangible rewards.Instead, use verbal praise, hugs, and high-fives that allow you to continue a high degree of positive inputthat will motivate your child to behave while building his or her self-esteem.
 Once you’ve experienced success with the carrot bucket, wean your child from concrete rewards (toys, stickers) to praise (“Way to go!” and high-fives). Then you might consider designing a point system for positive behavior. This system acts as a bank where your child can earn points to buy privileges.Compliance earns points and non-compliance loses points. Record these points on a sheet or poster that is accessible to the child.
Design your schedule considering the unique aspects of the ADHD brain. Making a more successful schedule increases your child’s opportunity for praise and self-esteem. Make a checklistbuilt around the child’s schedule,showing the deadlines for completing tasks. Choose possible rewards that will motivate your child. This system also serves to externalize those motivations. 