 Many people believe that you have to be born with a mathematical mind in order to be good at it, but that couldn’t be further from the truth. Many people don’t realize how mathematically inclined they really are or how much math can be found in their existing interests.Math is found in all kinds of art and literature, sometimes it isn’t intimidating just because it’s presented in a way that makes sense to you.
Many people who seem good at math are just well prepared. If you spend a little time preparing yourself for your math class, you may find yourself much more comfortable.
Not only can you improve your math skills, but studies show that believing you can do better at math can help make you better at math!;
, Some people believe that certain genders or nationalities yield people that are better at math. That’s not true at all. In fact, anyone can become good at math through practice. There is no tie between gender or race and mathematical ability.
Things like the “gender gap” in math scores disappear in more gender-equal societies because everyone can be good at math when given a chance.
Some of the many incredible female and minority mathematicians include Katherine G. Johnson who aided in the American Mercury space missions and Annie Easley who played an integral role in developing the software that makes modern space travel possible., Some people solve math problems quickly, but math is not a race. Even Thomas Edison had trouble keeping pace with his contemporaries when it came to math; a person’s pace has nothing to do with their mental abilities.Solving new problems or learning new skills is difficult for everyone sometimes. The only math problems people can solve quickly are the ones they’ve seen before.When someone does something quickly, it doesn’t necessarily mean it’s easy for them. Speed is not a measure of ability, it is the result of experience and practice., It’s easy to get discouraged when you get a problem wrong or struggle to master a mathematical skill, but remember that everyone makes mistakes, especially when learning something new.Don’t get down on yourself if you make a mistake. Identify where you went wrong and learn from it.
Even the best mathematicians of all time made mistakes, don’t be too hard on yourself.

