 Compare how she talks to you with how she talks to others. If your partner uses a sweet, caring, and compassionate tone when talking to you, it’s likely she considers you a special person in her life and cares deeply about you., Investing time in a relationship is a major indicator of long term commitment, especially if your partner is trying to balance other commitments like school, work, or family. Someone who truly cares about you will use whatever available time they have to spend some alone time together.Love triggers the release of serotonin in your brain, and it is believed that high levels of serotonin can cause you to think constantly about a partner. So the more your partner calls you or talks to you, the more they are thinking about you, which is a (chemical) indication of their feelings of love for you., While this may seem like a small gesture, it will show she is interested in even the minor details of your life. These check ins will also keep the lines of communication between you open and build a practical, supportive element to your relationship., Perhaps you have opposing political views or different ways of making the best risotto. Regardless of these differences, she should still open to listening to your perspective and treat your views with respect and interest.If your partner truly cares about you, they should be willing to hear your opinions and ideas, and engage in a civil, respectful discussion about subjects you may not agree on.
She should also be comfortable with including you in decisions, from mundane things like where you should eat dinner to high-stake questions like whether she should accept a new position at work. Though she may not always take your advice, she should still be interested in hearing what you have to say and take it into consideration.
 Partners who truly care will give you the benefit of the doubt and will not snoop around on your cellphone or check your credit card bills to determine where you’ve been or who you’ve been with as they will be committed to trusting you.This kind of trust shows true caring, and is a big sign of a long term commitment.
 A partner who cares about you will boost your self-esteem and sense of self. They should provide positive reinforcement and make you feel loved.This doesn’t mean your relationship will always be a bed of roses, but overall, you should feel like your girlfriend gives you self-confidence and support, rather than negative thoughts or low self-esteem. If you are with someone who makes you feel good, you will not only want to spend more time with them, but also regard yourself more positively during the times that you are apart from them.

