 When setting your boundaries, always be as straightforward as possible and tell your boyfriend what behaviors will not be tolerated. Look him in his eye, and show a quiet strength so he will take your boundaries seriously. You can also role play saying the words ahead of time so you feel more confident when the time comes., Insults and name calling are about control and humiliation and are not part of a healthy relationship. In fact, when your partner insults your appearance, intelligence, opinions, or choices, that is considered emotional abuse.When your boyfriend calls you a name, stop what you are doing, look him in his eyes, and forcefully say, “don’t ever call me that again”. You don’t have to answer any questions or give an explanation; simply repeat yourself until he understands.Insults can be extremely hurtful emotionally, but they can also do long term damage by hurting your self-esteem and making your more dependent on your boyfriend.
Never blame yourself for your boyfriend’s mean words, and never begin to think they are true. For example, if your boyfriend calls you fat in the heat of an argument, don’t buy into it.
 Cursing during an argument is like waving a red flag at a bull; it only acts as a way to build upon negative emotions. When your boyfriend curses at you, it puts out a negative energy and makes you feel ashamed and defensive. Use “I” statements to tell your boyfriend that you will not accept him cursing at you.For example, say something like, “I understand that you’re upset about me not calling you back and that’s where your anger is coming from, but I can’t allow you to curse at me because it makes me feel upset when you do that”.
 Yelling only brings about negative energy and can often make you feel angry, scared, or defensive. However, sometimes people who are prone to anger don’t even realize they’re yelling. Use “I” statements to define your boundaries and tell your boyfriend that you will not accept him yelling at you.For example, try saying, “I can’t allow you to yell at me. I feel angry when you yell and it is not productive. I will talk to you later when we have both had a chance to calm down”.
If your boyfriend denies that he yells, have a tape recorder handy to let him listen to himself at a later time. When playing it back, gently explain to him that what he said on the tape is irrelevant, and you’re only playing it back to him to show him how loud his volume can get.
 Blaming is ineffective because it limits communication and cuts down on the possibility of actually resolving your issue. When your boyfriend is angry, he may place the blame on you, telling you how bad you are and making you feel very small. Set your boundaries and tell your boyfriend that you will not accept blaming behaviors. You can do this by using “I” statements.Use “I” statements to tell your boyfriend how you feel when he places all of the blame on you. For example you can say, “I feel upset when you blame me for all of our problems”.
Then, use an “I” statement to tell your boyfriend that blame is no longer allowed. For example, say, “I don’t think blaming each other will help us resolve our problem. I can no longer allow you to blame me for making you angry”.

