 One study showed that horses without access to fresh water for longer than two hours were at a significantly higher risk of colicking. Keep water available, and use filtering systems in troughs to prevent insect growth.


Make sure water is not too cold in the winter, as very cold water can cause colic.
 Keep up regular medication to prevent worm and parasite growth in your horse's intestinal system. Anything that might cause a blockage of the intestine - such as certain worms and parasites - can cause colic.


Your horse should be wormed twice every season.  Yes, Winter too! Worms can cause unrepairable damage to your horses intestines.
You can buy horse wormers over the counter at your local feed store.  Make sure you read the instructions on the back, though overdosing a horse with wormer is hard to do.
If your horse will refuse to take a gel dewormer, they have pellets you can add to your horses grain, though this method is a little more expensive.
 Manure piles and old hay are highly likely to grow mold, bacteria, worms, insects, and other parasites that are harmful to your horse. Make sure to pick your horse's living area of manure regularly, and remove any old or wet hay. Replace shavings in their stalls on a regular basis to prevent bacteria growth from urine buildup.
 When your horse's teeth get out of shape and worn down, your horse has a much harder time fully chewing (and therefore digesting) their food. Make sure your horse's teeth get examined every six months or so, and floated when necessary.


Some horses need their teeth floated by a vet every six months. Some horses need their teeth floated once a year or less. If your horse is losing a lot of feed when eating, or holds their head in a odd position, it may be time to have their teeth checked out.
 Horse's should be fed several smaller meals over the course of the day, rather than one large grain-rich meal. Move their feeding schedule around a bit so that eating is broken up over several hours, and occurs after (rather than before) heavy exercise.
 Horses that are stalled for eight hours a day or aren't able to have a large space to run around in are at a much higher risk of colicking. Ride or lunge your horse on a daily basis if they can't run around, and put them out in a paddock when you're able to.

