 According to a survey done by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 92% of people recognized that chest pain was a symptom of a heart attack but only 27% were aware of all the symptoms and knew when to call their local emergency number.Although chest pain is a common and classic symptom, you may initially believe you are suffering from bad epigastric pain or heartburn.


Chest pain from a heart attack feels like someone is squeezing your chest or an elephant is sitting on your chest - it cannot be relieved with antacids.
However, in a study by the Journal of the American Medical Association, researchers found that 31% of men and 42% of women did not experience chest pain which is commonly associated with a heart attack.Diabetic patients are also at risk for less classic symptoms of a heart attack.;
, Pain from a heart attack can spread beyond the chest to the upper shoulders, arms, back, neck, teeth or jaw. In fact, you might not experience pain in your chest at all.A chronic toothache or upper back pain can be the early signs of a heart attack.
 Most heart attacks begin with mild symptoms described below. However, do not be tempted to “tough it out.” Instead, if the symptoms do not disappear within five minutes, call your local emergency number for immediate medical treatment., Ask if their angina disappear rapidly with treatment - some people with coronary artery disease suffer from angina, or pain in the chest with exertion. This occurs when their heart muscle cannot get enough oxygen to support their current activity. A person suffering from angina may have medication to help open the arteries in the heart and eliminate the pain. If the angina does not disappear rapidly with rest or treatment, it can be a signal of an imminent heart attack., Pain from a heart attack can be experienced in the stomach. It may feel like heartburn but it is not relieved at all with antacids. You may also experience nausea and vomiting without chest pain or other signs of gastrointestinal flu., Do not do anything else first. Do not delay in getting medical help - your best chance of a strong recovery with minimal damage to the heart muscle is by getting medical treatment within one hour of symptoms occurring.


Do not start aspirin therapy on your own - your emergency operator, emergency personnel, or emergency room doctor will determine if taking an aspirin is right for you.