 In situations where you have a dog and cat that aren’t getting along, you will need to give the cat a separate room to get away from the dog. An easy way to provide a separate space for your cat is to use a baby gate to block your dog from entering into the room (or rooms) where the litter box, cat furniture, and cat food and water dishes are located. This will allow your cat to use the bathroom, eat and drink, and rest without being bothered by the dog.Make sure that your cat can get over the gate. If your cat is a senior, then it may be difficult for him or her to hop over the gate. You may need to place the gate high enough so that the cat can get under it, but so that the dog cannot get over it.
 It is important to pay attention to how your cat and dog act towards each other during casual day-to-day interactions. If your dog looks relaxed and playful and your cat seems relaxed as well, then this is a good sign. However, if either pet seems aggressive, then you should separate your pets right away.


Never put your hands in between two animals that are fighting or acting aggressively towards each other. Try clapping your hands loudly or throwing a pillow in between them to startle and stop them from fighting.
Some dogs may try to play with cats the same way that they play with other dogs, which can be dangerous for your cat, especially if your dog is large or if you have a senior cat. Do not allow your dog to pounce on your cat or engage in biting play because he may seriously injure your cat. If you dog tries to play with your cat, hold onto his collar and allow your cat to exit the room., You can use a similar strategy for introducing a cat and a dog as you would to introduce two cats. Use a neutral space, such as a living room and keep the introduction short (1-2 hours).


Keep your dog on a leash during the session so that you can control his movement, but allow your cat to roam freely in and out of the room. Your cat will feel more threatened if you confine her to a crate or hold her while introducing her to your dog.If either animal acts aggressively, end the introduction and put the animals into separate rooms. Wait a week or two before trying to introduce the animals to each other again

, Get the appropriate pheromones to help calm each of your pets. For example, you could get a cat pheromone diffuser for your cat and a dog appeasing pheromone collar for your dog. Having the right pheromones for each species should help to reduce anxiety for both animals and should contribute to a more peaceful environment.

