 Many people take short, shallow breaths in their everyday life. This limits your oxygen intake. To increase your oxygen intake, pay attention to how you breathe. If you find that your breaths are short and from the shoulders, you are taking shallow chest breaths. Instead, try to breathe from your diaphragm every couple of breaths, which will pull in more oxygen.


To do this, focus on your breathing. Instead of lifting your shoulders when you breathe, keep them down. Pull your breath into your nose or mouth with your diaphragm, which should push your stomach out.;
, If you want to increase your oxygen intake, you can try different breathing exercises, such as deep breathing. To start, lie flat on your back with pillow under your knees and neck to make sure you are comfortable. Place your hands on your belly right below the rib cage, palm down and fingers closed. Breathe in for one long, deep breath. Use the muscles in your belly to expand it out, moving your fingers away from one another as your belly fills with air. Hold it in for a moment, absorbing the oxygen. Then exhale slowly.


Repeat this exercise for about five minutes.
At first, you may feel dizzy because of all the extra oxygen. If you do get dizzy, take a few normal breaths, then return to this exercise once you feel better.
As you get farther along in your pregnancy, it may be harder for you to use your hands for this exercise. If this is the case, just put your hands where it is comfortable and breathe in and out as deeply as you can, watching to see if your belly rises and falls., There is a variation on the deep breathing exercise that can help strengthen your diaphragm, which will help you breathe deeper every day and increase your oxygen flow during pregnancy. Start by following the steps for deep breathing. When you exhale, make a humming sound. This will work your diaphragm muscles as you exhale.


If you feel dizzy while doing this exercise, stop right away. , The Chinese breathing exercise will help get a lot of air into your body at one time. To start, sit down in a chair, on a bench, or the edge of a bed. First, take one short inhalation of breath, lifting your arms and reaching in front of you with your arms at shoulder level. Next, take another short inhalation of breath without exhaling, moving your arms to the side at shoulder level. Last, take one final short inhalation of breath without exhaling, lifting your arms over your head. Then exhale.


Repeat this 10 to 12 times.
If you get dizzy at all, stop immediately and return your breathing to normal.