 Saying thank you and finding other ways to let your boyfriend know that you appreciate him will help to make your boyfriend feel loved and appreciated. Try to thank him or let him know that you appreciated something he did on a daily basis.


For example, you might say something like, “Thank you for doing the dishes! I was really overwhelmed by work and I appreciate that so much.”
Or, if he opens a door for you, then you can simply say, “Thank you!”

, Give him a hug and a peck on the cheek when you see him. Do the same when you part, and whenever you feel the urge to feel close to him.


Try a long hug for extra closeness. Embrace him and count to seven. It may feel like a long time, but it feels good to get a loving hug from someone you care about., The quickest way to communicate that you love him is to tell him! Even if you’ve already said it once, it doesn’t hurt repeat yourself when you feel the urge to do so. Look him in the eye and tell him how you feel., Spending time with your boyfriend can be exciting, to say the least. Still, it is important to have time apart. You don’t need to spend every moment with him to show that you love him. Keep doing the activities you love to do, and let him do the same.Remember that you both had separate lives before you met. He probably fell in love with you because of who you are as an individual. Keep developing into the person you want to be.
Let him go out with his friends while you do your own thing. This shows that you trust him and support his other relationships.Group dates are fun, but quality time with friends (without your significant other) is healthy too.
 Send him a text or an email update when you are apart. Let him know that you are thinking about him by maintaining communication. Even if you see each other often, send him a text to check in and see how he’s doing.


Maintain contact if you are apart for a long time. Maybe he’s going on a trip, or you have to visit family for a few weeks. Stay in contact. Send pictures, give him updates on your life, and let him know that you miss him!, Everyone has opinions, hopes, and fears. No matter what it is, listen to him and try to understand whatever he is going through. Show that you are actively listening to him by reflecting on what he has told you without judgment. Lending an ear shows that you are willing to be supportive.Look him in the eye and nod your head to show that you hear him. Repeat back information to clarify or confirm what you heard.
 Everyone has moments when they feel down. Whether it is stress from work or sadness about something that’s gone wrong, we all go through difficult times. Be understanding and supportive of your boyfriend if he is going through something difficult.


Be patient. If he is feeling moody or argumentative, take a deep breath and let the small things go. You don’t have to let him walk all over you, but give him some time to cool down from the things that are bothering him.
Let him know that you are there to help. He may make it clear that he wants to be alone or needs someone to talk to. Feel out the situation, or ask him if you are not sure. Try saying, “I'm here to talk whenever you want.”

