 Flirting is a good way to get a man's attention and to let him know that you are interested. Making eye contact for several seconds, smiling, giving compliments, leaning forward when talking, and mimicking his body language are all ways.People flirt in different ways. Whatever method you use, be the most fun version of yourself and project confidence.Always face him when you talk to him and avoid crossing your arms or legs. If he says something funny, lightly touch his arm or his knee when you laugh.;
, You may be nervous when you meet a new man or come across someone that you are really attracted to. Think of some questions you can ask to start the conversation. If you have some questions ready, you will appear more confident. Try to ask open-ended questions that get the conversation going. Try asking him:What is your favorite book?
What do you like to do in your free time?
What is the best vacation you have ever been on?
If you won the lottery, what would you do with the money?
If you had a dinner party, what three guests (dead or alive) would you invite?

, You do not have to wait for a man to ask you out. There is nothing wrong with being proactive and going after a man you are interested in. Avoid saying, "Do you want to hang out?" It is better to be clear that you are interested and suggest a specific activity instead.


You can keep the date light and casual and ask him, "Hey do you want to grab coffee one day?" or "Do you want to check out this new exhibit on Saturday?"
Ask him what he did this past weekend and suggest you do some activity that is similar. This way your date is based on something that the both of you are interested in.If you chicken out, you can drop a really strong hint. Try saying, "Have you heard about this new restaurant? I can't wait to check it out. I heard the ___ is amazing."If you do not feel comfortable asking him out on a solo date, invite him out with you and your friends. If you go this route, make sure you flirt and give him extra attention.
 Do not compromise yourself when you are dating. You should never have to change your beliefs, goals, or values for a man.If the man does not accept you for who you are, he is not the man of your dreams. Be honest about who you are and communicate your wants and needs.


The goal is to find a man who loves you for the person that you are. If you change yourself to get a man to like you, you will not be happy in the end.
Men like a partner who is confident. The little quirks that you may not feel great about are the same things a man may find unique and attractive.
 It is not uncommon to be shy or nervous around a man that you are interested in. Try not to over think things. Keep every date and interaction with the guy in perspective.Remind yourself that it is only a date or a conversation, not a life or death situation.
If you can control where you interact with the guy, choose an environment where you are comfortable. Choose a restaurant that you know or a coffee shop that you like.
Be prepared with interesting things you can talk about. Have a funny story or a few current events that you can bring up.
 It can be easy to get so focused on dating that you neglect other aspects of your life. This is especially hard if you have met a man that you really like and love spending time with. Never lose sight of the things that make you the person you are.


Write down some short and long term goals that have nothing to do with a man. Is there a career move you want to take or a place you would like to visit?
Spend time away from your phone. It is easy to be connected to people with your phone all of the time. If you are dating someone, do not text or chat with them constantly. Time apart is healthy for both you and the man you are dating.
Continue to make time for your friends. If you have plans with someone, tell your date that you have plans with a friend and suggest another time to get together.
 As you meet men, evaluate them to see if they have the qualities that you desire. If you notice a deal breaker, stop dating the person and move on. You do not want to waste your time on someone who you will not be happy with.


Keep in mind the difference between your wants and needs. You may be able to compromise on a want. For example, a person may live and hour and a half away, but you initially wanted to date someone who lives close to you. You may be willing to compromise on this issue if the man has a lot of other good qualities.
Your list may evolve as you are dating. You may find that the things you thought were important were not or you may be open to something.
As you date, you will learn more about yourself and your likes and your dislikes.
 It takes time to meet the man of your dreams. Every man you meet or go on a date with will not be a good match. Be patient and try not to get frustrated. Know that there is a good man out there for you. You never know when you will meet him.It is natural to become disappointed when you meet someone that is not for you. Just think of that person as a stepping stone to the man of your dreams.
Remember that you are not a failure. Finding a mate is not an easy task.
 You will not know if he is the man of your dreams until you truly get to know him and see if you two are compatible. Take the time to meet his family, friends, and coworkers. Pay attention to see if his words and his actions match. See if your values match.It takes time to get to know someone. Spend time with him in different settings and scenarios to see different sides of his personality. You may not initially recognize that he is the man of your dreams.
 No one is perfect. Even though he is your dream man, there may still be things about him that you find annoying.You have to accept him for the man he is today. If you find yourself focusing more on his potential and the man he could become, he may not be the best fit for you.


Do not compare your relationship or dating life to what you see in television and movies. These often create unrealistic depictions of love and relationships.Also be open-minded. The man of your dreams may come in a slightly different package than you imagined.

