 One reason that sweating occurs is to keep the body cool. If you live in a place where the weather is warm or if your work or school keeps the thermostat high, then your body is more likely to produce sweat.Thus, if you do not want to sweat, you should do your best to avoid warm temperatures.;
, This is not easy to do, but when you experience these feelings your autonomic nervous system reacts by producing sweat.Therefore, do your best to remain calm.
 While exercise is important for maintaining a healthy lifestyle, it is also another reason your body produces sweat. When you exercise, you raise your body temperature, so you sweat to keep cool.Thus, if you do not want to sweat, you should stick to exercises such as swimming, where it will not be obvious that you are sweating.
 If your clothes are tight and close to your skin, the clothing is more likely to absorb sweat. Additionally, close fitting clothes may make you feel warmer, causing sweating. Therefore, you should stick to clothing that is loose. This will also allow air to circulate.
 The more tightly knit a shirt is, the less it breathes and the warmer you will feel. Silk, for example, is a bad choice if you want to avoid sweating as it is tightly knit.Shirts that are loosely woven, will allow more air to circulate.
 For men, this step is easy, since they often wear undershirts. However, as a female, you can also use this method. The idea is that by wearing a few layers, you have more fabric to absorb the sweat. Thus, it is less likely that sweat shows through the outermost layer.


Consider camisoles, or thin shirts, which you can wear underneath your shirt for the day. You can even bring an extra one along in case you want to change.
 Colors such as navy and black are good at hiding most wet sweat marks that appear underneath your arms. Additionally, white usually also does a pretty good job of hiding sweat.


Colors to avoid include: Grey, bright colors, as well as most light colors, which will all show sweat.
 This product goes by many names (e.g. underarm shields, garment protectors, sweat pads, etc.), but the function is the same. The pads will either stick to your skin or have straps to go around your arms. As you sweat, the shields absorb the sweat so it doesn’t show up on your clothes., Baby powder (which is typically made of talcum powder and added fragrance) can help to absorb excess sweat. Additionally, talcum acts as an astringent, meaning that it causes your pores to restrict, which may help with sweating., This may sound silly, but if you are sweating a lot, you can raise your arms over your head for a few minutes (if you are alone) or place your elbows on your desk (if you are at school or work) to allow some air to circulate under your arms.
 Food that is very spicy can cause you to sweat more. If you want to reduce the amount you sweat then avoid spicy foods such as jalapeños.Additionally, foods such as garlic and onions can cause your sweat to smell worse. If you are concerned about this, then you should also avoid these., While you may not always have the opportunity to wipe away sweat discreetly, having a handkerchief with you will give you something to wipe the sweat away when it is unavoidable.

