 A vet should examine the ear and come to a diagnosis of ear mites. He will examine the ears with an otoscope, which helps him be able to see the mites since they are difficult to see with the naked eye.Similar symptoms may be due to a bacterial infection, a foreign body in the ear, or an allergy.
 Before you administer the ear medication, clean the ears with a regular ear cleaner made for dogs before using the medicine. This helps remove the discharge that could protect the mites.Make sure to dry the ears to reduce the moisture. This can help reduce bacteria from forming., Your vet will prescribe a parasiticide to use on your dog. This medicated topical treatment also contains ingredients which decrease inflammation and therefore give relief from the symptoms, such as itching.The frequency of the application of medication depends on the individual preparation. It can vary from daily for a set number of days, to twice daily for seven days followed by a second cycle of treatment after a gap of seven days.
If your dog has a secondary infection due to the mites, your vet may prescribe antibiotics., As your dog scratches her ears or sleeps on infected bedding, she can end up with mites on the rest of her body. To help prevent this, bathe your dog with a flea shampoo.Most sprays, shampoos, or powders geared towards killing fleas and ticks will probably be effective for killing mites.Your vet can recommend a shampoo to help with mites.
 It's important to treat all animals that are in contact with the animal who has ear mites. This prevents the mites from hopping onto an alternative host while the dog is on treatment, only to reinfect her against once treatment finishes.Your vet can suggest treatments for your other dogs. Talk to him about what treatment you should use to treat any dogs that have come in contact with the infected dog.
 You should wash all the pet bedding while you are treating your dog for ear mites. Wash any blankets your pet has come into contact with.Make sure to wash the bedding in hot, soapy water and dry the bedding in a hot dryer.
Wash and change the bedding every day while you are treating your dog for ear mites. Wash it regularly, every few days or so, for a few months after treating the mites since any eggs left behind might hatch.

