 To understand what you need to avoid in order to prevent anger, track your mood for a few days. Throughout the day, or at the end of the day, jot down some notes about your anger experiences.Provide some information about the specific situation or person that made you feel angry. For instance, you might write:

“Got cut off in traffic today.”
”My sister-in-law accused me of being insensitive, which led to an argument.”
“My wife forgot my lunch again.”

;
, The thoughts you have can cause anger and even make anger build up over time. These thoughts can also influence your behaviors like shouting or punching a wall. Pay close attention to your thoughts before, during, and after anger experiences. Make notes in your diary.You might find yourself thinking, for example, “My wife doesn’t care about me." This thought may cause you to feel hurt, which is the underlying emotion beneath your anger. Instead of sharing your feelings with your wife, you might behave irrationally by do something equally hurtful to her.
These thought patterns may worsen your anger and create a vicious emotional cycle of negative thoughts, feelings and behaviors.
 Anger is considered a secondary emotion, meaning it is caused by experiencing another emotion. Anger is often triggered by feelings of fear, which are masked by the powerful feelings and sensations that come with anger. Fear often makes people feel vulnerable, which can be uncomfortable and scary in itself, or can make you feel out of control. As you explore what makes you feel angry, dig deeper and start exploring your thoughts.For instance, your anger toward your spouse may actually be driven by a fear of abandonment. Anger triggered at work may be caused by a fear of losing your job, or a fear of being betrayed by a co-worker.
 The experience of anger causes sensations in your body. Being aware of these sensations can help you recognize when anger is brewing and find healthy ways to cope.


Common ways people experience anger in their bodies include: flushed face and ears, clenched fists, rapid heartbeat, sweating, and clenched teeth. You might also feel like your body is gearing up for a battle due to the fight-or-flight response., Anger is quite often the result of a cognitive distortion, or faulty thinking error. If you jump to conclusions, you make inferences about a situation without having all the details. Doing this can cause anger unnecessarily.


For example, you think “The new boss doesn’t like me” only because the person didn't seem as friendly during your first introduction. Your boss could have been busy or preoccupied as opposed to not liking you., This type of distorted thinking involves assigning “either/or” groups to people or situations without considering a middle ground or grey area.


You might think, for instance, “My spouse snapped at me, they must not love me," instead of considering that your spouse may be snapping at you because they are frustrated by something that has nothing to do with you. Or you may struggle to understand that if your spouse is angry at you, it doesn't mean they don't also love you and care about you.
When you recognize when your thinking patterns are unreasonable, you can restructure your thoughts and avoid getting angry. For example, no human alive does everything right. You have set the bar impossibly high, and your spouse will have no choice but to disappoint you., Another common cognitive distortion is filtering, in which you emphasize the negative qualities of a situation while ignoring the positives. This type of thinking can lead to irrational anger, also.


With filtering you might storm off after a special event, saying, “Two people were whispering during my speech! How rude!” However, you have allowed yourself to discount the fact that several dozen other people were politely paying attention., You can learn to remove the power from thoughts that trigger anger by searching for errors in your reasoning. As you get used to noticing negative thinking patterns that provoke anger, you can start restructuring your thoughts to lean in a more positive direction. This is a core aspect of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) — consider working with a therapist who specializes in CBT techniques.


For instance, instead of thinking “He should have called to tell me he would be late,” you might reframe this to “I would have appreciated if he had called to inform me he would be late.” Changing the language takes some of the steam out of fiery, anger-driven statements.Look for books and literature that focus on CBT techniques to challenge and reframe common thinking distortions, such as "The Feeling Good Handbook," by David D. Burns.
 A major roadblock for many people who struggle with anger is using their energy to fret about circumstances out of their control. Having the forethought to carefully assess your level of control beforehand can help you avoid getting angry.


A good example is being delayed in a cab ride on your way to an important meeting due to a car accident. There was little you could do to foresee or prevent this delay. Therefore, it is more helpful to accept this and use the delay productively like for reviewing notes or making phone calls.When you identify the things you can change, be proactive. If there are people who often trigger your anger, try to work on your relationship with them or simply try to spend less time with them. If you get angry when your house is messy, hire a cleaning service.
Focus on being proactive instead of reactive.
 Stress-management is a powerful tool that you can use to avoid anger experiences. Sometimes, you may lose your temper because you are tense, tired, or overwhelmed. By making relaxation a regular part of your routine, you can counteract anger that is provoked by stress.


Start with deep, mindful breathing. This type of breathing activates the body’s natural stress response. It works to naturally ease rising stress that can bubble over into anger. Take a long, deep breath in through your nose. Hold the breath for a few seconds. Now, exhale the breath slowly from your mouth. Repeat for several cycles.Other helpful relaxation techniques for anger include progressive muscle relaxation, mindfulness meditation, stretching or massage.Consider using a biofeedback device, which can help you monitor your physiological responses and teach you to relax.
 Not physical as in physical aggression — this physical refers to getting your heart pumping and generating the release of endorphins in your bloodstream. One of the most effective ways to conquer angry feeling before they explode is with vigorous exercise.


Release anger with physical pursuits like rock climbing, cycling, boxing, running, or martial arts. Moving your body will help you manage stress, lift your mood, and may even counteract some of the negative effects of anger like high blood pressure., While anger can feel unpleasant in the moment, you can actually use this surplus energy and emotion to spark your creativity. Research even shows that a smidgen of rage helps you think out of the box.Use your anger to throw yourself into a creative pursuits like writing, painting, knitting, woodworking, or gardening. You might even channel your fury into setting new goals and developing an action plan to reach them.
 Music is a widely available and a wonderful tool to diffuse anger and relieve stress. So, power up your radio or music app and have a dance party with a friend, or on your own.


Stay away from heavy metal or aggressive music in favor of calming or upbeat tunes., Think like a small child and give yourself a “time-out.” Sometimes, anger brews because you’re overworked and situations become charged with tension or anxiety. Knowing when you need a break can help you avoid anger-provoking thoughts or find a healthy release before those thoughts become destructive.


Schedule in natural breaks into your day to just sit or talk to a supportive friend. Do relaxing, nurturing self-care activities like reading or walking outside rather than activities like watching violent movies or playing aggressive video games.Your break can come in the form of a technology detox, too. The fast-paced society that we live in is riddled with hurtful comments on social media or negative media sources online.Logging out of social networks and forums or limiting your technology use for a day could help improve your anger.
 Download an anger management app onto your smartphone to help you track and diffuse your anger. These apps may help you track when you are angry and identify triggers as well as providing ways to calm down, such as playing distracting games.

These apps include Anger Management — Techniques to Release Stress, My Mood Tracker, and Squeeze and Shake., Sometimes, anger management is best left to those with adequate experience and training. Visiting a mental health therapist in your area who has a background in anger management could help you learn useful skills to avoid anger-provoking thoughts and cope with angry feelings.Attending a local self-help anger management group may also be beneficial. These groups are frequently facilitated by therapists or peers who have successfully conquered their anger issues. In them, you can build connections with others and develop skillsets to express anger in a healthy way.

