 The first walking root is from Lumbridge castle, the free to play new player spawn area. first walk out of Lumbridge castle and walk north until you come upon a bridge, cross it and walk north along the fence, with cows on the other side. when you get to a fork in the road, go left and follow the path. lower level players beware, as just outside of the city there is a culmination of dark mages, that will attack players with 21 cb and below. Once past these mages you are home free. Keep walking north until you get to the fountain. This is the middle of the city, and i will go into detail later on the attractions in Varrock.;
, Teleportation is a big part of the game, and if players have the appropriate magic level, you can use various spells to instantly transport yourself. with 25 magic and 1 law rune, 3 air runes and 1 fire rune, you can cast teleport to Varrock, landing you at the fountain, previously mentioned. A teleport tablet, made using the construction skill and a lectern, can be used to replicate the effect of a teleport, with out gaining experience points. An enchanted dragonstone ring, *ring of wealth* allows players to teleport to the grand exchange, just north west of Varrock, Up to four times before having to recharge. An amulet of glory allows players to teleport to Edgeville, and then proceed to walk east until reaching a tunnel which leads to the grand exchange, IF the players have 25 agility. Edgeville and Varrock lodestone teleports both land players on the outskirts of Varrock, letting players walk a short distance to Varrock, the Varrock lodestone landing you to the south, and Edgeville to the north west.
 The balloons from the quest "enlightened journey" let players travel to the lumberyard, which is northeast of Varrock, letting players follow a path south into the eastern entrance of Varrock.
 In Varrock the main attraction is the Grand Exchange, letting players buy and sell every single tradeable item in the game fast and efficiently. There is a tanner, blacksmith/armourshop, anvils, a rune shop, a teleport to the rune essence mine, transportation to Zemouregal's base (after defender of varrock, for armoured zombies), numerous quest start points, clothes shop, apothecary, tea shop, and Currently, in honour of the 2012 summer olympics, the Gielinor games, currently situated where the fountain usually is.

