 Heat a large frying pan over medium-high heat for five minutes. Add a small amount of cooking spray or oil to the pan, then immediately add the hamburger. Break up the meat as it cooks with a spoon or spatula.


You want the meat to cook until it is well-browned all over and no pink remains. At medium-high heat this will usually take five to seven minutes, but feel free to cook longer as needed.;
, Depending on how lean your ground beef was, you may have just a little grease in the pan or quite a bit. There are a few different ways to drain it — see below for suggestions.


One easy option is to set a metal colander in a large glass bowl, then pour the contents of the pan into the colander. The grease will drain into the bowl, where you can allow it to cool and transfer to the garbage.
Another option is to set a lid over the pan, then shift it so a small crack remains at one side. Carefully tilt the pan to drain the grease into a container that won't melt from the heat, then discard in the garbage.

Don't pour grease down the drain. It can solidify, clogging the drain.
 Stir these ingredients in the pan to combine well with the hamburger.
 Return the pan to medium-high heat. Let the mixture heat, stirring occasionally to keep it from sticking. Watch for bubbles.
 Once the mixture reaches a healthy boil, turn the heat to medium or low. The bubbling should slow down to a slow, steady simmer.
 Add a lid to the pan. Allow to simmer, stirring every few minutes to ensure even cooking and prevent sticking. As the mixture cooks, the sauce will gradually thicken and the pasta will gradually soften.


13 minutes of cooking time is usually about enough, but depending on the level of heat, your casserole may cook more or less quickly, so test the pasta often.
 The casserole is ready to eat as soon as the pasta reaches a pleasingly soft texture that still has some firmness to it. You should feel just the slightest resistance when you bite or cut into the pasta. This texture is called "al dente."Let the casserole cool down for at least 2 or 3 minutes before serving. The sauce will continue to thicken as it cools.

