 Think about your home before deciding to adopt a Rottweiler. Because of their nature and history as cattle dogs, they need lots of space and a yard to run around.


Rottweilers do not tolerate extreme temperatures.
Since Rottweilers are good guard dogs, you should be cognizant that they will bark or even scratch at doors if cooped up in a confined space at home. This is a concern if you are renting a home.
Rottweilers are relatively large dogs and need a decent size yard to run around in. Keeping a Rottweiler in an apartment or a town home with a small yard may prove problematic.;
, Caring for a Rottweiler will require you to spend money on a variety of things. Depending on your stage of life and your economic situation, this could present you with a hardship. As a result, you need to put together a budget and consider all of the costs involved in Rottweiler ownership.


Consider food costs. As medium/large dogs, feeding a Rottweiler could cost between $10-$20 a week. This cost could be much higher if the dog develops special dietary restrictions.
Think about vet costs. At the bare minimum, a dog will need a variety of immunizations and diagnostic tests every year. Depending on your region, this could be several hundred to several thousand dollars. You should also consider emergencies, and make sure you'll have some money socked away in case your potential dog has an unplanned medical emergency.
Factor in adoption costs. Adopting a dog can run from $50 to several hundred dollars.
Plan for the cost of toys. Make sure you factor in the cost of toys. This could be a couple hundred dollars a year when a dog is young., Rottweilers, like other breeds of dog, require a lot of time and care. Before adopting a Rottweiler, carefully consider your schedule to see if you have the time to devote to a dog.


Consider play time. You should play/walk a Rottweiler at least a little bit every day (30 minutes to an hour).
Consider the time it takes to go to a vet and obtain healthcare for a Rottweiler.
Consider the time it will take you to walk/feed/love the dog before you leave for work every day., Before getting a Rottweiler, you need to talk to your family or roommates to determine if it is okay with them. After all, a new Rottweiler will necessarily become part of the family. You need to make sure that all members of your household accept your decision and will accept a new dog into their lives.


Ask your family what they think. When approaching your family, ask them "What do you think about adopting a dog?" or "How do you feel about getting a Rottweiler?"
Make sure no one has any allergies. Consider having your family tested for allergies to dog hair or dander.
Never make a unilateral decision about adopting a dog if you live with others., Before adopting a Rottweiler, make sure to talk to your insurance agent to see whether your policy will cover you if you have a Rottweiler living in your home. This is important, as many insurance policies do not cover homes with Rottweilers.


Call your agent and ask about whether your policy will cover you if you bring home a Rottweiler.
If your policy does not cover Rottweilers, ask if there is a rider to cover you if you adopt a Rottweiler.
If your insurance company refuses to add a rider or to cover you at all with a Rottweiler, call another company to see if they will cover you., Just like with providing the dog with love and affection, you will also need to spend lots of quality time training your Rottweiler. Training is extremely important in raising and caring for any dog, and is especially true for larger and medium energy dogs like Rottweilers. As a result, before adopting a new Rottweiler, begin the process of looking for a trainer.


Start training when the dog is very young, if possible.
Consider enrolling your Rottweiler in an obedience training program.
Continue training at home. Rottweilers are highly intelligent and very trainable. Work toward developing a set of verbal commands that your pup will respond to., One of the most important things you need to do before getting a Rottweiler is to find a vet. Your choice of vet is extremely important, as he or she will be a continued part of you and the dog's life for years to come.


Find a vet that is familiar with the specific problems that Rottweilers, as a breed, can have.
Make sure your vet is relatively close to where you live.
Make sure you are comfortable with your vet.
 After you get your Rottweiler, you'll want to begin the process of socialization as soon as possible. Because of this, you should begin looking for places to do so -- like dog parks -- before you find a dog you want to adopt. Dog parks are great places for you and the dog, as you'll both be able to interact with other dogs and their owners.


Find a dog park that has both a small dog area and a large dog area. Some larger dogs, like Rottweilers, may not know what to make of smaller dogs.
Try to find a dog park close to your house.
Locate a dog park that is actually active and frequented by many dog owners., Before you adopt a Rottweiler, find a store where you can buy supplies for your potential new dog. This is especially important as you'll need to buy food, toys, water and food bowls, and more if you get a Rottweiler.


Look for stores that specialize in dog and pet supplies. Such stores will have the best selection of toys, food, and more.
Visit local box stores to see what sort of selection of food and toys they have. This might be a good option for you.
Consider buying dog supplies online. Major online retailers may have huge selections and competitive prices for pet supplies., Rottweilers have a very interesting history that tells us volumes about why they look and act the way they do. Learning about the dog’s history may help you bring you closer to the dog and tighten the bond and understanding between you. Consider:


Rottweilers as a breed originated in Southern Germany as cattle dogs from about 1500 to about 1800.
During the 1800s, cattle driving became much less common and Rottweilers also waned in popularity and nearly went extinct.
Around 1900, fans of the Rottweiler began a concerted effort to breed the dog. Standards for appearance and behavior were introduced, and the dog underwent a final stage of development that culminated the Rottweilers we know today., Like most other dogs, the size and longevity of Rottweilers varies based on dog. However, there are a number of general factors you should consider and understand before getting your puppy. Rottweilers:


Often weigh between 80 to 135 pounds when mature. Female dogs will often be toward the lighter end of this range.
Grow to be between 22 and 27 inches at maturity. Like with weight, female dogs are often shorter.
Live to be between 8 and 11 years old. This number depends on a wide range of factors, including genetics, and the level of veterinary care you provide., Rottweilers are working dogs that excel in certain areas. Primarily, they have been used for driving cattle and as guard dogs. These activities are reflected in their temperament and behavior. Know that:


Your Rottweiler may be wary toward strangers, and can and will act to protect its family.
Your Rottweiler will bark very loud and often to alert you to danger.
Your Rottweiler may be wary of other dogs.
Your Rottweiler may “herd” people or children if he or she thinks they are being threatened. Do not be unhappy with the dog for this behavior, he or she is just trying to protect your family., As pulchritudinous dogs, Rottweilers can shed considerable amounts of fur. This can offer challenges to owners who want to keep a tidy home. As a result, you need to be ready for tons of grooming and vacuuming.


Brush your de-shed the dog several times a week. Brushing can be done every other day. De-shedding should only be done once or twice a week.
Bathe your every week or two. Bathing will help remove hair, and keep the dog’s skin and fur healthy.
Provide any essential oils or other supplements the dog might need to improve coat health and minimize shedding.