 Contact dermatitis is caused by irritants that come into contact with your skin. Contact dermatitis can be an allergic reaction or it can be caused by a common irritant (non-allergenic), but the good news is that it can be prevented by avoiding the trigger.Avoid exposing your skin to common irritants, such as dust mites, pollen, chemicals, cosmetics, plant oils (poison ivy) and other substances, which may trigger your individual contact dermatitis reaction. Irritant contact dermatitis usually causes a dry, scaly rash that does not itch. However, some types of contact dermatitis may cause itching and blistering.Some people can have a reaction to irritants just after a single exposure, while others may have symptoms only after repeated exposures. Sometimes you can develop a tolerance to the irritant over time.
 If you are unsure whether you have allergies, your doctor can perform an allergy test to identify substances that might trigger your contact dermatitis.


Common allergens include nickel, medications (including topical antibiotics and antihistamines), formaldehyde and skin tattooing and black henna products.Another common allergen is Balsam of Peru, used in cosmetics, perfumes, mouth rinses and flavorings. If a new product gives you a reaction, stop using it.
Check labels to ensure you are not accidentally purchasing products that contain an allergen.
 If you get exposed to an irritant or allergen, rinse the affected area immediately. This can help reduce the reaction or even prevent it.Use warm water and mild soaps or take a shower if the exposure was large.
Also, wash all clothing and anything else that has come to contact with the substance.
 If you need to work with the substance, protect your skin from coming into direct contact with the irritant or allergen by wearing coveralls, goggles and gloves.Remember to follow proper techniques and guidelines for handling harmful substances.
 Moisturizers coat the skin with a protective barrier and help restore its outer layer.Apply moisturizer before possible contact with the irritant and use regularly to keep your skin healthy.
 Several medications can cause a "drug rash" as either a side effect or an allergic reaction. This commonly begins within a week after starting a new drug, and begins as red spots that spread to cover large areas of the body. Common medications that cause drug rashes include:Antibiotics
Anti-seizure medications
Diuretics (water pills)

