 Another way to make a stencil is to use a pre-existing photograph, which you will edit in a program like Adobe Photoshop, then print and cut to make the stencil. Choose a photograph that has high contrast between lights and darks, and is relatively high quality when blown up.


Try to pick an image that is relatively simple, such as a high-contrast portrait or a piece of fruit. If this is one of the first stencils you are making, avoid highly-detailed images like a cheetah with spots.
Don’t use a copyrighted image. Use either stock photography or a photograph that you took.
Also try to pick an image that is self-contained. For example, instead of choosing a picture of a sprawling landscape, pick out a tree or a flower instead of the whole scene.
 After you choose your image, import it into Photoshop, Gimp, or another editing program that has a setting where you can adjust brightness and contrast. There also are a number of websites designed solely to converting images into graffiti stencils.Photoshop and Gimp require some knowledge of the software, but they give you more control over how the image turns out.
The websites made to convert images into stencil designs are instantaneous, and only require you to drop in the image, which they then make into color separations. However, you end up having less control over how the image turns out than if you hand-tweaked it using a software like Photoshop.
 If you are using an image with a background that you don’t want as part of your stencil, you need to eliminate the background before adjusting your image.


If you are using Photoshop, make the original picture your first layer, then create a copy of it in the second layer by dragging the bar of the first layer into the Create New Layer icon, shaped like a page, at the bottom of the Layers panel. Lock and turn off the visibility of the first layer.
Then outline the image in the second layer you made using the Magic Wand or the Pen tool. Click Select > Inverse, then press delete to eliminate the background.
 Still working on the second layer of your document rather than the original image, convert it to grayscale by clicking Image > Mode > Grayscale, and turn up the contrast settings to 100%.To adjust the contrast in Photoshop, click on Image > Adjustments > Brightness and Contrast, then enter 100% into the contrast box.
If you want to use multiple colors in your design, skip the step of turning your image into grayscale.
 Increase the brightness of the image using the settings until you are happy with the way that the image looks. It should be a two-tone black and white image that looks like a graffiti stencil because of its high contrast.If you are using Photoshop, adjust the brightness by clicking Image > Adjustments > Brightness and Contrast, then turning up the brightness.
 If you are making a design with multiple colors, create as many layers as colors in your design, and assign a color to each layer.After you print your image, use markers to color the place on the design where you want the color to be. Use one color per board, so if they were to be combined together, they would create the multi-color image.
 After you finish adjusting your image, print it out. Then glue the paper using spray adhesive onto a piece of cardstock, poster paper or acetate. Once the paper is glued down, you will be ready to cut out the stencil!Print your image so that there is at least a 2 inch (5.08 cm) border around the design. This will make your stencil more stable when the design is cut out.
To use the spray adhesive, hold the can about a foot from the paper, then spray, moving the can to spray the entire back of the paper. After the back of the paper is coated with spray adhesive, pick it up, flip it over, and lay it flat on the cardstock or poster paper, then use your hand to smooth the paper down.

