 100% white cotton twill is a good option as it is easy to pass a needle through. You can use fabric in another color as long as it is made of cotton. You may want to cut the fabric into 15-inch squares or 8” by 8” squares to make them smaller and easier to work with.You can get white cotton fabric at your local fabric store or online.
You should also iron the fabric before you use it for embroidery as this will ensure it lays flat.;
, This is an essential tool for embroidery. The embroidery hoop will help to keep the fabric in place as you sew and make it easier for you to make even, strong stitches. Go for a 5” to 8” wood embroidery hoop as it will be small enough to hold in one hand and can hold enough fabric for a simple design.You can buy an embroidery hoop at your local fabric store or online.
 To embroider, you will need embroidery floss or thread. You may choose floss in several different colors if you plan on making a design with multiple colors. Pearl cotton thread is also a good option as it will better cover up the template drawn on the fabric.It may be a good idea to start with one to two colors of floss. You can then add more colors as you get better at embroidery and try to do more complicated designs or stitches.
 A tapestry needle is a good option as they are easy to hold and not too sharp. Get a size 20 tapestry needle or an embroidery needle that is large in size. Using a large, easy to hold needle will ensure you do not hurt yourself or get frustrated with holding the needle as you sew.You can find needles at your local fabric store or online.
Make sure you are very careful when you are using the needle as you do not want to poke yourself. If you are afraid of needles, you may try asking an adult for help with threading the needle and holding it in your hands. You may need to try holding the needle a few times so you are comfort using it when you embroider.
 You will also need a good pair of scissors made to fit a child’s hands. Look for scissors made for children at your local craft store or online.Another thing you will need is a fabric marker that is water soluble, as you will use it to draw a design on the fabric to then embroider over.
 Start by making sure your hands are clean and dry. Having clean hands will make handling the needle and thread much easier. You can wash your hands with soap and warm water in the sink before you sit down to stitch.Another option is to use baby wipes to clean your hands before you embroider.
 Start by cutting two strands of the same thread color. Cut threads that are 18-24 inches. Group the two strands together and moisten one end of the strands by putting it between your lips. Hold the needle in your non-dominant hand with the eye of the needle facing towards you. Take the thread in your dominant hand and hold the needle and thread up to your eye level, about two inches apart.


Guide the thread through the eye hole of the needle. Keep your hands steady as you do this with a firm grip on the thread with your forefinger and thumb.
If the eye hole is very small on the needle, you may have to try putting the thread through the eye a few times until you get it.
Make a small knot at the end of the thread once you get it through the needle.
Alternatively, you can use a needle threader to help you thread the needle. Using this device will make it quick and easy to thread the needle without having to try multiple times.
 Start by separating the two parts of the hoop. There will be one hoop that has a lip around it and one hoop that has a tightening screw. Place the hoop with the lip on a solid surface, such as a table. Then, place a piece of fabric on top of the hoop. Take the other hoop and slip it over the fabric and the bottom hoop. It should fit snugly over the fabric and the bottom hoop. Tighten the top hoop with the tightening screw so the fabric is in place.You should now have a secure piece of fabric in the embroidery hoop. Make sure the tightening screw is secure by twisting the screw with your hand.
 Once you have the fabric secure in the embroidery hoop, you can try one of the most basic stitches: the running stitch. Thread the needle into the fabric from the back so the knot is in place and the thread is secure. Then, come up through the fabric and make one straight stitch. Leave a little space and then come back up through the fabric. You’ve now done a running stitch.You can try doing a running stitch straight across the fabric in a straight line. You can also try doing a running stitch around the circumference of the embroidery hoop to practice doing it in a circular shape.
 Another stitch you can try is the backstitch. Thread the needle from the back of the fabric to the front so there is a knot keeping the thread in place. Then, raise the needle and thread it back through the fabric. This should create one stitch. Come back up a stitch length away from your initial stitch. Then, go back down right next it to create the second stitch. This will form a backstitch.You may try the backstitch using two to three threads in the needle at a time so the stitch appears solid and thick on the fabric.
Try to create backstitches that are close together as this will make the outline of the design much clearer and sharper on the fabric.
 This stitch is a bit more advanced but it can be a good one to use to fill in areas in a design with a certain color. The stitch is called a “satin stitch” because it creates a shiny, raised surface on the fabric. Start by threading the needle through the fabric from the back so the knot is secure at the back. Then, come up with the thread and place it underneath the initial hole, making a vertical stitch. Go to the top again and come back up. Then, place the the next stitch below the top stitch. Continue to do this, going top to bottom with the stitch.Always go in the same direction when you do a satin stitch, such as top to bottom or bottom to top. This will keep the stitch uniform and straight.
 As a beginner, you should start with an embroidery design that is simple and easy to follow. You may decide to use your name as a design or a shape like a circle, a square, or a triangle. You can also try drawing a simple image like the sun, the moon, or a flower with big round petals.If you have shaky drawing skills, you may try using a template from another source, such as an online source or a book. Go for an image that has thick, black lines so it will be easy to trace.
 Use a fabric marker to draw the design on the fabric. Make sure the lines appear clear and thick as you want them to be easy to follow. Draw the design as large as you can on the fabric so you do not have to make stitches that are too small or difficult.For example, if you were using your name as a design, you may write your name in big block letters: “SAMSON.” Or you may draw a shape in the middle of the fabric. Keep the design simple and basic.
 It is often easiest to start with a backstitch to embroider the design. Begin by doing a backstitch over the outline of the design, following the outline you have traced on the fabric. Go for a close backstitch so the outline appears solid and smooth.If the backstitch is too difficult for you, you can start with a running stitch. Then, once you get the hang of the running stitch, you can try the same design with a backstitch.
Once you have completed the outline, you can fill in any empty areas in the design with a satin stitch.
 Once you have finished the embroidery, secure the fabric to the hoop so you can hang the embroidery. You will need scissors and glue to do this. Use the scissors to trim the fabric around the hoop, leaving just enough fabric to fold over the edge of the hoop. Then, put a line of glue around the top edge of the hoop. Press the fabric into the glue with your fingers.Flip the embroidery over and let it dry on a clean, flat surface.
If you are planning to mount the embroidery on another surface, you can remove it from the embroidery hoop by releasing the tightening screw. You can then glue it or sew it onto another surface as you see fit.
 If you are looking to improve beyond the basics, you may challenge yourself by practicing a more difficult stitch. Stitches like the french knot and the “lazy daisy” stitch are fun and challenging to practice.You can also try doing a more complicated embroidery design. Perhaps you try an embroidery design with a longer phrase or saying on it. Or you try an image with smaller details that will require you to use different stitches.
 You can also improve your skills by enrolling in an embroidery class. See if embroidery classes are offered at your local community center or at school as part of a home economics program. You could also search for a local embroidery club at a fabric store or an arts center in your area.


You may want to ask your parents or guardians to help you find an embroidery class you can take. They may be able to help you pay for the class and make sure you have transportation to the class.
 There are many embroidery tutorials that you can watch and learn from. Search “embroidery” online for videos of different stitches and designs. Watch the videos and practice on your own at home.


You could try challenging yourself to learn a new embroidery tutorial every week. Or you may try learning a new embroidery skill a month to expand your skills further.

