 These are listed below under "Things You'll Need".;
, The font needs to be realistic, one that would appear to come from Hogwarts. You can download such fonts online––just do a quick search for "Harry Potter font" and see what works for your operating system.


As well, look for a suitable image of the Hogwarts crest. This can also be found using an Internet search, then saving the image to your computer.
 If you don't know what to write, find a copy of the first book and copy out the letter or look for a copy of the text online. Use emerald green ink. The letter that came to Harry was written in emerald green ink on parchment paper.


Replace Harry's address with your friend's, and in place of "the cupboard under the stairs" put a description of their room, such as "messy, messy room" or "corner with no windows".
 You can also edit the envelope; it's recommended that you print the crest onto the envelope in the left hand top corner (or print the crest and glue it in place). Then, write your friend's address on the envelope. Make sure it is your best penmanship, or have someone with good handwriting write it. If you know calligraphy, now's the time to use it. Also add Hogwarts return address below the crest (or on the back of the envelope, which is more commonplace in Britain).


If you want, you can make the paper look old before you fold the letter and put it in an envelope. See How to make paper look old or How to age paper using tea for more ideas.
 Think of creative ways to deliver the letter. You could slip it in with a bundle of birthday cards, slip it into a friend's locker or have it dangling mid-air in a room.


One creative way is to make an origami owl. (You can find a clever design by searching "origami owl bookmark" and clicking on the result by Activity TV.) Put the letter in the owl's "beak", where you would normally put the page. Then you can put the owl in the witch/wizard's desk or backpack, etc.
Another way is, when you go to your friend's house, offer to grab the mail and secretly put the letter in the pile. If you're a good actor, then feign shock when you see the letter, or do an oblivious "What's this for?" and hand your friend the letter.
You can also just mail it to them using the postal service. It's less magical, but people love getting mail.
