 Prior to 2009, each sleeping bag manufacturer had its own temperature rating system. However, in 2009, many manufacturers adopted the European Norm (EN) 13537 testing methodology, so now temperature ratings are more consistent across sleeping bag brands. There are 4 general categories of EN sleeping bag temperature ratings. The ratings are calculated based on users wearing 1 layer of clothing and a hat, and utilizing an insulated pad under the sleeping bag.


Choose a summer season backpacking sleeping bag for temperatures above 35 degrees F (1.6 degrees C).
Select a 3-season sleeping bag for temperatures between 10 and 35 degrees F (-12.2 and 1.6 degrees C).
Pick a cold weather sleeping bag for temperatures between -10 and 10 degrees F (-23.3 and -12.2 degrees C).
Choose a winter or extreme sleeping bag for temperatures below -10 degrees F (-23.3 degrees C).
Select a sleeping bag with a temperature rating slightly lower than the coldest temperature you expect to experience for non-EN rated bags. For example, if you anticipate freezing temperatures, choose a bag that is rated for 20 degrees F (-6.6 degrees C), not 35 degrees F (1.6 degrees C). The 35 degree F (1.6 degrees C) rating is only intended to keep users comfortable at temperatures above 35 degrees F (1.6 degrees C).;
, EN 133537 testing revealed that women are colder when they sleep than men. Look for temperature ratings based on your gender.


Look for the EN Comfort Rating for women. This rating indicates the lowest outside temperature in which the average woman can sleep comfortably using the sleeping bag.
Consider the EN Lower Limit Rating for men. This rating indicates the lowest outside temperature in which the average man can sleep comfortably using the sleeping bag.
Choose an EN Extreme rating for either gender. The EN rating indicates the lowest outside temperature in which the average person can stay alive using the sleeping bag. This rating should only be considered for extreme temperatures. It does not take comfort into consideration, but only focuses on survival.
 Because the sleeping bag will be carried on your back, opt for a bag that has the lowest possible weight, but still provides necessary warmth and comfort. Look for sleeping bags that weigh less than 4 or 5 pounds, or 10 to 20 percent of your pack weight.
 Most manufacturers offer backpacking sleeping bags specifically designed for men or women.


Determine the size of a women's sleeping bag based on your height. Women's bags come in 2 sizes: regular for women up to 5 feet (1.5 m), 6 inches tall (168 cm); and long for women 5 feet (1.5 m), 7 inches to 6 feet (1.8 m) tall (170 to 183 cm). Women's bags are designed differently from men's in that they are narrower at the shoulders, wider at the hips and may have extra insulation in the foot box, which is at the bottom of the sleeping bag near the feet.
Select a men's sleeping bag based on your height. Men's bags come in 3 sizes: short for men up to 5 feet (1.5 m), 6 inches tall (168 cm); regular for men 5 feet (1.5 m), 7 inches to 6 feet (1.8 m) tall (170 to 183 cm); and long for men 6 feet (1.8 m), 1 inch to 6 feet (1.8 m), 6 inches tall (185 to 198 cm). Some brands offer extra long sizes for men up to 6 feet (1.8 m), 8 inches tall (203 cm).
 All sleeping bags made specifically for backpacking are mummy-shaped.


Consider a sleeping bag with narrow shoulder and hip specifications for increased warmth and decreased weight. Depending on your body shape, these narrow bags may be restrictive and uncomfortable.
Consider a mummy bag with larger shoulder and hip specifications for increased comfort. While these sleeping bags may provide more comfort, they are typically bulkier and heavier than the narrower bags.
 Sleeping bag insulation or "fill" reduces the amount of heat your body loses while you are sleeping. There are 2 main types of fill: down or synthetic.


Choose down fill for lightweight durability. Down, which comes from geese and ducks, is a natural fiber that is breathable and durable. Its light, compressible nature makes it ideal for backpacking sleeping bags. However, down sleeping bags typically cost more than synthetic bags and lose their insulating ability when they get wet.
Select synthetic fill for comfort in damp conditions. Synthetic fill is usually made of polyester and comes in 2 insulation categories. Short-staple fills are densely packed to reduce heat loss and are compressible for backpacking. Continuous-filament fills are thicker and less compressible than short-staple fills, but are more durable. Synthetic fill retains warmth even in wet weather. Synthetic sleeping bags are usually heavier than down bags, but they are non-allergenic and less expensive.
 Look for sleeping bag shells that are treated with a durable water repellent (DWR) finish. This will allow water to bead up on your sleeping bag and serve as a barrier to the fabric insulation.



Choose a backpacking sleeping bag with a built-in hood. The hood, which can be cinched with a drawstring, prevents heat loss through your head.
Consider a sleeping bag with a draft tube, which keeps heat from escaping along the bag's zipper.
Pick a sleeping bag with a stash pocket for small items like glasses, watches or cell phones.
Find a backpacking sleeping bag with pad loops so you can attach the bag to your sleeping pad. This will prevent your sleeping bag from rolling off of the pad.
 Sleeping bags for backpacking are available at retail and sporting good stores, camping suppliers and online. They range in price from around $100 to more than $800. Evaluate how often you will use your sleeping bag before making an investment. If you are on a tight budget, consider purchasing a used sleeping bag.

