 The most important component of your cat’s evacuation kit is a supply of food and water. When determining the amount of food and water your cat will need, estimate about 14 quarts of water (448 ounces), plus your cat’s usual daily food intake multiplied by 14.Don’t forget to include extra food and water dishes. Having the food and water won’t help your cat if they have no way to consume it!
If your cat’s food usually comes in metal containers, don’t forget a can opener.;
, Your cat might not normally wear a harness, collar, or leash, but these are good things to include in your evacuation kit. Your cat may get nervous in new or unfamiliar places and situations created by an emergency, and these supplies can help keep your cat restrained.If your cat becomes very panicked in unfamiliar situations, you might want to consider including a pair of leather gloves with these supplies to protect your hands from scratches.
 If you don’t already have a carrier for your cat, you should get one to include with your cat’s evacuation kit. The carrier should have your name, cat’s name and description, and your phone number and address listed on it. Include an alternate phone number in case you’re not at home and someone finds your cat and needs to contact you.You should also include your cat’s insurance policy number and microchip or tattoo ID if applicable.
 This should include vaccination certifications, your and your vet’s phone numbers, a copy of your cat's insurance, and your ownership papers (if you have any). You can also include a current picture of your cat, which will help identify you as the cat's owner if someone else finds it., You should also put aside a two week supply of any medications that your cat takes. You can also include one dose of preventative heart worm medication. This is especially important since in the event of an emergency, your cat might be around other animals or in an unfamiliar place where contracting heart worm is more likely.


If your cat’s medications need to be refrigerated, include a few chemical ice packs in your kit. Cracking these packs when they’re ready for use will give you an ice pack without the need to keep anything frozen., In the event of an emergency, your cat will be outside of its comfort zone. Including some familiar toys, a blanket, and grooming supplies like a brush and nail clippers can help keep your cat comfortable in an emergency.A pheromone spray like Feliway can also contribute to your cat’s comfort. Spraying it on your cat’s toys and blanket, and in the areas where they’re staying during the emergency, sends your cat a signal that they are in a safe place.
 Some pet stores and websites sell litter sets specifically for emergencies. They often include a collapsible litter pan and a small scoop. You can create your own by purchasing a small litter pan and scoop and including paper towel, garbage bags and a disinfectant to keep your cat’s litter box clean during an emergency. Don’t forget the actual litter, either.