 There are plenty of people that you have to see every week, or at least every holiday, but don't get along with. Remember that your goal is not to befriend these people or get to know them better. Aim for basic, easy goals like these:


Say hello, say goodbye, and not get anyone upset or offended in between.
Don't respond to any of your coworker's offensive statements this week.
Finish the collaborative project without revealing your irritation.
 If you know that someone you dislike will be at a particular event, plan an excuse in advance so you can cut the visit short. Ideally, create a real reason so you can't be caught in a lie. For example, only hire a babysitter for half of the evening, or make plans with a family member so you are "forced" to leave early for family reasons.
 If someone tends to cause uncomfortable silences, or talk about offensive topics, have a conversation topic ready in advance. When she joins a conversation, comment on a current event that you read in the news, or mention a popular movie or music you saw recently.


Avoid political news and other controversial topics.
 Remind yourself that you only have to be stuck with this person for a limited amount of time. Count how many minutes you have left, and concentrate on that number if you find yourself getting annoyed or angry.
 If asked for your email address or social media information, claim that you don't check it often (if this is believable). If they do contact you through one of these avenues, don't respond, or respond only after a few days with a short message apologizing for being too busy to reply at the time.
 If someone is intruding in your personal space with unwelcome physical contact, or trying to contact you constantly, politely address the issue. "I'd appreciate it if you'd stop." is all you need to say to communicate your boundaries politely.


Use "I" statements, such as "I'm not a fan of hugging," and avoid using the word "you," which can sound accusatory.
 If someone's presence in your life is causing serious stress, and the other person isn't picking up on your more subtle cues, try to end the "friendship." It's best to do so as politely as possible, and is not recommended for people you work under or are in contact with every day. If you have no other options, tell the other person, "I'd prefer we didn't spend as much time together."

