 Perhaps the most popular and accessible option for self-publishing a children’s book is an online printing service. These services, such as Book Baby, Art bookbindery, and Blurb, offer full publishing services, from page layout to cover design to printed proofs, promotional posters for the book, and shipping options for the final product. They often offer basic publishing services for a very low rate and are a good, easy option for self-publishing.You may get a price quote for your book from several of these sites and compare them to find the right one for you.
Options like page layout and cover design are often offered at extra charge through these services.;
, If you do not want hard copies of the book, use an online-only publishing service. Online book sellers like Amazon offer an online only publishing option for self-publishers, where the book is sold as an ebook. You pay Amazon a fee to sell your book online for you. When a book is sold, you receive a set amount of the sale.Online only publishing services are a good option if you do not want to distribute hard copies of the book or have to worry about printing a physical book.
 If you’d rather put the book up for sale online and have it printed by order only, try a print-on-demand service. Amazon offers a print-on-demand option on their site where you can upload your book through a third party publisher and sell it through the site. It will then be printed on demand based on consumer orders.This is a good option if you do not want to have to pay for the publishing fees yourself up front to get a whole bunch of the books printed. Every time a book is sold through a print-on-demand service, you will receive royalties on the sale.
 Before you publish your children’s book, think about how many copies you want to print, or the print run. If you are planning to distribute the book to friends and family only, you may do a low print run to start with. If you want to distribute the book to bookstores in your area, you may do a larger print run.For example, a print run of 50 books for family and friends may be enough to start with. A print run of 100 books may be ideal if you want to distribute the books to bookstores.
 You may decide to do a certain amount of softcover books and a few hardcover books to start with, or only a certain number of hardcover copies. Hardcover books will be more expensive to print than softcover books so keep this in mind when you decide.For example, you may decide to get 10 hardcover copies printed to give to friends and family as gifts. Then, you may get 50 softcover copies printed to give to schools or bookstores in your area.
 Another key publishing detail is whether the book has color or no color illustrations. Color illustrations will be more expensive than black and white illustrations. However, you may opt for color illustrations if you plan to give the book to friends and family as a gift or if you want to promote the book to bookstores.Color illustrations will have more of a visual impact than no color, especially as most children’s books have vibrant, bright illustrations.
 You can choose from a variety of sizes for the book. The most popular sizes for children’s books are square (10” x 10”), landscape (11” x 8.5”), and portrait (8.5” x 11”). The size you select may be based on the format of the book as well as the size of the illustrations and the text.You may get sample books printed through an online printing service in different sizes to find the right one for the book.
 There are several options for the binding of the children’s book, including spiral binding, perfect binding, and casebound binding. Choose the right binding for the book so it appears exactly how you want it.You may go for perfect binding or spiral binding if you are getting softcover books, as this will allow the pages to lay flat. Casebound binding is often used for hardcover books.
 Once you have determined the design and print run for the book, order it through an online printing service. Select your shipping options through the service. When you get the books in the mail, look through them to ensure they are exactly as you ordered.


Only do this if you want to have hard copies of the book on hand. If you are using a print-on-demand service or an online only publishing service, you do not need to order the books.
 To get the book in the hands of more readers, promote it using online tools like social media. Create a website for the book or social media accounts on Instagram and Facebook. Follow leading authors in the children’s book industry and post updates about your book on social media accounts. Connect to your readership by following other popular children’s book titles and characters on social media.If you do create a website for the children’s book, you may set up a blog where you post daily or weekly updates. You may include any book promotions or book related events you are doing in the community to attract more readers.
 To promote the book to young readers, consider setting up readings at schools in your area. Look for reading days at your local library and other events in the community where you can promote the book to young readers.As an author, you will need to be comfortable doing presentations in front of a group of readers to promote the book. Often, these presentations involve reading from the book and answering questions from the audience.
 Another way you can get a self-published book on the radar of young readers is to get it reviewed in publications. Try sending copies of your book to publications like Publisher’s Weekly, School Library Journal, and Audiofile Magazine. They may decide to review your book if they think it is good.You may have a difficult time getting your book reviewed if it is self-published, as publications may prefer books published by a big publisher. Having a strong online following and presence can help persuade a publication to review your self-published book, as they know readers will be interested in the review.

