 If you've decided you want to use a debt management plan (DMP) to consolidate your payday loans and other debts, a nonprofit credit counseling agency can help. Check online to find an approved organization near you.You can find a list of agencies approved by the U.S. Trustee program for pre-bankruptcy counseling at https://www.justice.gov/ust/list-credit-counseling-agencies-approved-pursuant-11-usc-111. Even if you're not anticipating filing for bankruptcy, these agencies are a good place to start because they've been approved by the federal government.
Most reputable credit counseling agencies are nonprofit and offer their services for free, or for very minimal fees. Steer clear of credit counseling agencies that want to charge you substantial fees or interest to create a DMP for you.
 Reviews from current or former clients of the organization can give you a good idea of what it's like to work with that organization and whether their methods are successful.Check the website of the Better Business Bureau and other neutral third-party organizations to get a wider variety of unbiased reviews. Keep in mind that if you're only reading reviews on the credit counseling organization's website, they may only be sharing the positive ones.
You can also check local consumer protection offices or your state's attorney general to see if any complaints have been filed against the organization.
 You typically must complete a form giving the credit counseling agency you've chosen basic information about your situation. Based on that information, you'll be assigned a counselor to work with you personally.During your first meeting, the counselor will go over your income and expenses and verify your debt. You'll discuss budgets and the various options the agency may be able to offer you.
Your counselor also will discuss any fees you'll be charged for participating in the various programs.
You may have more than one meeting with your credit counselor before they arrive at a DMP that will work for you.
 Once you've chosen the DMP you want to use, your credit counselor will require you to provide specific information about your finances, including your sources of income and all the debts you have.Your credit counselor will work with your lenders, including your payday lenders, to make payments on your loans. Once your application is approved, they will be contacting your lenders to get their cooperation with the plan.
Expect it to take anywhere from a few days up to a week for your DMP to be finalized. You may be instructed not to contact your lenders or make any payments during this time. Follow your credit counselor's instructions.
 Typically you'll have a final meeting with your credit counselor to go over the exact terms of your DMP. Once you sign the agreement, its terms will go into effect and you can start making payments to the credit counseling agency.From this point on, any communication from your lender should go through your credit counselor. If you're contacted by a lender who is included in your DMP, let them know that you are working with a credit counseling agency, and give them the name and contact information for your credit counselor.
 Once your DMP begins, you'll be making a single payment, usually monthly, to your credit counseling agency. The agency will then distribute the money to your lenders according to your plan.You may be able to have your payments automatically withdrawn from your bank account. If this isn't an option for you, set reminders for yourself so you don't forget to make the payment by the due date.
It can take months or even years to pay off your loans. In the meantime, if you make even one payment late, the credit counseling agency may consider this a breach of the agreement and withdraw its services.

