 Acrylic is a soft, malleable finish, which means it can easily be scratched or marked up if you’re not careful. To prevent doing lasting damage to your shower, pick out a product that doesn’t contain any harsh chemicals or astringents. Your best bet is to use a mild acid-based solution like Lysol Power Bathroom Cleaner, Formula 409 All-Purpose cleaner or Bar Keeper’s Friend.Stay away from any type of astringent cleanser, including Comet, Ajax and Scrubbing Bubbles, as well as solvents like acetone.
Whenever possible, using natural derivatives to clean your bathroom will be your safest choice.;
, Apply the cleaner liberally to areas where grime, soap scum and hard water stains have accumulated. Focus on spots that suffer from visible dirt or discoloration. You may need to use quite a bit of cleaner in order to penetrate multiple layers of dried-on residue.


Be sure to remove all soaps, shampoos and other hygiene products from the shower before you get started so that you can clean underneath them.
Pull back the shower curtain all the way and turn on the overhead fan to keep the bathroom properly ventilated while you clean.
 After a few minutes, the dingy messes that have built up on the surface of your acrylic shower will begin to dissolve. This will allow you to wipe them away with ease.If you’re dealing with particularly heavy soap scum or stains, it may help to reapply the cleaner once or twice.
Use this time to take care of any other cleaning tasks you need to complete, like detailing the faucet or shower head.
 Turn on the shower head and direct the flow of water over the areas of the acrylic you just sprayed. Wash away as much liquefied grime and cleaning solution as you can. Once you’ve given the shower a preliminary rinse, go over the acrylic with using a soft microfiber towel or sponge to remove any remaining residue.Never use abrasive scrubbers, such as wire brushes or rough kitchen sponges, to clean an acrylic surface. These will leave behind tiny scratches in the finish that will then trap dirt in the future, making it much harder to remove.