 Sometimes people can come across as mean and unfriendly, when they are really shy or just uncomfortable. Instead of assuming what someone is feeling or what his intentions are, explore options for his behavior and try to give him the benefit of the doubt.Think to yourself, “Why else could he be acting like this?” You will probably come up with a few alternate explanations.
For example, if someone is being rude, don’t assume he is just mean. Ask yourself, “Could he be acting this way because he is upset or tired? Maybe he doesn't know how that comment sounded.”
Ask him about it if you can’t come up with an explanation or to confirm what you are thinking.
You could say, “And why do you say that?” or, “Why’d you decide to do that?” If you can better acquaint yourself with the person's decision making process, it is yet another layer added to his personality concept. Knowing how someone reasons through things tells you a lot about his priorities and assumptions.
 will be much easier to understand people if you don’t expect everyone to think and act like you. Even people with similar personalities have different experiences and backgrounds that shape their opinions and attitudes.Learning more about people can help you appreciate their differences and avoid stereotyping them.A great way to do this is to expose yourself to different types of people, places, and experiences.
Watch videos or read books to get a glimpse into how others live. Read articles to explore different belief systems, cultures, and values.
Talk to people outside of your comfort zone. Strike up a conversation on the elevator. Talk to the person beside you on the bus. Chat online with someone from another background or country.
 This means putting yourself in the other person’s shoes.When you can empathize with someone you can understand what she is feeling and her perspective, even if you don’t feel the same or have the same opinion. Some people are naturally empathetic and others aren’t. But it is a skill that can be developed and improved with practice.Increase your empathy by making an effort to think about how people might be feeling around you, or about how characters must be feeling in the books you read and movies you watch.
Try thinking to yourself, “If I were her, how would I feel? Why might she feel that?” It's important not just to put yourself in the person's place, but try and actually imagine yourself as that person.
For instance, maybe your friend's cat just died. You might think, "If that were me, I would want to be left alone to grieve." But it's not about what you might feel, it's about what your friend might feel. Think about what you know about your friend — maybe she likes to be surrounded by people for support. Instead of wanting to be left alone, the way you might, your friend would probably feel better if you came over with a slice of cake and gave her a big hug.

