 There will be levels with flowers that you need to bloom to collect. You need to make three matches adjacent to the flower so that it can bloom. The flowers don’t move from their place, so you can’t swap them with other items. Collect the flowers early on so you can have more space to move around.
 Some levels will have eggs that you need to hatch in order to collect the creature inside. Creatures can be chickens or alligators. The eggs need to be cracked three times by matching them before they can be hatched. Hatch the eggs early on so that you can get more cropsies to play with.
 There will be levels where certain cropsies are trapped in ice. You can melt the ice to free the cropsie by making a match with it. The matched cropsies will be collected except for the one previously trapped in ice.
 Some levels will have dirty-looking and angry cropsies; these are called Grumpy Cropsies. Any match made with these will be forfeited and will just be a waste of your moves. Better avoid these when making your matches.
 There will be levels where you can see or grow grass. Make matches of cropsies on the grass to increase their value. If you put Grumpy Cropsies on grass, they will be revived to regular cropsies.
 There will be levels where you have firecrackers. Use them to take out or collect items you need to meet your goals. In order to set off a firecracker, you need to make three different matches right next to it. Each match will shorten its wick until it explodes, taking out items you need.
 Depending on the level you’re in, you will have different boosters accessible from the top right corner. These boosters can help you with your goals and can get you out of difficult moves.


Shovel—Tap the shovel button from the boosters bar. You can then remove any cropsie from the board by pointing on it.
Tractor—Tap the tractor button from the boosters bar. Position it on a row, and it will drive down removing everything on it.
Bonus Rewards—This booster will give all required cropsies a +1 bonus. To activate, tap the “+1” button from the boosters bar.
Color Collect—Tap the dog button from the boosters bar and then point it on a cropsie you need to collect, and all similar cropsies will be collected from the board.
Clean-Up—This is helpful when you have a lot of Grumpy Cropsies on the board. Tap the two-faced button from the boosters bar, and all the Grumpy Cropsies will be turned to regular cropsies.
Super Fruit—Tap on the flower button from the boosters bar. Point it on an area and it will collect all the cropsies nearby. It will also add +2 bonus to the cropsies.
Egg Cracker—For levels with eggs, use the Egg Cracker by tapping the egg button from the boosters bar. All the eggs on the board will be cracked once.

