 Buy the apparel that is similar to your concept. Touch and feel it, and research its fabrics, dyes, and trims. This background research is an essential part of developing your deeper understanding of what does and does not work when designing and it will also help you to gain an insight into the sorts of things that customers are inclined to buy rather than simply marvel over.;
, A merchandising strategy looks at fashion collections from the viewpoint of the store owner and professional buyer. Buyers are concerned with how a potential collection will sell in their store; they do not want to be left with product that doesn't sell or has to be heavily discounted. By developing a merchandising strategy, you can address the concerns of retailers as to what makes your collection likely to sell, including its price, quality and likely appeal to customers.


You can find more help on developing this aspect of you business by reading How to develop a marketing strategy and How to design a successful promotional product strategy.
 Technical design sketches are not mere renderings! These sketches describe cut angles, stitch patterns, fit and trim placement. They help you to be more aware of what is possible and what might end up being too expensive or even unrealistic. Do not cut corners on this part of your design process, it is the foundation for proving the worth of your designs.
 Most budding designers overemphasize the value of a fabric’s look and appearance. Remember to consider fabric’s impact on your production costs and how it handles repeated laundering and wear. Be aware of what customers are most interested in, such as no need to iron, forgiving drapes and plenty of "give" in the fabric.
 Ensure the fabrics can hold the print effectively. Get test swatches done and keep working on the pattern and print designs until you're absolutely happy that they're unique to your design range.


Make use of digital tools to help you develop patterns. You might even consider borrowing a 3-D printer to help with creating inexpensive samples.
 Look for such trims as buttons, zippers, and metallic strips that give your pieces an edge over the less well-made competition. Ensure a match between fabrics, prints, and trim, so that the pieces remain firm and will endure repeated washing. If your clothing line becomes known for its durability and reliability, this will be an absolute plus for future sales.
 Sample makers specialize, so find the one that really does click with the designs you're developing. Do not expect a sample maker to be effective at both company uniforms and swimwear. Always choose the one that matches appropriately to the designs you're making.
 The technical packet is the “order” that a sample maker understands. They follow, to the letter, the instructions in the technical packet. If you're not that great at writing instructional or technical content, hire someone who can do this well. This will only be a small investment and it's well worth it. You might also consider using basic instructional diagrams and drawings if these assist in a complete understanding and avoids confusion.
 The designer must check each item of clothing for correct stitching, fit to body, and patterns. Mistakes are annotated on the technical packet and returned to the sample maker. It is very important that you are personally across this aspect and do not leave it to anybody else. Only you will be able to spot the finer issues that you consider need remedying to be worthy of your clothing line, so make time to do this and do it with care.
 Look Books explain the unique features of your sales samples to potential fashion buyers. The Look Book can be a few pages of collages of images showing how your collection is to be worn, and by what type of consumer. Use someone who is good with book and graphic design; a good book designer will support your own good design.


If you are good with graphic design and using software programs, you may be able to do this aspect yourself.

