 Although the Scrabble game comes with enough racks to accommodate as many as 4 players, players in Scrabble tournaments play head-to-head against only a single opponent. Playing with just one person may help you to get used to this type of play before your first tournament., As in chess, competitive Scrabble is played to time and uses a timer to keep track of how long each player takes to place tiles on the board. Each player has a total of 25 minutes to make his or her plays, with the time set by setting an analog chess clock to 25 minutes before the hour or setting a digital clock for a 25-minute period.Once it is decided which player will play first, the first player's clock is started. The player may take as long as necessary within the time remaining on the clock to place his or her tiles and declare the point value of the word played. The player may reconsider the play, change, or retract it; however, once he or she pushes the button to stop his or her timer and start the opponent's, the move is set.
If either player exceeds the 25-minute time limit for making his or her moves, the game continues, but the offending player loses 10 points for each minute of play over the limit.
 Before making his or her own play, the opponent can challenge the legality of the player's move by saying, "Hold." If the opponent does this, the player is stopped from taking replacement tiles from the bag. The opponent can then decide to accept the player's move, thus letting the player draw new tiles, or declare, "Challenge," at which point the clock is stopped for the judge to determine whether the words challenged in the play (there may be as many as 8) are acceptable or unacceptable.If all words in the challenge are accepted, the play is acceptable, and the tiles remain. If any of the words are judged unacceptable, the entire play is forfeited, the player takes back the tiles laid down to make the play and forfeits that turn.
If there is no challenge, the opponent proceeds to play his or her tiles and pushes the timer button when he or she is satisfied with the word(s) made.
 If you want to trade in some of your tiles for different ones, then you need to use a turn to do so and announce your intentions as well. When trading, the player lays the tiles that he or she wants to trade face down. Then, the player announces the number of tiles to be traded and presses the timer button to commit. The actual trading of tiles is done during the opponent's play time.


Call the director over if you draw too many tiles by accident., As in golf, each player is responsible for keeping his or her own score in competitive Scrabble games. Players are permitted to prepare their own score sheets, which may include the reference list of how many of each letter tile are in the game and a way to track how many of them have been played.


It is also a good idea to track your opponent’s score and to announce your scores during the game. Just make sure that you do so on your time, not your opponent’s time., If at any time during your game, you or your opponent has a question or problem, you should call the director over to handle it. Do not waste game time to try to settle a dispute by yourselves. Make sure that you stop the clock when you call for a director so that neither player is losing time while you wait.