 You'll definitely feel more confident about your smile if your teeth are clean and presentable. Take the time to brush them every morning and night. Floss once a day as well - it makes a big difference. Go to the dentist every 6 months to get professional cleanings and reduce plaque and tartar, too. Taking good care of your teeth will show in your smile!


If you're about to be in a photograph or meet a new person, brush your teeth directly beforehand. You'll be more likely to flash a confident smile.

Mouthwash is another great way to freshen your teeth. Carry a small bottle with you to give your teeth a quick rinse when you need a confidence boost throughout the day.
 If the problem is that your teeth are a little yellow or grayish, why not whiten them a bit so you'll feel more confident? There are dozens of methods for whitening your teeth, from expensive whitening treatments to DIY home treatments. To whiten your teeth quickly, here are a few things to try:


Whitening strips. These are a little on the expensive side, but they really work. You can find them at the drugstore.
Hydrogen peroxide. This is a quick, cheap home remedy that whitens your teeth a few shades. Just mix hydrogen peroxide with water, then use it to rinse your teeth.
Brush with baking soda. Make a paste with baking soda and water and use it to brush your teeth. It will lift off stains in a jiffy. Don't do this too often, though, because it can wear away your tooth enamel.
 If you're hesitant to smile and it's really starting to affect your confidence and happiness, you might want to look into getting your teeth straightened. Make an appointment with an orthodontist and discuss your options. A set of braces or a retainer might be what it takes to straighten your teeth.


The simplest wire braces are usually the least expensive, but they're more noticeable than more expensive options.
Many orthodontists offer payment plans to help you afford braces if you can't pay everything at once.
 These are porcelain teeth affixed to your real teeth. They can be remarkably realistic and almost impossible to detect. A small amount of your tooth enamel is removed, a mold of your tooth is taken, and a veneer is made to fit perfectly over the old tooth. If your teeth are discolored, cracked, broken or misshapen, this could be a good option for you., If the problem is not so much with individual teeth, but with the structure of your jaw, there are surgical options you can pursue to correct the problem. Schedule a meeting with an oral surgeon to find out what makes the most sense for your situation. Getting oral surgery to correct your teeth can be expensive, time-consuming and painful, but the drawbacks might be worth the reward of getting a set of teeth that makes you feel happy to smile.

