 Many people skip their first meal of the day, but eating a healthy breakfast can elevate your concentration and performance during the day. Opt for foods with protein and fiber, like yogurt, eggs, whole-grain cereals, and nuts, to give yourself the best chance of maintaining your focus., Even mild dehydration can negatively affect your mood, focus, and performance. Be sure to drink water regularly throughout the day, especially when you’re consuming lots of diuretics, like caffeinated beverages.The average person should drink about two liters of water per day. An easy way to ensure that you’re getting this amount is to carry a liter-sized water bottle with you throughout the day, and be sure to refill it once.
 No one can maintain their attention for hours at a time. While constant distractions can cripple your productivity, regular diversions can actually help you recharge and stay on schedule. Avoid burnout by taking quick, frequent breaks.For instance, if you’re going to be working on something for many hours, take a ten-minute break each hour to give yourself a chance to reactivate your concentration.
It also helps to move around during your breaks to help recharge your body.
 Being tired seriously undermines your concentration and performance. Try to give yourself at least eight uninterrupted hours of shuteye a night. Doing so will ensure that you’re mentally and physically prepared for the tasks at hand.Try setting a sleep schedule to keep yourself on track. Going to bed and getting up at the same time each day will establish a healthy cycle that your body can depend on.If you have trouble getting to sleep, establish a relaxing ritual to ease yourself into it. For instance, you may spend time in dim light meditating, reading, or listening to relaxing music before bed. Whatever you do, it’s best to make sure that it doesn’t involve any lit screens, which can make it harder to fall asleep.Avoid things that will disrupt your sleep, like eating or drinking within three hours of your bedtime. It’s also best to sleep in total darkness (or with an eye mask) and keep your devices away from your bed and in sleep-mode.
 Short sessions of meditation and mindful reflection can significantly improve your concentration. Taking time out to perform these exercises is likely to save you time in the long run.To practice simple meditation, relax and sit still while you focus on your breath. Inhale deeply through your nose, and exhale slowly out of your mouth. With each exhalation, imagine that you are expelling stress and tension from your body.
Meditating for as little as 5-15 minutes a day can make a difference.
Consider taking a few minutes at the end of your work to reflect on what you’ve accomplished, and make a list of the things that you’d like to focus on the next day. This can help you leave your work behind so that you’re better able to give your full concentration to it during your next work session.

