 Being a teacher's aid is about being a great assistant. You'll need to be a team player and devote yourself to making the teacher's job easier.


A good master teacher is likely to take input from you in lesson-planning, rule-setting, and other classroom activities. Keep all of this in mind, but also remember that ultimately the buck stops with the master teacher, not with you, so be prepared to do what they ask and follow their rules!;
, If you don't like working with kids, this might not be a good position for you. Depending on the age level of your students, you may need to get down on the floor and spend long hours of the day playing, teaching, singing, and more. Spending a little time with kids of various ages can help you figure out whether the job is a good fit for you.


You can start by spending some time with the children of friends or relatives, or if you feel equipped, you can try nannying or babysitting. These roles are pretty different from being a teacher's aid in a full classroom, but they can still give you an idea (with potentially less commitment) about how you'd do interacting with kids on a daily basis.
Many teacher's aids work with students with special needs or students with behavior problems.Make sure you are comfortable working closely with a wide variety of kids before attempting to become a teacher's aid.
 Being a teacher's aid requires you to be proactive and wear a lot of different hats on the job. You might be helping with reading in small groups at one point and soon after you might be preparing photocopies for the teacher. You could even be required to be a crossing guard!Whatever is asked of you, within reason of course, is an important part of your job that needs to be done well.


Resourcefulness is an important quality to have when you are a teacher's aid. For instance, you will need to be able to help explain material creatively to students who are having difficulty grasping information as it is presented in class.
 Being a teacher's aid will require you to be on your feet for many hours.In addition, you will need to have the ability to lift around 50 pounds and to stoop and squat on the floor with students.
 Not all teacher's aid positions require a specific academic background, such as an Associate's degree for teacher's assistants. However, knowing a little bit about child psychology and best practices in teaching can go a long way towards both getting a teacher's aid job and succeeding in it.
 This can be really helpful in preparing you for the type of work you will do as a teacher's aid. These classes will teach about developing educational materials, how to observe students, and understanding the role of teacher's aids in the classroom, among other things.Many community colleges provide classes specifically aimed at helping you gain the skills you will need to be successful as a teacher's aid., While educational requirements vary, with some teacher's aid jobs only requiring that you have a high school diploma, most will require you to have some sort of additional education.If you are planning on completing more education specifically to become eligible for a teacher's assistant job, you might want to consider an Associate's degree specifically for teacher's assistants.
In addition, some teacher's aid jobs require previous experience working with children, for instance with a youth group or in a daycare., Depending on the state and local school districts, the certifications you will need to become a teacher's assistant will vary. In California, for example, you need to pass the No Child Left Behind Exam or the California Basic Educational Skills Test (CBEST) in order to work as a Teacher's Aid.Getting CPR certifications or certified by the Red Cross to babysit can be good certifications to have.
Most school districts require you to pass a background check as well before you can be hired.
 Most teacher's aid positions will require references with your application. If you have someone who can vouch for your character, patience, and reliability, it'll go a long way towards making your application more appealing. Bonus points if they know about how good you are with kids!

, It's possible that after some time as a volunteer, you could transition into a paid position, if a position becomes available. However, even if no paid position comes about, you can add the experience to your resume

, If you're already spending time with children to gain experience, look for opportunities to talk to the teachers. Get to know them, establish rapport over time, and tell them about your interest in teaching. An established teacher may know of openings at their school or other schools in the area and may be willing to put a good word in for you.
 They should be available on your local school district's website and on general classified-ad websites as well. Wherever you find the ad, make sure you fit the minimum requirements of the job and that the job is a good fit for you as well.


Job prospects for teacher's assistants vary significantly by region.Areas with growing populations, thus increasing enrollment, are likely to have the most opportunity.
 Be sure to follow all directions on the job posting, for instance follow the stipulations of how many references to include with your application and who to address your application to.


Be sure to include a convincing cover letter with your application. You will want to be concise but also express your interest in the job and why you are the perfect fit for it.
Most job applications are now submitted online. If that is the case, be sure to follow the directions for online submission and make sure you have successfully submitted the application before closing your web browser.

