 If you choose you can also braid your hair. Make sure you keep your hair clean and well groomed. When washing your hair try to use earth friendly shampoo, such as vegan shampoo or shampoo that hasn't been tested on animals. For hair accessories you could use are the old hippie headbands, feathers, flowers, you could also try using bandanna's as headbands. Shaving among hippies is common-place now a days, but in the 60s and 70s feminist and hippies were against it. Hippies are in a sense naturalists, so if you're a strong person, stop shaving. This is not for the faint of heart, but true die-hard hippies don't shave. Also remember to be creative!;
, Old 60s and 70s hippie band t-shirts are good. For bottoms, you can wear flowing skirts that are colourful. If you really want to you could wear bell bottoms. If you're trying to get the more old school hippie look, if you like to wear jeans make sure most of your jeans have rips in them. You could also add patches to them. You could try shopping at vintage shops to look for some great hippie clothes. Remember to just have fun with it and don't be scared to add a little of your own style.
 In colder weather you could wear moccasin shoes or moccasin boots to keep your feet warm but still have the hippie look that you're going for.
 Coloured accessories like belts, hats, bracelets, earrings and others are a good to add to your wardrobe. As for earrings you can wear feather earrings or earrings that have peace signs on them. You can also use bandannas as bracelets.
 Love nature! Hippies want to save the environment and not destroy it! Recycling is a must. Try to use material that is recyclable. Stand up for animals and protest against wearing furs. Go vegetarian or even better, you can go vegan! Have respect for all living creatures.
 Please note that certain drugs can cause serious health problems and most drugs are illegal. But you don't need to take drugs to be a hippie, you can get a more "natural high" from meditation, try reading books that have different philosophies and ideas.
 Just do what you feel is right and don't force yourself to follow beliefs that you don't agree with. Just be yourself!

