 When you faint, you lose consciousness and will not be able to do anything to help break your fall. Because of this, it's important to know what the prodromal stage or "presyncope" feels like. This will give you a few seconds to act. While not everyone experiences fainting episodes the same way, most people have some combination of the following:


Increased sweating despite a cold sensation.
Nausea.
Discomfort in the center of your lower chest or upper abdomen.
Sudden extreme fatigue.
A feeling of weakness.
Dizziness or vertigo.Confusion.
Blurred vision or seeing spots.
Ringing in your ears.;
, These are actions that increase your blood pressure, delaying and sometimes preventing syncope altogether.


Cross your legs while tensing them along with your abdominal muscles.
Clench an object with some give, such as a rubber ball, as hard as possible.
Grip one hand with the other and tense your arms, moving them slowly away from your body., The most dangerous part of fainting is the possibility that you will injure yourself when you fall. Do your best to get away from high-risk areas and towards places where you are less likely to hurt yourself. You may be able to take just a few steps while experiencing presyncope, but that distance is often all you need to prevent injury.


Some examples of high risk areas include streets, train terminals, staircases, and anywhere with a nearby steep drop. Staircases pose a unique problem. If you are already standing on a staircase, do not try to go up or down, even if it's just a few steps. Instead, hold on to the railing and gently slide down to sit on the step you are currently standing on.
Try to get to a better place to fall. If you are standing in an area that has hard flooring or furniture with sharp edges, try to get to an uncluttered space with either carpeting or grass. When you're feeling faint, ideally you should lie down on a couch or bed with your legs elevated., When you lose consciousness, the people around you will be the ones who can make sure you stay safe. Even in an uncluttered area with soft flooring, your fall can still cause potential injury. If someone can catch you and lower you gently to the ground, your risk becomes greatly reduced.


Try for someone you know. A stranger is less likely to catch you when you fall. Unfortunately, many people with fainting disorders are often misinterpreted as being under the influence of drugs or alcohol.If you can still talk, try saying "Help!" or "I'm fainting!" This will alert people around you, who may be able to react in time to catch you.
 If you are close to soft furniture, try to aim your fall so that your unconscious body will land on it lying down. Face towards the furniture and shift your weight forward. The couch or bed will give you a safe place for you to fall onto, preventing injury. Having your legs elevated will also help your blood get to your brain more easily, shortening the episode's length.
 If you are near a wall that doesn't have sharp-edged furniture nearby, try getting to it before you faint. Do not try to lean against a wall with outcroppings that you could hit your head on. It's best to lean with your back against the wall, but using your arms and chest will also work if you are unable to do so., From the leaning position, gradually bend your knees and slide to the ground. Once you get low to the ground, lean forward and stay in a squatting position or lie down. Either method will minimize injury while getting your blood pressure back to normal faster., Standing back up too quickly may cause you to faint again. Whether you actually lost consciousness or only experienced an episode of presyncope, do not try to stand up again until your symptoms have completely passed. This may take a few minutes.


The exception to this rule is if your fainting was caused by immediate physical danger. If that's the case, try leaving the area as quickly as possible.

