 Before, he always seemed ready to hang out, and now, his reasons for not being able to see you are piling up. At first, you believed him when he said he had a stomach ache or was too tired to go out, but you're starting to wonder if he's really trying to tell you that he doesn't want to spend time with you because he's busy hanging out with some other girl. Here are some signs that he may be cheating:


If he used to save all of his free time for you, but now he's always going out for "boy's night." This is especially suspicious if he doesn't have that many male friends, or never showed much of an interest in hanging out with his bros before.
If he's suddenly working overtime all the time. Though he's worked overtime occasionally in the past, suddenly things are really busy at work, and he seems to always be there instead of hanging out with you. Of course, many professions have a busy season, and he could be working on a more time-consuming project, but it's more likely that he's using overtime to mean "time with my other girlfriend."
If he's always too tired to stay out late or hang out and was never tired before, this may be a sign that he's using his energy on someone else.
If you made a routine of having lunch or dinner together often and now he's never in the mood, or just doesn't feel well or isn't hungry.
None of these signs alone means that your boyfriend is cheating on you. But if all of these things come up repeatedly, then it either means that he's spending a lot of quality time with someone else, or that he doesn't want to spend time with you anymore. If he's always making excuses for why he doesn't want to hang out with you, then you should ask yourself why you're still in the relationship.
 Even when he's not making excuses, your boyfriend could start saying things that make him sound like another person all together. If there's suddenly a change in how he talks to you and how he talks in general, then he may be thinking of another lady. Here are some signs that the things he says may show that he's cheating:


If he stops complementing you. Did he compliment you all the time before, and now he suddenly stopped any flattery? If he never tells you you're beautiful, or mentions your best features and how awesome you generally are, then maybe he's saving all of his flattery for someone else.
If he compliments you more often. If he wasn't a big complimenter, but suddenly he's always telling you how amazing you are, he may be doing it out of guilt. If he does this after a long and unexplained absence, then this is particularly suspicious.
If he just sounds different. If he's saying things he's never said before, using words he's never used before, or even laughing in a new way, then maybe he picked up these words from a special lady.
If he doesn't return your texts for hours in the middle of a conversation. If you were having a long texting exchange and he's suddenly MIA, it may mean that his new lady just showed up.

