 Many older people do not realize they are depressed because they do not experience a feeling of sadness. Instead, they may experience more complaints, especially about their health. Physical complaints such as worsening arthritis or continual headaches are often the main symptom of depression in elderly adults.Be on the lookout for increased bodily aches and pains as a trigger for depression.


If you or someone you love experience increased discomfort from physical symptoms, this may indicate emerging depression. Check in with a physician about pain and how to treat it.
You may also notice some less obvious signs of depression, such as losing interest in activities they used to enjoy, not wanting to leave the house, having trouble focusing and completing tasks, having difficulty sleeping, and experiencing extreme fatigue.;
, Older adults may develop chronic conditions that affect their day-to-day functioning and abilities. Chronic conditions can lead to depression and make the symptoms of depression worse. Some chronic conditions that can interact with depression include Parkinson’s disease, dementia and Alzheimer’s disease, cancer, diabetes, heart disease, stroke, among others.Having a chronic condition can lead to increased feelings of sadness or loss, which can then trigger symptoms of depression.


If you or a loved one has a chronic condition, take treatment seriously. Take any necessary medications and follow through on any recommended lifestyle changes given to you or your loved one by professionals.
Keep in mind that an invasive surgery may also lead to depression from things like a reaction to the anesthesia, hormonal or chemical changes triggered by the surgery, or surgical traumatic stress syndrome.
 Some older people have more difficulty sleeping well through the night or may have problems falling asleep. Often, older adults may sleep less soundly and wake up more frequently during the night.Problems getting restful sleep can lead to symptoms of depression. If many nights are restless, this can indicate a trigger for depression.


If nights are difficult to sleep through, daytime naps can be restful.
 Nutrition can affect the onset, severity, and duration of depression. Skipping meals, having a minimal or absent appetite, or craving sweets can be indicators that precede depression.Be aware of any changes regarding food habits as potential triggers for depression or as signs of depression.


Make nutrition a priority if you suspect an onset of depression based on changes in appetite or eating.
 Older adults may feel lonely or alone, especially if family is far away or cannot visit frequently. Isolation can bring on symptoms of depression and also worsen them. Older people may experience isolation and depression especially if they outlive their friends and families. If you notice yourself or a loved one isolating from others, recognize that this may be connected to depression.Make an effort to stay in touch with family and friends, even if it’s through emails, phone calls, or video chats.
Find ways to stay socially connected. Attend game nights with other older adults, arrange weekly meetings with family members, or attend spiritual gatherings.
 Older adults may move to assisted care facilities or move in with family members for caretaking. These changes can be difficult to a once-independent adult. If living arrangements change, the older adult may feel like a burden to family or experience a loss of self-worth or dignity. Struggling with these changes can be difficult and lead to feelings of depression.If you or a loved one is struggling with changes to living space and lifestyle, find some support. Talk to your family about needs for independence and how to meet those needs.
Look into counseling services that might be available to your loved one. They may be able to see a counselor on site or at least have visits with a counselor covered under their insurance.
 Loss of independence or mobility can affect how a person feels and what activities they do. If an elderly adult prides themselves on living independently, they may feel helpless or sad when they need to depend on others to fulfill their needs. Changes in work, income, mobility and flexibility can alter their sense of who they are and leave them feeling sad or worthless, increasing the risk of depression.Acknowledge losses and the toll they take on you or a loved one. Don’t be afraid to reach out for help from family, friends, medical providers, and therapists. Asking for help is okay when struggling with the emotional side of these changes.
You may also want to look for accommodations to help keep them active, such as a senior shuttle to take them shopping if they can no longer drive or a local senior center where they can attend events and socialize.
 Older adults may experience a greater degree of loss in this time of life. Many older adults outlive their families and friends, which can make them feel isolated and alone. Or, it can be difficult to keep up with friends and family if you or they are no longer able to travel and visit one another.Watching loved ones pass can increase feelings of loneliness, hopelessness, or helplessness. If you or a loved one is having a tough time dealing with loss, this can trigger depression.


It’s okay to talk about feelings related to loss. If you or a loved one feels uncomfortable talking to friends or family, consider seeing a therapist.
 An older adult may begin to take less care in their personal hygiene and health due to depression. For example, they may shower less frequently, skip meals or not have proper nutrition, or forget to take medications regularly. Taking care of oneself may feel less important, even if it’s affecting health and well-being. These changes in personal care can be a symptom of depression.If you or a loved one is having problems remembering to do things (like meals or laundry), set an alarm or engage in a daily routine to not forget these important tasks.
It is extremely important for your loved one to remember to take their medication, so you might create reminders for them or arrange for someone to visit and help them.
You might also consider having someone to come and help your loved one with their laundry and housekeeping to take this off their plate.
 While any two people may experience depression differently, there are some common indications to look out for if you think you might be depressed. You or a loved one might feel sad or have a consistently low mood, cry more easily, feel irritable, or experience less enjoyment in activities. Some physical indications include moving or speaking more slowly, changes in appetite or changes in sleep, lack of energy, and unexplained aches or pains.For a proper diagnosis, see a psychologist or therapist. A diagnosis is the first step to obtaining treatment.
If you or a loved one feels suicidal, seek help right away. Reach out to a friend or family member, contact your provider, call a helpline or go to the emergency department.
 The risk of developing depression as a side effect of medications increases when taking several medications. Elderly people are at a higher risk of developing side effects to medications because they tend to be more sensitive due to less efficient metabolizing. Some medications that can cause or worsen depression include blood pressure medication, sleeping pills, tranquilizers, ulcer medication, steroids, estrogens, and medications to treat high cholesterol.If you think the depression may be a side effect of medication, discuss the symptoms with a physician. Think back to when the symptoms started and what has changed (such as eating, sleeping, irritability, or depressed mood). Try making a timeline of symptoms that indicates when they started each medication and when they started having specific symptoms.
 Depression can be treated effectively. Treatment can include taking medication, seeing a therapist, making lifestyle changes, or a combination of approaches. Talk to a mental health professional to decide what is best for you or your loved one. A therapist can help to build skills to better cope with depression. Medication can help ease symptoms, yet can have unpleasant side-effects.Lifestyle changes (such as exercising and relaxing) are often a positive addition that can help with physical, mental, and emotional well-being. Lifestyle changes are often complimentary with medication or therapy and can help with long-term treatment of depression.

