 Living frugally means living more simply. Take time to pare down your expenses to the bare essentials in each category. While it may sound like deprivation to limit yourself to needs, it can also be freeing, especially when it helps to get you out of debt and live more sustainably.For instance, you need food. However, you do not need to eat expensive cuts of meat every day or go out restaurants. On the other hand, you might feel that things that may seem like wants, such as organic milk and vegetables, are necessary for your personal health and/or ethics. Assess which expenses are necessities and which are luxuries.
 If your housing is a major expense, consider moving or taking on a renter to cover some of the costs. This could mean selling your house for a cheaper or smaller one with less maintenance costs. If you rent, it could mean finding a cheaper arrangement.The general rule is that you should be spending no more than 30% of your net income after taxes on rent or mortgage payments each month.If you are considering moving, be sure to factor moving costs like transportation, movers, closing costs, and deposits into your calculations. If the expenses of moving are too high, it might not offer you much of a savings. However, a short-term investment in changing your housing arrangement could save you considerable money in the long run.
 Personal vehicles come with a lot of associated expenses. Besides paying for the vehicle itself, you also have to fork over dough for maintenance, insurance, and gas--all for an investment that will almost inevitably lose its value very quickly. If possible, opt for non-motorized or public transportation instead.Walking, biking, carpooling, or taking buses and trains are all good, cost-effective, and environmentally friendly alternatives to car ownership.
 Second-hand goods can save you a lot of money, and reusing things is environmentally friendly. Used items general cost half as much (or less) than they would brand new. Go for durable and quality products that can be used for a long time, such as tools, furniture, housewares, clothing, and vehicles.Electronics and technology, which often become obsolete very quickly, may not provide much of a savings when purchased used.
 Beverages like soft drinks, caffeinated beverages, and alcohol can get very expensive very quickly. In a single day, you may find yourself shelling out money for juice, lattes, bottled water, and glasses of wine. What’s more, these beverages have very little nutritional value; you’re better off sticking to water.Instead of splurging on beverages when you go out, carry a water bottle with you that can be refilled whenever you get thirsty.
If you’re headed to a bar, limit yourself to one drink or opt for less expensive beverages, like soda water.
This might be a tall task for some, so it’s something to implement slowly, cutting out one extraneous beverage at a time.
 Dining in is usually much more cost-effective than going out. Besides the food being more expensive, you also pay for sales taxes and service charges. If you frequent restaurants, start making meals at home instead.Plan a weekly menu in advance, so that you can buy only the food that you need and won’t be tempted to go out when there’s nothing in the fridge.
If you go to work, be sure to pack a breakfast and/or lunch instead of hitting the local restaurant or food cart. It’s a move that’s likely to make you healthier, too.
 Labor costs can really add up when it comes to home repairs and improvements. Taking time to learn how to deal with simple plumbing, carpentry, gardening, and remodeling tasks around your house can save you a lot of money each year.Thankfully, there are now a wide variety of online tutorials available to help hone your do-it-yourself skills. Do an online or YouTube search to find information on the task you need, like unclogging a drain or fixing the fan element in your oven.

