 Students like this might come with many names, such as "buddies," "tutors," "peer-buddies" "peer-to-peer supporters" or other titles. Go to the office to ask for assistance, or have a parent or guardian make an appointment., Do you need someone to help you get from class to class? Your school might have students who volunteer for this activity and can take you on. Someone to share notes with you? Your school may assign a different student in each of your classes who is willing to take on this responsibility, or just one student who is in your grade.Some schools offer an elective for students who volunteer to be a personal aide for a period every day.
Your school may prefer to have professional adults take care of tasks like this.
 Make friends with your peer helper if that feels natural. If it doesn't, you don't have to force it. You can have a friendly but impersonal relationship as long as it gets the job done.


Hopefully, your helper will be timely, friendly, and easy to work with.
If your peer helper is consistently late, unfriendly, or doesn't communicate well with you, you can ask for a different one from the office.
Your relationship should be mutually supportive. General education peers benefit from explaining things they've just learned, or from feeling helpful during breaks, and you benefit from their time., If your helper talks in a condescending way, or tries to help you with things you don't need help with, gently explain what you need and what you don't need. You might say, "It's nice of you to offer me reminders, but I don't have any trouble with my memory. I need copies of your notes because I can't write quickly, not because I think differently."You can also explain how it makes you feel: "I feel like you don't understand what I need. Please don't speak to me like I can't process normal information. It makes me feel unseen."
If your helper blows off your comments or doesn't change their habits, you can ask for a teacher to help reinforce the message, or you can ask for a different aide.

