 Symptoms that may indicate your body is lacking in vitamin B12 can include extensive discomfort. While this deficiency may lead to serious issues involving your cardiovascular health and cognitive function, it will also your daily energy levels and physical endurance.In terms of energy, you may feel fatigued, unable to concentrate, short of breath, and even light-headed when standing or following exercise.
You may lose your appetite, and your skin may become more pale than usual. Your tongue may swell and redden, and your gums may bleed more easily.
You may suffer from diarrhea or constipation.
 In addition to a dietary deficiency leading to an inadequate amount of vitamin B12, there are several health conditions that reduce your body’s ability to absorb the nutrient, and thus may also place you at greater risk. If any of these medical conditions apply to you, make sure you account for their potential effect on your nutritional absorption.There are five things that need to happen for the absorption of B12. These include dietary intake, acid-pepsin in the stomach to liberate B12 from proteins, pancreatic proteases to free B12, secretion of intrinsic factor by parietal cells, and an intact ileum that can absorb Intrinsic Factor-B12 Complex.
Be aware that any diseases that complicate digestion — including Crohn's or celiac disease — may diminish your body’s access to nutrients. Fortunately, if these diseases are properly treated, any vitamin B12 absorption issues may also be resolved.
Note that pernicious anemia, which affects your stomach’s supply of something called intrinsic factor, makes it extremely hard for your body to process vitamin B12. Your doctor will help plan a specific treatment regimen if you are found to be lacking in intrinsic factor.
 Low amounts of vitamin B12 for long periods of time can lead to very serious health issues, including nerve damage. Initial signs of nerve damage include depression and other changes in mental state, a diminished sense of balance, and a tingling numbness in your legs or hands in feet.These neurological symptoms may become apparent without the presence of anemia — which is a condition of the blood.
Watch out for neurological issues, as early intervention is vital to avoiding potentially irreversible damage., Namely, if you get any type of surgery that removes parts of your stomach or intestines — including the various forms of gastric bypass operations — speak to your doctor about how they this may affect you vitamin B12 absorption. Relatedly, know that the habitual use of antacids and/or heartburn medication may also lead to complications regarding vitamin absorption.One of the most integral aspects of recovering from a gastric bypass or other surgery that affects your gastrointestinal system is ensuring that your body is still able to absorb enough vitamin B12. Be sure that your dietary regimen accounts for this necessity following such a surgery, and know that you will likely also have to take supplements of vitamin B12.
If you have been taking antacids or heartburn medication for a long time, make sure your doctor knows about this when talking with them about a potential vitamin B12 deficiency.

