 If you aren't signed into your Instagram account on your device, you'll need to do so in order to access the Instagram settings.;
, This is the person-shaped icon in the bottom right corner of your screen; tapping it will take you to your Instagram account.
 This will open the "Options" menu.On Android, this icon resembles a vertical stack of three dots.
 This is under the "Settings" subheading.
 This will redirect you to a Facebook login page.


Note that you can also link your Twitter, Tumblr, and Flickr accounts from this menu.
 This will log you into your Facebook account from within Instagram.
 You can enable dual-posting, wherein every post you make on Instagram is replicated on your Facebook page, by tapping "OK". If you don't want to allow dual-posting, tap "Not Now"; this will return you to the Instagram Options menu.


You can revisit this option at any time by tapping the "Facebook" tab under the Linked Accounts menu.
You can also unlink your account from Facebook by opening the Linked Accounts menu and tapping the "Unlink" option.
 This is the gear icon/three vertical dot icon in the top right corner of your screen.
 This should be immediately below the "Follow People" subheading.
 This is just in place to remind you that you've already authorized Facebook to access your Instagram account.
 You should see a page with "Friends on Instagram" at the top of the screen. You can scroll through all of your results from here.
 Doing so will automatically follow any unprotected account and request permission to follow any private accounts.


You can also tap the "Follow All" button next to the number of friends at the top of your screen to follow every one of your Facebook friends with Instagrams.
 To dual-post, you'll need to upload or take a photo or video.
 This will open your "Upload" tab, from which you can upload a pre-existing photo or video (or take a new one).
 You have a few different ways to upload a photo to Instagram at your disposal:


"Library" - select a pre-existing photo or video from your camera roll.
"Photo" - take a photo from within the Instagram app.
"Video" - take a video from within the Instagram app.
 To take a photo or video, you'll need to tap the circle button at the bottom of your screen (tap it again while recording to end the recording). For an upload, you need only tap the photo you wish to upload.


You can scroll down through your entire camera roll from within Instagram.
 You'll need to tap "Next" in the top right corner of your screen if you're uploading a photo from your camera roll:


Tap a filter to add it to your photo or video. You can view all the filters by swiping left over the filter list.
Tap "Next" again to continue. From here, you can add a caption if you like.
Tap the switch next to "Facebook". This should be below the "Tag People" option; tapping this switch will enable dual-posting to Facebook and Instagram.
If you haven't enabled dual-posting, tapping this switch will bring up a confirmation page asking for permission to post to Facebook.
 This will post your Instagram photo to both Instagram and Facebook!

