 If you are shopping for shoes, try to pick out a couple of pairs that can be worn with most of your outfits. These could be classic black flats, a nice pair of boots, or short wedges that you can wear with your skirts and dresses.


Try on the shoes and make sure you can walk in them easily; if you are planning on wearing them with many of your outfits, it’s important to be able to walk in them.
 As with your clothes, consider the event you are going to when picking out the shoes you will wear that day. In certain formal events, sandals might not be appropriate, while wearing high heels at school might make it hard to get from class to class on time.
 If your shoes get damaged or scuffed, try to buff the marks out, or use polishes to make your shoes look shiny and new again. Part of looking nice is being dressed well—from your head to your feet. If you are not sure how to clean your shoes, take a look at some of the following articles:


Shine shoes
Polish shoes
Wash shoes

, Accessorizing can help to take your outfit to a whole new level. When creating outfits for yourself, try on different kinds of jewelry and see how they change or affect the outfit you are wearing. Sometimes, adding a statement necklace or chandelier earrings can take your outfit from nice to outstanding.


However, try not to over accessorize. For example, if you are planning on wearing a chunky necklace, try wearing a small pair of stud earrings, rather than a pair of dangling earrings that could make your jewelry feel overbearing.
 Jewelry can draw a person’s eye, which can be both a great thing, and an unwanted thing. For example, if you want your focus to be on your face, wear large or dangling earrings. If you want the focus to be on the rest of your outfit, consider wearing a longer necklace that ties your whole outfit together.


However, if you are wearing a low-cut shirt, try to refrain from wearing a longer necklace, as it might draw too much attention to your chest area.
 Accessories are not just limited to jewelry and shoes. You can really spice up an outfit by adding an accent scarf, a colorful belt, or a stylish hat. Play around with different kinds of accessories that fit into your style.
 The ‘golden rule’ refers to the maximum number of accessories you will allow yourself. This is completely based on your own opinion. Some people like to layer necklaces and wear funky shoes. Others, prefer a chic minimalist style in which you choose one or two accessories that compliment your outfit.


Remember that you can change your golden rule when you feel like it doesn’t reflect your personality anymore. For instance, maybe you like wearing three necklaces and a bunch of bracelets, but during the year your preferences chance and you decide to limit yourself to three accessories; go with what will make you feel happy and confident.

