 We've all seen movies where the home-owner grabs a bat and sneaks through the house searching for an intruder. It's best, though, to avoid confrontation with the intruder if at all possible.


An intruder can react violently, so instead of searching for the intruder, you should first try to escape or hide.;
, If you need to warn your family members about an invasion, it's a great idea to have a code worked out in advance.


You can shout this simple word or phrase, such as “ESCAPE!”, to put them on the alert so that they can escape or run to a safe place.
 If you're not able to get out of the house, having a designated safe room (or even closet) can be a good idea.


If at all possible, try to make your way to this safe room if you hear an intruder in your home.
 Whether your safe room is your bedroom or a separate room in the house, you want to make sure that it has a solid door which locks from the inside and which can be quickly and easily barricaded.


Consider installing a dead bolt on your bedroom door and/or the safe room for extra security., The most important item to have in your safe room is a working, charged phone so that you can contact the police. Ideally, this will not be a land-line, which could be cut, and would instead be a cell phone.


Stock your safe room with things you can use as a weapon in case the intruder makes it in and you are forced to defend yourself, such as a bat. We'll have more to say in later steps about keeping more dangerous weapons such as knives and guns in your safe room.
You may also want to consider having food, water, and first aid supplies in your safe room., You don't want to alert the intruder to your presence if at all possible, so make sure that all lights in the room are turned off.
 You may be tempted to yell “We've called the police!” in order to make the intruder panic and leave as quickly as possible. This isn't a good idea, though—it will give away your hiding place.If, however, the intruder tries to break into the room where you're hiding, then it may actually be a good idea to yell “We've called police—they're on their way!”.
Use the plural “we” when you call out, even if you're alone. If the intruder thinks that there are more than one of you, he may panic and leave.
 Once you are secure, call for help immediately. Be sure to provide the dispatcher with as many details as possible.For example, “My name is Sally Smith, and I live at 123 River Road. I hear two intruders in my home. I'm hiding in the upstairs back bedroom, and I think they are still downstairs in the living room.”
Try to keep the line with the dispatcher open so that they can listen in, provide you with updates on the progress of the police, and help keep you calm.
 If the intruder tries to break into the room where you are hiding, you're going to have to be prepared. Experts recommend that you stand in a corner that is on the opposite side of the door. Have your family members stand behind you.


This way, if the intruder breaks into the room, you'll be able to see them before they see you, and you can quickly assess the situation to see if you need to fight (or shoot, if you are armed with a gun).
 Even if you are sure that the intruder has left, it's best for you to stay put until the police arrive to secure your home.


Continue to stay on the line with the emergency services dispatcher until you are told that the police have arrived and until the police announce themselves outside your door.
 Especially if the suspect isn't caught by the police, you should ask them to thoroughly check your house and property.
 Even if the police have assured you that your house is safe, you may feel more comfortable spending the night elsewhere.


It's also a good idea to try to determine how the intruder got into your home: was a lock picked or a window broken? You may need to have repairs completed and/or locks changed before you'll feel safe sleeping in your home again.

