 This is a crucial step; you must go through the question over and over until you grasp thoroughly what the question requires of you when answering. If you don't understand a certain word, look it up in a dictionary or online; or, use contextual clues.


If you're stuck, consult your instructor and ask what he or she wants you to answer. However, on opinion questions, your lecturer or teacher most likely won't provide an answer.;
, This is easier if you are assigned a topic with a specific text. If it is an open ended essay, choose a topic you know you can find plenty of legitimate resources for research.
 Do this in the library or on the internet––or using both means. Find relevant information that will bolster the content of your essay.


It can help to write the information you find on large index cards, to help you to stay organized.
 An outline is an organized list of points you wish to make in your essay, in the order they make sense and should be written. Getting your thoughts organized before hand makes writing the actual essay much quicker and easier, since you know what direction you're going in.


Do not skip this step. Although this seems to be like a painstaking process, if you don't write an outline, you will have a lot more work in your essay owing to disorganized information. Use index cards and find similar information. Pair this information together in the same paragraph. Do not write the information on the outline. Number your index cards so that you can look at the information when you write the essay.
 You can also go back to your instructor.
 A thesis in an academic essay is usually written at the end of the introduction. It is the statement you intend to prove with the rest of the essay. For example, you can use a certain action by a literary character as ground that he or she is insane, and expand upon it.
 This will not be the final product, so you should not treat it as such. Write what first comes to mind following your outline, it is okay if it doesn't meet the length requirements quite yet.


Try to put in all the punctuation, capitalize beginning letters and proper nouns, and follow your outline.
 Each point on your outline should be its own paragraph. A paragraph should contain a minimum of three sentences to stand on its own.
 Then follow it with 'Impact'.


The claim is a statement, which is then supported by the evidence such as a reference or a quotation in context.
The impact is an intelligent review of how or why that claim is important in the context of the essay. The 'impact' then becomes the claim of the following paragraph, and so on.
 Beef up any paragraphs that don't provide much information or argument. Additional research may help you in this process.
 A transitional phrase eases the reader from one paragraph to the next. If your outline was written well, these phrases should link the content in one paragraph to the next.
 After you've written the second draft, edit it. Start in general: fix spelling, capitalize beginning letters, add periods, etc. If you are experienced with grammar, you can start sentence by sentence.


Eliminate rhetorical questions, or passive verbs such as was, were, is, etc, and make passive sentences active ones.
 Be sure this is in the correct format (many teachers and professors require you to use MLA format but ask first, assume nothing). Use both the computer's spell-check, and read it over yourself as well. If you are unsure of your spelling or grammar, have a friend, classmate or family member read it before you print the copy you plan on handing in.

