 Visit them, spend money there, or volunteer at one.


Teach kids about protecting endangered species. Many parks have special programs and tours for children.
When you travel, consider ecotourism in areas struggling to protect large numbers of endangered species. For instance, there are plenty of locals in Madagascar, an island nation east of mainland Africa with a unique and fragile ecosystem, who would like to preserve their endangered species; give them a financial incentive to do so., When you visit a national park or simply take a walk in the woods, follow the rules and do simple things to keep the area pristine: pick up your trash; follow fire regulations; leave flowers, eggs, and even rocks and logs where you find them. Take only pictures and leave only footprints.
 There are numerous national and international organizations that work to protect endangered species, and you may also find local organizations in your area. They might be doing things as simple as weed removal and native planting in the local nature preserve. Join them, or start a group yourself.
 If you know someone in this situation, inform them of the benefits of doing so. If not, join an organization that supports farmers and others in making this choice.
 They say the "squeaky wheel gets the grease" for a reason. If you believe endangered species deserve protection for their benefit and ours, let people know. Increased awareness is the first step toward making positive change.


Contact your elected representatives. Ask them to support not only legislation that protects endangered species here at home or supports the effort abroad, but also measures to reduce pollution and tackle climate change.
Speak out in your community. Help make fliers. Talk at a school, library, or community center. In a friendly but resolute manner, assist people in seeing the bigger picture, how the little things we do (or don't do) impact the whole system, including species endangerment. Tell them how the loss of species creates a ripple effect that will in some way impact them as well, and not just in what animals they can see at the zoo.

