 Babies need different foods at different points in their development. The younger they are, the more limited the diet. When you first begin giving them solid foods, it should be iron-fortified infant cereal and should be purchased because the homemade version lacks the iron your baby needs. Once the baby begins accepting the cereal, you can introduce more foods. The following are the minimum amounts to serve your baby, but don’t get discouraged if your baby doesn’t eat it all; babies regulate their own caloric intake:


Babies will need different items and/or amounts for breakfast, depending on their age. At 4 to 7 months, babies need 4 to 8 fluid oz. of breast milk or formula, and 0 to 3 tbsp. of infant cereal. At 8 to 11 months babies need 6 to 8 fluid oz. of breast milk or formula, 2 to 4 tbsp. of infant cereal, and 1 to 4 tbsp. of fruit and/or vegetable.
Babies will also need different food items for lunch or dinner depending on their age. At 4 to 7 months, babies need 4 to 8 fluid oz. of breast milk or formula, 0 to 3 tbsp. of infant cereal, and 0 to 3 tbsp. of fruit and/or vegetable.
At 8 to 11 months, babies need 6 to 8 fluid oz. of breast milk or formula, 2 to 4 tbsp. of infant cereal, 1 to 4 tbsp. of fruit and/or vegetable, and 1 to 4 tbsp. of meat or meat alternative.
Snacks are also important for babies. Since babies have smaller stomachs, they take in less food and need to eat more often. At 4 to 7 months, babies need 4 to 6 fluid oz. of breast milk or formula. At 8 to 11 months, babies need 2 to 4 fluid oz. of breast milk or formula, and 0 to 1/2 bread or 0 to 2 crackers.;
, Get all the tools and food out and ready before you start cooking. You should keep all meat and produce separate to avoid any cross contamination.


When purchasing food, you might want to consider organic to get as little chemical pesticide in your babies food. Also, consider purchasing meats with little or no additives.
Purchase produce the day of or day before you plan to make the food. The reason for this is that once produce is harvested, it immediately begins to lose nutritional value. In order to get the freshest foods, consider buying local and in season produce.
Always wash produce before cutting and cooking it. Do not wash meat before using it because it can spread bacteria.
Baby food does not need any spices, salt or pepper. Babies are more sensitive to flavor than adults and shouldn’t have meals seasoned the same way as adults. What may be bland to you is a whole new taste sensation for your baby.
Trim fat and remove skin and bones from meat before cooking.
 Steaming, baking and roasting are the best methods for preparing baby food. This will help the food retain as many nutrients as possible.


When steaming, use a steamer with the food out of the water or a pot with a steamer basket and cook until tender. Be sure not to overcook food because it will deplete its nutritional value.
 Puree’ the food in a food processor or blender with infant formula or breast milk to thin out.


For younger babies, puree’ very well and strain through a fine mesh strainer to help avoid choking accidents. The younger the baby, the more the food will need to be thinned with breast milk or formula.
You may consider adding a small amount of orange juice to fruits for the vitamin C. Vitamin C helps with iron and calcium absorption. Other than some orange juice in the fruit, avoid citrus until the baby is at least 1 year old and their bodies can handle the acidity.
Remove any excess fat from meats before pureeing. Meats and fish should be roasted and the internal temperature should be checked with a meat thermometer before further processing. The internal temperature should be at least 165 degrees F (73.9 degrees C).
 Without freezing, fruits and vegetables can be refrigerated for 48 hours and meats can be refrigerated for 24 hours.


To freeze the food, pour it into an ice tray and cover with plastic wrap to keep contaminants out. Place in the freezer until it has frozen completely through. Ice trays work well because they hold approximately 3 to 5 tbsp. of food in case compartment, and individual servings can be thawed easily and quickly.
Once the food has frozen, remove from the ice tray and place in a freezer bag. Be sure to label the bag with date and contents.
Baby food can be frozen for up to one month.
 Baby food should be thawed by leaving it in the refrigerator and not by leaving it out on the counter. Fruit and vegetables should be used within 48 hours after thawing and meats should be used within 24 hours after thawing.

