 As you might know, girlfriends can be sensitive, but boyfriends are also, so don't be mean to him. If you find your relationship is mostly the two of you being mean to each other, then you might want to think about if your relationship is working out or not.;
, Give small compliments, and show a little bit of jealousy, anything that will make him feel good. Let him win a game you always win at, etc. Each boyfriend is unique, so you have to think of what would make him happy.
 He chose you, not some other girl. Let him get to know the real you, and don't be afraid, because if he doesn't like the real you, then he's not right for you anyway.
 Your guy absolutely loves it when you try to hug or cuddle him. Don't think, 'Well maybe my guy doesn't like it because he's so awkward'. He's probably a really shy guy. This gives you a chance to step up and cuddle him. The only caution needed is to make sure he's comfortable. If he isn't, then don't do it - it won't help if he doesn't like it or feels uncomfortable.
 Guys will feel smothered if you don't give them enough space. You don't like being followed around or forced to talk to any person for the whole entire day, and neither does your boyfriend! But remember, each boyfriend is different, so try to get a feel of how close you two would like to be to each other.
 Even if you're worried they'll be awkward, remember that they'll keep extremely awkward and uncomfortable situations from happening in the future, so they're definitely worth it.
 A relationship is all about communication. If you won't talk to each other, how will you ever let him know your feelings and thoughts?

, Just because he's not looking, it doesn't mean he's not thinking. Don't expect constant attention; he does have a life outside of your relationship. If he's a little shy, go and talk to him; chances are he will really like it and might open up to you more.
 Let him know it. Also, if you think something is going on between the two of you, simply talk it out!. A few words could be a relationship saver. Even if you're not brave enough to do it in person, text him or chat him online. Although this isn't ideal, it's best for everything to be said before the relationship ends with a broken heart.
 He will thank you later.
,, It will make your relationship endure longer.
 If you say it, and then break up with him, he will most likely feel used

, Let him know how you feel and why.
, Be creative!

, Boys could say stuff out of anger that they might regret later.
, That will make you look bad, and if you want to break up with him, it is better to tell him directly.
, He may misunderstand.

