 While children don’t necessarily have the same types of stress that adults do, they do experience stress. It may be the stress of starting a new school or having a spat with their best friends. One way to help your child maintain good mental health is to teach them to manage stress appropriately. Deep-breathing is a stress-management technique that children of all ages can use.


Teach your child how to use deep breathing to calm down during difficult situations. For example, when they feel angry, show them how to count to five as they slowly inhale and exhale to calm down.
Show your child how to inhale through their nose, hold it a few seconds, and then release it through your mouth. You might say, “Watch how I breath in, hold it, and then let it go.”

, Eating nutritious food promotes your child physical health by giving them energy and maintaining their immune system, which can help them manage their stress. Although your child may prepare their own snacks and meals, you likely make some of the meals and the major grocery decisions and purchases for the household. Provide and prepare foods that support your child’s brain development in order to help promote their mental health.Include whole grains, fresh fruits and vegetables, and proteins in their meals and snacks. You might, for example, prepare grilled chicken breast with steamed vegetables for dinner.
Encourage your child to choose healthy snacks when they aren’t with you. For instance, you can send some fresh veggies as a post-practice snack so they don't have to get chips out of the gym vending machine.
You can include children in grocery shopping in different ways depending on their ages. For example, you can tell your young child what healthy items you are putting into the cart and have them repeat the names, or if they are old enough to read, they can read off the items for you. For teens, you can involve them in making the grocery list and have them help you by crossing off items on the list as you add the to the cart.
 Whether you're an adult or a child, it can be difficult to manage stress when you’re tired. Make sure that your child is getting enough sleep each day so that they can have the energy and focus they need to be mentally alert.Set a bedtime for your child and stick to it. For instance, you might decide that your child should be in bed by 9:30 PM so that they can be well rested for the next day.
Create a bedtime routine to help your child get ready to rest. For example, you could read a book together, give them a bath, and then talk for a few minutes over a glass of milk.
 This is a great way to spend quality time with your child and to promote their mental health.Physical activity can help reduce tension, boost creativity, and help you and your child stay physically fit. Go for a walk, swim, or bike ride together or do yoga or martial arts with your child.
 This is a great way to help your child reduce stress and manage their emotions. Meditating together will give you the opportunity to spend time with your child and will give them a stress-management technique they can use their whole life.


Explore different forms of meditation to find the style that works best for you and your child. #*Encourage your child to explore other types of meditation on their own. For example, you might share resources like videos, apps, or books about meditation.
You can start by sitting or lying somewhere comfortable with your child. Walk your child through relaxing their mind and body. You might say, “Close your eyes. Try to just think about breathing and relaxing your body.”

, Keeping a journal is a good way for children to release their emotions and manage their stress. This can help promote their good mental health by giving them a safe, private place to express themselves.Talk to your child about using a journal as a way to share their thoughts, feelings, and experiences.


Give your child a blank journal and suggest creative ways for them to use it. For instance, younger children can draw pictures, while older children can write.
Schedule a journaling time for you and your child. Take 10 minutes each day with each of you writing in your journals.

