 Before you begin your report, organize copies of any emails or other relevant information that you want to share with the FBI.


To submit a complaint, you must include your name and contact information as well as information about the individual or business responsible for the fraud and details such as dates and locations of key events.If you've already filed a report with local law enforcement, you can use the same information. The FBI will need similar details including your name and contact information, as well as whatever name or contact information you have for the perpetrator, and your account of the incident and why you believe fraud occurred.
 The FBI operates a website for reporting internet crime including fraudulent Craigslist ads.The IC3 reviews complaints and forwards them to any federal, state, or local agencies with jurisdiction over the subject matter of the complaint. Those agencies then investigate the matter further and press charges if necessary., When you're ready to start the complaint process, click through to accept the FBI's privacy policy and enter your information.


You also must read and accept an acknowledgement that all information you transmit is correct to the best of your knowledge. If you include any false information in your complaint, you could be criminally liable under federal law and incur fines or jail time., Follow the instructions to enter the appropriate information. You also can attach documents that support your complaint.


The form includes several sections that ask you about yourself, the individual or business responsible for the fraud, and the monetary or other losses you incurred.Make sure you read over all the information you've included in your complaint before you submit it to verify its accuracy and make sure anyone reading it can follow the chain of events.
 You will receive a confirmation email when your complaint has been received.


Your confirmation email includes a unique complaint ID and password that you can use if you need to add information to your complaint or want to download or print a PDF copy for your records., Although the IC3 does not itself conduct investigations of complaints, you can use your ID and password to check on its status.


If your complaint is forwarded to a law enforcement agency, an officer or detective may contact you to get your story or copies of any evidence you have directly. You should retain copies of any documents you attached to your IC3 complaint.