 Eating either rolled oats, steel-cut oats or quick oats is a great way to suppress your appetite until lunchtime. Oatmeal is low on the glycemic index. This means that it doesn't cause a hunger-inducing blood sugar spike. Oatmeal is also high in fiber, which slows the rate at which carbohydrates are digested and absorbed by your body.Eating a serving size of oatmeal topped with almond milk and some cut apples or grapefruit is a healthy choice for appetite suppression.


The benefits of oatmeal are counteracted if you top it with brown sugar or maple syrup, which can cause a blood sugar spike followed by a drop in blood sugar. This can make you hungry long before lunchtime.;
, Another great breakfast choice is some sort of lean protein - eggs, lean meat or yogurt. Eating lean protein in the morning will help you stay satisfied throughout the day. Studies show that eating lean protein at other times of day doesn't have quite the same effect, so be sure to eat it for breakfast.When it comes to protein, don't go totally fat-free. Eating healthy fats like olive oil and avocados will keep you full longer than eating fat-free meals.
 While going on an all-grapefruit diet is a diet fad you want to avoid, having half a grapefruit with every meal has been shown to help people lose weight. One study indicates that grapefruit might have properties that lower your insulin after meals, keeping hunger at bay.However, it is very important, if you take medication, to check if it interacts with grapefruit, as it is known to interact adversely with 85 different drugs, 45 of which are very serious.Be extremely cautious when considering grapefruit. Do not consume grapefruit if you take drugs for erectile dysfunction, estrogens, statins for high cholesterol, calcium channel blockers, many blood thinners, benzodiazepines, thyroid hormone replacement, certain chemotherapies and immunomodulators, anti-fungal antibiotics and certain other antibiotics, beta-blockers, opiates, and anything else that might be metabolized by the liver and P450 cytochrome family.Additionally, pregnancy, breastfeeding or having breast cancer also contraindicate consumption of grapefruit. Furthermore, there is insufficient evidence to scientifically validate the efficacy of grapefruit supplementation, so any supposition is purely anecdotal. If it works for you, and it's safe, then go for it and see if it helps.
 Most vegetables and fruits are high in fiber and water, both of which keep your stomach feeling full. Each of your meals should be mostly composed of vegetables and fruits along with portions of both protein and fat.Apples are particularly great for appetite suppression, so go ahead and have one per day.
Leafy greens are satisfying and packed with nutrients. Choose spinach, collards, mustard greens, kale, or chard over lighter greens like iceberg lettuce.
Potatoes have a chemical component that counteracts ghrelin. Eat baked, boiled or lightly sauteed potatoes, but avoid french fries and potato chips.
 Research shows that people who eat a serving size of nuts, especially almonds, on a daily basis feel less hungry than those who don't.They contain a filling combination of protein, fiber, and unsaturated fat.
 You can sprinkle them on foods like yogurt, smoothies, salads and vegetables. Flaxseeds are high in fiber, which keeps your blood sugar from rising too quickly, thereby suppressing your hunger.
 Oleic acid, which is found in peanut butter, avocados, nuts and olive oil, sends signals to your brain to curb your appetite.
 When you feel a craving for sweets and fruit just won't satisfy, eat a few pieces of dark chocolate. Unlike milk chocolate and other candies, the intensity of dark chocolate's flavor naturally tells our bodies when enough is enough. Try dark chocolate with at least 70% cacao - you'll see it's difficult to consume more than a few squares!Make sure you check the label when you buy dark chocolate. Many brands label their chocolate as "dark" when it contains much less than 70% cacao.
 It's easy to eat more than a serving size of bland, uninteresting food. You keep eating in an effort to satisfy your hunger, even when your belly is already full. Spicy foods, on the other hand, engage the senses such that you're paying more attention to how much you eat, and when you become full.


Cayenne is an excellent spice to add to your cooking. Sprinkle it on omelets, add it to soup, or add a bit to your avocado for a delicious kick.
Unlike ketchup, most hot sauces don't have too many calories per serving, so there's no need to stop yourself from using as much as you want. Just check the label first to make sure there's no added sugar.
Wasabi is another great hot condiment that causes you to feel sated more quickly.

