 If the job requires activities the employee is unable to perform even with accommodation, you can argue that he or she is not qualified for the position.


For example, suppose the plaintiff applied for a position as a grocery store bagger, which requires repetitive lifting of bags weighing up to 15 pounds. If the plaintiff cannot lift more than five pounds due to her disability, she is unqualified for the position.
You must be able to prove that the activities the employee is unable to do are essential functions of the job. This is the case in the above example, because bagging groceries and putting those bags into a grocery cart is the bagger's main duty.You also are allowed to prefer a non-disabled applicant over one with a disability, if the non-disabled applicant is better qualified for the job.For example, if you are reviewing applications for a secretarial position, and a disabled applicant can type 50 words per minute, you can hire the applicant who types 75 words per minute if typing is an essential function of the job – even if the minimum job requirements only specify a minimum typing speed of 50 words per minute.
 The job may have various experience or educational requirements that rule out the disabled employee, regardless of his or her disability.


Qualifications may include educational degrees, professional licenses, or a certain number of years experience.For example, suppose an employee claims disability discrimination because you failed to promote her, instead promoting an able-bodied person who'd been working with your company only half as long as she had. However, you require anyone in that position to have an MBA, which she did not have.
To use this evidence successfully, you will need to provide evidence that these qualifications are strictly followed and no exceptions have been made. As in the previous example, if you require all candidates for the position to hold an MBA, you should be able to show that everyone who has previously held that position had an MBA.
Essentially, you must demonstrate that the employee is not qualified for the job, and would not be qualified even if you provided reasonable accommodation for his or her disability., Evaluate the types of accommodations that could be made and how those accommodations would impact the employee's performance or ability to fulfill the requirements of the position.


Accommodations may vary depending on the particular employee, the position, and your business needs.You are not required to lower quality or production standards to make an accommodation, or to excuse violations of other workplace rules that exist to enable your business to operate effectively., If the employee has a poor track record with your company, this can be used as evidence that you had a non-discriminatory reason for terminating or demoting that employee.


The employee's personnel records can be used to prove that you had a non-discriminatory reason for taking action against him or her. For example, if the employee violated your attendance policy repeatedly without asking for any accommodation, you have the right to fire or otherwise discipline that employee for his or her absences, regardless of the reason he or she missed work.
Violation of policies that are uniformly applied typically is a legitimate reason to discipline an employee, up to and including termination of employment.