 Balinese cats are very social and outgoing. They tend to enjoy playing with their owners and with children at home. Get your cat toys and play with it on a regular basis. You can play games like fetch or hide and seek. Playing with the cat will allow you to bond with it and shower it with attention.You can also put the toys all over the cat’s area so it can play with it on its own, or buy some electronic or interactive toys to help maintain your cat's attention when you can't play.;
, Like most cats, Balinese cats enjoy climbing to high spots and curling up in hiding spots. Set up climbing spaces like shelving units or book cases that are easy for your cat to access. Buy a climbing post and set it up in a common area for your cat to use. Hiding spots like cardboard boxes, closets, and even drawers are popular with cats.You should also create high resting spots for your cat in your home. This could be the tops of cupboards and high shelves as well as the back of couches or empty windowsills.
Many Balinese also enjoy plush hiding boxes as small spaces to curl up get away.
 Balinese cats appreciate a clean spot to do their business. Make sure you empty and refresh the cat’s litter box on a regular basis. Replace the litter in the box if you notice it has a strong smell. Keeping the litter box clean will encourage your cat to use it on a regular basis., Balinese cats often prefer to remain indoors. Keeping the cat indoors will reduce its risk of illness and disease. It will also prevent someone from taking your cat, as Balinese cats are considered a prized breed.Make sure you keep all doors and windows closed in your home to keep the cat inside.
 As part of good care for your Balinese, bring it to the vet on a regular basis. Schedule regular visits to the vet for checkups. Bringing the cat to the vet at least twice a year, not just in the event of an emergency, will ensure it is not at risk of illness or a serious health issue.Balinese cats are known to be relatively healthy cats. However, they are prone to health issues like weak hind legs and obstructions in their nasal cavity. If you notice either of these issues in your cat, bring the cat to your vet right away.

