 Their primary responsibilities include working with customers, especially with tagging and handling carry-on baggage that must be checked, scanning tickets, and boarding and deplaning aircraft. But they also often double as check-in counter agents and can find themselves also working at the baggage claim office in smaller airports., Go online and look at different companies and types of airlines to find which would be the best fit for you. Here are some examples of things to look for in your initial search:


Look at international carriers if you have an interest in traveling out of the country.
Figure out if you want to work for a budget or luxury airline. The differences may include the destinations flown to and the comfort in the plane itself (seat size, leg room, tray table size).
Find the size of the airline that will be best for you. Some airlines have tens of thousands of employees (United, Lufthansa, Qatar) while others, such as local carriers, can be quite small. The larger airlines usually fly to more destinations and tend to have international routes, but smaller airlines can offer a more “family feel” and can give you the opportunity to check-in repeat customers and make friends.Research any specific airlines that you may have a set interest in.
 If you want to stay in your current location, you should check for positions at your local airport and at the airlines operating there. If you have a specific location in mind then search at the closest airports to it. Also, use a search engine that specializes in aviation jobs such as http://us.aviationjobsearch.com/.
 In general, gate agents must be at least 18 years old, have graduated high school (or completed an equivalent program) and have a valid driver's license.These basic requirements may differ from airline to airline so be sure to read all job positions carefully.
 At times you will be helping customers carry their luggage onto scales or conveyer belts. Luggage can exceed 50 pounds so make sure your health and stamina are ready for lifting that much weight.
 As an airline gate agent you may have to deal with upset customers over a number of issues relating to flights, baggage and ticketing information. If you don’t have much customer service experience, read about ways to expand on these skills. Do the following to gain an even greater understanding of what your customer service role will be:


Go to your local airport and watch the exchanges between the customer and the ticket service agent. Jot down any notes you find helpful and observe what the agent does in a stressful situation.
If you are traveling by plane, observe the gate agent at the gate itself while waiting for the flight to board. Look closely at any interaction they have with passengers and if they are free, go ask them for any tips on the position.
Roleplay with your friends some customer-airline gate agent interactions.
 Many airlines run on an around the clock, 365 days-a-year work schedule. An airline gate agent may be required to work odd shifts including late nights, early mornings, weekends, and holidays., Some airlines allow you to apply for jobs directly on their websites. Other airlines may prefer that you mail an application and your resume, or drop them off at the local airport. Here are some tips for the application process:


Make sure your resume is catered as best it can be to the airline gate agent position.
If you are applying in person, be respectful and dress in a business casual manner.
Convey your experience and interests clearly in your cover letter.
 Before the interview learn all you can about the airline itself and the specific position. Be prepared to answer questions about dealing with angry customers over delays,overbookings or lost baggage. Also, have answers prepared for the following broad questions:


What makes you interested in this position?
What are your strengths?
What are your weaknesses?
Explain a time where you had to use customer service skills.
 After you have been hired as a gate agent, you will have to complete a training program prepared by your airline that teaches you the specifics of being an airline gate agent for your employer. You may also be required to take additional training prepared by the FAA and your local airport. When you have successfully completed your training program, you will be ready for your first day at the gate.