 Melatonin is an over-the-counter supplement that some claim can help tackle insomnia and sleeping difficulties. Melatonin is naturally produced by your body, and is released into your bloodstream in large amounts overnight. Taking the supplements increases the amount in your blood, and may help you get to sleep.


The scientific evidence proving the effectiveness of melatonin supplements in combating insomnia is, however, lacking.
It is thought that older people will experience more significant benefits.
Melatonin use is considered safe for a few weeks, but the safety of longer-term use is unclear.It is recommended that you take 0.1 - 0.3mg of melatonin for sleep, which has been proven to produce a physiological sleep inducing effect. If your melatonin supplement is 1 milligram you can cut it in quarters to get to get a .25 milligram dose.
Melatonin is a big player in the induction and maintenance of sleep. Natural Natural melatonin levels decrease with increasing age.;
, Valerian root is another dietary supplement available in health food stores and online which is marketed and sold as a sleeping aid. Valerian root has sedative and anxiolytic (anti-anxiety) effects, but there is a lack of in-depth scientific study of its usefulness in tackling sleep problems. You should talk to your doctor before trying valerian root.


In a recent study, it was demonstrated that valerian root might be a good replacement for medications like diazepam. Valerian root was shown to have an anxiolytic (calming) effect on the symptoms of anxiety.There may be a connection between long-term use of valerian root and liver damage.
If you have been using valerian root, you may experience withdrawal symptoms when you stop., There is some evidence that acupuncture can help people with insomnia and sleep disorders, but more research is required to prove its effectiveness. During a session, you will have many thin needles placed into your skin by an acupuncture practitioner. Talk to your doctor, and if you decide to try acupuncture, be sure to ask for a recommendation to help you find a qualified and well-regarded practitioner., There are also some more straightforward remedies you can try at home to help you sleep. Have a warm milky drink, or a cup of relaxing herbal tea before you plan to go to bed.A glass of warm milk can help your body to produce melatonin., You should be thinking of what not to consume as well as what remedies might help you to sleep. Stimulants like caffeine and sugar can make it much harder for you to get to sleep, so try to cut these out, especially before you plan to go to bed. Don’t have any tea or coffee for at least a few hours before bed.Cigarettes are a stimulant that will not help you get to sleep.
Alcohol will not give you a restful night’s sleep. It may make you dehydrated, and you may have to get up in the night to use the bathroom.