 Using a complaining tone of voice when you’re trying to explain your point of view with your parents will usually engage your parents’ emotions. Instead, try to use a tone of voice that’s friendly and respectful. Your parents are more likely to be able to respond in a respectful way when approached in this way.It can be very hard to keep your tone of voice respectful when you’re feeling upset. Rather than taking it out on your parents, try venting your frustration in another way.
When you don’t feel like you can talk calmly, it’s okay to take a break. Go on a run, cry in your bedroom, punch your pillow - whatever helps you feel calm.;
, Talk as clearly as you can about what your feelings are. Sharing your feelings, thoughts, and ideas with your parents may not be easy, but it will help your parent feel like you’re really trying to connect with her.Give as many details as you can to help explain your point of view. Grounding your feelings and ideas in real life situations may help your parent understand your perspective better.
Your parent is more likely to be able to be helpful if she genuinely understands your point of view.
 Your parents might be worried about your safety, your reputation, or your future. Usually, your parents’ frustration comes from their desire for you to live a happy life, even though it might not seem like it at the time. Before you respond to your parents’ criticism with anger, stop for a moment. Take a deep breath, and remind yourself to consider their point of view.If you can see your parents’ point of view, say so. This will help your parents feel more understood.
Your parents will be more willing to listen to your point of view if you’re willing to listen to theirs.
 If you’ve got the reputation for being honest with your parents, they’ll be more willing to trust you to tell them the truth. If you act overly dramatic, if you lie to them, or if you sometimes hide (or stretch) the truth, they’re less likely to believe you - even if you’re telling the truth.It can take a long time to regain your parents’ trust if you’re caught lying.
Even if you’re worried that your parents will be angry with you for telling the truth, it’s usually better to tell them the truth.

