 When you are seated at a table and your server comes to greet you, stop talking, get off the phone and respond. Think about how it feels for those waiting on you when you make them wait for a long time; you wouldn't do this to people at your work, so try not to do it in a restaurant.;
, Make it very clear what it is that you would like and if you need any changes, spell these out very clearly rather than hoping your server will read your mind. Be considerate if your server asks you if want something before the meal; this is often standard practice. Just say no if it doesn't interest you.
 That way, you can avoid asking more obvious questions and just ask the questions that are specific to your concerns, such as any need for dietary changes or allergen avoidance.
 Tell the waiter there and then if something concerns you, or if something is missing; that is what this opportunity is for.
 The server should come back more than one time to see how your are doing, don't ignore them or be rude - a simple nod will do unless there is a problem.
 If you need a fresh plate or glass for anything, just ask for one.
 The server will ask you if you want anything, and this is your opportunity to ask for dessert, extra drinks etc.
 When it comes to credit cards or debit, remember they are the same payment method as far as the server is concerned. Don't ask the server to add the tip - that is your job and you should write this in clearly. With cash, an experienced server can tell if you need change or not if you are using a 50 on a 25 dollar meal. But if a server says "I will be right back with your change" but you don't want any, say so right there and then to save them having to make a return trip for naught, especially on a busy night.
 If you are happy with the service you've received, be considerate and leave your waiter or waitress a tip. 10% of the cost of your bill, plus another 5% is usually considered acceptable for decent service. If you think that your server was exceptional, you may want to leave a little more. Leaving a tip is only common courtesy, because the servers at most restaurants really don't get paid very much by their employers.

