 Scan any room or outdoor space you are in for signs like photo subjects beginning to assemble or line up, someone holding up a camera or phone to take a photo, or another indication that a photo is about to take place.


Look for photobomb opportunities at parties, tourist destinations, or other crowded events with a lot of camera holders.
Avoid photobombing a professional photographer’s photos, especially at a wedding or other event for which people pay for and care strongly about the quality of the photos.;
, Move closer to the cameraperson and the subjects of the photo about to take place so that you are in the right position to insert yourself at the right time.


Be sure to remain unnoticed by the cameraperson and subjects. Move towards them as if you are just casually walking across the room. Glance away to pretend you aren’t paying attention to them.
It may be that you are already in a great place right next to the people involved in the photo, in which case you should remain there, casually talking, sipping a drink, or looking away until you make your move into the photo.
Be patient and don’t pull a face or strike a pose until the photographer is just about to press the shutter button., Choose whether you’d like to insert yourself into the background or foreground of the photo for your photobomb.


For a background photobomb, you should be behind the subjects or just to either side of them, ready to face the camera as they are. Ideally, you will never be noticed by the subjects, and maybe not even by the cameraperson.
For a foreground photobomb, position yourself near the camera person to jump in front of the lens, between the camera and the subjects. This is harder to pull off unnoticed, as both the cameraperson and subjects are sure to notice you, even if you dart across the frame quickly.
 Wait till you see that the photo is just about to be taken to insert yourself into the frame.


Listen and watch for cues like the camera person counting down “3...2...1!” or announcing “Say cheese!” to the subjects.
Pull a funny, weird, or super serious face for the maximum effect of surprise from the photo subjects when they look at the photo later.
 Walk away from the people involved in the photo as if you were never there so that they are less likely to notice you until they look at the photo.


Try to run, jump, or pop into the frame quickly so that you can make a swift exit away from the scene.If the cameraperson or subjects catch you in the act, just smile, be friendly, and assure them it was a lighthearted joke, especially if they are annoyed or being bad sports about their photo being ruined.

