 A French kiss shouldn’t just come out of nowhere. It should happen naturally at a time when two people are sharing an intimate and private moment together, and that means being physically close.To help set the mood, start by finding a way to be alone with the person so you can get close without other people hanging around and interrupting.


If you two are at a party, go for a walk or find somewhere quiet that you can talk.
If you're hanging out together, sit down beside the person on a couch, chair, or bench.;
, You can tell your partner that you're interested without saying anything at all. Your partner will subconsciously pick up on your subtle cues, and this will indicate your attraction and desire. You can drop these hints by:Parting your lips slightly and licking them
Smoothing down your hair or clothing
Raising your eyebrows slightly as your partner talks
Touching your face frequently
Orienting your entire body toward your partner
Smile a lot

, Eye contact is another powerful element of body language, and when two people are physically close to each other and make frequent eye contact, this will raise the level of intimacy between them.Frequent eye contact will indicate your attraction, and help you assess whether the chemistry you feel is reciprocated.


For instance, if your partner keeps looking away instead of making eye contact, it’s possible that person is just nervous, but it might also be a sign of lack of interest.
On the other hand, if your partner keeps locking eyes with you, this is a good sign that whatever you're feeling is definitely mutual!

, This gentle and sensual touch will establish a physical connection between the two of you, and make the kiss much easier.Make sure you gage how the person reacts:


Leaning in or pressing into your hand is a sign of interest that says your gesture is welcome.
Pulling away is a sign that physical contact isn't welcome.
 Don’t forget to offer some to your partner. Not only will this ensure fresh breath and a pleasant kiss, but it’s also another great way to subtly suggest that you plan on going in for a kiss.


It’s always a good idea to brush your teeth before going to a party, out with friends, or on a date, because having a clean mouth is very important for a pleasurable kiss., Sit or stand close enough that you can touch without having to shuffle closer. Look your partner in the eyes, tilt your head slightly to one side and lean in toward the other person’s face.Don’t lean in too quickly, as this could make you seem nervous and over-eager, but it could also lead to bumped heads.
However, don’t go in too slowly either, as this could make you seem uncertain.
 If your partner also tilts their head and leans in toward you as well, this is a sign that you should have the confidence to go for the kiss! Just before your lips meet, close your eyes, as this gives the impression that you're honest and sincere.Keep your mouth closed at this point. Slightly pucker your lips and use firm but delicate pressure to press your lips against your partner’s., Once you’ve gotten comfortable brushing each other’s lips, you can introduce a bit of tongue to the kiss. Open your mouth a little wider and give your partner a moment to adjust and reciprocate.


With your tongue, gently graze your partner’s lips. If your partner’s mouth is now open as well, delicately use your tongue to explore the inside of their lips and tip of their tongue.
Use gentle pressure when you do this, and try to keep your tongue moving.Don’t open your mouth too wide, and don’t stick your tongue too far into your partner’s mouth., French kissing can get pretty hot and heavy, and it’s ok to take things slowly. Don’t be angry if you feel like your partner is uncomfortable or wants to slow down. Signs that your partner might want to slow down or stop include:Not opening their mouth or not using their tongue
Not reciprocating your actions
Pulling away or avoiding contact
Showing signs of discomfort or stress

, Once you and your partner get used to the basics, you can try out some more advanced French kissing techniques when you're both ready. You don’t have to do this all in the same makeout session though, so feel free to take your time!With your tongue, make slow and deliberate circular motions around your partner’s tongue.
Use the tip of your tongue to gently flick the tip of your partner’s tongue, and then pull your tongue back to give your partner a chance to do the same to you.
 While you have to be careful not to actually bite your partner, you can try a few seductive moves by gently nibbling or sucking your partner’s tongue and lips.Always use very gentle pressure when nibbling, and try to remain calm so you don’t get excited and bite too hard.
When you're French kissing, incorporate all these techniques at different times so that your tongues and lips are always moving, touching, and intertwining.
 When you and your partner are ready, you can also include gentle caressing into your kissing, such as putting your hands on their hips or back.Start slowly: try putting your hand on your partner’s face or neck and holding it there for a moment.
If your partner seems ok with the extra physical contact, move your hand slowly down their back and to the hips.
Don’t move quickly, but keep your hands moving and exploring, as long as your partner doesn’t become uncomfortable.

