 When you are diagnosed with psoriasis, you should talk with your doctor or dermatologist about different skin care options. Ask your doctor to recommend skin care products such as moisturizers that can help to alleviate and prevent some of the symptoms associated with psoriasis.


You should always talk with your doctor before you make changes to your skincare routine.
For example you may want to say "I am considering trying a new moisturizer to help ease the symptoms of my psoriasis. Do you have any recommendations?"
You could also say "I have tried these three products with little success. Are there any other options you would suggest?"

, You can also look into a number of over the counter topical treatments for psoriasis that are placed directly on the skin. For example, coal tar and salicylic acid have both been approved by the Federation of Drug Administration as treatment for psoriasis. Coal tar works by slowing the growth of skin cells and restoring the skin’s appearance. It can also help to reduce itching, inflammation and scaling that result from psoriasis. Similarly, salicylic acid works by causing the outer layer of skin to peel away, which can remove psoriasis scales. Some side effects include:Coal tar: Can irritate, redden, and dry the skin and should be used in combination with a moisturizer. The tar can also stain clothing. It will also make your skin more sensitive to sun damage. Coal tar is a time honored treatment of psoriasis. However, cleaner methods of treatment have become more popular today.
Salicylic acid: Can cause hair loss and may cause skin irritation if left on the skin too long.
 Topical steroid creams and ointments can also be used as anti-inflammatory agents that help to reduce swelling and redness. They are the mainstay for the topical treatment of psoriasis. When using steroid creams, apply a small amount directly to the affected area only. Always speak with your doctor or dermatologist before using a steroid cream to treat psoriasis.Steroids can have a number of side effects including: Skin thinning, change in pigmentation, bruising, and dilated blood vessels.
If applied to a large area of skin over a long period of time, steroids can also affect internal organs.
A typical regimen involves a twice daily application of the corticosteroid over the treatment area. Lower potency steroid should be used on the face and intertriginous  areas.

