 Go to a local store and purchase a sketchbook with 70+ pages, depending on how many sketches you plan on doing. Choose a notebook that shows off the style of your fashion designs through the color and design of the front cover.


Personalize the front cover by drawing a design or making a collage that matches the theme of your fashion collection.;
, Find regular #2 pencils with erasers that you can sketch your designs with. You may want to incorporate color into your fashion design notebook, in which case you can also purchase colored pencils, watercolors or markers., Make sure your pens use archival ink, which means it won't fade on the page over time.These pens are used to make your pieces pop. Fine black pens with pigment ink are especially useful for drawing patterns., Get fabric swatches or print out patterns that would make pretty fabric. Also, be sure to purchase fabric glue so you can paste the fabric onto the pages.
 Your sketchbook is going to make an individual statement about you and your ideas, so start by personalizing it. Reveal yourself by gathering materials that are special to you, including mementos of places you've been, and photos of family and friends., You can use one sketchbook for a whole collection or one sketchbook for several collections. If you're using one sketchbook for one collection, write the name of the collection on the front cover.If you are doing fancy prom dresses, try something like “A Night to Remember.”

, Make a list of your outfit ideas that will go on each page before you begin to sketch in your fashion design notebook. For example, write down your ideas for dresses, blouses, skirts, etc., and the details of each piece, such as what materials they'll need., If you can't freehand draw the shape of a man, woman, boy or girl, get a thin sheet of paper to lay overtop a model-like picture from a magazine or book. Cut it out so you'll have a stencil you can use for each model you draw in your sketchbook. Your fashion designs may vary depending on which size, shape and gender you use for each, so you may want to create a few different shaped stencils.Make sure your figure is creatively posing to show off your fashion design better.You can also use premade stencils for ease of use.
 Lay your stencil on top of the first page of your sketchbook, and lightly trace the outline of your model. You'll want to press very gently with your pencil, as the outline of the model should look faint so your outfit design stands out., Lightly sketch the outline of your outfit idea over the figure. Then, lightly sketch every detail of your outfit design, such as folds and ruffles, and erase any errors.Once your design looks the way you want it to, trace over it, pressing harder this time so that the outline of your design appears darker.
 Use colored pencils, water colors or markers to color in your fashion designs. Sketch patterns with a pencil, then trace over the pattern with a fine black pen to make it pop!, Attach them to the page of your sketchbook with the outfit they correspond to, and label label what type of fabric it is. Apply the glue sparingly to the page and wait for it to get tacky before pressing your fabric on top of it. You wouldn't want the glue to seep through the fabric.In the collection, make sure the outfits all match the "mood" of the colors. For example, red, orange and yellow could be a mood of summer or the leaves on the trees in autumn.
 You may want to label each piece with specific qualities of the garment. If you'll be sewing your own garments, leave space on the page or use the backside of the page to write down notes on the outfit measurements.