 Since the tenant pays for them, it is the tenant who makes the entries for leasehold improvements. The tenant records the capital expenditure as an asset on their own balance sheet. Then the cost of the improvements is recorded as amortization on the tenant’s income statements over time.For example, suppose the hair salon and spa who is leasing commercial space from the landlord spends $35,000 on the necessary improvements. It is the hair salon who will record those assets and expenses on their balance sheet and income statements.
 The IRS requires leasehold improvements to be amortized over either the length of the lease or the useful life of the improvements, whichever is shorter. So, suppose the hair salon has signed a five-year lease with the landlord, and the useful life of the leasehold improvements is estimated to be seven years. Since the lease period is shorter than the useful life of the improvements, the expenses will be amortized over a five-year period.The hair salon will record $7,000 of amortization each year for a period of five years on their own accounting documentation ($35,000 / 5 years = $7,000 per year).
 The amortization period can be extended beyond the expiration date of the lease. Certain conditions must be met that guarantee that the tenant will renew the lease. For example, the landlord can provide a bargain-price renewal option. Or, the landlord might charge a penalty for failure to renew the lease. Either of these conditions would strongly incentivize the tenant to renew the lease, so the amortization period can be extended, resulting in smaller amortization expenses.


For example, suppose the hair salon could commit to renewing the lease for an additional five years after the expiration because the landlord is offering a discount on rent if they renew. In this case, the period of the lease would be 10 years, and the useful life of the equipment is still seven years.
Now, the shorter period is the useful life of the improvements. So the hair salon will amortize these expenses over the course of seven years. The annual amortization expense will be $5,000 ($35,000 / 7 years = $5,000 per year).
 The journal entry for amortization includes a debit to the Amortization Expense line on the tenant's income statement and a credit to the Accumulated Amortization account on the tenant's balance sheet. The journal entry is made in this way in order to achieve the matching principle.The matching principle in accounting says that expenses are reported by a company in the same period as the related revenues. According to the matching principle, it would be incorrect for the hair salon to record the entire cost of the leasehold improvements, $35,000, in the first year because revenue related to those improvements will be generated over the next several years.With amortization, part of the cost of the leasehold improvements gets moved from the tenant's balance sheet to the tenant's income statement so it can be matched with the revenue obtained from the use of these items.