 Rather than syncing your entire collection of Music, Apps, Movies, and so on, you may want to sync just part of this collection to your iPod. This may be for several reasons: For instance, if you have too many songs for your iPod to hold all at once, you'll be asked to either deal with iTunes syncing random songs from your list each time you sync or to pick which songs to include. To sync select files and playlists, begin as you normally would: by attaching your iPod to your computer with its USB cable.


In this section, we'll make a playlist that includes the songs we want to sync onto our iPod, then sync this playlist (and only this playlist) to our iPod.
 Launch iTunes, then open your music library. To make a playlist, click File>New>New Playlist from the toolbar at the top of the screen. Give your playlist whatever name you want when prompted — an easy-to-remember name like "iPod Sync" or something similar always works, but you can use whatever name you wish.
 Next, drag songs you wish to sync to your iPod into the new playlist you just created. To do this, navigate to your main music library and drag the files you wish into your new playlist. For some versions of iTunes, you may need to right click the file want, then select "Add to Playlist" from the menu and pick the playlist you just made from the second menu.


You can also select more than one file at a time by selecting a file, then shift clicking another file above or below it to select both files all the files in between. If you don't want to select all of the files in between, use a control (ctrl) click to select the ones you want.
 Open your iPod and navigate to the "Music" tab. You should see several options: "Sync Music", "Entire music library", and "Selected playlists, artists, albums, and genres." Make sure "Sync Music" is checked, then check "Selected playlists, artists, albums, and genres." Now, find the playlist you made in the list below and check its box.


Make sure all of the other playlists in the list are left unchecked, unless, of course, you'd also like these playlists to sync.
 Navigate back to the "Summary" tab and click the "Sync" button (as noted above, depending on your version of iTunes, this button may instead read "Apply"). Your iPod should begin to sync as it normally would. When it's done, browse through your iPod's music library — it should only contain songs from the playlist you selected. If you'd like to add more music, add new songs to the playlist you've chosen to sync in iTunes, then sync again (or sync new playlists altogether).


In these instructions, we've synced a music playlist, but the same basic approach applies to playlists of movies and videos as well. To sync playlists of other types of media, make playlists including the files you want, open your iPod, and use the tabs at the top of the screen to navigate to your apps, movies, and so on. For each type of media, be sure to select "Add only selected playlists..." or the equivalent option.

