 This is your chance to start over and address any mess or clutter that you don't even normally notice when you attempt to clean your room. Let no corner, nook, or cranny go untouched. Don’t be discouraged if this is overwhelming at first; after it’s completely clean it will take much less work to maintain it., Clothing can make up a significant portion of the mess in any room. Once this is out of the way, it will be easier to focus on other areas that need to be cleaned. Be sure to check under your bed for any clothing that might have gotten kicked under; similarly, look in the corners of your closet and behind furniture to be sure you haven't missed any. Even a few socks can create clutter.


Donate clothing you no longer need. Sort through all of your clothing to identify items you no longer wear or that no longer fit. You can use large trash bags to store these items so that you can easily take them to your nearest thrift shop, such as Goodwill.
Wash dirty clothing. Gather all dirty laundry and sort into piles; one for colors, and one for whites. You may need to divide these piles into smaller piles, if there is too much to fit into the washing machine at once.
Hang any clean clothes that belong in your closet; fold and put away any items that belong in drawers or other storage containers.
 Having too much stuff can quickly create a problem that only grows larger as you accumulate more things. Once you follow these steps, prevent your room from becoming cluttered again by simply throwing away or getting rid of items as you no longer need them.


Donate unneeded or unnecessary items. Like with donating clothing, use garbage bags to contain any donated items. Be honest with yourself and keep an open mind about what things you can part with; do you really need that unfinished puzzle you haven't touched for two years?
Throw away any paper trash that might be cluttering your desk, dresser, or storage shelves. Common culprits include old bills and junk mail, receipts, school work from past semesters, take-out menus, and event flyers that are no longer relevant.
Get rid of dishes and food-related garbage. Nothing makes a room smell and look worse than dirty dishes and half-eaten snacks! Plus, food can attract bugs, which will only make things worse. Don’t keep dishes in your room, and be sure to throw away all food and food wrappers immediately after you are done with them. To be safe, consider making it a policy to avoid eating in your room altogether, if possible.
 Your bed is often the biggest item in your room. No matter how clean your room is, if the bed is a mess, your room will look messy. Get into the habit of making your bed every morning when you wake up.


First, remove the pillows, and put them aside.
Pull the sheets tight and tuck them under the mattress, taking care to smooth any wrinkles.
Pull the comforter to the top of the bed, making sure an even amount hangs down on both sides, and smooth out any wrinkles.
Fluff the pillows and place them neatly at the head of the bed.
 First, pick up any items that don’t belong on the floor, including large trash. Vacuum the entire surface of your floor, paying close attention to corners, as well as under your bed and any other furniture. If you have wood floors, a swiffer can also be effective. Use a mop or sponge to wash any hard surface areas that have mud, dirt, or food stuck to it.

