 You will need to log in to your Twitter account from a PC, laptop, or tablet to revoke the access that third-party apps have to your Twitter account. Once you have logged on, locate your account settings icon.;
, This can be found in the top right corner of your Twitter homepage. The default image for this icon is in the shape of a gear.


Your settings icon may also be shaped like an egg, or it may be a thumbnail image of your choosing.
 After you have selected your account settings icon, you will see a list of options. From the options available, choose the heading labeled "Settings.", Clicking on your settings should open a panel on the left-hand side of the screen with assorted options. Scroll down until you see the "Apps" heading and select it. You should be able to find "Apps" second or third from the bottom of your settings options.
 Opening your apps page should have populated a list of apps that are linked to your Twitter account. Search through these until you find the offending app, and then click the button labeled "Revoke access.", You will need to log in to your Twitter account from a PC, laptop, or tablet to verify the app has been removed from your account. The "Home" button should, regardless of where you previously were return you to your Twitter homepage where you can access your account settings.
 This can be found in the top right corner of your Twitter homepage. The default image for this icon is gear shaped. Click on this icon to open your account settings.


Your settings icon may also be shaped like an egg, or it may be a thumbnail image of your choosing.
 From the following list of options, choose "Settings." This should open a panel on the left side of your browser that is populated with a list of settings options.
 In the "Settings" panel, find the "Apps" option. This will open a list of apps that are linked to your Twitter account. If the offending app that you wanted deleted is no longer listed, you have successfully deleted the third party application.

