 You can find them on either side of the charging port. The iPhone 4S uses Pentalobe screws, which require a Pentalobe P2 screwdriver. The iPhone 4 may have Pentalobe screws, or it may have #000 Phillips screws.
 Grasp the iPhone in both hands, placing your thumbs on the back plate and your fingers on the screen. Slide the plate upwards to separate it


You will need to apply a good deal of pressure to slide the case up. To minimize the risk of damaging your screen, apply most of the pressure using your thumbs, and focus the pressure toward the bottom or top of the back plate rather than at the center.
The panel will move up about 2 mm.
Once the case slides up, you can open it to the side and lift it off the front assembly completely. If you cannot lift the case off with your fingers, you can use a small suction cup to lift it off.
 Use a #000 Phillips screwdriver to remove the two screws around the battery bracket. This bracket can be found to the left of the battery, at the bottom. These screws hold the battery connector to the logic board.Note that the top screw is shorter than the bottom.
On some iPhone 4 models, there's only one screw you'll need to remove.
 Slide a plastic opening tool beneath the metal connector next to the battery. Lift it up to release it from the logic board.


You should also consider removing the small grounding clip beneath the battery connector before removing the connector itself. You can do this using the same plastic opening tool. If you do not do this, you risk sending the clip flying as you remove the connector.
Work carefully to avoid prying up the socket by accident. You only want to remove the connector.
 Pull the plastic tab from behind the battery to lift it out. You may need to use a stiff credit card to help pry it from the adhesive.


You will need to work carefully. There is an adhesive holding the battery to the rear case, so you will need to use considerable yet directed force to lift it out.
Avoid moving too close toward the top of the iPhone, since this is where your volume button cables are located.
 You can put your new battery in and then reassemble the iPhone. Make sure that all of the connectors have been reattached, and that the screws have gone back in their original holes.After reassembling, perform a hard reset by pressing and holding the Power and Home buttons until the Apple Logo appears.
New batteries should be discharged to below 10% and then charged to 100% before being used for the first time.

