 One of the simplest ways to increase the intensity and total calorie burn of your walk is by walking over some hills. Work on finding a hilly route or using a treadmill and changing the incline to help you burn extra calories on your walk.


Walking hills is a great aerobic exercise. It burns significantly more calories than walking on a flat surface and also specifically helps strengthen the back of your legs and glutes.If you walk outside, look for a route that has some hills. You can find a route with several hills or maybe find a route with just one long hill. Both will help increase your overall calorie burn.
If you do not walk outside or can't find a route with hills, consider using a treadmill instead. You can control the incline of the hill and how often you increase or decrease the incline.
When walking hills, make sure to shorten your stride and take quicker steps. In addition, lean your torso forward slightly and pump your arms in rhythm to your legs.;
, Whether you're pushing a stroller or using a front carrier for your infant or toddler, you can increase the intensity of your walk and burn more calories just by bringing your child along.Holding your infant in a front carrier helps increase the overall weight on your body which makes it harder to move your body while walking.
Pushing your infant or toddler in a stroller is a great extra form of resistance while walking.
Note that with a front carrier, it may be hard to do faster paced walking. If you want to walk at a faster pace, take the stroller instead.Make sure to keep your back upright with your head straight forward. Try to avoid hunching over your stroller as you push it.
If you have a stroller and you choose to do a hilly walk, the extra resistance of the stroller helps target the back of your legs and glutes., An easy way to increase the intensity of any type of aerobic exercise is by incorporating intervals. Even with walking, adding intervals helps increase the total calorie burn of your walk.Interval walking workouts include short bursts of very fast-paced walking with short bursts of more moderate-paced walking.
For example, you can walk at a moderate pace for 2 minutes and then alternate to a very brisk pace for 1 minute. Repeat this interval several times or do these interval sessions as a 10 minute cardio burst into a more lengthy walk.
To avoid injury, do not lengthen your stride when you increase your pace. Keep your stride length short and focus on moving your legs faster., Strength training is an essential part of your overall workout routine. Adding in some short strength training sessions while you walk can not only help increase your overall calorie burn but also help build lean muscle mass.Every 10 minutes on your walk, incorporate a few quick strength training exercises.
You can do a few sets of lunges, squats, crunches (on the grass), planks, push-ups or tricep push-ups. These body weight exercises require no additional equipment and can be easily incorporated into a walking routine.If you're walking outside, consider carrying light hand weights in a backpack with you (do not carry them in your hands) or set them outside in a safe area you'll pass in your walking loop. Stop by them and do some bicep curls or shoulder presses.
If you're walking indoors on a treadmill, you can hop off the treadmill and do some of the body weight exercises listed or use weight machines or free weights if you're at the gym.
Wearing ankle weights or carrying dumbbells while walking can cause great strain on your joints. If you want to carry them, put them in a pack with well-fitted straps and proper support.
 Power walking or race walking is a very different type of walk compared to your leisurely walk in the park. It uses a different form (a more athletic gait) but can burn many more calories, especially from fat.Power and race walkers are usually keeping up a pace of about 4.5 mph (7.2 km/h). If you haven't been walking or have just started walking, you may not be able to hit this pace initially, but will with time and practice.When you're race walking, you'll need to emphasize leading with your heel and rolling through the bottom of your foot to push off from your toes. Keep your stride short and pump your arms to help you maintain your pace.Work on continually increasing your pace and then increasing the amount of time you spend power walking. Generally an increase in time of about 10% every week is appropriate for most healthy adults.
Because power or race walking is a moderate-intensity aerobic activity, you'll need to make sure that you're wearing supportive and comfortable shoes to prevent aching feet., To keep yourself motivated with your walking routine (especially if you're trying to do more race walking), set realistic goals for yourself to meet on a regular basis.


Your goals should be specific and realistic for you. The more detailed your goal and realistic it is for you, the more likely you are to actually meet it.
For example, doing an hour of race walking without having any experience probably isn't realistic; however, starting out with 15 minutes of race walking three to four times a week is more specific and realistic.With higher intensity walking-by either race walking or using weights or hills-it may take you some time to build up the aerobic strength to meet your goals. Work slowly over a long period of time and you'll eventually meet your goals.
 Since walking is such an easy and enjoyable form of exercise, many people walk on a regular basis as part of a group. Joining a walking group may help keep you motivated.Look for local walking groups in your area. You may find groups through your church, school, work, or even local coffee shop. Check online or with friends or neighbors to locate groups close to you.
If you cannot find any walking groups that are local to you or walk at times that are convenient for you, consider making a walking group of your own. Ask friends, family members or co-workers if they'd like to join you.
You may also want to ask co-workers you're close with to walk on your lunch break together or to get to work slightly earlier to walk together.
 Another way to keep yourself motivated and to help you enjoy and look forward to your walks is by finding an enjoyable route to walk on. If you enjoy walking outside, find a route that's pretty or visually appealing to you. Maybe you enjoy walking in the woods, in the morning to see the sunrise or next to farm fields.
If you truly enjoy your walking route and the things you get to see as you walk, you'll look forward to getting up every day and spending your time walking.
Find multiple walking routes as well. Maybe some days you walk indoors, and other days you do one of a few outdoor routes you have. This helps keep things fresh and prevents you from getting bored.
 Even if you have pretty scenery to look at while you walk, you still might find it difficult to concentrate and keep your mind occupied as you walk.


Try listening to your favorite music while you walk. If you're wearing headphones, make sure that you can still hear cars or other people when you're walking.
You may also want to consider downloading an audiobook or podcast that you can look forward to hearing every day that you walk.
Another idea is to talk to a friend or family member through a headset or earphones as you walk. You can catch up and chat while you're working out all at once.
 If you have a four-legged friend, try taking your dog with you on a long walk. Just like humans, dogs also need exercise to stay healthy. You'll both be doing something good for your bodies.


Several studies show there are a variety of health benefits related to walking your dog. For starters, walking your dog can be great motivation. Many people find walking to maintain their dog's health is more motivating than walking for their own health.Other studies have shown that just being around a dog can help significantly lower stress levels.
In addition, when you're walking your dog, you're forced to go outside. Studies show that being in nature can improve memory and your overall sense of well-being.
 Whether you're walking or doing some other type of aerobic exercise, you need to aim for about 150 minutes each week.Walking, especially if at a faster pace, walking hills or walking with a stroller, can count as moderate-intensity aerobic activity. If you're only walking a few days a week, make sure you incorporate more walking or other moderate-intensity physical activity to meet the 150 minutes or 2 1/2 hour guideline.In addition to walking, you can also include other types of moderate-intensity aerobic activity like: jogging, swimming, using the elliptical or dancing.
Regardless of what type of aerobic activity you do each week, the health benefits are all fairly the same. Aerobic activity helps maintain a healthy weight, decrease your risk of diabetes, high blood pressure and stroke and can even help improve memory and mood., If you aren't adding resistance training during your walk, it is advisable to include regular amounts of strength training each week. This type of exercise will complement all your hard work with your walking.


Strength training exercises offer different but equally important health benefits. They will help maintain or build lean muscle mass, increase your metabolism and also help increase bone density and prevent osteoporosis.Unlike cardiovascular activities like walking, you only need to do strength training exercises about one to two times per week. Aim to spend at least 20 minutes per session.
Add exercises like weightlifting or using free weights, yoga or pilates.
 Just like any type of exercise, it's also good to include a warm-up and cool-down session before and after your walk. This is especially important if you're power walking, doing intervals or using weights.To warm-up, slowly walk for about five to 10 minutes. You may also want to warm up your muscles by doing some bending and range of motion movements such as leg and arm circles, kick backs, high knees, etc.
To cool-down, slow down the speed of your walk or walk on a flat surface if you've been doing hills. Walk at a slow pace, breathing deeply, for about five minutes.
Part of your cool-down should include some stretching as well. After a walk, especially a power walk, a hilly walk or one where you used weights, make sure to do some stretching.
 Rest days are important for any type of exercise routine-walking included. Just because walking is a lower intensity activity compared to others, it's still important to let your body rest and recover.


If you're doing a lot of race or power walking, hiking with a heavy pack, doing intervals or using hills to walk, it's important to plan a rest day each week.
It's during rest that your body builds muscle mass, strength and repairs your muscles. Without adequate rest, your progress will be slow and can even stop.A rest day should still be active. You may choose to do another type of cardio activity (like using the elliptical or stair machine) or just do light restorative activities like yoga.
If you're only doing light walking, you may not need to have an actual rest day per se. However, you can take a day off of walking and do other activities like swimming, stretching or light yoga.

