 While this is true of most eye colors, the vibrant color of bright blue eyes pops especially well when contrasted with darker colors. You do not want to use make-up that is the same color as your eye, as this leads to a flatter look that hides the brilliance of blue eyes. Instead, use dark colors like black, brown and navy around your eyes, apply silvers, golds, or reds to contrast your eye color, or enhance your natural skin tone with powder and concealer to make your eye stand out., Because concealer lightens up the skin around your eyes, your bright blue eyes will pop more in contrast.
 Sheer eye-shadow is the opposite of smokey eyes – it is a simple color applied around your eyes that complements your eyes to make them stand out. Usually it is partially see-through, allowing your skin tone to filter through naturally. For blue eyes, some colors to focus on include:Lavender
Silver
Brown/Tan
Gold
Purple

, The light blue tone in navy mascara will help add an alluring dimension to your eyes, highlighting the blue without calling attention to it.
 It will help bring them out, but if you're going for a day to day normal routine then I would skip this. Apply glitter or a see-through coat of sparkling eye-shadow to give your eyes an attractive gleam.
 Eyeliner, when applied correctly, creates a striking line above your eyes that provides great contrast to your baby-blues. One line on your top eyelid is usually enough to make your eyes stand out, but line your entire eye for a more dramatic look.
 In general, blue eye shadow will conflict with your eyes, preventing them from really popping. However, some make-up artists love to contrast blue-eyes with radically different shades of blue, such as using navy eye-shadow with bright blue eyes., A cut that ends around eye level or bangs that curve around your eyes will draw attention to your big, beautiful blues no matter what make-up you put on or clothes your wear.
 Whether it is a shirt or an accessory, a splash of blue in your outfit can make your eyes stand out by pulling your entire look together. The two blues will complement each other, leading to stunning results.

