 When you are truly invested and passionate about the work you are doing, commitment will tend to feel easy and any sacrifices made will rarely, if ever, be regretted. Think back on all the times that you have had to work late or even perhaps spend some of your own money on the cause. Consider how easy or how difficult that decision seemed in the moment.For instance, perhaps you have to work weekends often and find yourself working more than the obligatory 40 hours. If you wake up regretful that you have to work or try to put the work off onto others, then perhaps this is not your passion.
Consider also the times that you signed up to do extra work or work that was not in your job description. This is typically indicative of a person who is happy and passionate.;
, You will tend to find that when you have discovered your passion, your values and the things that you believe in strongly will often fall in direct alignment with the work you are doing. Though ethical dilemmas may of course arise at times, you will find that if you are working as you should be, that you won’t have to sellout or give in to things that are immoral or wrong. You cannot live your passion if you are acting out of your character.For instance, if you are an accountant then you may enjoy when the numbers add up and make sense. If you have been asked to change the books illegally or without proper justification, you would not be living your passion because you would have funds that were unaccounted for.
 Though Mondays are typically not fun for anyone, if all of your days feel like Mondays, then perhaps you have not discovered your passion in life. If you find yourself regularly checking the clock and counting down the hours until 5PM, you might want to begin looking for new work or finding ways to make your workday more fulfilling.If, however, you find that the hours pass rather quickly and that you find time getting away from you, you may have found the job you are meant to be doing.
 Though some days might be tough at work and you should always look forward to going home, if you are in a bad mood every day after work, a career change might be something to consider. Many feel so frustrated at work each day that they feel unhappy throughout the day and may even take it out on their families afterwards, and if that is descriptive of you, perhaps your passion lies elsewhere. If however, you feel happy going to and coming from work, this is indicative of a passion for your career.You might also consider whether it is the work environment or the work itself that is contributing to your mood. If you feel happy about the work, but unhappy about the environment, then this may indicate that you have found your passion and that the workplace is the problem.
It might be helpful to journal out your feelings at the end of each work day to assess any patterns.
 In addition to reflecting on your mood and feelings, you should also consider the things that you have done. If the work felt easy or rewarding to you and if you elicited positive feedback, perhaps you have found your passion. If it felt like more of a chore, however, and you were not pleased with the outcome, then you might want to consider other career or project options.
 Doing some thoughtful examination of your work and how you feel about it may help to make it easier for you to determine if you are passionate about it. If the answer to these questions is yes, then you may have found your passion. If it is no, then the work you are doing is probably not your passion. Some questions you might ask yourself include:


Would I still continue to do this work if I only had six months to live?
Would I do this for free?
Do I plan to be doing this work in 10 years?
Do I feel challenged by this work? Do I enjoy the challenges?
Does this type of work make me feel energized?

, Often times, if you are truly doing the work that you should be doing, there will have been moments or experiences from your past that have led you here. For some, their passion might align with the family profession. Others might find their calling through some traumatic or momentous experience that they have had in their life.Consider, for instance, if you have a job in the medical field, whether you had an experience as a child with someone who was ill who you wished you could have helped.
 Often times, when you are in a job that you love and that is very rewarding for you, your health will improve. Stress and sadness are often correlated with jobs that are not in line with what you should be doing, and your health might suffer in those conditions. Make note of the times that you have been sick while in your current position and whether or not it is happening very often or less than the average person.If you are unhappy at work, you might also seek unhealthy ways of coping with the stress, like drugs, alcohol, or overeating which can all cause health problems.
Happy people tend to flock to healthy habits, however, and stay away from detrimental activities.
Compare your health now to how it was before you began working in your current role.
 When you are living your passion, you will find that you will often grow and improve professionally. Those who are not living their passion will often remain stagnant because they are indifferent about the work and unable to fully invest into it. Evaluate where you were when you first started your career and where you are now.Notice also whether your supervisor assigns work to you that is beyond or above your job description. This could mean that they are very confident in your work and level of commitment.
Also, consider whether you are more focused on the work or the money. If you are more focused on the work, then you have likely found your passion.
 Often times, you might be so caught up in the work that you have done very little reflection on it. However, know that others are noticing you and you can assess their comments, too, in determining your passion level. Consider whether you have heard things like “you look happy” or “I’m so proud of you” while you have been in your current role. These statements are indicative of an inward happiness and contentment that is manifested outwardly for all to see.If others regularly say things to you like “you look tired” or if they ask you if you’re happy, then perhaps something in your life should be reassessed or changed.
 When you are living your passion and doing truly good work, you will likely be rewarded for it. Make a note of the times that you have received props, whether formally or informally, from coworkers, supervisors, or upper level administrators.


For instance, your boss might often congratulate you on a job well done.
Perhaps also you have received an award for a certain project you have created.
 Those who are living lives full of passion will tend to attract a few mentees or admirers on the way. If you are doing good work, being an innovator in your field, or are highly respected for what you do, others will naturally hope to emulate you and your process. If you find that others reach out to you often for advice about your career or ask you for letters of recommendation, then you have made a positive impression on them., Just as you will likely attract followers on your path to success, you will likely also attract mentors who are committed to helping you on your journey. When someone who has been in your field for a while notices certain positive traits in you, they will tend to want to support you and help develop your passion.Mentors will want to associate themselves with understudies who have the right characteristics for success, including passion.
 Looking for ways to go above and beyond in your job may also indicate that you are passionate about it. You might also look for ways to improve your skills and knowledge in your field to continue to progress and grow. You may even find that you join a club or engage in work-like activities outside of work simply because you enjoy the work.


For example, if you are an English teacher, then you might find yourself participating in a book club or volunteering to organize a reading event in your community if you are passionate about your job.
 Your family and friends are the people who know and understand you better than anyone. Though they may not have said anything to you about your work, they may have thoughts to share if you’d only ask. These are also the people most likely to be honest with you, even if the truth is uncomfortable.


You might say something like “do you think the work I’m doing is my life’s passion?”

