 This DIY project is rewarding, but it is time consuming and messy. Clear a big, wide space and line your surfaces with a tarp or newspaper. Grab all your materials now and let's get started. You'll need:









An inflatable ball (beach, exercise, or balloon)
String (twine, hemp, yarn, etc.)
White glue
Corn starch
Warm water
Cooking spray
Disposable gloves (if you don't want to get in on the action yourself);
, Use something round (like a Tupperware lid) to guide your tracing. This will end up being the hole that you install the light bulb through (or change), so make sure it's big enough for your hand to easily fit through while holding the bulb.









You'll also be using this hole to take out the ball upon completion. About 6-7" (15-17.5 cm) should be adequate.
 This should be a bunch of white glue, a handful or two of cornstarch, and some warm water; you nailed it when it has the consistency of thick cream. Use a wide-brimmed bowl or tray.









As an alternative, you can use wallpaper paste. It works just as well.
 If you can hang the ball at this juncture, great. If you can't, you have to make do. Be generous with the spray -- the ball should end up being so covered you would prefer not to touch it.









Petroleum jelly works here, too. That's just a bit more handsy. The same principles apply.
 Go about a yard or two at a time, squeezing off the excess with your thumb and forefinger. Wrap your string around the ball haphazardly, criss-crossing in whatever pattern (or non-pattern, really) you think looks good. One 220 foot (67.1 m) spool should suffice for an average-sized beach ball.









Don't cover the circle you made! That is a no-go zone. You need that open and string-free for attaching later.













If you are using a light-colored string, use as much string as you want. But know that if you are using a dark-colored string, you may want to use less so the light can shine through once in use.













Let it dry overnight. When you find it in the morning, it'll be rock-hard and nothing like you left it.
 Deflate it and take it out -- now you know why you bothered to lube it up in cooking spray or petroleum jelly. It's all worth it now.









If it's too big, stick your hand through the circular space with some scissors and cut it up into manageable pieces (if it is an exercise ball it will have sand in it, so be careful where you do it). Pull it through the circle opening (the same opening used to change the bulb) very carefully.














