 This works for men and women. Denim in black or blue will work for everyone. If they are faded or ripped, they are just more a part of you and your independent style., Don’t be afraid of patterns, but keep it simple. Horizontal stripes are a staple, especially in classic black and white. This and the plaid flannel have always been a part of the indie wardrobe.Feel free to combine these two and wear the flannel over the striped tee.
Keep it loose. Roll up the sleeves of the flannel or the tee.
 Indie means independent and if you want to be unique, you will likely want to avoid the mall. Shop thrift stores and small boutiques to find pieces which are truly one of a kind., A common choice for men and women is a solid pair of boots. We aren’t talking cowboy boots here, but some simple, leather, lace-up ankle boots. Get them in black or brown. Pair these with anything from skinny jeans to a floral dress.For a more punk rock look, try some Doc Martins.
A more casual shoe option would be canvas shoes like Converse or Toms., Raid your grandparents’ closets and see what they have stashed away. Go for a long, loose-fitting scarf. Wrap it loosely once or twice around your neck, and leave the rest hanging., Try to find that one of a kind piece at the vintage store. Go for long metal chains with pendants on the end. Layer your wrist with leather and metal bracelets. These work for men and women alike.Men can also accessorize their more formal looks with suspenders and bow ties.
 The leather jacket will never go out of style. It gives that little extra edge of tough, independent, rocker. Go for black, keep it simple and don’t worry if it’s a little worn out., Glasses really set people apart. They’ve moved from nerd status to high fashion. Get glasses which are big and bold with thick rims in dark colors.Don’t need glasses? That’s okay. You can still get a pair of frames and fit them with non-prescription lenses, just for style.
Find some hot, new sunglasses. Go classic with aviators or go wild with some bold new brands like Gentle Monster, or the more affordable, Quay Australia. The 70’s company, Sun Pocket, is making a comeback with their foldable sunglasses, giving you a perfect combination of vintage and style edge as well as a really unique pair of glasses you can fold and stick in your pocket.
 If it has a mustache on it, it’s hipster, and this includes you. Men, you are free to experiment with your facial hair. The only thing you don’t want is a nice trimmed beard.Go for the long, tapered beard.
Experiment with mustaches. Get some mustache wax to style long mustaches.
 This is one of the popular ways that people really make themselves stand out and be original. Design your own tattoo which means something special to you. Avoid just choosing a tattoo off the wall or out of the book.Consider an animal which you associate with your personality.
Draw your own design and ask the artist to use it.
Put it in a place where you can show it off. You don’t want your tattoo to be covered all of the time. Try your arm or shoulder so you can show it off when you want.
You must be 18 or have parental permission to get a tattoo. You must also be sober.
 Do your own thing. Avoid the mainstream. Part of the indie lifestyle is being creative. If you don’t want to just follow the mainstream, you may need to make your own way.


Take up sewing. This is a great way to show off your own personality and style. Sewing will allow you to really create one of a kind outfits just right for you, which reflect your style.
Start a band. You may need to learn an instrument, but not really. Bikini Kill was started by a spoken word poet who wanted a bigger audience and included band members who had never played their instruments until they started. Jump in and express yourself. Then practice.Make your own jewelry. This is a great way to brandish your style and originality.
Create a zine. A zine is a small, self-published booklet which has been around since the copy machine made it possible to reproduce your own work. These are usually filled with rebellious ideas, counterculture writing, poetry, sketches and stories. Create several volumes and hand them out. See if you can create a fan base., Treat your city like a campground. Hike around, explore and investigate. Stick your nose where it doesn’t belong. Be sure you stay safe in the process and do your best to avoid getting caught, but cross the “Do not enter” lines and go to the places no one else dares to go.Go spelunking in utility tunnels.
Hop the fence and have a picnic in a neglected, overgrown environment.
Sneak into abandoned buildings and warehouses.
 The gourmet food truck began with the social media promoted Kogi Korean BBQ food truck in Los Angeles and has exploded from there.Now you can find them in most major cities and popping up at all kinds of festivals. What better way to rock the establishment than eating at a restaurant with no established building? Find a food truck near you., Independent people like to do their own thing. They avoid sitting in a office or a cubicle or a library and prefer working on an old wooden table with a hot cup of coffee, or reading a book in a comfy old chair in the corner of the coffee shop.
 Don’t rely on cars or public transit. Get a bike to get around town. Bikes can be an extension of your personality. Dress up your bike with stickers and accessories like baskets and bells.Don’t be afraid of a helmet ruining your style. You will look smart and be safe.
 While all of these suggestions fit the indie lifestyle, the main element is independence. Stay true to your own individuality. You do you and that will be the most indie move you can make.Analyze yourself. Acknowledge and embrace your strengths and flaws. It’s helpful to really know who you are before you join a group.
Remain authentic when joining a new group. Don’t let your personality be swallowed by trying to fit in.
Stay informed. Read, keep track of current events and always be learning. You will develop interests and become more well-rounded and unique.
Have opinions. Don’t allow yourself to be easily swayed by the group. Express your own opinions respectfully.
 Music is a huge part of the indie scene. Indie rock is about expressing an new idea or a new sound, and there are a lot of great bands who have done this. Check out some of the best indie bands and find the ones which really speak to you., Show up and participate. This is how you really become a part of the music. You will be surrounded by other original people and really be able to rock out in your own way.


Find the most original music by going to see local bands and finding that one great band who no one has ever heard of…yet.
 This is the perfect thing to pair with your skinny jeans. Band tees show your style and your taste in music. It’s a way not just to express your style, but also your opinion.


Buy band shirts at concerts, vintage shops and record stores.
 You may be able to download the tunes online, but it is much more of a treat to seek out the album at your local record store. Similar to vintage clothing, finding a great band on old vinyl is a solid indie trend.You’re likely to find other indie folk flipping through vinyl at the record store. Chat with them about the music they are listening to to learn of some new bands you may like.
You can often listen to the records in the store. Ask the clerk, or just put the record on a player if one is available with headphones for public use.
Check used records for scratches before you leave the store.

