;
, Work out how much you can afford to pay in rent or how much you can borrow from the bank in the form of a mortgage. If you can afford to buy your own home outright, lucky you!

, Consider your work, your partner's work location, where your children go to school, or will go to school in the future. Do you want your home to be close to other family members or friends? Choose an ideal location but remain flexible.
 Again, be flexible. Few people find exactly what they what, where they want it, and at a price they can afford. You will almost certainly have to compromise.
 Make sure there is enough space. Many people have a house that the family grows out of, or never grows into. Consider the future and your unique situation, to be sure you won't regret your choice. Children may not want to share a bedroom in the future. You may need less space when your children leave home. Do you have to have a large garden? Is a garage critical?

, In the UK, get a professional structural survey, in other countries find the appropriate expert and have them inspect your potential new home.
, Do you need a big kitchen, walk-in wardrobes, good storage space, multiple bathrooms? A separate lounge and dining room suits some people, while others like an open living space.
 Investigate the crime rate in the neighborhood and find out about the costs of home, home contents, and car insurance rates, as these are all indicative of crime rates in the area.
 Is there a busy road nearby? Is the house in a fire or flood risk area? Are there risks from animals such as snakes, possums rats or even bears? Is there a danger of termites or other destructive insects?

, Do you need to live near a hospital, close to shops, or within reach or an airport, etc.?

, Choose a house that makes you feel happy. Wow factor is a luxury not everyone can afford, be reasonable.
 Do you want green spaces, the city, village life, or to be near the sea?

, You need to know you'll be able to afford to live in the home for the foreseeable future, in a variety of circumstances.
 You need to be objective and not just look at the good things. At first, it may seem flawless; but look harder. Be aware of the seasons; what about autumn and winter? Are those leaves and snow hiding something you need to fix? These invisible repairs for the future. The questions of "it's pretty, but will it last?" are important.
 Never settle on anything less simply because you're tired of searching. If you don't find the right house now, you will in the future. Something may be in your price range, but is it worth it? Is it a strong, sturdy house? Are you being unrealistic with prices? Will you be happy?

