 Most reputable breeders will be registered with the American Kennel Club, so they should be willing to show you their credentials and confirm they are a registered breeder., The puppy’s parents and grandparents must be professionally evaluated, including genetic tests, to check that any issues or problems with the breed have been addressed.The breeder should also be comfortable with explaining to you in detail the potential genetic and developmental problems inherent to the breed.They should offer you guidance on how to take care and train the puppy, and be available for assistance with any issues after you take your new puppy home, especially if you’ve never owned a dog before.
 Most reputable breeders will have a strong relationship with several local vets, so they should be able to show you individual records of the vet visits for the puppy.These records ensure the puppy has been checked for diseases and health issues by a licensed veterinarian and has a clean bill of health.
The breeder should also not require you to use a specific vet for the puppy’s check ups.
 A reputable breeder should have references they can give you from other families who have purchased one of their puppies.You can also ask the breeder if they sell puppies to unknown buyers over the Internet. A reputable breeder will only sell their puppies to individuals they have met in person.
 They should allow you plenty of time to read the contract thoroughly and not pressure you into a quick sell.The contract may require you to spay or neuter the dog unless you plan to turn the pup into a show dog. As well, the contract may state you will return the dog to the breeder should you be unable to keep the dog. These are all normal stipulations of a breeder contract., In fact, a reputable breeder should be concerned about who they are selling to, and want to feel comfortable about relinquishing one of their pups into your care. They may ask you why you want a dog, who will be responsible for the pup’s daily care and training, where the dog will spent most of their time, and what “rules” you will have for the puppy.They may also ask you for proof of residency, like your lease or mortgage papers, to ensure you can provide a stable home for the pup.
The reputable breeder will likely give you a reference to a good veterinarian if you don’t already have one.

