


The most common data center services are (including a short description):

Cloud - In simple terms, the cloud is the Internet. It is a network of servers that perform specialized tasks such as running applications or storing data. As an end user, you use the computing power and resources of the servers in the cloud rather than your own computer or device. There is no need to install or download software. As a business, you can place applications and data in the cloud as an alternative to colocation or dedicated servers. The cloud uses the pay-per-use model, also referred to utility pricing.
Colocation - is leased space within a secure off-site data center where customer owned servers and network equipment are hosted. The customer retains control over the operation and maintenance of their servers and hardware. The data center provides the infrastructure needed to keep servers running with minimal downtime. This includes space, power, bandwidth, cooling, security and redundant systems.
Content Delivery - Content Deliver Network (CDN) technology boosts the speed at which content is transferred to your end users. CDN works by replicating your content and placing it on potentially thousands of server Points of Presence (PoPs) locations around the world. By doing this, your content becomes more reliable and readily available to your end users because they can access it from the server location closest to them. In addition, if several users request the same content at the exact same time, it will be made available without delay or time-out issues - along with optimal bandwidth speeds.
CDNs are used by Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to deliver web pages, but this technology is also very useful to enterprises for the delivery of downloadable media, mobile media, software, documents, applications, and especially the real-time streaming of audio, video and television.
Data Storage - Enterprise data storage and backup are no longer a choice, but an absolute necessity and one of the foundations of a solid disaster recovery plan. Whether your business stores employee records, financial details, assets, customer records or everything about the company, it is imperative that you have something in place to guard against data loss. Every year, businesses are caught off guard and suffer productivity and financial loss due to data being lost or damaged.

;
, There are often many different server hardware configurations available from low cost value dedicated servers to enterprise class servers. A few of the important hardware considerations include: processor type and speed, RAM, storage, operating system (OS), firewall, bandwidth, managed service level. Learn about dedicated servers and how to determine server, power and bandwidth requirements.


Disaster Recovery - The old adage “better safe than sorry” applies to a lot of things in life – including the development of a company Business Continuity / Disaster Recovery plan (a.k.a. BC/DR plan). In the event of a natural or man-made disaster, having a solid formalized BC/DR plan focusing on replicating and restoring your business operation will alleviate a lot of stress and keep your business operations going should something disastrous happen.

A BC/DR plan essentially works to protect and save the business that you have spent so much time building and covers restoration and replication of your business’ power, technology, office space and connectivity. It is ultimately designed to protect you from the unknown, and because you never know what lies ahead, having a BC/DR plan is always in your business’ best interests.


Managed Hosting - With managed hosting, the majority of the server administration is handled by the provider. Managed hosting has been described as a glorified dedicated server with extended features and support. As with a dedicated server, you get your choice of operating system, routing equipment, network connectivity and administrative control. However, managed server hosting takes care of much more than what’s offered with dedicated hosting. Depending on the provider, managed hosting plans can include a wide range of services such as data storage and backup, security and firewalls, database administration, load balancing and around the clock support.
 There are thousands of data centers around the world, and contacting them all would be nearly impossible.


Several search engines are available that give you location and name, but do not tell you what type of services the center offers.
Using a search engine like data centers allows you to find the best data center for your needs, while giving you comprehensive information about the center and contact information.
As storage needs increase, more and more services become available, picking the best data center for your needs will become very important in the here and now, as well as the future.

