 Eating a balanced diet is essential for thyroid health. This includes eating a variety of foods with different nutrients and avoiding fad diets or extremes. Cutting out food groups completely or eating too much of a food group may negatively affect your thyroid function.For example, many people cut out all carbs, dairy, or fats when they try to lose weight. Instead of going to an extreme like this, eat a healthy balance of each food group.
Talk to your doctor about what foods you should be eating if you are concerned.
 Added sugars can negatively affect your weight loss goals, especially if you have hypothyroidism. Foods with added sugars are unhealthy and provide empty calories with no nutritional benefit.Eliminate as many foods that contain added sugars as you can. This includes candy, cookies, cakes, other baked goods, juice, sodas, and many cereals. You should also be careful of condiments and sauces because these generally contain sugar.
Read the labels and look for the different words used for sugar. Examples are sugar, cane sugar, corn syrup, high fructose corn syrup, fructose, sucrose, and maltodextrin.
 Another way you can improve your chances of weight loss when you have an underactive thyroid is to cut the refined carbs and starches from your diet. Carbs are not as a rule bad for you. However, there are certain carbs that provide no nutritional value and interfere with weight loss.Start by cutting out all “white” carbs and starches from your diet. This includes white bread, white pasta, and white rice. Potato chips, crackers, and snack cakes also contain refined carbs.
Many packaged snack foods and even health foods are full of refined carbs. Try buying less prepackaged foods, especially snacks. Opt instead for whole foods.
Replace simple carbs with complex carbohydrates, such as whole wheat pitas, brown rice, quinoa, barley, or millet.
 A large part of your diet should be protein. This is helpful when you have hypothyroidism since protein helps boost weight loss. Protein helps keep you fuller longer and more satisfied than carbs or fat. Many high protein foods have low calorie counts, so it helps keep you full without too many extra carbs.Choose lean cuts of meats, such as chicken and turkey. If you want to eat beef, make sure to get lean cuts, such as 93/7. Seafood also contains high levels of protein.
Non-meat sources of protein include eggs, nuts, and beans. Low-fat dairy products like Greek yogurt and low-fat cottage cheese also provide protein.
 Vegetables are full of important nutrients like vitamins and minerals. This is important for people with hypothyroidism because often the condition leads to poor absorption or nutrient deficiencies.Dietary fiber may interfere with the absorption of your thyroid medication. Ask your doctor if you need to limit the amount of fiber you eat.
Half of your plate at every meal should be full of vegetables.
Try to focus on lower carb vegetables, like mushrooms, leafy greens, and asparagus.
You may want to limit the amount of kale, broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, and Brussel sprouts you eat. They are considered goitrogens, which means they may interfere with your body's ability to absorb iodine. As long as you eat them in moderation, you should have no problem., Selenium is important for proper thyroid function. Many people with hypothyroidism have low selenium levels. This leads to improper iodine absorption, which the thyroid uses to make thyroid hormone. If you follow a balanced diet, then you will not need to supplement with iodine and you should never take an iodine supplement unless you are advised to do so by your doctor. However, adding more selenium-rich foods into your diet may be beneficial. To add more selenium, eat more:Brazil nuts
Tuna
Sardines
Lean beef
Chicken
Eggs
Beans

, Zinc is another vital nutrient for thyroid health. Zinc helps regulate the production of the thyroid stimulating hormone. Through a balanced diet, you should get enough zinc. However, you can eat more food containing zinc to boost your thyroid health.Oysters and shellfish contain large amounts of zinc. Beef and chicken are also good sources.
Beans, nuts, and seeds provide zinc to your diet.
Dairy products, like milk and yogurt, contain zinc.

