 Most of the basic thermal grease compounds contain silicone and zinc oxide, while more expensive compounds contain excellent heat conductors such as silver or ceramic. The advantage to the silver or ceramic thermal grease is that you will have a more efficient heat transmission. However, the basic thermal grease will sufficiently fit the needs of most people.


If you are planning on overclocking your computer, try to get thermal paste comprised mainly of silver, copper, and gold. These are the most conducive metals that thermal paste can be made of.;
, Wipe the surface lightly with a cotton ball or cotton swab dampened with isopropyl alcohol. The higher the percentage of alcohol the better. 70 percent is good but 90 percent is better if it can be found.
 Ideally, the two touching surfaces will be perfectly flat, which would completely eliminate the need for thermal paste. If your heat sink base is rough, you can wet-sand it down and polish it to make it smoother. This isn’t always necessary, unless you are aiming for the ultimate cooling performance.


Thermal paste is designed to fill in the gaps and imperfections on the surfaces that you are joining. Since modern production techniques cannot make surfaces without imperfections, thermal paste will always be necessary.
 The bead of paste should be smaller than a BB or a grain of rice. If you’ve read that it should be “pea-sized”, that is far too much paste, and you will end up with paste on your motherboard.There is no need to spread the paste for circular coolers, as the pressure of being applied will spread it evenly across the surface.
 Install the heat sink with even pressure from all sides, and the bead that you placed on the surface will spread over the entire contact surface. This will create a thin, even layer that will fill any gaps but avoid excess build up.


As heat is applied, the paste will become thinner and spread more towards the edges. This is why using a small amount of paste is important, as a little goes a long way.
 It can be difficult to check if your paste has been applied correctly. If you break the seal that is created when you install the heat sink, you will need to restart the process, first cleaning off the old paste and then reapplying it.
 The CPU fan wire should be plugged in the CPU fan socket because it mostly has the PWM function which allows the computer to adjust the fan speed automatically without changing voltage.
 Check that the fan is spinning. Enter the BIOS by pressing F1 or Del key during POST. Check if the temperature is normal, CPU temperature should be below 40 degree Celsius when idle, same for GPU.
 Applying paste to a square cooler is a bit more challenging than a round one, because simply placing a dot and applying pressure will not result in full coverage. There are varying approaches that people claim allegiances to, so we’ll cover a few of the more popular ones:


The lines method – Place two thin lines of thermal compound on the base of the cooler. The lines should be parallel and spaced so that they are each placed a third of the width of the processor. The lines themselves should also be about a third of the processor’s width in length.
The cross method – This is very similar to the previous method, but the lines are crossed in an “X” pattern instead of parallel. The length and thickness of the lines should be the same as the previous method.
The spread method – This is one of the most popular and effective methods, but takes a little more effort. Place a small amount of thermal paste onto the base of the cooler. Using a plastic finger protector or a plastic bag, use your finger to spread the paste evenly across the surface. Make sure to cover the entire surface that will be in contact with the processor, and ensure that you do not apply the paste too thick. In most cases, the paste should barely hide the metal underneath., If you are using either of the line methods, apply even pressure to the heat sink as you install it to ensure that the paste covers the entire surface. If you are using the spread method, you MUST install the heat sink at a slight angle to prevent bubbles from forming. This is because the paste is usually spread too thin to compensate for bubbles after pressure is applied.
 The CPU fan wire should be plugged in the CPU fan socket because it mostly has the PWM function which allows the computer to adjust the fan speed automatically without changing voltage.
 Check that the fan is spinning. Enter the BIOS by pressing F1 or Del key during POST. Check if the temperature is normal, CPU temperature should be below 40 degree Celsius when idle, same for GPU.

