 If you have a patio or a porch, there may be small crevices and openings that can harbor mosquitoes and their eggs. Trees on your lawn may have holes in their trunks where mosquitoes can reside and breed. If you can't eliminate the holes, consider filling them with sand.
 Mosquitoes aren't likely to lay eggs in tall grass, but they tend to sit in the tall grass for rest and hiding. Keep your grass as short as possible and as frequently as possible.
 These offer homes for adult mosquitoes. If you limit these, you will reduce the number of adult mosquitoes., You can place them directly into your garden, or you can place them in flower pots. Mosquitoes don't like the smell of these plants, and will stay away from them. Here are some plants you should consider planting in your garden:Herbs, such as: basil, lavender, rosemary, and peppermint
Flowers, such as: geranium, marigold, and pennyroyal
Other plants, such as: catnip, citronella, lemon balm, and garlic

, They are hardy, easy to care for, and love to feast on mosquito larva. If you have a larger pond, you can stock it with koi or goldfish instead.There are some larvicides that you can use in water gardens. Before you choose to use one, make sure that it is safe for fish and other animals.
Favor deeper water gardens and ponds over shallower ones. Aim for something that is 24 inches (60.96 centimeters) or deeper. It'll be better for your fish, and the depth will deter mosquitoes. Mosquitoes prefer shallower waters., Mosquitoes like standing water, and won't go near moving water. You can also add a fountain to your birdbath, if you have one.
 They often come in pellet form, and need to be applied monthly.They usually do not kill off other insects which prey upon mosquitoes, such as dragon flies. Listed below are common types of larvicides


Bacillus thuringiensis israelensis (BTI), such Mosquito Dunks, Mosquito Bits, and Microbe-Lift, are mosquito poisons. The mosquitoes die after they ingest it.
Methoprene, is an insect growth regulator (IGR). It prevents mosquito larvae from molting. They take a few days to kill, but they will other kill other insects as well.
Mineral oil based larvicides suffocate mosquito larvae when sprayed on top of water., Bats, dragonflies, and insect-eating birds will all feast on mosquitoes and mosquito larvae.You can do this simply by installing some bird houses or bat houses.If you have a water garden, you can also consider adding a frog or two.

