 Locate the app on your iOS device and tap on it. The app icon has an orange background with two overlapping diamonds on it.;
, The list of all available units of measure is displayed on your screen. Swipe up and down to view all of them. There are hundreds available.
 Tap on a unit of measure, for example Temperature. All the available units for that unit of measure will be displayed. For Temperature, the available units displayed will be Degree Celsius, Degree Fahrenheit, and Kelvin, among others.
 Since there are a lot of units of measure available, it can be cumbersome to go through all of them every time you need to do a simple conversion. You can put a star for the units you frequently need or use. Tap the star icon right in front of the units. These starred units will appear under your Favorites tab for easy access.
 Go back to the main screen. Tap the “Favorites” tab at the top of the screen to see all the categories that contain units you’ve starred. Now, whenever you need to use this unit, you won’t have to scroll through a long list to find it; all you have to do is go directly to the Favorites tab., From the list of categories, either from the main “All” list or from your Favorites, tap on the one you’d like to use. For instance, if you’re converting distance or length, tap “Length-Distance.”

, All the units of measure under the selected category will be displayed. There are two buttons at the top for “Starred” and “All.” Tap the “All” button to see all the units, and tap the “Starred” to see only those you’ve starred. For example, if you’ve selected Length-Distance, you can see Meter, Centimeter, Yard, Foot, Mile, and others.
 Since you will be converting one unit to another, tap the original unit of measure to begin. A calculator or number pad will appear from the bottom of your screen. Enter the original unit’s value.


For instance, you want to convert 10 m (Meter) to ft (Foot), tap “Meter,” then enter 10 on the number pad. 10 m will appear on the conversion table.
 You don’t need to identify the target unit of measure. The app automatically converts for all units on your screen. For example, the 10 m you’ve entered will be converted to cm, yard, ft, in, km, and whatever other units of measure you have on your screen. If you need to know its equivalent in ft, just look for the ft (Foot) unit, which is, for this example, 32.81 ft.

