 Place the rice in a fine-mesh colander and rinse it well under cool, running water.


The drain water will initially look cloudy. Continue to rinse the rice until the water runs clear.
 Place the rice in your rice cooker and cover it with water. Add the salt, pepper, and olive oil and stir to combine.


Check the rice package to determine how much water to add. In most cases, you should add 1-1/2 cups (375 ml) of water when working with 1 cup (250 ml) of uncooked rice, but this can vary depending on the exact type of rice used.
 Use a paring knife to cut a crisscross slit into the bottom of the tomato. You only need to cut through the skin; cutting into the flesh is not necessary.You can remove the stem during this time, too, but doing so isn't necessary. If you leave the stem intact now, you'll need to remove it after the tomato rice is done cooking.
 Sit the tomato in the center of the rice, bottom-side facing up.


Note that the tomato should not be completely submerged beneath the water.
 If desired, add cooked meat and soft raw vegetables to the rice cooker. Sprinkle these ingredients directly into the rice and around the tomato.You can choose different additions based on your personal preferences, but you must make sure that the ingredients you choose will cook through in the amount of time it takes to cook the rice.
For meat, ham and chicken both work well, but both should be pre-cooked and cut into strips.
Frozen peas and blanched, chopped broccoli are good vegetable options. Soft vegetables can usually be added raw, but hard vegetables must be lightly cooked beforehand.
 Close the rice cooker and switch it onto the appropriate setting. Allow the rice to cook through.


The exact setting will vary depending on the rice cooker manufacturer and model. Many rice cookers have separate settings for white and brown rice, in which case, you should choose the correct setting based on the type of rice you decide to use.
 Once the rice is finished cooking, open the rice cooker and use a rice paddle to mash the tomato into the grains.


If you haven't already removed the stem of the tomato, do so before mashing it into pieces.
Mix the mashed tomatoes well, making sure that it and the other add-ins are evenly distributed throughout the rice.
 Enjoy the tomato rice immediately. If desired, you can sprinkle each serving with some shredded cheese before digging into it.


Other possible garnishes include cooked egg, freshly chopped tomatoes, and freshly chopped parsley leaves.

