 There are several possibilities here:


Divide the roots from a mature yarrow plant in early spring or autumn; or
Plant yarrow seeds in trays or plant punnets in early spring. Use seed-raising mix and keep the containers warm, moist, and shaded while the seeds germinate. Transplant the seedlings when they grow large enough to handle, after gradually exposing them to more light and outdoor temperatures.
Purchase seedlings from the local nursery and simply transplant them as needed.;
, Dig a hole large enough to take the roots of the plant. Gently firm the soil surface around the plant base and ensure all foliage is above the ground.


Yarrow prefers full sun for best growth.
Yarrow loves rocky spaces, so can be grown in awkward garden spots such as rock embankments.
The soil should be well drained and not overly rich.
 After planting, water deeply, occasionally. Yarrow's deep roots will burrow down into the soil and find its own sources of water.


Yarrow plants will rot if they're over-watered. Don't plant in soil that stays waterlogged.
 There is no need to fertilise yarrow. It's a fairly hardy plant that will thrive under many conditions.
 When pruning cut yarrow down to the ground in the period from mid-autumn to late autumn. It is best done after the frosts have begun.


New growth will appear every spring.
 The best time to harvest yarrow is when the plant is dry and it's in full bloom. Cut both stems and flowers in the morning.


Yarrow can be dried by tying the stems together and hanging them upside down in a dry, dark, and well-ventilated spot.
After drying, remove the flowers and store separately. Store foliage and flowers in airtight containers for later use.
 Yarrow can be used in a number of ways, both fresh and dried. Here are some suggestions:


Add very young leaves to salads, chopped. Only choose small leaves and be aware it is a bitter taste, so some people may not enjoy it.
Dried yarrow can be used in herbal tisanes (teas).
Garden beauty and herb garden necessity. The flowers are pretty and the herb is a must-have in any herb garden.
Use its fresh leaves to stop bleeding. Dry leaves make an instant scab.

