 Although your blog will be just a drop in an ocean, bear in mind that little things make a difference. Write in precise and clear way and be sure about naming them in such ways that attract non-Muslims especially, such as peace, truth, personality development etc. Whether it benefits anybody or not, it will surely benefit you, in getting rewards from Almighty Allah SWT and in increasing your Islamic knowledge.;
, These are the places where people ask same questions on Islam again and again. Some even ask some serious questions. Answer them because you never know, that answer could help someone to get the right picture of Islam and cause them to accept Islam.


First of all write a beautiful and error free draft and then post it in forum.
Don’t use anything contradictory or confusing.
Use polite words such as sister\brother and peace be upon you etc.
, Such as www.Islamreligion.com etc which can present vast variety of articles of common interest.
,, Girls wearing a hijab and boys sporting a beard or pants above ankles make people curious about Islam. They will surely ask about veil(hijab) and beard; this will be an opportunity to tell them about Islam.
 He spend 40 years before declaring prophet-hood in building moral character and spreading love and truth. His whole life is based on love and mercy, of course he is a mercy for the worlds. Almighty Allah created love and mercy to be more powerful weapons to spread the truth rather than anything else.


Call people with love and mercy.
Greet them salaam.
Take special care of neighbors, fellow passengers etc.
Talk politely with the poor, orphans, widows, oppressed, children, handicapped and depressed.
 Be creative and innovate ideas. Send cards and prepare colorful presentations to spread the truth. Be sure to use authentic references, because it works. Today’s world is awesome, you can learn anything to everything even “learn how to learn”; it is era of research and innovation, you can almost learn anything about everything, Use this privilege of Almighty Allah SWT on us to spread Islam.
 whether anybody is watching you or not. This will help them to know that Muslims are disciplined and obedient people, unlike most of the people who break public rules and bother others. Avoid doing anything which misrepresents Islam specially in public places, you and I know this fact very well that Islam is the religion of peace and truth, then why misrepresent it.
 Books dealing with contemporary Islamic issues are best. If possible present people good tafsir of the Quran and sahih hadith in their language. Make it a habit to gift Quran to people on any occasion like marriage etc. whether Muslim or non Muslim even to your family members.
 Combine your skills with its Islamic concept. If you are an accountant, learn and teach about Islamic finance and so on. Believe and act on islamization of everything.
,, Only then the above can benefit us.
,, Almighty Allah has ordered us some priorities, follow them in sequence, and first of all preserve the rights of Almighty Allah and then parents, family, veil(hijab) and so on.
,