 There are many stores, local and chain, who buy products from the public at a reduced rate and then resell them in their stores. Sort through your home to find things you no longer need, want, or use and make a visit to these stores in your area.


If you consider yourself quite the avid reader with a library to match, consider sorting through your archives to find old books you no longer want. Books in good condition can be bought for several dollars apiece at used-bookstores.
Clothing is something everybody has, and often something we have too much of. If your wardrobe is overflowing with clothes, take a pass through and find the things that you can’t fit or aren’t in style anymore. You will get the best price for clothing that doesn’t have holes, stains, or wear-and-tear.
If your library is full of music rather than books, consider selling some of your CDs. CDs with their cases intact and without scratches or blemish can be sold for a few dollars each. Find a local music or record store in your area and see if they buy used CDs.
If gaming is your thing, try sorting through all your old video games. Many video game stores will take your used games if they are brought without any scratches or blemishes in the original case. Although you may only get a fraction of the price you originally bought the games for, making a few dollars on something you no longer use is better than nothing.
Try taking miscellaneous things to a local pawnshop. This allows you to resell anything from a blender you never used to your old motorcycle jacket., If you would rather be responsible for selling what you own instead of taking it to a store, consider having a garage sale or advertising your items online. Although these involve much more planning than simply making a drop-off at your favorite secondhand store, you can make much more money by doing the work yourself.


Throw your own yard or garage sale. At most, you can expect a brand-new item to sell for 50% of it’s original price, but you will be making money back on something you’re not currently using. Be sure to plan ahead by placing ads in your local newspaper and putting up signs for your sale on nearby busy streets with directions.
Place big-ticket items on sites like Craigslist or eBay to advertise to a wider audience. If you have something worth a lot more money than just some used clothes and garage tools, then open an ad for it online. Craigslist is a great option for selling something right away to locals without the hassle of shipping it across country.
 Now, as strange as that may sound, you can actually sell parts of your body for a lot of money. We’re not talking organs, but rather things like plasma, genetic material, and long hair.


If you hair is long (over ten inches) and in good health, consider cutting it off and selling it to a company that makes wigs. Untreated hair that has never been colored or relaxed gets the best price, especially if it is a unique color or texture. The longer your hair is, the more money you can make off of it!
Sell your plasma at a local blood bank. Plasma is a part of your blood that is given in infusions to patients with certain medical disorders. You can donate your plasma multiple times over a few weeks, and earn on average $50 per donation.
Sell your sperm. Although not every guy is comfortable with giving up his genetic material to strangers, if you are short on cash and willing to help some unknown couple have a baby then sell your sperm. You can earn up to $100 per visit.
Sell your eggs. This is much more timely than selling sperm, but for any ladies who want to make a lot of money and don’t mind selling their eggs, you can earn up to $10,000 for a single treatment. The process of selling eggs takes several weeks of injections and a minor outpatient procedure, and may be slightly uncomfortable. The upside is that you make a lot of money in a relatively short amount of time., This could range from your old jewelry to a pile of scrap metal in the backyard. Metal gets a good price, and is rather easy to find if you are looking for the cheap stuff.


Gold is being bought at an all-time high right now - $1,350 per solid 24 karat ounce. Although most the gold in jewelry isn’t such high quality, you could certainly make a few hundred dollars by selling some old rings or bracelets you never wear.Scrap metal is a great way to make money that most people don’t necessarily think of. If you have an old car, boat, RV, or building with unnecessary metal, then consider taking it apart and selling it to a local scrap metal shop. You could make several hundred, or thousand, dollars on metal parts you may have just left to rust.
Whenever you throw a party, gather all the metal cans afterwards. These can be sold to scrap metal shops for around 70 cents per pound (about 32 cans). You’re not only being green by recycling trash, but making a few bucks in the process as well.
Salvage old scrap metal from nearby abandoned warehouses and through dumpster diving. You may also be able to buy old metal in the form of cars or boats for cheaper than you would get paid to sell the metal., Are you an excellent baker? An artist? A gardener? A carpenter? Then take your handmade goods to market! This doesn’t necessarily mean that your only option is to sell at a local farmers market. For a true artisan, there are many ways to sell your wares.


Try opening a shop with an online marketplace such as Etsy or eBay. These allow you to advertise your products, give brief descriptions, and promote your items around their sites. Etsy is becoming a massively successful place for unique handcrafted goods sold at high prices.
Bring things you make to a local holiday bazaar, fair, or market. The people who attend these places go specifically to see the amazing products people make themselves, so the audience is already tailored for you. Some of these places may require you to pay a fee to rent a booth, but you may be able to get a selling space for free.
Advertise your products to local offices and boutiques. Visit places where you might find a product similar to what you make, and ask to sell your goods there. Many local business owners are happy to support a fellow businessman by showcasing or selling their products.
 Are you the proud owner of a blog or website? Then consider selling ad space in the open columns of your pages. You can sign up with different affiliate links which provide ad space for major third party vendors. Then, you get paid a percentage of the amount of sales that are made through your page. The best way to make a lot of money in this fashion is to keep traffic on your website or blog high by keeping posts frequent and interesting., If you have a spare bedroom, basement, or parking spot on a busy street, consider renting it out. You are in charge of the renting process, so if at any point in time it doesn’t seem to be working out for you, then you are free to cancel the agreement.


If you decide to rent part of your house, make sure you write up a lease and have all your paperwork and licensing in order. This will help you to avoid accidents with renters or the government.
Try advertising an extra parking space to your neighbors who may need room for multiple cars. Look at monthly rates in the area for parking to gauge how much you should be charging in order to be fair., Stock photos are simple, somewhat nondescript images that people can use for a fee in articles, brochures, presentations, etc. They don’t earn much apiece, but if you upload a nice little collection, the sales can really add up – especially since photos can be sold over and over. Best of all, it doesn’t get much easier than clicking off a few decent shots, uploading them, and waiting.

