 You can do a lot of the work that a professional listing company would do yourself and save a lot of money. This is in part because online advertising has made it easier and faster to list a property in multiple online locations. Of course, there are many different sites which offer various services, some of which will charge a small fee to simply list your property. For instance, ApartmentGuide.com, ApartmentList.com, ForRent.com, Rentler.com, and Zillow.com are all successful websites, among countless others.Consider high-definition photos a necessity. Always include attractive photographs of the property in any online listing. For more about what you should include in online advertisements, see the corresponding section in this article.
 Different websites are more popular in different areas. Accordingly, favor those websites that are popular in your area. You can find out which websites are popular in your area by searching for properties online and taking note of which websites pop up most frequently.Favor those websites that will list your property for a flat fee.
Start with craigslist. Not only is criagslist.org a completely free service, it is arguably the most popular rental property listing website in the world.
 Facebook, LinkedIn, and even YouTube can easily be used to advertise your property. These are all free to use, and allow you to reach a somewhat targeted audience with some relation to your social or professional networks.On Facebook, create a specific “page” for your property. Include all sorts of photos and videos – Facebook allows some of the highest resolution media of any social media platform. You can also create events for open houses, and invite specific groups of contacts to attend or share the event.
A LinkedIn post will reach business professionals in particular, and should be written in a more formal tone.
YouTube videos will pay off more than you think. You can even upload a virtual tour of the unit and post a link to the video on your other social media accounts as well.