 Lucky bamboo will eventually grow to a height of 3 to 5 feet but, if it is only 8 to 10 inches tall, a 5-inch square container is more than large enough., They are usually too light, even with stones at the bottom as they can easily be tipped over.


Look for glass or ceramic containers, as these are heavier and more durable.
 Clear glass containers are often to show off the color of the stones and the lucky bamboo roots, making the plant more visually appealing.If you do choose to plant the lucky bamboo in a clear container, be prepared to wash the algae out of the container every week or two when you change the water.
 Purchase enough of this material to fill the container.Lucky bamboo can be grown in potting soil that contains coarse sand and vermiculite for fast drainage but it is usually grown in water., Set it in a sink or tub and wash the gravel, stones or marbles with tap water to remove any residual dust or dirt.
 This will help to remove any lingering salts, fluoride or chlorine commonly found in tap water. Chlorine, fluoride and dissolved salts are harmful to lucky bamboo plants as these substances will cause the bamboo’s leaves to develop brown, dry edges.


Chlorine will dissipate naturally if the water is left in an open container for 24 to 36 hours.
Distilled and purified water can be purchased at the grocery store and most convenience stores.
Tap water can be used if you have a purifying system that attaches to the faucet, or a water purifying pitcher that removes dissolved salts and fluoride.
 Insert the lucky bamboo stems into the container. Hold them upright with the bottoms of the stems touching the top of the gravel, stones or marbles.
 Make sure you spread the gravel evenly around the lucky bamboo stems. Fill the container to within 1 to 2 inches of the top., These plants should not be planted in plain tap water.
 Keep in mind that lucky bamboo does not grow quickly even under the best of circumstances., If the water is not changed regularly, bacteria can grow, resulting in root rot and mushy stems., If this occurs, throw the plant away.


Wash the container and stones or gravel with hot soapy water and soak them in a 10 percent bleach water solution for 5 to 10 minutes to kill the bacteria before reusing them for a new lucky bamboo plant.
 However, it is considered safe and non-toxic to people and pets.