 Cover the table with a green tablecloth. Serve food on white dishes, and use orange napkins. This palette of three colors corresponds to those used in the flag of Ireland.Before guests arrive, set the table with the number of places that corresponds to the number of people you expect to attend.Roll the napkins from corner to corner and tie them with a golden cord.
Provide green drinking straws, too.
Scatter some green sequins over the table to give it a finishing touch.
 Balloons and streamers are crucial elements of any well-decorated party. Plan on filling a number of orange and green balloons just prior to your party beginning and let them float about the party space. Hang streamers from one wall to another, or just drape them from one end of the wall to the other.Alternately, you could arrange streamers of many different colors in an arc on a large central wall to create a rainbow design.Use green streamers everywhere. They're easy and effective.
 Place some chocolate coins in little pots. You might be able to get plastic or cardboard imitation pots at your local novelty store. Place these “pots o’ gold” at regular intervals along the length of your dining tables.Alternately, you could use foliage to make a centerpiece featuring shamrocks, calla lilies, or white flowers in small vases or pots.
 In traditional Irish lore, the Blarney Stone is a magical rock that people can kiss to gain exceptional oratory skill. You could evoke this legendary rock by placing a small (baseball-sized) stone on a small pedestal or table at the entrance to the party. Encourage party guests to kiss it.Use an orange ribbon bow or lengths for splashes of contrasting color.
 The Bells of Ireland and calla lilies are two plants native to Ireland. The Bells are said to bring good luck and the lilies represent beauty. Place them in pots and situate them throughout the party space., Using green paper or poster board and a shamrock-shaped template, you can produce easily produce a series of paper shamrocks. Hang them around the room, or wait until your guests arrive and invite them to write their name or a holiday message on the shamrock, and permit them to hang the shamrock somewhere around the party space.You can easily obtain a shamrock-shaped template online. Just print it out, cut around the shape, and use it to trace shamrocks onto your green construction paper or poster board.

