 When the decedent passes away and their assets are made part of their estate, those assets do not simply stop generating income. A lot of assets will continue to generate income as if the decedent were still alive. When income is generated by an asset in an estate, that income is taxed the same way as income would be taxed for an individual.


For example, if the decedent owned stock, that stock might become a part of their estate. The stock will continue to gain or lose value based on the market even though the decedent has passed away. The stock's gain or loss is considered income that the estate might have to pay taxes on.;
, When a person dies their will is entered into court and a probate proceeding begins. One of the first things that happens during probate is the court appointment of an estate administrator. If you are appointed as the administrator of an estate, you will be responsible for collecting assets, paying debtors, paying taxes, and distributing assets to heirs. As soon as you are appointed administrator, you should begin your duties with an eye towards tax liability. One of the first things you will be required to do is collect the decedent's assets that are a part of his or her estate (i.e., named in the will).When you collect estate assets, keep track of them with an up-to-date spreadsheet. To help you with estate income taxes, try to identify the assets that will possibly generate income over the next year and make a note of that.
 Soon after you are appointed administrator, you will have to provide the court with a complete list of assets and debts. This is called an accounting. During this process you may need to get some assets appraised in order to determine their value.For estate income tax purposes, keep an eye out for income generating assets that need to be valued. The value that ends up being placed on these assets could determine the income generated by the estate for tax purposes.
For example, if the decedent owned a home when he or she passed away and the home is sold by the estate, the difference in value from when the home was purchased to when it was sold might be considered a capital gain. That capital gain will be considered income for tax purposes. As you can see, the valuation of these income generating assets can work to increase or reduce the estate's income tax liability.
 Some of the information you will need in order to file for estate income taxes are the personal records of the decedent. In order to get access to these records, you will need to get permission from the court and possibly the IRS. The court can give you letters testamentary, which give you permission to act on behalf of the decedent. These letters can be given to banks, for example, so you can gain access to account information (e.g., whether a bank account has earned any interest income).


The IRS can give you access to income documents (e.g., W-2s and 1099s) and copies of other tax documents that might help you. For example, if you are looking for an estate's ordinary dividend income, you might ask the IRS for copies of various 1099-DIVs., Once you have an accounting and list of all the estate's assets, make sure you keep track of them as time goes on. If an estate asset is generating income, be sure you keep track of that income generation and get access to important documents needed for tax purposes.


For example, if you sell a home owned by the estate, keep track of the sale and the capital gains associated with it. If you receive ordinary dividends from common stock owned by the estate, keep track of the value of those dividends and make sure you receive 1099-DIVs at the end of the year.
Keeping track of this information throughout the year will make your job easier when it comes time to file an estate income tax return, if one is needed.
 You won't know whether you have to file an income tax return on behalf of an estate until you start calculating the estate's gross income. However, you will not be able to start calculating the estate's gross income until you know what income the estate is generating. To do this you need to know what types of assets generate income for estates. In general, an estate's income is determined the same way as an individual's income. Therefore, almost any source of income for an individual can also be a source of income for an estate.


You can find guidance on estate assets that generate income by obtaining important publications, forms, and instructions from the IRS. The IRS website gives you access to all the information you will need for free. Helpful documents include Form 1041, the instructions to Form 1041, and Publication 559.In addition, you can simply do an internet search for the type of income you are wondering about and the letters "IRS" following it. This will usually result in publications and helpful information popping up from the IRS website. For example, if you search for "interest income IRS", you will likely be taken to IRS's Publication 17, Chapter 7, which discusses interest income., The first type of income that can be generated by an estate is interest income. Interest income comes from any asset that provides the estate with interest payments. In general, interest income is reported to the estate, and therefore you, on Form 1099-INT. You will usually receive this form towards the end of the tax year from banks, savings and loans, and any other payer of interest.Common assets that produce interest income include:Accounts with banks and credit unions (e.g., certificates of deposit and money market accounts)
Notes, loans, and mortgages
U.S. Treasury bonds
U.S. savings bonds

, Dividends are distributions of property given to you when you own stock in a particular corporation. Ordinary dividends are those paid out of the earnings and profits of a corporation and are ordinary income to you (i.e., not capital gains). In general, ordinary dividends will be reported to the estate, and therefore you, on Form 1099-DIV. On that form, ordinary dividends are shown in box 1a. You should receive Form 1099-DIV from any payer of ordinary dividends. The most common asset that produces ordinary dividend income is common and preferred stock., Business income is any income received from a business owned by the estate. If there is any connection at all between the income received and the business, the income is business income. There is a connection if the income would not have been paid if the business did not exist. Business income can be reported to the estate on Form 1099-MISC. However, a lot of business income will not be reported to you at all. It will be your responsibility to determine what estate income is considered business income and to calculate it yourself. Common examples of business income include:Bartering for property or services (e.g., a lawyer who gives legal services in return for shares of stock)
Real estate rents (e.g., the owner of a motel)
Personal property rents (e.g., the rental of vehicles, clothes, home furnishings)

, A capital gain (or loss) is the difference in value from when you purchase a capital asset to when you sell it. A capital asset is almost any piece of property you use and own for personal or investment purposes. If the estate has capital gains, they will usually be taxed at a lower rate than ordinary income.Common examples of assets that generate capital gains (i.e., capital assets) include:Stocks and bonds
Homes
Household furnishings
Cars
coin or stamp collections
Jewelry
Precious metals

, If an estate owns a farm, farm income will generally come from the sale of farm products (e.g., livestock and crops). With regard to farm income, the asset that produces income for the estate is the farm itself., An ordinary gain is income derived from the sale of a non-capital asset (i.e., an asset that is not a capital asset). The IRS regulations concerning what is and is not considered a non-capital asset are very complex. Therefore, if you are unable to determine whether an asset is capital or non-capital, you might need to ask an accountant, tax expert, or attorney. Common examples of non-capital assets that can generate income for an estate include:Stock held mainly for sale to customers
Accounts receivable acquired in the ordinary course of business
Real property used in an estate's trade or business
Certain copyrights

, The IRS website offers all the information you need to determine whether you will have to file an income tax return on behalf of the estate you are administering. For example, from the IRS website, you can gain access to Form 1041 (Estate Income Tax Return), instructions for Form 1041, and Publication 559 (which provides information to estate administrators about tax filings).Use this information to determine the filing requirements and income thresholds in place at the present time.


Be aware that filing requirements and thresholds change from time to time. Make sure you check the IRS's official website for up-to-date information.
 Within the instructions to Form 1041 and Publication 559 you will notice that an income tax filing (Form 1041) will have to be made on behalf of an estate if the estate has a gross income for the tax year of $600 or more or if the estate has a beneficiary who is a nonresident alien.If the estate has one or more nonresident aliens as beneficiaries, the estate must file Form 1041 even if the estate's gross income is less than $600. A person is considered a nonresident alien for any period they are not a U.S. citizen nor a resident alien.However, a nonresident alien who was a resident Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands for the entire tax year will be considered a resident alien., If every beneficiary of the estate is a U.S. resident or resident alien, you will only need to file an income tax return if the estate's gross income is $600 or more for the tax year. Gross income is all the income from every qualified source including interest, dividends, business, capital gains, farms, and ordinary gains. Therefore, if you add up the estate's income from all of these sources and it meets or exceeds the $600 threshold, a Form 1041 must be filed.Start calculating the estate's gross income by working through the estate's income generating assets and the income they have generated. At this point, do not calculate the entire estate's gross income. You can stop as soon as you reach the $600 threshold.
 Compare the gross income you have calculated to the filing threshold in order to determine if you must file an income tax return for the decedent's estate. If the gross income is $600 or more, you will need to file. For example, if you start calculating the estate's gross income and you determine that the estate has $400 in interest income and $200 in ordinary dividend income, you can stop calculating because you have hit the filing threshold. You will be required to file an estate income tax return.


However, if you work your way through every source of estate income and it is less than $600 total, you will not be required to file an estate income tax return. The estate's income will not rise to the filing threshold.

