 Raise money without risk and promote your venture at the same time.Crowdfunding sites allow you to pitch your business to an online community of investors and raise funds to achieve a particular goal for your business.
None of your own money needs to be invested but if you don't reach your goal, you may not get any money at all.Start by advertising in your local area (newspapers, local television). Crowdfunding relies on word-of-mouth and this is a good way to start to build interest.Create a passionate and engaging pitch. Why should people invest in your business? What do you offer that others don't? What makes your business exciting or innovative?
Set funding goals that you expect can be met and do not over-promise on deliverables.If you need a large investment consider breaking up your goal into parts. For example, instead of asking for money to purchase enough equipment to outfit a restaurant, ask for funding for certain items like a new walk-in refrigerator and a stove. Once that goal has been met you can ask for funding for other items (tables and chairs, a deep-fryer).
Research successful crowd funded campaigns. What did they do that got them noticed and funded? What did they offer potential investors? You don't have to reinvent the wheel -- learn from others who have been successful.
Identify your target audience and tailor your pitch to attract investors. Who is likely to invest in your business? What kind of person would be attracted to what your business has to offer? Make a list of several potential audiences and then decide which is the most likely to fund your business. You can even check crowdfunding sites to see who has funded businesses like yours. Tailor your pitch to this audience.Choose the right crowdfunding site for your needs. Some crowdfunding sites specifically fund small businesses (as opposed to artistic projects, for example). There are crowdfunding sites that are linked to causes such as environmentalism. These sites can link you with investors who share your cause, instantly connecting you with a target audience.Well-known crowdfunding sites include Kickstarter, Indigogo, and Smallknot.
Be aware of any pitfalls with a crowdfunding site. Will you be penalized if you don't reach your goal? Is the site attractive to potential investors and is it easy to navigate and customize for your needs?Many crowdfunding sites allow you to choose a timeline for your campaign. Make sure to pick a time frame that will allow you to reach your goal.Remember that crowdfunding sites take a percentage of your donations. There are also fees for processing the credit cards of your funders. You may end up receiving 7% to 12% less than you actually raised. Fees vary by site., Microloans are small short-term loans that can help you purchase equipment and other supplies to start your business.Microloans serve many people who can’t access financing from traditional avenues due to lack of credit history, damaged credit, bankruptcies or lack of collateral.Most microlenders are nonprofit organizations and provide one-on-one technical assistance.Microloans can help improve your credit rating, making you more likely to be able to qualify for a larger bank loan.
Locate a microlender in your state. Some microlenders only lend in one state but some lend nationwide.Prepare a business plan and financial statement describing why you need the loan.
Although microlenders are less strict about credit ratings than regular bank lenders you may still be asked to provide previous years tax returns or other personal financial information.
Have personal and business references available. Some microlenders want references who can speak to your ability to run a small business. Ideally, your references should know you well and be able to give specific information about any previous experience, education or training that demonstrates your readiness to start your own business.
Microlenders can take as long as banks to approve and disburse loans. Plan on at least 60 days before you receive any funds., Avoid taking on debt by providing investors shares in your company.


Investors can dilute the control you have over your business and leave you with a smaller share in the profit.
Finding Angel investors can be difficult. One place to start is with online lists such as Forbes.Attend local showcases and events for entrepreneurs to meet Angel investors.Prepare a pitch for your business and be prepared to discuss your business plan with many potential investors.
Do not be discouraged if the first few people you approach turn you down. Persistence is the key to Angel investing. You need to find the right person, at the right time.
Some Angel investors work together, each putting in a portion of the money you request. Decide how you will handle multiple investors: Will each individual get a percentage of your company? Will the group get a certain percentage? How much control are you willing to give up to have your business funded?
Do your homework. You want to approach Angel investors who are likely to fund your type of business. Local trade groups or industry associations may be able to link you with Angel investors who share your interests.Expect Angel investors to take the time to research your business before making a decision. This can take several months.

