 Wash 1 to 1 1/2 pounds (453 to 680 g) of small, new potatoes and gently scrub the skins. Carefully slice each potato into 1/4-inch (6 mm) rounds. Put the sliced potatoes into a large pot or Dutch oven and pour enough water into the pot to cover the potatoes by about 1-inch (2.5 cm).Thin-skinned potatoes like red or yellow potatoes work best for this recipe.
 Turn the heat on to high, so the water begins to boil. Turn the heat down to medium-low and let the water bubble gently. Simmer the potatoes for 5 to 6 minutes.The potatoes should become tender once they've finished cooking. Drain the potatoes and put them into a large serving bowl.You should have about 4 cups of sliced, cooked potatoes.
 Put 1/4 pound (113 g) of bacon into a skillet or frying pan. Cook the bacon over medium-high heat for several minutes, so that it becomes almost crunchy. Chop the bacon and transfer it to a prep bowl.The time it takes to fry the bacon will depend on how thick your bacon is sliced.
 Chop one medium onion into rough pieces and add it to the skillet that you cooked the bacon in. Chop one celery stalk and add it to the pan. Stir and cook the vegetables for about 7 to 8 minutes. Transfer them to the prep bowl that has the bacon.The onion should become translucent and soft.
 Carefully pour out the bacon fat from the skillet, but leave about one tablespoon of fat. Stir in 1/2 teaspoon of flour, 1/2 teaspoon of sugar, 1 teaspoon of salt, and 1/8 teaspoon of pepper. Continue to cook the roux over medium heat for about one minute.You can discard the bacon fat or save it for another use.
 Make a hot dressing by stirring 1/2 cup (120 ml) of water and 1/2 cup (120 ml) of cider vinegar into the roux (flour and bacon mixture) in the skillet. Keep cooking the mixture until it thickens a little. This should only take a minute or two. Turn off the heat., Stir the chopped bacon and sauteed vegetables into the hot dressing. Pour the dressing over the sliced, cooked potatoes. Use a large spoon to gently stir the potato salad, so it's completely combined. You can garnish the warm potato salad with:Fresh snipped chives
Minced parsley
Hard boiled egg slices

