 It can be agonizing if someone is teasing you, especially if it’s in front of everyone. Ignore it as best you can.Sometimes, people tease because they are curious, or they don’t understand what is happening, or even that they like you.


You might even try to come up with a snappy comeback to show how mature you are and how immature they are.
If teasing continues more than a day or two, talk with your teacher or your trusted adult. You shouldn’t have to feel like you are a target just because your body is developing.
Be calm when you talk to them. If you are defensive and angry, they may not take you as seriously. If you are calm, you can convey your feelings better and more seriously.
 One of the worst – and most common – things that other kids do is snap someone’s bra straps. Boys especially might be curious about bras and they want to find a way to get your attention. But snapping your bra strap is annoying and can even hurt.


Tell them to stop touching your clothes. Explain that you don’t like it and it’s not welcome. If they don’t stop, tell a teacher or your trusted adult.
If anyone is grabbing your breasts, tell them to stop and tell your teacher or trusted adult immediately.
If you feel threatened or unable to make the behavior stop, you may be experiencing sexual harassment, which is someone’s behavior that makes you feel unsafe.Read more about sexual harassment in the wikiHow article, “How to Deal With Sexual Harassment in School.”

, While you don’t need to feel embarrassed about your body and bra, you might feel more at ease if you change your clothes in private. When spending the night at a friend’s house, you can change your clothes in the bathroom.


If you need to change your clothes for gym class, you can either do it in a bathroom stall, or you can try to get changed as discreetly as possible. Choose a locker near one of your friends. They will be more likely to support you, instead of teasing you. Turn your back to the rest of the girls in the changing room. Read more tips at the wikiHow article, “How to Change in a School Locker Room.”

, If you are swinging upside down on the monkey bars, your shirt might fly up and reveal your bra. Tuck in your shirt to avoid an embarrassing or revealing situation.
 When you’re in PE class, you might need extra support for your breasts. Otherwise, you might bounce up and down uncomfortably when you’re running or jumping. Wear a well-fitting sports bra for exercise and you will be more comfortable.

