 If you've been vomiting a lot recently, drink only small amounts of water at a time. Too much water processed too quickly can cause you to begin to throw up.If you want, try sucking on an ice cube. The cool water feels good going down your throat and it's nearly impossible to drink too much water by melting the ice cube in your mouth.
 Clear liquids aside from water are helpful in replacing certain essential vitamins that you may have lost while previously vomiting.


If you can, try to drink liquids that are high in potassium and sodium. These are among the body's most important electrolytes.They are often lost when the body goes through the vomiting process.
Acceptable "clear" liquids include:

Weak tea
Bouillon
Apple juice
Sugar free sports drinks



, Coke syrup (the kind used in soda machines) may work in soothing your upset stomach, as might over the counter syrups like Emetrol. Children should have 1-2 teaspoons while adults should have 1-2 tablespoons.


While there is little science to back up the claim that coke syrup works, it has been used for generations in order to soothe upset stomachs. In fact, it was originally used as a stomach tonic.
Syrups like Emetrol can be safely used by children. Although it is often used by women who are pregnant, the manufacturer's guidelines recommend checking with your doctor before taking.
, Ginger has been a renowned nausea-buster for quite some time now, beating out dramamine in effectiveness in one particularly noteworthy study.You can purchase bagged ginger tea or brew your own ginger tea with honey, also called Tisane.


If you don't want warm tea but still want the soothing benefits of ginger, try drinking ginger ale. Pop open a can and let the carbonation die off first; remember that carbonation can upset an already fragile stomach, causing vomiting.Another option to try if you want ginger but can't stomach any fluids is to try candied ginger. Try nibbling on a small amount of candied ginger once every 45 minutes.

