 The warm water can feel soothing, and the salt can draw out the inflammation in your uvula. Don’t make the water hot – this can burn your throat and cause more damage. Add about 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoons of table salt to 8 ounces of warm water and mix it together until the salt dissolves.You can gargle with warm salt water up to three times a day, just be sure not to swallow the salt water. Too much salt in your body can cause other issues.;
, You can use any kind you like, but if you’re feeling really uncomfortable or having a hard time swallowing, the type of lozenge that has numbing effects might be best.You can look for sugar-free throat lozenges in stores - it's usually pretty clearly marked on the front of the bag or box if lozenges are sugar-free. These are great if you're feeling ill but have other health concerns like diabetes.
 The hot liquid can feel soothing on your throat. If you add a bit of honey to it, it can actually coat your throat a little bit, making it easier to swallow.Herbal tea is especially good for healing sore throats. Chamomile tea with a bit of honey will work well to relieve some of your pain.
You can also try a homemade cinnamon tea for soothing your throat. Mix 10 grams each of slippery elm bark and marshmallow root, 8 grams of dried cinnamon chips, 5 grams of dried orange peel, and 3 whole cloves in 3 cups (24 ounces) of water and simmer it for 20 minutes. Strain off the herbs and add a bit of honey if you like. You should drink all of the tea within 36 hours., The ice can decrease the swelling in your uvula a little bit. And the cold in your throat can help it feel a little bit numb and make it easier to swallow., A swollen uvula can have a lot causes – it might be from allergies, or a bacterial infection, or something more serious. See your doctor and tell them about your full list of symptoms. They can prescribe medicine to ease your symptoms and treat the underlying cause. Your doctor might need to take a swab of your throat to fully diagnose what’s causing your swollen uvula. Relax your throat as much as possible – try not to tense up at all – and it should be relatively easy to get through.
 Your doctor might prescribe an antibiotic to you if your swollen uvula is the result of an infection. Make sure you follow the directions for the prescription exactly. You have to take antibiotics at exactly the same time each day for the full amount of time recommended to get rid of the infection entirely.