 Since your guests’ tables will take up the most visual space in your reception venue, they’re a great place to use color blocking. There are many variations for using color blocking in table linens, and it will give your reception area a visual punch.For example, at each table, you could use one color table cloth and a contrasting color for the napkins.
You could also use the same color for all of the table linens, but make the chair covers a contrasting color.
You can also make each table its own color but have it contrast with the tables around it. So, for example, one table might have red napkins, a red table cloth, and red chair covers, but the tables on either side might be completely orange and completely yellow.
If you’re using one long table, instead of multiple smaller tables, break the table up into colored sections.
 When you’re designing the centerpieces for your tables – whether they’re flower arrangements or something else – follow the same theme as the rest of your table. It brings the color blocking theme to the whole table and also draws your guests’ eyes to the center.For example, if you have contrasting napkins and table cloth colors, match the centerpiece to the napkins. You'll have the most of the tablecloth color (since it's so big), and you’ll want the centerpiece to stand out. It also ties the whole table together.
You can also make the centerpieces match all of the linens on the table if you’re doing a monochromatic design at each table.
You also have the option of using all of the colors in your theme in the centerpieces. Arrange like colors together but feel free to use multiple colors. So you might have red roses, surrounded by yellow ribbons, and accented by orange stones.
 If you’re having a hors d’oeuvres or cocktail reception, you can still use color blocking. When you’re planning your food, consider what colors might come up. Then ask your catering company to arrange them according to color.


For example, you might arrange your smoked salmon appetizers so they are next to the grilled asparagus (pink and green are opposites on the color wheel).
You can also arrange appetizers according to complementary colors. So you could do a red appetizer like tomato bruschetta next to an orange appetizer like grilled apricots, which are next to a yellow appetizer like lemon mousse (these colors are next to each other on the color wheel., You can even incorporate color blocking into the drinks you serve at your wedding. Consider serving drinks with recipes that create different colors, or using differently colored sugar or salt rims on your glasses.For example, if you’re serving a red punch, you can provide your guests with glasses rimmed in purple, yellow, or orange sugar.
Even if the drinks aren’t set out ahead of time, you can color block the drinks available to your guests. You can ask the bartender to only serve certain cocktails – and you can plan the color of your cocktails to complement one another. This way, even half empty glasses on tables look great in your photos!

, The dessert table is usually one of the focal points of the reception. Your wedding cake – if you have one - can be color blocked. You can achieve this look by using one color per tier, so the outside of the cake reflects the color block theme. Or you can ask your baker to color block the inside of the cake by using colored layers of cake.If you’re doing an alternative to a wedding cake – cupcakes, or a candy bar, for example – you can still use color blocking. Simply group the same colors together. So you might have chocolate candies on your dessert table, but keep them grouped by foil color. The same goes for cupcake frosting.

