 Paper mache is a great for making a helmet that is 3-dimensional, hollow, durable and light-weight.While you can always buy a Darth Vader helmet from a toy store or costume store, making one from paper mache is easy and fun.You will need:


Newspaper
Paper mache mix (1 part flour to 5 parts water)
Saucepan
Mixing bowl
Balloon
3-4 empty cereal boxes
Masking tape
Recycled plastic container
Hot glue and glue gun
Black spray paint
High gloss spray varnish

, Mix together 1 part flour to 5 cups water in a Saucepan. Boil for three minutes and let cool. This method produces an even, smooth paste.You can also add equal parts water and flour, and then stir together in a mixing bowl.
Do not add salt to the mixture as it makes the paper mache difficult to mold.
 You will use the balloon to create the base of your paper mache sculpture/helmet. Inflate the balloon and place it in a plastic bucket to prevent it from moving around. Add a single layer of paper mache to the balloon by dipping strips of newspaper into the paste and sticking them directly onto the balloon. Let everything dry before starting the next step.


Paper mache can get messy. Use a flat working surface, such as a table or kitchen floor, and spread newspaper over the entire area before you begin.
 Build-up the face by cutting-out geometric shapes (squares, rectangles, triangles, and circles) and attaching them to the paper mache base using masking tape or hot glue. Once you are finished modeling Darth Vader's features with cardboard, add another layer of paper mache and let dry.


Don't forget to create a visor that sticks-out over the eyes and juts out from the side of the face.
Darth Vader breathes through a triangle-shaped respirator that projects out from his face and covers his nose and mouth.
 Carefully remove the bottom and back of the mask and use a pin to pop the balloon. Add additional paper mache to smooth out any rough edges or fill any gaps. Let dry before cutting-out two wide pie-shaped holes for the eyes, and a triangular hole in the respirator for the mouth.


Cut-out plastic strips from a recycled container and glue over the mouth to create the vented slats of the mouthpiece.
 Spray the entire helmet with black pray paint followed by a high gloss varnish. Poke a hole on either side of the helmet in the back string a piece of elastic through them to hold the mask in place.


After you are finished painting, use hot glue to attach lenses from old sunglasses over the eyes.

