 Success in affiliate marketing is all about finding and choosing a perfect niche. Indeed this is the most critical part of whole business. A niche is something you are passionate about or things that already sell, that have a substantial market and that have room for you to build a site. Anyhow to simplify the process there are two main tools for you to find your niche. Clickbank Marketplace and Amazon.com Research.



For clickbank marketplace,you should be looking for the products with a gravity of more than 30 and a commission ranging 20$ to 35$. The gravity score means that how many separate affiliates are selling the product within a certain time period.

With amazon, your goal here is to look for products with at least 20 reviews. People who actually bother to review on product are real and it’s something like 1 in 1,000. So, if a product has 20 reviews, you can estimate that more than 20,000 of that product have been purchased.;
, This is the part where many affiliate marketers start to stumble. But there are few tools and strategies you can use to make this a whole lot easier. Try to search your keywords with “product name” and “author name” because these types of keywords hold the most value than all others.



To get started,you can use basic forum research related to your niche and Google keyword tool for global monthly searches for specific keyword. You can also use some sort of keyword analysis tool like “Traffic Travis” to in depth analysis of keywords, competition, seo and building a large number of keyword lists.
 You won’t make a cent if you don’t get some visitors looking at your website. That’s the biggest thing of all that many affiliate marketers ignore and fails. Targeting a web traffic that converts to sale depends on many factors in which PPC, SEO, Banner Ads, Blogging, Forum Posting, and Article Writing are on top of all. By knowing the exact method and good preparation certainly leads to success in affiliate marketing.
 The key here is to get as high of a conversion rate as possible, the more people you can convince to buy your product when they hit your landing page the more your chances of making big commissions. There are many types of landing pages; you can have a squeeze page to get email addresses, a product review page, and a product authority site. No matter what kind of landing page you choose always use clickable images, links, relevancy to your content and flying popovers to get more exposure of your landing page.
 The most basic and important key is email marketing and list building, when it comes to making money with affiliate marketing. There is nothing more powerful than having someone’s email address and being able to contact them directly and ask them to check out an affiliate offer and converting that contact into sale. Popular email lists operating services are Aweber, Mail chimp and Get Response.
 It can be lucrative business. You can go from zero to 10k per month by following the plan you injected. Learning new tips, techniques and desire to adapt new things can be very helpful in becoming a super affiliate and making money within a few days.

