 If you don't want to write it yourself, hire someone to assist you or write it for you. Your business plan should include a variety of information about the business including how much money you need, the market and competition in the area, and how you plan to make it work. It should also include a potential time line for you to follow to ensure a smooth business opening.;
, File all necessary permits and licensing paperwork to begin legal operation. The actual requirements you must follow will vary greatly based on your chosen business structure and your location.
 You are liable for what your employees do on the job, including mistakes, accidents, injuries, and overall bad performance. Since you cannot directly supervise your employees, you must have good liability insurance.
 If you choose to operate the business from home, this can save you money on an office location but it also can make it more difficult to meet with prospective applicants. If you opt to run a business from an office building, scout potential locations, and secure the best option based upon your budget while also considering convenience for employees.
 Make sure you have a variety of jobs available to match to your potential applicants. Set your rate based on what the company is willing to offer you and what you will have to pay the employee. Your temp service may earn a flat rate per employee, but the rate may vary depending on positions you fill.
 You can't run a staffing agency without employees. Use several different methods including flyers, online listings, and word of mouth. Make use of free or inexpensive advertising methods until your business gets started, unless you have the capital for a larger advertising budget.
 If necessary, require a background check and drug test from all applicants to ensure you will offer quality applicants.
 You must be prepared to deal with your clients if you send them an employee who doesn't meet their expectations. Use your best judgment to determine whether this employee deserves a shot at another job with different company or be fired from your company completely.
