 The paper heart chain will create a line of identical hearts that are all connected together. This chain is quite easy and is a good project for kids., You can use any size paper, but the most convenient size to use is a standard letter size or A4 sheet of paper, from which you can make two chains of hearts. Choose a color that appeals to you and your preferences.


Fold and unfold the sheet of paper in half lengthwise. Cut along the crease to divide it into two even halves.






Be very careful to give young kids only blunt, child safe scissors to use.
You only need one half to complete the chain, but you can save the other half and use it to create a second chain, if desired.
 Starting from one short end of the paper, fold the strip back-and-forth, making each fold roughly 1.25 inches (3.175 cm) wide.


Vary this width according to your preferences. For a standard letter size sheet of paper, this width will create a chain of about four hearts. Wider folds will create fewer hearts.
Fold the paper over once.






On the next fold, fold the two-layer thick edge of paper under the rest of the paper.






Repeat this over-and-under folding pattern until the entire strip has been folded up.
 The middle of the heart should face the folded side of the top segment. The curved outer edge should go over the side of the paper.


In other words, the other edge will not be completely outlined. If you do complete the outline, the chain will fall apart once you cut it out. Do not cut this edge completely.
 Use sharp scissors to cut around the outline of the half-heart. Leave the paper tightly folded as you cut.


Make sure that there are some folded edges on both sides of the half heart shape. If you trim away or try to round out the outer edge of the heart, you will end up disconnecting the heart chain.
You can also cut out small section from the inside of the heart. These will create cutouts inside your hearts, similar to making a paper snowflake. Make sure that these cutouts do not alter the outside shape of the heart.
Always be careful when using scissors. Do not injure yourself and give children only child-safe scissors to use.
 Carefully unfold the segments to reveal a chain of connected hearts.
 There will usually be extra paper after the last heart. This will look like a partial or incomplete heart so it is best to simply remove this section.
 You can decorate the heart chain with paint, glitter, stickers, stamps, or just about anything else.


If you have made cutouts in your heart you can glue tissue paper or cellophane onto the back to create a stained glass effect.
For a longer chain, you can start out with a longer strip of paper or connect several smaller chains together with string or tape.







