 Set your oven for 400°F (204°C) degrees. If your oven doesn’t have a timer to indicate when it’s reached 400°F (204°C) degrees, use an oven thermometer. Just make sure to check the thermometer after five minutes or so to see if it’s ready.



 ;
, There are two different ways to make mini blender muffins, one which requires rolled oats and one that uses peanut butter. The recipe with rolled oats will have more of a muffin-like consistency. However, the recipe with peanut butter is simpler and uses only five ingredients. It’s up to you which recipe you’d like to follow! After you’ve measured everything out, mix all the dry ingredients into one bowl for easy pouring.You can also set your extra ingredients or add-ins aside. These are any fruits, nuts, or chocolate that you want to bake in with your muffins., You can use a standard blender or a food processor. However, a handheld blender may not work as well. There is no set order to putting ingredients in, but alternating wet and dry items might aid in the mixing process. Once you’ve added everything, blend until the mixture is smooth. This should take one to two minutes.
 Take a basic 12-piece mini-muffin tin and line each cup with parchment paper or cupcake liners. If you don’t have either of these, you can also spray the cupcake tin with cooking spray or oil. Once prepared, fill each cup with a portion of the muffin batter. As the muffins will rise while baking, try to fill each tin only halfway.
 Depending on the type of muffin you want, you can add-in whatever ingredients you like. For example, if you want blueberry muffins, stick a couple of blueberries into each portion of batter. You can also add chocolate chips, almonds, strawberries, apple slices, or just cinnamon. Or, if you want a little bit of everything, alternate ingredients throughout each cup. It’s up to you!, Once the oven is at 400°F (204°C) degrees, place the muffin tin in the center of the rack. Bake the muffins for around eight to ten minutes. Baking time can vary depending on the oven, so be sure to check your muffins by sticking a toothpick or fork in them. If you see muffin batter on the items when you pull them out, then your muffins need to cook longer.
 Once you’ve removed the muffins from the oven, leave them in their muffin tin to cool. This should take about five or six minutes. After that, feel free to remove the muffins from the tin and place them on a plate or platter. The muffins should also be ready for eating at this time.

