 You don't need an encyclopedia on the family, but you should know if there are any topics to avoid around the dinner table. Be inquisitive -- what do her parents do? what hobbies do they enjoy? are there any special circumstances to be aware of? Showing you care enough to ask questions will make everyone's experience much smoother.


Does she know any common ground you might have with her family or places where you might naturally find conversation?
Is there anything you can bring as a small "thank you" gift? While a bottle of wine is the classic choice, it won't go over well if they don't drink or you're a minor.
 Even if they refuse, it is the thought that counts. To be a truly considerate guest, just start helping clear the table once dinner is over, taking the initiative and showing your respect. While you aren't there to become a temporary handyman, just asking if you can lend a hand will go a long way., It will look a little strange if you're suddenly distant with your girl. While you don't want to be lewd, holding her hand occasionally or putting an arm around her is a simple, sweet way to show your affection.


Check in with her if you think her family would frown on any physical contact. If you're in doubt, let her initiate anything and just follow her lead., You're going to be nervous or stressed, and that is okay. But don't convince yourself that you need to shape your behavior to become a "perfect" partner -- they don't exist. Mind your manners, introduce yourself with a smile and firm handshake, and then be yourself. Imagine you're meeting a professor or teacher for the first time, or a new business contact, instead of your potential in-laws.


Tell stories about yourself, be honest about your goals and hopes, and don't be afraid to crack a low-key joke or two if it feels right. Stop second-guessing every action and just be yourself., If a new food is put in front of you, try it with a smile. When the family has a moment of prayer, bow your head respectfully, even if you don't share their faith. Your overriding principle is to just "go with the flow." You are being welcomed into their family, so accept that invitation with open arms.


The more you learn about a girl's family, the more you also learn about her.
This doesn't mean you need to lie or change your personal beliefs in order to fit in. It simply means trying to listen and learn instead of making things about you.