 One of the main benefits of an LLC, as opposed to a partnership, is that members of the LLC are not personally liable for the company, meaning your personal finances are not held responsible for things that go wrong with the company. Also, LLCs do not have as many requirements as corporations, which are required to hold annual meetings., When registering to be an LLC, you'll need an official name. The name should be inline with your brand and industry. In addition, it should not already be used in the state of Utah, and it should not be a copyrighted name.The name must include "Limited Liability Company," "limited company," "L.C.," "LC," "LLC," or "L.L.C."Certain words are restricted, and you must get permission first to use them, including "doctor" and "bank." You must fill out additional paperwork and meet certain guidelines to use these words in your name.You can check if the name has been used by visiting Utah's Business Search website, located under the Division of Corporations and Corporate Code., The registered agent is the person in your company who is the main contact with the state. It can also be a company as a whole, such as a corporation that is already in business.You want this person to be someone who will be with the company for a long while. It shouldn't be a temporary person.
It should also be someone who is a resident of Utah or at least allowed to do business in the state., While you can fill out the application yourself, it's always best to have the advice of a lawyer when forming a company. Any type of lawyer that deals with business law should be fine.If you're not sure to employ, ask for recommendations from other people you know in business.
 To fill out the application online, you'll need to create a personal account. Basically, you'll need to give some basic information, such as your name and email address. You'll also need to create a username and password., It's easiest and fastest to fill out the form online. You will need to fill in the registered agent, the name of your business, the mailing address of your business, and the name of your members with addresses.You can also fill out a physical form. You can find the form online at corporations.utah.gov/pdf/llcdomestic.pdf.
You can also fill in the duration of your business if you plan to close it after a certain period, as well as the purpose of your business, but these two pieces of information are optional., Once you've filled in all your information, submit the form. Online, it's as simple as clicking a button.If you want, you can also bring the form in in person, mail it, email it, or fax it. You can walk it in to the Heber M. Wells building at 160 E. 300 S., 2nd Floor, Salt Lake City, UT 84111 or mail it to Utah Division of Corporations & Commercial Code, PO Box 146705, Salt Lake City Utah 84114-6705. Use (801) 530-6438 for faxes or corpucc@utah.gov for email.If you also want a Certificate of Organization, you can request one by mailing in a second copy of the form. You also need to include a return envelope and return postage., To complete the application, you need to pay a one-time fee. As of 2015, it is $70.00. If you pay by check or money order, make the payment out to the State of Utah.The fee is subject to change at the state's discretion.
 It generally takes a week to 10 days for your application to be processed. If you've waited longer than 2 weeks, try contacting the Utah Division of Corporations and Corporate Code. However, if you file online, the registration can happen much quicker, as fast as 24 hours., You can use the same portal you used to create your LLC to register your business with the local and state tax commissions. You can also use it to register with the Utah Labor Commission, the Utah Department of Commerce, the Utah Department of Workforce Services, and the Utah Department of Environmental Quality., The Employer Identification Number is for tax purposes. Basically, if you are operating a business with employees, you need an EIN.An employer identification number (EIN) is a nine-digit number assigned by the IRS. The IRS uses the number to identify taxpayers who are required to file various business tax returns.
 The easiest way to fill in the application is online at https://www.irs.gov/Businesses/Small-Businesses-&-Self-Employed/Apply-for-an-Employer-Identification-Number-%28EIN%29-Online. You will need to fill in basic information about your company, including how many people are in your LLC, the state, and the address of your business., Once you submit the application, you are done. In fact, you should receive an EIN as soon as you are done with the application. Make sure you write down the EIN in a safe place., It is important to keep the confirmation for your records. Print it off so you have a copy on hand. Keep it with your important business papers.Also, make sure your lawyer and tax accountant have a copy.

