 For this project, you will need a pair of garden shears or sharp scissors, floral tape, and floral wire. You will also need a roll of pliable twine covered wire and a roll of plain twine or ribbon., Choose 2 or 3 types of flowers for your crown. Roses, daisies, violets, tulips, and lavender are great options! Select 1 to 2 filler flowers. Try baby’s breath or fresh pine. Cut 8 to 12 sprigs of each flower and filler flower. Make sure each stem is approximately 3 inches long., Wrap the twine covered wire once around your head. Place a finger where the pliable twine meets and remove it from your head. Grab the shears or scissors and cut the twine several inches longer than you need it. Form a small loop at each end of the wire. Twist each loop closed. You will slip a piece of ribbon through the loops to tie the crown shut.








Consider wrapping floral tape around the twisted part to hide it and keep it from catching onto your hair.
 Combine 4 or 6 stems of flowers and filler flowers together to form a small bouquet. Make sure the mini arrangement looks good from multiple angles. Start wrapping your arrangement at the base of the flowers. Tightly wrap the tape downwards to the ends of the stems. Create 6 to 7 more unique mini bouquets.The mini arrangements don’t all have to look alike. Put together unique combinations!

, Grab the piece of pliable twine with the loops on the ends. Place 1 mini arrangement parallel to the twine—the end of the stem should be located at the base of the left loop. Wrap a piece of floral wire around the stems of the small bouquet and the pliable twine.








In order to make the floral tape sticky, you have to stretch it a bit.
 Working from left to right, slide the stems of the next mini arrangement under the flowers of the secured mini bouquet. Wrap a piece of floral wire around the stems of the small bouquet and the pliable twine. Continue adding mini arrangements to the pliable twine until you have reached the right loop.
 Cut a 2 foot piece of twine or ribbon. Thread the ribbon or twine through the two loops and tie a loose bow. Place the crown on your head and adjust the crown’s size. After adjusting the crown to the proper size, tie the ribbon or twine in a double knot. Enjoy your fresh floral crown!







