 Your brain chemistry is responsible for who and what you’re attracted to. In fact, according to experts, physical attraction works a lot like addiction: both stimulate brain chemicals like dopamine and oxytocin.Even if he’s not into you, it doesn’t mean there’s anything wrong with you: it’s all down to the chemicals.


Research suggests that our brains can tell within one second whether we’re physically attracted to someone or not.;
, When people are physically attracted to someone, they often show it through body language. Most body language connected to attraction communicates two basic messages: “I’m available” and “I’m into you.”


“Available” body language cues are actions such as smiling, eye contact, and arms and legs that are relaxed and uncrossed.“Fertility” cues (the ones that signal that the person is a potential mate) for guys include actions such as standing straight, calling attention to the hands, and squaring the shoulders.If he leans in while he’s talking or listening to you, or tilts his head towards you, it’s a good bet that he’s into you.Good news: women tend to be better at reading body language than men., See how he holds himself when he’s around you. Men tend to physically take up more space when they want to display themselves as powerful and attractive, so if he’s sitting with his legs spread apart or standing with his shoulders squared, it may be a sign that he subconsciously wants to impress you.


If his legs and feet are pointed towards you, it may also be a sign that he’s interested in you., Men who are interested in a woman also tend to physically interact more with other guys. If your crush and his buddies are hanging out with you and he playfully bumps, shoves, or elbows his friends a lot (especially if they don’t do the same), he may be trying to signal that he’s the dominant guy in the pack and wants you to check him out., When people find someone attractive, their bodies undergo some automatic responses that display that attraction. Knowing what to look for can help clue you in to how he really feels about you.


Flushed cheeks suggest arousal. (This is the reason some women choose to wear blush; it mimics the natural flushing of sexual excitement.) Some people also blush when they’re feeling awkward or uncomfortable, though, so don’t rely exclusively on reddened cheeks to tell you whether he likes you.Lips also tend to get redder and more plump if someone is aroused. If he licks his lips when he’s around you, he might be subconsciously signaling you that he’s up for a kiss., Our pupils tend to dilate when we’re physically excited, so if his pupils are bigger than usual, it might be an unconscious signal that he likes you. Winking is another cue that is often associated with attraction., Smiling can mean that he enjoys being around you. However, pay attention to which muscles move when he smiles. If only the muscles around the mouth move, the smile probably isn’t genuine, and it could signal that he’s trying to hide discomfort or awkwardness.There’s a reason why Tyra Banks is always telling her protegees to “smile with your eyes.” Smiles that appear genuine will involve muscles around the eyes as well as around the mouth.
 People who are really attracted to someone will try to incorporate physical contact into their interactions. If he casually brushes your arm while he’s talking to you or goes in for a hug without invitation, he may be interested in you.


Understand that some people are just naturally more into touching than others. Some touching, such as a handshake or a shoulder push, may just be “friendly” territory. Other types of touching, such as on the forearm, around the shoulder, near the waist, or on the face, are more likely to be connected to attraction.