 There are a variety of skin “resurfacing” procedures that will remove wrinkles and tone your skin. In these, light or radio frequency sources destroy the outer layer of skin (the epidermis) and heat the underlying layer (the dermis), stimulating new collagen growth. The skin then heals and comes back younger-looking and tighter than before.Laser treatment is often “ablative,” which means that it causes wounds. The laser will either remove skin precisely, layer by layer, or destroy the top layers altogether.
Ablative laser treatment may take several months of healing and carry the risk of scars. However, it can also reduce the likelihood of changes in skin pigmentation.
 There are also “non-ablative” skin treatments that use light, but not normal lasers. These include intense pulsed light (IPL), infrared lasers, and phototherapy. Non-ablative procedures take less time to heal and have fewer risks. However, they also offer subtler results.IPL can target pigment on your skin to remove blemishes or discoloration, for example.
Infrared and other non-ablative lasers can also resurface the skin, promoting new and healthier skin to grow.
Keep in mind that you may need to repeat non-ablative procedures more often than ablative ones.
 Still another option is radio frequency skin tightening. This procedure uses electromagnetic wave frequencies to heat your skin, stimulating new tissue and collagen growth and reducing the appearance of wrinkles. Ideally, it will tone your skin.Some treatments use a mix of radio frequency and light source energies, like Syneron. This is a non-invasive therapy that can improve fine lines but also blemishes, redness, and the appearance of small veins.
 Botox is made from a form of the botulinum toxin and is an injectable, FDA approved filler for wrinkles and facial lines. It can also treat crows feet, forehead creases, wrinkling of the chest, and sagging bands of skin on the neck for a smoother, younger look.Consult with a dermatologist or cosmetic surgeon about whether you are a candidate for Botox injections. It is usually safe for men and women aged 18 to 70 years old.
Botox works fast. You should notice results within 5 to 7 days after the injection, which will last several months. Botox is also minimally invasive.
Be aware of side effects, though. Some patients report headaches, temporary numbness at the injection site, and nausea. Also, you may have less range of expression because Botox works by stopping muscles from contracting.
 Both of these treatments involve “planing” and removing top layers of skin with a rotating brush, letting the underlying layer grow up in its place and resulting in smoother, tighter skin. Like ablative and non-ablative laser treatments, abrasions can be more or less aggressive.Talk to your dermatologist about dermabrasion. This procedure is more aggressive and will yield better results. However, you should expect to have redness and maybe scabbing that can last for several weeks. Pinkness can linger for a few months.
Microdermabrasion only targets the very top layer of skin. You won’t see as much irritation, but you’ll also have to repeat the procedure several times to see results – as many as 16 times. The benefits are more modest and temporary.
 During a chemical peel, a doctor will apply a mild acid to your skin to remove the top layers. This burning should remove scars and blemishes but also wrinkles, and will rejuvenate the skin. The peel stimulates new skin cells to grow, tightening the skin and making it look fresher.You can get chemical peels on certain areas of your face, forehead, hands, and chest. You may also need a series of peels.
Expect to need about 5 to 7 days to heal from the peel. You may notice redness and irritation, as if your skin is sunburned.

