 A monarch butterfly habitat might be a good option. If you cover the place (with an object) it needs to have air holes so the grasshopper can still breathe. You also need to make sure the place is large enough for them to hop around. They love to jump.;
, Do not put the male parent in with the grasshopper, especially if the baby is a male. The father might kill them. Also, the female dies after laying eggs so don't expect them to meet their mommy.
 It will need a lot of fresh grass, which should be replaced daily (Replace it without letting the grasshopper out unless you have another cage/etc for this purpose.


You actually should have one in case the grasshopper gets sick and you need an isolation area for it, mainly only if you plan on giving it a companion later though.). You should also put a source of water that it won't drown in in the habitat.
A good example would be, a small bowl with a few pieces of ice in it. Replace the ice every time it melts and empty the bowl of water so they don't drown! Also, put in some things like sticks and/or mulch to climb, because they love to climb, too.
Make sure you also add some treats for the grasshopper (their favorite foods are soft plants like dandelions). Add some soft soil in as well if you plan on breeding the grasshopper; a female will lay its eggs in the soil.
 Insect poop is called "frass". If you find any frass in the habitat, clean it up. A grasshopper's frass is a little smaller than mouse poop and looks a lot like mouse droppings.
 Grasshoppers normally eat half their body weight in a day. This may vary depending on the species of grasshopper, and the individual insect. If they stop eating look up any illness they might have. They could be close to death especially if they are old.
 Once it reaches the stage of being an older nymph - the stage where it has wing pads but no wings yet and is big enough to see if it jumps off of you - you can let it climb on your finger. You should not do this when it is a baby or adult, because it can easily escape!


You can pick it up by putting your finger between its front legs and letting it climb on. Don't pick it up as if your fingers are tweezers or it will spit a brown liquid on you! That spit can cause eye infections, diarrhea, etc. If it jumps off find it and get it again, then place it back in the habitat.
You should socialize your insect before handling it very far away from the cage. This means you have to get it used to being held a lot. Let it sunbathe while on your finger since they like to sunbathe.
 Get to know your grasshopper. If it starts acting unlike itself, assume it's an illness and then research healing methods and try one.
