 Hospice care may not be one of life’s certainties like “death and taxes,” but it is becoming an increasingly common element of the end-of-life experience. We all know the end will come eventually, so look past the unpleasantness of planning for death and prepare ahead of time in order to ensure the best care possible.Talk about your wishes, or with a loved one about theirs, regarding potential end-of-life care. If a serious illness occurs that could lead to hospice care, begin looking into options in your area. Talk to physicians, insurers, community organizations, friends and co-workers, etc. The more information you can gather before the emotional turmoil of an end-of-life situation begins, the better.
Often times if one is diagnosed with a chronic illness that can not cured, but can be managed with medical treatments, there are palliative care programs that can bridge the gap. If the person's life expectancy is longer than six months, but the condition requires certain care to help manage the illness, then this would is a good option before the person must enter hospice.;
, Hospice care in its modern form has only really existed for about half a century, but the options have grown significantly in recent years as it has become a recognized component of the continuum of care. Whereas hospice care once was primarily the realm of charitable organizations and “mom-and-pop” operations, it has become a significant and profitable industry.Many major hospitals and health centers have programs dedicated to hospice and palliative care.


Don’t just accept a hospice recommendation or assume you don’t have a choice. You have many options for hospice, and it is important you find a good fit. Hospice is a service that encompasses a very delicate time in one's life and the "fit" between providers has to ensure that when the patient dies, her loved ones will be guided into the process that must be completed afterwards. Don't be pushed or bullied into choosing a hospice service you don't trust.
 If and when the time comes to seek hospice care, your physician(s) and other healthcare providers can and should play important roles in the process. First and foremost, you typically need a terminal diagnosis before being eligible for hospice care. Beyond that, though, your healthcare providers can often provide guidance on the types of hospice settings and care options that may be right for your situation.In the U.S. in particular, your medical insurance provider and/or Medicare will also play important roles in the process. Hospice care is covered by Medicare and most insurance plans — with some restrictions, limits, and “hoops to jump through,” of course. So long as your hospice options meet the criteria for coverage, however, the choice should be yours.
Usually, hospice services initiated by the hospital are recommended by the case management personnel and social workers. They can assist with much of the paperwork so the sole responsibility is not on the family member or patient.
Often times, the referral for hospice comes just days prior to the patient dying, and the true service of hospice was not utilized to it's full potential. By obtaining hospice care sooner rather than later, the family and patient can make the most of their time together and ensure that the patient is pain free and comfortable in his last months.
 Traditionally, hospice care has occurred in the terminal patient’s home, with providers coming to the home to offer regular assistance and support to the patient and the primary caregivers (usually family members). Increasingly, though, hospice care has expanded beyond the home setting as well.If you will need hospice care in a hospital, nursing home, or long-term care facility, look into providers that specialize in those types of settings. Some providers now operate specialized hospice care centers, so that may be another option as well.
If staying at home is a priority for you, look for providers that will respect and support that decision and provide whatever assistance they can to make that happen.
 While smaller hospice operations can often provide more personalized care, larger ones often have more staff, resources, and technology available. There are always exceptions, however, so don't just assume any smaller or larger hospice service will meet your care preferences. Investigate and ask questions.Consider staff-to-patient ratios as well, for small and large hospice programs alike. Ideally, any single care provider should not have a caseload of more than twelve patients at any one time.
Keep distance in mind as well. How far away are the providers? (That is, how long will it take them to get to your home when you need them?) Or, if you will not remain at home, how far away is the hospice center? (How long of a trip will it be for loved ones?)
Do you prefer a hospice provider that is affiliated with a specific religious organization, one that provides spiritual support that respects a wide range of belief systems, or neither of these? Essentially, consider what role religion/faith/spirituality will play in the final days, and how a hospice provider can respect and support that preference., You can do all your homework, listen to the best advice, ask all the right questions, and still sometimes find out that you made the wrong hospice choice. You have the right to change your mind and choose a new provider — it may take some extra work with your insurer to ensure continued coverage, but it is manageable and usually worthwhile.Sadly, when it comes to hospice care, “the clock is ticking.” If you feel like you or a loved one is not in the right situation, don’t wait around to see if it improves. Ensure that you get the end-of-life care you deserve for as much of your last phase of life as possible.
 Some hospice providers have been around for decades, while others pop up overnight and seem to disappear just as quickly. While longevity does not always equal superior quality, you are more likely to have a positive experience with a provider that has ample experience and has earned proper recognition for its services.You should always give preference to a hospice provider that has earned accreditation by a national organization (such as the Joint Commission); certification by Medicare (for insurance and payment purposes); and proper licensure (if required where you live — laws vary in the United States).
 Good hospice care is predicated on personal relationships between caregivers and patients. Before choosing a hospice service, talk to the people in charge and those who will actually be providing the care. Make sure they view the goals and process of care in a similar manner to you, and seem sincere about wanting to provide exceptional end-of-life care.


Speak to the administrator(s) regarding the overall philosophy, resources, and other information you want to know about that hospice provider. Get a tour of the facility (if applicable), or a detailed breakdown of the care process. Ask for references from organizations that work with this provider.Ask about the experience, training, and certification of the staff. Ideally, every member of the staff that deals with a terminal patient should be certified in hospice care and have a solid combination of experience and training.Ensure that the hospice provider has certified staff on call 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Ask to speak to some or all of the care providers. Conduct informal interviews if you desire, or at least get a feel for the type of people that work for this hospice provider.
 A detailed care plan tailored to the individual patient should be a standard element of any hospice care provider. The provider should be eager to work with you, your family, and members of the “hospice team” to develop and implement this plan.A “hospice team” can include your physician; the hospice physician or medical director; nurses; home healthcare workers; social workers; clergy or counselors; volunteers; and therapists.
In many instances, the family will play a central role in the care of the terminal patient. Ask for a detailed breakdown of the family’s expected role in providing care and support. This is especially true if care is delivered within your home. Family members are often are the main caregivers, with hospice personnel rounding on several patients throughout the day.
The hospice caregiver is also "on call" for urgent situations, such as if pain is uncontrolled, breathing becomes labored, or the patient passes away.
Ask, for instance, about options for “respite care,” which essentially offers primary caregivers (usually family) a few days off from the mental and physical stress by placing the patient in temporary, full-time care.This can be done through local hospital as well. Hospice personnel can help set this into motion if the main caregiver/family member needs a break.
 Qualified hospice care is covered by Medicare and most private insurers in the U.S., but there may be insurance co-pays and deductibles to deal with, for instance with medications and respite care. Make sure you understand how the billing process works and what kind of arrangements can be made regarding payments.Your insurer will have to be part of this conversation as well, as you work to determine what will be covered and how much of the cost will be your responsibility. The hospice provider should have ample experience in dealing with insurers, and be able to offer some guidance.
Hospice providers will also normally accept private payments (without insurance involvement), should your circumstances dictate it. In all cases but most certainly in these, get all payment terms, conditions, and processes put in writing and explained clearly.
 The end of life, like the rest of life, often doesn’t go according to plan. Ask about how the hospice provider will adapt and adjust to changing circumstances during the period of care. For instance:


If the patient can no longer remain at home despite that being the original plan, what alternatives are available? Does the provider have a dedicated care center, or space in a hospital?Is the hospice service willing and able to offer or support treatments like blood transfusions, supplemental oxygen, feeding tubes, emergency hospital visits, and even chemotherapy or radiation strictly for pain management and patient comfort? Alternatively, do they understand and support the patient’s advance directives regarding limits of care?On a more practical level, is the hospice provider ready to deal with power outages, severe weather, and other emergency situations? Ask to see their emergency plan., You might assume that hospice care will be there right up to the end, but that is not always the case. If you want hospice care and support right up to the moment of death (and even a bit beyond), or if you prefer for them to “back off” at the very end, be clear about your expectations and ask about their policies.Some hospice providers may even provide assistance with funeral planning and other postmortem services. Again, be clear about your preferences and expectations, and ask about their policies regarding the end of end-of-life care.

