 When asthma for cats flare up, the cat's lungs swell and constrict. This can make breathing difficult for the cat. However, because cats tend to hide any ailments they have, it may be hard to spot this problem. If your cat shows any of these symptoms, it could possibly have asthma.Persistent coughing
Wheezing
Lethargy
Persistent gagging
Open-mouthed breathing
A crouched position while wheezing or coughing;
, Cats are not typically born with asthma, as it is thought to be caused by an immune response to allergens the cat inhales. Your cat may develop asthma at between 1 and 8 years old, however most cats are diagnosed between the ages of 4 and 5. Pay closer attention to your cat in these years if you feel it is at risk for asthma.Of course, you can't spend every waking moment observing your cat in these years. However, if you suspect your cat is at risk of asthma, it is most likely to crop up in these years.
 If you suspect your cat to have feline asthma, take it to be seen a veterinarian. The veterinarian will do a thorough exam and will pay special attention to your cat's respiratory system. Do not try to self diagnose if you do not have the credentials to do so. You may end up diagnosing wrong ailment and, by extension, treating it incorrectly.
 While there is not one specific test for diagnosing asthma, there are a variety of tests that your veterinarian will use in combination to come to come up with a diagnosis. By using radiographs, bronchoscopy, and computed tomography, in combination with tests of cells from your cat's lungs, the veterinarian will be able to see the state of your cat's lungs and the extent of its condition.A bronchoscopy is a procedure that is used to view the inside of your cat's airway. It will allow the veterinarian to examine all the parts of the cat's respiratory system.
Computed tomography, commonly called a CT scan, is a detailed imaging process that gives detailed images of parts of the body.
 Depending on the extent of your cat's condition, treatment will vary. Your veterinarian may prescribe corticosteroids to reduce inflammation and make it easier for the cat to breath. However, these are not typically used for long-term treatment. They may also prescribe bronchodilators, which open up the airway and are commonly used to control asthma.Your veterinarian may give your cat a dose of the medications they prescribe right away. After that first dose, it will be your responsibility to continue its treatment at home.
Both corticosteroids and bronchodilators come in a variety of different forms. Your cat may be prescribed an oral, inhaled, or injected medication.
 Smoking around a cat with asthma can may make their condition worse and it could even be fatal to a cat with severe asthma. Because it is believed that asthma in cats is caused by environmental allergens, smoking around your cat could cause your cat to develop this condition. Thus, even if your cat doesn't have asthma, it is a bad idea to smoke around it., Excess weight can make your cat's asthma worse, as obesity alone can diminish your cat's respiratory health. It can increase your cat's blood pressure and put unnecessary stress on its respiratory system. In order to avoid this, be sure not to over-feed your cat and make sure that it gets daily exercise.Play with your cat often to give it consistent exercise. This does not need to be strenuous exercise, but it should get your cat's blood flowing and its respiratory system engaged. Having it exercise in this way will strengthen it's lungs and improve its breathing over time.
However, be careful to not overexert your cat. Keep an eye on it and if you see signs that it is having trouble breathing, discontinue your activity.
 Scented litter should not be used for cats with asthma. Also eliminate the use of scented home products, such as perfume, air fresheners, and hairspray if you have a cat with asthma.


If you need to freshen the air in your home, consider using a non-scented air purifier instead of scented products. This will have the added benefit of clearing pollen out of your home in addition to freshening it up.

