 Make it easier for you to examine your body for any spots, moles, or bumps by standing in front of a large full body mirror. Do this in a room with good light. If you have access to a full body mirror that is on a stand, this would work best.You may also want to have a small hand mirror close by to make it easier for you to examine specific areas on your body.
You can also ask someone to help you examine your body up close, such as a partner or a family member.;
, When you examine your body, look for spots, moles, or bumps that could be cancerous. Moles are often brown or black in color and may appear as one or in a cluster. Spots and bumps may appear red, brown, or black.


Check for any spots or bumps that are new on your body as well as spots, moles, or bumps that you have had for a long time.
You may have birthmarks on your body that are at risk of becoming cancerous, so they should also be checked.
 Stand in front of the mirror with your arms raised at your sides. You can be naked or wear underwear. Look at your chest and stomach for any spots, moles, or bumps. Bend your elbows and check your forearms. Then, lift your arms and examine your underarms and armpits. Make sure you also check your wrists, fingers, and palms.You should also examine your face, neck and scalp. Make sure you look at the front and the back of your neck. Use the small hand mirror to examine your scalp, parting your hair as you do so.
 Stand in front of the mirror with your back to it and look over your shoulder. Examine your lower back as well as your butt. Then, sit down on a chair and check the front and back of your legs. Look at the tops of your feet.You should also lift up your feet and check the soles of your feet. Look at each toe as well as between each toe.
 Start by examining the spot for any shades of brown or black. Some cancerous spots will have patches of pink, red, white, or blue. They are usually not the same color all over.You may also notice a mole or birthmark where one part is not the same color as the other part.
 Look at the border of the spot to see if they appear irregular, ragged, blurred, or notched. Notice if the spot is ¼ inch across or larger, about the size of the pencil eraser. The shape of the spot may also change over time, becoming larger., The spot may be irritated or swollen, or become more so over time. It may also painful or tender to the touch.You should also take note if the spot starts to ooze, bleed, or becomes scaly.
Sometimes, cancerous spots become red or tender beyond the border of the mole or birthmark.
 Notice if you develop a spot that does not heal or scab over. The spot may also appear different in size, color, and texture than other spots on your body, such as a mole or birthmark., Different skin cancers appear in different areas and have different appearances. For instance:Basal cell carcinoma usually occurs on areas of the skin exposed to the sun, like the neck or face. It appears as a pearly or waxy bump, or a flat flesh-colored or brown scar-like lesion.
Squamous cell carcinoma also occurs on areas of the skin exposed to the sun, such as the ears, face, and hands. It appears as a firm, red nodule or a flat lesion with a scaly, crusted surface.
Melanoma can develop anywhere on the body. Signs include a large brown spot with darker speckles; a mole that changes in color or size; a small lesion with irregular borders and areas of red, white, blue, or blue-black; and dark lesions on your palms, finger tips, the soles of your feet, or toes.
 If you are concerned about certain spots on your body, make an appointment with your doctor. The doctor can then examine the spots more closely. They will look for moles, birthmarks, or spots that could be cancerous.You will need to remove your clothing so the doctor can do the physical exam of your entire body, from head to toe.
 The doctor may do a biopsy on any suspicious spots, moles, or bumps. They will take a small sample of the spot and bring it to a lab for testing.The biopsy will allow the doctor to determine if cancerous cells are present, and if so, what type of cancer is present.
 If the doctor confirms you have skin cancer, they will do more tests to determine the stage of the cancer. The doctor will then recommend treatment based on the stage of the cancer.The main form of treatment for skin cancer is surgery to remove the cancerous spot or spots. In some cases where the cancer covers a wide area of your skin, you may also need radiotherapy or chemotherapy.

