 You've probably collected dozens of pictures of you and your friend together throughout the years. Putting them all together in a photo album is a wonderful way to commemorate your friendship and give your friend a keepsake to take to his or her new home.


If you have digital photos, print them out on photo paper and use a scissors to cut them out.
Pick out a photo album from the store - you can find inexpensive albums at drugstores - or make your own if you're the crafty type.
Write captions underneath the photos. You can write about what you remember from the day the photo was taken, or write down inside jokes the two of you share.
You can create an online photo album instead. That way, both of you will have a copy,;
, This is a classic way to show a friend you care. Friendship bracelets are trendy, thoughtful gifts for both boys and girls, and they're not hard to make. Go to a craft store and buy some embroidery thread, then braid or weave it in a colorful pattern. Tie the ends together and clip the excess thread.


Make matching bracelets, one for you and one for your friend, so that you'll think of each other when you look at them.
You can buy friendship bracelets or necklaces made from silver or gold if you want to go for something more expensive. Choose the classic broken heart halves (one for you, the other for your friend) or a variety of other available designs.
 Moving to a new place can be hard. Chances are your friend will need several weeks to get adjusted, and she won't feel at home for a long time. Giving her a care package filled with things that remind her of home will help her feeling comforted when she's missing you and her old town.


Choose a container for the package. You can decorate a box, use a gift bag, or repurpose a tote bag or purse.
Add a few things that represent your hometown. You could include incense or candles from your favorite shop, a book from the bookstore where you've always hung out together, or a mug from the coffee shop where you met before school.
Include some tasty comfort foods. Make your friend a batch of cookies to enjoy on the flight to her new city, or slip in an array of her favorite candy.

