 If you keep getting the same answers or comments, such as "Yeah", "Mmm" or a disinterested, "really, right" chances are the person you are talking to finds you, or your topic of conversation boring.;
, A person who is bored might simply respond with one- or two-word questions such ask "When?" or "For what?". An interested person who isn't finding you boring will ask you more complicated questions, such as: "When did that happen?," or "Was it a good experience?" and will normally ask for more details.
 If you are being asked more and more questions, then the person you are talking to is probably really interested in your conversation; if they are not they won't ask many questions at all.
 Do you get interrupted when you are talking? Do people try to change the subject when you're in conversation with them? Do people talk over you and appear not to be really listening to you. For example:


Wiki- Last night I watched that show it was really cool and
Wiki(2) - But listen..
Wiki- And those peoples were dancing.
Wiki(2)- OK so.
 Bored people will not express an opinion on what you are saying and may try to change the subject and offer their opinions on unrelated subjects.
 If a person is changing the topic, like if you are talking about your pet, and the person suddenly asks a question like, "Did you saw Jackson's performance?" then, could be you they are getting bored with you or your conversation.
 People with a good connection generally turn to face each other. A person who is partially turned away isn't fully embracing the conversation.
 Are they making less eye-contact?

, If they make quick response (maybe after five seconds) then the person isn't getting bored but if the person takes longer, then he/she might be getting bored.
 Remember, though, not everyone finds everything interesting. Hopefully you have developed some passions in your life that others will find interesting. Figure out your passion or explore something new.
 Thinking twice is a good habit, but try not to think too much. Just think twice. It's okay to just say what you first think of some times, ideally, think twice, make sure what you're going to say makes sense, and say it! Try not to stand there thinking of twenty different ways to say something before you say it, especially if all you were planning on saying was, "We have to do this, right?" So, the point is:


Try more to say what comes to mind first in conversations. This leads to more energetic and spontaneous chats.
 Be happy. Laugh sometimes. If you pride yourself on your ability to be “realistic" don’t get your hopes up, view life as it’s nothing to be proud of.
 Tease people, joke and be cool. Often shy and socially insecure people try to be “perfect” socially so no one has a reason to criticize them. Some people could find this boring.
 Don't talk too much. Listening should be there too. In Short, talk and listen. Do both equally or, some people believe the reason why we have one mouth and two ears is so we talk half as much as we listen!

, Don't look down and talk to your boots! If you lack good eye contact people assume you aren't really interested in the interaction.
 Being interesting is what being real is. Our unrealistic beliefs about ourselves cause us to create meanings that aren't true. In other words, you believe you are boring so your mind finds “evidence” of this even when it doesn't exist.
 They may just be really struggling to understand you and being a little lazy about making any effort to get you to clarify what you are saying.
 Don't believe that a person who finds one conversation with you a little on the dull side, thinks that you yourself are a boring person.

