 There are no easy ways to distinguish between likely and unlikely prospects (see "Tips" below), so avoid making assumptions based on first impressions. Seemingly inaccessible 18-to-21-year olds are often very interested in exploring an older partner, because their experiences with younger partners has been unsatisfying. Likewise, seemingly aroused and flirtatious teens might actually bear deeper moral perspectives that will ultimately stifle the relationship. Trust your instincts and proceed with calm confidence.;
, Young adults are accustomed to being condescended to - so much so, in fact, that being treated with respect and camaraderie will often impress them, and bring them to their full potential as adult communicators. Catch your love interest by surprise with admiration and acknowledgement, make him/her feel strong and important. The use of gifts can also be used to make him/her feel special and loved (e.g. flowers, stuffed toys, tickets to concerts, phone credit, gift cards etc)

, Don't appear fixated or pay too much attention. Don't try to isolate her/him from her surroundings or peers - this is a common mistake in seduction of any kind. Your goal is to empower, not disempower.
 In that case, be a resource for maturity. Be a resource for honesty, self-expression, and clarity of intention. Let the teen empower you as well, showing your flaws. Be willing to give up authority. If you can't learn from this person, why are you wasting your time? Form a respectful, mutually-empowering friendship before moving forward.
 Seem indifferent to the fear, being neither pushy nor stand-off-ish. Give space, but don't react overtly. People who are afraid deserve space.
 You are in a position to help them learn, expand their horizons and introduce them to experiences that may not be able to encounter with the help of someone with a little more maturity (and maybe money). Don't force them to do anything they have no interest at all in.
 Don't be afraid to something your peers might think you are too old for., If s/he is afraid of her peers' or parents' judgment, act as though you understand. Remember, sexual desire is nothing to be ashamed of. But the best relationships are formed when sexual desire is expressed between people who are not afraid. You do NOT want to make a move on a fearful person.
, Does s/he amaze you? (If not, maybe you're in the wrong relationship.) How did s/he get to be so unique? Ask that question to yourself first, and then show that his or her uniqueness matters, by exploring it further. Be appreciative (but don't overdo it).
 If s/he starts shortening your meetings, or resisting your meetings habitually, then move on. Resistance might not be expressed too well verbally, but don't push your love interest into an argument.
, Refer to your love object as a man or woman. If your love object seems to want abundant physicality, then your move should be physical - a stroke of the hair or face, a clasp of hands.
 Teens will want to explore this...if not in the moment, then soon. Don't be discouraged...showing that you're not discouraged (but still sensitive to the teen's needs for space and privacy) makes the relationship an inevitable object of curiosity. Patience prevails.

