 Remember that a visually impaired children will need support and guidance in the classroom. Remember to use verbal descriptions and implement or talk to teachers about hand-over-hand instructional approaches, while working from behind the child.

Ask for or allow for additional time and repetition in the class. Ensure that the child is able to perform their social skills on their own in a new setting.
Verbalize what things, people, and/or activities you see in the environment. Be as descriptive as possible. Label feelings, facial expressions and gestures, or other visual cues to help you child interpret responses and attach them to verbal cues.
 Teach the blind student to listen and observe a group interaction before jumping in. if they immediately jump in with a question or comment, other children may be put off or think the child is rude. The child can listen for who is talking and for the pace of the conversation before joining. That way, they can enter seamlessly without interrupting or jarring the conversation.If they abruptly join a group, gently correct them by saying, “Let’s listen a bit longer before jumping in.”

, Use scripts and modeling to teach skills. This can help children learn the words, gestures, and manners behind getting someone’s attention, speaking up in class, making friends, and making requests. Adults can model behaviors and children can begin to learn and practice patterns of social interaction.For example, teach children to be polite and use manners and not depend on raising their voice to get someone’s attention.
 Encourage sighted children and blind children to become friends. Encourage small groups to help the child feel included and for the other children to get to know the blind child. If children are scared or do not know how to interact with someone who is a little different, this can help them to realize they are more alike than not.If classroom children are unfamiliar with blindness, have a parent or visually impaired adult come and speak to the classroom about what it means to be blind. This can help demystify blindness and take away any fears they might have.
 Have a buddy or a few mentors available to help the blind child interact socially. These people should model appropriate interactions and behavior. They can also show friendship skills and be companions for the child. Make sure the arrangement is set up to be cooperative and not about giving help to the blind child, as this may lead to dependence.These children can be buddies to the blind person and encourage positive interactions.
To keep the relationship balanced, the blind child might teach the children a skill or give help with homework.
 When doing group activities, make sure the blind child can participate. No child wants to feel isolated from an activity, especially a fun activity, so make some changes to include them. This might mean letting children work with a partner or making tasks easy to navigate without vision.Play games that don’t require sight, or have the child modify the game so that they can play. For example, if playing hangman in the classroom, have the blind child keep track of the letters on their own.
 Because blind children tend to struggle in social skills, enroll them in a social skills group. Many schools offer these groups, or they can be found at a local mental health clinic. The benefit of a social skills group at school is that children can befriend one another in the group.Social skills groups can teach children how to take turns speaking, how to begin a conversation, how to listen, and how to interact politely with others.

