 If you don't have one already, it is advisable to purchase one or ask your parents if they can buy you one. This will help you to know what assignments you have to do and what to study for.;
, Even if it seems boring to you, do not sleep, stare at the clock, play with your fingers, or just sit there. This will make you forget about all the information the teacher discusses and will result in a bad grade. Paying attention helps you focus on the topic and subject more and will help you ace tests.
 If you don't do it at school, this will result in extra homework which can build stress. If you're doing the work with a partner, do not just fool around and ignore the whole project. Not only is allowing your partner to do all the work selfish, not getting involved means you don't learn, and this will show on test scores. Doing your work in school will give you less homework and stress and working well with partners means getting good grades.
 Whining will make it feel worse. JUST DO IT. It will help you remember what you learned at school and homework is practice for you. If you don't do your homework, it can hurt your daily grade or you can get a consequence.
 If you don't get those permission slips signed, you won't be able to participate in these events. Always have it signed and turned in on time.
 Studying consistently will help you get all of the facts and information you need in your brain and will keep you fresh for the day of the test. Never wait for the last minute. Study soon, and divide the work, and you should get a better grade.
 The best time to work on them is on the weekends. Yes, it may not seem as fun and exciting to you, but, it can help you get one thing out of the way so you don't have to do so much at the last minute.
 The easy solution is to start assignments the day they are given to you. That way you have a head start and your mind has already started considering the content.
 If you have an essay on WWII due Monday, don't tell your friends that you have no plans and that, sure you can hang out. Guilt will come back and haunt you with a bad grade.


If a project is due on a Monday, take it home over the weekend. Even if you have plans for the weekend, squeeze in at least one hour for work time. A little music in the background at a low level might help.
 Find a standard place to your homework and stick to it. Most of all, avoid doing your homework during a lesson.

