 Adhering to a strict routine is an excellent way to keep life structured and to keep yourself moving forward.Keep a regular sleep schedule, and plan your days so that you know what you have to do each day and when to do it. Uncertainty and lack of structure can be incredibly stressful, especially when one is also coping with mental illness, and it is important to fend them off as best you can.
 You are mentally ill and you need rest. Consider hobbies such as reading, crochet, drawing, woodworking, music, and whatever relaxes you. Also try self-care activities such as warm baths.
 Maybe you can take your family to the park every Saturday, or take a 15-minute walk with a loved one after dinner each day. Look at the trees and the grass and the flowers, and come away feeling a little better.
 Exercise is especially important for people with mental illnesses. Even brief exercise can improve your mood a little. Try walking, hiking, swinging on swingsets, playing with children, and backyard sports. Involve loved ones if you can, so you focus more on socializing than worrying about working out. Find things that feel fun to you.
 Mental illness may interfere with your ability to start, focus, or feel okay while working. It helps to start right away, and work for short periods of time. For example, schedule yourself 30 minutes of drawing pictures followed by 45 minutes of working on your essay.
 Sometimes routines have to change, whether it's a new job, moving to a new place, or even temporary changes like holidays. When your routine has to change, give yourself at least a week to adjust. Changes can be frightening and stressful, and these can easily lead to episodes of illness, so the more prepared you are, the easier it will be to endure.
 It may be tempting to self-isolate and go outside less and less. Don't confine yourself to existing under one roof. Try going into your yard, walking down the street, or going out with friends. Take it one step at a time, pushing yourself gently. You may be surprised at what you can do.


Even a 5-minute walk around the block is better than not going outside at all.
You don't have to go outside every day—pay attention to your body's signals and how much energy you have.

