 Hemorrhoids are swollen blood vessels in the rectal area, which cause itchiness, discomfort or pain. If you're brave enough to venture a look, you'll see that they look like a bunch of grapes or small marbles protruding from the anus. Hemorrhoids usually form during the first trimester of pregnancy or after child birth. Symptoms include:


Anal itching.
Anal pain, especially while sitting.
Bright red blood on the stool.
Pain during bowel movements, hard painful lumps in the anus.;
, Hemorrhoids are caused by increased blood pressure in the veins in the lower half of your body. Too much pressure in these veins can lead to swollen or dilated blood vessels, which manifest as hemorrhoids. Pregnant women are more susceptible to hemorrhoids for a variety of reasons:


As you progress through your pregnancy, your growing uterus puts more and more pressure on the pelvic veins and the inferior vena cava (a large vein which receives blood from the lower body). This slows blood flow from these veins, leading to increased pressure, and therefore hemorrhoids.
Pregnant women are also more like to experience constipation. When you strain to pass a hard bowel movement, you put excess pressure on your rectal area. This can lead to the formation of hemorrhoids or exacerbate existing ones.
Pregnant women also have a higher level of a hormone known as progesterone in their systems. This hormone causes the walls of you veins to relax, making them more likely to swell and develop hemorrhoids as a result. Progesterone also has an impact on your digestive system, making constipation more likely.
 If you're still unsure about whether you have hemorrhoids, or you have any concerns about how they'll affect your pregnancy, it's a good idea to see your doctor. A doctor can diagnose hemorrhoids by a simple rectal exam.


However, other tests may be performed to rule out other diagnoses. These may include a stool-guiac-test (which indicates the presence of fresh blood in the stool), or either a sigmoidoscopy or an anoscopy - both of which use a scope to check for the presence of obstructions or malignancies which can mimic the signs of hemorrhoids.
 There are many over-the-counter creams available for hemorrhoids. These creams help to ease the pain and itchiness associated with hemorrhoids, but don't cure the underlying problem.


Use hemorrhoid creams according to the instructions on the packaging, and never use for more than a week as they can make inflammation worse.
Ask your healthcare provider for a recommendation on the best hemorrhoid cream for you. Two of the most common hemorrhoid creams are corticosteroids, which will help reduce inflammation and pain, and hemorrhoid creams containing lidocaine, an anesthetic which will help to numb the pain.
 A sitz bath is a small plastic basin which you can fill with water and attach to the seat of your toilet.


This allows you to submerge your anal region in warm water, which can help soothe any pain or discomfort caused by the hemorrhoids. Try sitting for 10-15 minutes, once or twice a day.
You can achieve the same results simply by sitting in a bathtub filled with hot water, but many pregnant women prefer the ease and convenience of the sitz bath.
 If you want relief from constipation, you should ask your doctor about getting a prescription for stool softeners.


Since hemorrhoids come from increased pressure on the veins near the anus, a softer stool can help decrease the pressure on these veins, thus causing less pain.
Stool softeners come in tablet, capsule, liquid and syrup form and are usually taken at night.
 Scratching can aggravate the hemorrhoids, making the swelling worse, or even causing them to bleed. To reduce itchiness:


Wear cotton garments. These are less likely to irritate the hemorrhoids and also allow your skin to breathe, which can speed up healing.
Do not use scented tissues. Avoided using perfumed or colored toilet paper, as these contain ore chemicals and can irritate the hemorrhoids. Plain white, two-ply toilet paper is best.
Keep the area clean. Wiping carefully after a bowel movement can help to reduce issues - just be gently, as wiping too hard can cause irritation. Some women find that dampening the toilet paper with a little warm water helps. You can also buy medicated wipes (containing witch hazel) designed specifically for use on hemorrhoids.
 An ice pack or cold compress applied directly to the hemorrhoids can help to soothe discomfort and reduce swelling. Apply a new, clean ice pack several times a day, as needed.
 Consult a doctor when your hemorrhoids don't improve with home treatment. Dizziness and continuous bleeding is a sign of blood loss. Call for help immediately.
 Constipation is the number one culprit behind hemorrhoids. Therefore by avoiding constipation you can significantly reduce the chance of hemorrhoids developing. To avoid constipation:


Drink plenty of fluids. Try to drink at least eight glasses of water a day, but herbal teas, juices and smoothies will also be beneficial
Eat a high fiber diet of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. According to http:\\MedicineNet, the top five foods for reducing constipation are prunes, beans, kiwi, rye bread and pears,
Meanwhile, foods to avoid or cut back on include chocolate, dairy, bananas, red meat and caffeine.
 Straining on the toilet can lead to the development of hemorrhoids, so try to avoid it when possible.


If you can't pass a bowel movement easily, leave the toilet and try again later instead.
On the other hand, if you really need to go you shouldn't wait to relieve your bowels, as holding it in can also cause strain.
 Sitting and standing both put pressure on your lower veins, so try to avoid doing either for long periods of time.


If you work sitting down, make sure to take regular breaks where you stand up and walk around. The opposite goes if you work standing up.
While watching TV, reading or sleeping, you should lie on your left side, as this helps to increase blood flow in the lower half of your body.
 Kegel exercises (which are designed to strengthen the pelvic floor muscles) also help to increase blood flow to the rectal area and strengthen the muscles around the anus, making hemorrhoids much less likely.

