 If you're currently in a relationship, loving two people can pose problems. If you and your partner have not agreed to an open relationship, being in love with another person can constitute an emotional affair. This can cause feelings of pain and betrayal for your current partner. Look for any signs you're having an emotional affair.You may feel the need to justify your behavior due to latent guilt. You may, for example, need to reassure yourself constantly you and this person are "just friends" or think of justifications for spending time with this person.
You may also feel the need to cover your tracks. If you're hiding something from your partner, you may be doing something wrong. You may, for example, delete text message or lie to your partner about spending time with the other person.
Do you obsessively think or daydream about this person? Do you feel excitement when you know you get to see this person? If so, that's definitely a sign it's emotional infidelity.
 If you're in love with two different people, this may be a warning sign about your current relationship. If you're traditionally only able to love one person at a time, you may be falling out of love with your current partner.How happy are you in your current relationship? If there have been problems for awhile, your attachment to another person may be a warning sign. Do you complain about your partner to this person? Do you share details about your relationship problems you would withhold from others?
Do you find yourself comparing this person to your partner? You may find this new person has qualities you feel your partner lacks. Is this person very different from your current partner? If so, you may be latching onto someone completely different because your current relationship is not working.
 If you're struggling with feelings for someone else, a therapist can be helpful. If your partner expects emotional fidelity, loving another person is a problem. A therapist can help you figure out how to sort through your feelings and proceed in your relationship.


If you're not currently seeing a therapist, you can get a referral for one through your regular doctor. You can also see what therapists are covered under your insurance network. If you're a student, you may be entitled to free counseling through your school.
If you believe your relationship is in serious trouble due to outside feelings, consider seeing a couples counselor with your partner to discuss these issues.
 In some cases, you may want to talk to your partner about how you're feeling. If you believe your feelings are a threat to your current relationship, you should have a sit down talk to your partner about how to proceed.Pick the right time to talk and eliminate distractions when you have the discussion. Make sure you turn off phones and computers. You should also strive to talk at a time when neither you nor your partner have outside commitments.
Have empathy. It can be painful for your partner to hear you're in love with someone else, and you don't want to minimize his or her pain. Allow your partner to feel what he or she is feeling. For example, don't say something like, "Lots of people have been where you've been and have gotten over it." This may come off as dismissive.
Form a game plan together. You may decide it's best to end the relationship, or to open up the relationship. Your partner may want you to lessen contact with the other party to salvage things. Whatever you decide, make sure you set clear boundaries both you and your partner agree to and fully understand.
 If you had an emotional affair, you need to take time to heal. It can be difficult to come to terms with the fact you were unfaithful, even if it was not physical. You want to give yourself time to let the affair go, and focus on your current partner over the other person.Try to schedule times to think about the other person. It may sound strange, but it can actually be helpful to daydream and obsess about the object of your affection for a set time each day. Trying to never think about this person may backfire. If you give yourself a little leeway once a day, it may help you get over this person longterm.
Allow yourself time to grieve the relationship. A non-physical relationship can be as intimate and close as a physical one. It will take you some time to feel better about ending the affair. It's normal to miss the person in the aftermath. Try to keep busy and surround yourself with friends.
Invest in your current relationship. If you've made the choice to stay with your current partner, you need to spend time repairing any damage done by the emotional affair. Spend a lot of one-on-one time with your partner. Try to become physically intimate through sex, cuddling, and touch. Remind yourself why you fell in love with your partner to begin with, and why your relationship is worth it.

