 If you have long hair already, then you can just style it. If your hair is short, then you may want to get a wig to enhance your feminine look. When you are choosing a wig, make sure that you purchase one that is high quality if you want your look to be more convincing. A poor quality wig may not look as good.If you are dressing up for a drag show or play, then you can go with an over the top wig, such as something that is ultra-long, styled like a bee hive, or dyed an unnatural color.
If you just want to see what it feels like to dress as a girl, then try curling your hair, using a flat iron for a pin-straight look, or braiding your hair.
Long hair will help you to look feminine and it can also provide some coverage from masculine features such as a square jaw, but having long hair is not absolutely necessary if you are just dressing up to see how it feels. If you have short hair, then you can also try styling it in a feminine way. For example, you can use mousse and curl the longer pieces, or wear an accessory, such as a headband or barrette.;
, Makeup can help to accentuate your features and give your face a more feminine appearance. If you have never worn makeup before, then you may need to watch some tutorials on how to apply it. Try checking Youtube for some basic makeup application tutorials.


If you just want to get a feel for what it is like to wear makeup or if you want to try to pass as a girl, then stick with a light layer of foundation, some light eye shadow and mascara, and a nude or pink lipstick.
If you want something more dramatic, such as for a drag show, then you can put on a heavy layer of foundation, black eyeliner, fake lashes, and some bold red lipstick.
 Wearing women’s clothing is an essential part of looking like a girl. Lots of girls wear unisex clothing, such as pants, jeans, and t-shirts. However, dresses are your best bet for drag shows because they are flashier. If you just want to get a feel for what it is like to dress as a girl, then wearing a dress or a skirt with a girl’s top will give you a better idea.


Choose a style that flatters you and shows off your best features. For example, you can choose a short skirt if you want to show off your legs, or a sleeveless top if you want to show off your arms.
If you are going for an exaggerated look, such as for a drag show or theater production, then you might want to choose something flashy, ultra-feminine, or elaborate. For example, you could go with a sequined dress, a fluffy tulle skirt, or a hot pink evening gown.
If you are interested in dressing as a girl to pass as a girl, then try to choose clothing that is in style. Wearing current trends may help make it easier for you to pass as a woman., Earrings, necklaces, bracelets, scarves, and other accessories can help to enhance your feminine look. Choose an accessory that complements your outfit and that makes you feel pretty.


If you are dressing up with the intention of trying to pass as a girl or see how it feels, then you could go with a simple pair of pearl earrings or a dainty gold necklace.
If you are going for a more dramatic look, such as for a drag show or theater production, then go for some long dangling earrings, a long glittering costume jewelry necklace, or a lots of bangle bracelets.
 Shoes are an essential part of your look. Select some women’s shoes that go with your outfit and that you will feel comfortable wearing. High heels are ultra-feminine, but they can be difficult to walk in. You will probably need to practice walking in them before you go out in public.If you are dressing up for drag or a play, then high heels may provide the most dramatic effect. Just make sure that you can walk in them without falling!
If you are experimenting with women’s clothing because you want to see how it feels or possible pass as a woman in public, then try starting out with some ballet flats, some low heel dress shoes, or a fashionable pair of sandals.
Make sure that your toenails are painted if you will be baring your toes.

