 Does the question relate to death, Mary's virginity, life after death or why other religions exist etc? Write your doubts on a piece of paper and later examine them and analyze whether they are really what you wish to ask.;
, Study the Bible for answers to your questions. A concordance can be helpful. Hand in hand with this is a study of the Catechism of the Catholic Church. This is a book published by the Vatican outlining all the beliefs of the Catholic Faith. It is a great reference, and if you are looking for an answer, backed up by Biblical proof, it is there.
 To God. Pray for guidance in your search for answers and ask Him to lead you to texts, people, and information that can help you clarify your beliefs.
 If you are young and you still live with your parents, you may find it helpful to talk to them if they are also Catholic. Even if you don't live with your parents, it is possible that you will have more confidence talking to them than to others.
 Contact the office of the church and ask when you can arrange to speak with the priest. You will need time to ask all that you want, so it's best to make an appointment. The priest will be glad to see you.
 If your doubts relate to a special subject such as angelology, New Testament apocrypha, lateral interpretations of the scriptures, or versions of the Bible, it is probable that you will have to look further. Look to the bishop of your city or to the nearest seminary. There you will find specialists giving classes or, if you're lucky, having a bit of coffee and with a bit of free time.
 They may have a different perspective on the issue.
 Ask the priest in your neighborhood, the archbishop, a seminarian, a nun, or a pastor. It's quite likely you'll get different answers. Find the answer to the problem and go from there

, Over these years, every group holding positions opinions from the Catholic Church (from atheists to fundamentalists, those on the left to those on the right) have made their objections known, and the Catholic Church has always offered answers. The internet is full of resources in the area of Catholic apologetics.

