 Lemon juice is a powerful lightener because it contains alpha-hydroxy acids (AHA) that act as a natural exfoliant, taking off the surface layer of the skin to expose the lighter skin underneath. The citric acid in lemon juice also creates a light bleaching effect (just like it does when you put it in your hair). By bathing your skin in a lemon juice rinse, you can lighten your skin a little for a fairer complexion.Squeeze the juice from half a lemon and add the same amount of water. You want to dilute it to half strength so it won't irritate your skin or get too sticky.
Dip a cotton ball in the mixture and apply it to your face, neck, chest, arms, and anywhere else you want your skin to be lighter.
Let the rinse sit on your skin for 20 minutes, then rinse it off with warm water. Don't go outside, since the lemon juice will cause your skin to be sensitive to sunlight.
Apply a moisturizer after the treatment, since lemon juice can dry out your skin.
Repeat three times a week for best results. Don't do it too often or your skin will become irritated.
 It's believed to have mild lightening properties because it contains a high amount of vitamin C.Other vegetables high in vitamin C, such as tomatoes and cucumbers, may also work if you don't have a potato handy. Vitamin C is often used in over-the-counter skin lightening creams, but you can get better results by just applying the potato directly to your skin. Several times a week, do the following:

Cut a potato into thick slices.
Rub the slices over the parts of your skin you want to lighten.
Let the moisture dry completely, then rinse it away with warm water.
 Turmeric is an Indian spice that has been used to lighten skin for many centuries. It is believed to inhibit the production of melanin, which gives skin its darker color. While there's no definitive proof that it works, many have been happy with the results they get from using a turmeric paste on the skin to brighten it a few shades. To make and use a turmeric paste, do the following:


Mix turmeric with enough olive oil to make a paste.
Apply it to your skin and spread it thinly over the areas you want to lighten.
Leave it to sit for 20 minutes, then rinse it away with warm water.


Note: Turmeric may temporarily stain your skin yellow, but this will quickly wash away.
 This soothing substance is known for helping your skin heal after getting burned, but it also has a compound called anthraquinone that gently lightens the skin by removing the top layer of skin cells. You'll see aloe as an ingredient in a number of different creams and lotions, but for best results, use an aloe vera plant or get a bottle of pure aloe vera.


Slather the aloe all over your skin.
Wait 20 minutes for it to dry and get absorbed.
You can rinse it off, or simply go about your day. Aloe is beneficial for the skin in so many ways that there's really no need to wash it away!

, As with many natural remedies, no studies have been conducted to prove that coconut water can lighten the skin. However, individual users have found that using it as a rinse can lighten the skin in addition to making it soft and smooth.Get a bottle of 100 percent coconut water, or crack open your own young coconut to extract the water.
Dip a cotton ball in the water and apply it to your face and other areas you want to lighten.
Leave it on for 20 minutes, then rinse with warm water.

