 Once you have done your advertising right, students will start visiting your property. Whether you are planning to let out one room in your house or simply converting your entire property into a student accommodation, you have to make sure that it comprises of the best facilities. You will be able to attract students if you offer a wide range of amenities.


The most important aspect of a student accommodation is food. If you want to provide meals, you have to first decide the cuisine. Students who belong to different parts of the city or belong to different nationalities will look for home-style cooked meals. Therefore, if you are comfortable in providing only a particular cuisine, let them know in advance. But, if you are ready to provide your tenants with meals of their choice, discuss their food preferences and work out a plan accordingly.
Provide all necessary furniture. You should make sure that the room has a bed, a wardrobe, a table, and a chair. Since students are looking for a homely environment where they can relax and study, it is important that they have basic furniture. Also, when students come visiting your property, you can ask them about their requirements and upgrade the furniture accordingly.
Make sure that your student accommodation has a high-speed internet connection, power backup, hot water facility, and a modern kitchen with necessary appliances, such as a refrigerator and a microwave. Additionally, it is always better to provide students with attached bathrooms so that they don’t have to worry about privacy and personal hygiene. Make sure that the bathroom has good ventilation, proper sanitation facility, and hot and cold water options.;
, This is an important step because you can’t manage to get students unless they know about your property.


List your property online. Since, students are usually internet savvy, they will first search for accommodation online. Look for housing websites and post your ad along with good images. Remember to click good quality pictures of your property that are taken under natural light and offer clarity. Take as many pictures as you can, including the bathroom, kitchen area, lounge, and parking space. This will give students a broader idea about your accommodation.
Post a sign outside your house. This is the easiest step since it just involves putting up an advertisement right outside your house, stating that you want to host students. Often passersby will see the sign and it will help your property get noticed. Alternatively, if you are going to turn your entire property into a student accommodation, you can opt for glow sign boards or non-lit boards.
Use word of mouth publicity. Let your neighbors and friends know that you are looking for student tenants. Sometimes, they will know someone who is looking for a student accommodation and usually such tenants are trustworthy.
Distribute pamphlets in your locality. You can print pamphlets mentioning the details of your student accommodation. Stick to a single leaf pamphlet as students are not interested in reading thick booklets. Make the design attractive and mention more than one phone number so that they can contact you easily. You can also stick pamphlets in and around your locality. However, don’t stick bills in restricted areas. Visit colleges and universities near your area and ask them if you can put up the pamphlet on their notice boards. Usually, students look for accommodation closer to their college or university, so make that the focus of your advertising campaign. Contact the student accommodation department and register yourself so that they can send students over to your house to check the accommodation.
 This is the most crucial step as it can make or break your business venture. You should keep the following salient points in mind before you decide the rental amount:


Understand the budgetary constraints of a college-going student. Since students live on a tight budget, they will look for a budget-friendly accommodation. In such a case, you should quote a reasonable rent. You can remove some amenities if you think you can’t make sufficient profit.
Find out the rent quoted by other student accommodations in your locality. If there are many such rental options in your neighborhood, you’ll face stiff competition. In order to attract more students, you can lower your rent slightly when compared to the other accommodations. Additionally, you can also upgrade the amenities at your house and offer a better lifestyle. This way you will be able to fill in vacant rooms faster than your competitors.
Since this is your home that you are converting into a student accommodation, you can’t change the location. Remember that most students will look for a property that is surrounded by shopping complexes, restaurants, and is easily accessible from other parts of the town. If your property is not situated in such a locality, lower your rent and provide better facilities, since they are the sole selling points of your accommodation. However, if you are planning to buy a property and then convert it into a student accommodation, always choose a locality that has adequate social and civic infrastructure.
 Most real estate brokers cater to a wide range of clients, especially students. You can contact them and discuss your requirements. Since real estate agents have better contacts than yourself, they will be able to find student tenants faster.

