 You have the right to receive ongoing mental health care or treatment on a voluntary basis, as needed. After you present yourself for care, and the hospital has conducted the initial examination, you will receive such treatment as your doctor deems necessary. As long as you are mentally competent to make decisions about your care, you will be informed about any course of treatment or medication and will be asked to provide consent., Within 24 hours after you voluntarily admit yourself for care, your admitting physician must make a determination that you are mentally competent to make decisions regarding your care. This determination must be documented in writing and placed in your file.If the physician does not provide this documented statement, then he or she must begin the proceedings to have your voluntary placement converted to involuntary placement.
 Before you give informed consent, the hospital must provide you with a full understanding of the expected course of treatment. You need to be provided with the following information regarding the plan of your treatment:the reason for your admission. Whether you initially arrived voluntarily or involuntarily, if you are mentally competent, the hospital staff must inform you of the medical reason for your treatment. You may have reported that you “don’t feel right” or “feel overwhelmed” when you reported voluntarily. The hospital will need to give you a more accurate medical explanation.
the proposed treatment. The hospital staff must explain to you what they intend for you, whether it is counseling, medication, or some combination.
alternative treatments. You need to be informed of other possible forms of treatment. If you have questions about those, and why they are not being considered, you have the right to ask.
 If part of your treatment is to include administration of certain medications, the staff must inform you of what those medications are, what their effects are, and what they are designed to do. If there are alternatives, you are entitled to know about them.Ask about any side effects that may be expected with the medication you will receive.
Ask about the effects of alternative medications that are not being used, and make sure that you understand the differences.
 Part of consenting to a plan of treatment includes understanding, in advance, when that treatment is expected to end. If you received a cast for a broken arm, it would be natural for the doctor to tell you that the cast will need to stay on for about six weeks. Similarly, with mental health care, the doctor should be able to give you an idea of the expected length of treatment.Understand that mental health care is not always as clearly defined as other medical care, so the doctor may not be able to give you as clear an expectation as for a broken bone. But you should be able to get some idea, whether the treatment will be for a number of weeks, months or years.
Ask about the doctor’s plan for monitoring your ongoing development, and how the decision is to be made about eventually ending treatment.
You are entitled to know about any potential negative effects that may come from stopping treatment prematurely. If you are admitted to inpatient care, and you eventually wish to be discharged, you should know what may come from leaving care too soon.
 If you do not consent to the treatment plan that the doctor proposes, and if you are not deemed incompetent, then the hospital must discharge you. Alternatively, if you refuse to consent to the treatment, the hospital may take steps to commit you involuntarily, but this decision must be made within 24 hours.