 Traditionally, cucumber sandwiches use thin, crisp slices of cucumber with the dark green peel removed. Use a potato peeler or a small, sharp knife to shave off the peel.


You can use thick slices or leave the peel on if you wish — it's up to you. The peel won't hurt you, but its texture is slightly tougher than the flesh of the cucumber.;
, Drop the slices into a colander in the sink. Let them drain for about 10 minutes, then remove them to a plate and pat dry with a paper towel.


Getting your cucumber slices as crisp and dry (on the outside) as possible is important for a good sandwich. Soft, wet slices of cucumber are exactly what you don't want — they'll leave you with a dull, soggy mess.
 In a small bowl, combine cream cheese, Worcestershire sauce, mayonnaise, garlic powder, and onion salt. Stir well until smooth and uniform.
 You can be as generous as you like with the spread.


One of the nice things about putting the spread on both pieces of bread is that it traps the moisture from the cucumber slices in the middle of the sandwich so that they don't make the bread soggy. This is something you can do with many fat or oil-based spreads (like peanut butter)., Lay down a few slices of cucumber on one of the pieces of bread. You can be generous here — you want a little cucumber in every bite. When you're done, lay the other piece of bread on top (spread facing down, of course).


Congratulations — you just made your first cucumber sandwich!

, There's no "wrong" way to eat a cucumber sandwich, but in England, the sandwich is often eaten in small, crust-less squares, triangles, or fingers. Cut the sandwich how you wish (or leave it how it is) and serve immediately.If you're serving guests, repeat the steps above for more sandwiches, working through your loaf of bread. If needed, make more spread or cut more cucumber slices.
In the section below, you'll learn a few tips for "spicing up" the basic cucumber sandwich recipe. Use these variations as you wish — you may even want to try serving a platter with every different kind of sandwich for variety's sake.

