 The best canvas for makeup is healthy skin, and it’s vital to keep skin healthy with SPF. Before you head out into the sunshine, apply a sunscreen with an SPF between 30 and 50. Allow it to absorb into your skin for three to five minutes before applying any of your makeup.


To learn more about using sunscreen in your makeup routine, check out the article here.;
, Summer is the time to let your skin breathe. Instead of putting on a base of full coverage foundation, simply use concealer on any blemishes or spots. In the hot temperature of summer, you don’t want to sweat through thick foundation. Keep it light, and you’ll be happy.If you’re hesitant to part with your beloved foundation, find a happy medium by using a tinted moisturizer over your entire face.
 When your skin changes color, even with a tan, it’s being damaged. Get a beautiful bronze without the skin damage by adding a bronzer to your beauty routine. Brush the bronzer on areas where the sun would naturally hit, like your cheeks, temples, and the bridge of your nose.Summer is the season to pull off a bronzed, shimmery face, so embrace it!


To finish your bronzed look, add a swipe of bright pink blush to the apples of your cheeks.
 In warm, humid weather, regular mascara can smudge and run. Waterproof mascara will stay in place. It will even last through swimming and sweating, and all other summer water activities., Shimmery pinks, peaches, and golds look especially great against bronzed skin. If you want to create a smoky eye, look for a copper color rather than the typical black and silver.Summer is a great time to rock those warm, glittery shadows.
 Just like your skin, you want your lips to be able to breathe in summer weather. Instead of packing on a heavy, opaque lipstick, try out bold lip stains and moisturizing balms. If you have a favorite summer lipstick, apply it lightly with your fingertip, rather than gliding it on thickly.During the summer, just remember that less is more for everything except sunscreen.
 Get eye makeup inspiration from the autumn leaves. Think warm, soft reds, rich browns, golds, and even deep olives. Fall is all about dimension, so ditch the shimmery bright colors for richer hues. Line your eyes with browns and golds during fall days, and intensify your eyes with black liner at night.Fall is the time to bring out your heavier winged eyeliners and cat eye looks as well.
 Don’t underestimate the power of a little bit of eyebrow grooming to change your look. As your clothes get thicker in the fall, let your eyebrows follow suit! Fill in sparse, thin brows with brow powder or pencil. Keep your eyebrows well-groomed, but beware of over-tweezing., Instead of brushing on an instant tan, focus more on enhancing your facial features with contouring. Brush the darker contouring shade on your temples, across the top of your forehead, on your jaw line, and down the bridge of your nose. Blend it thoroughly with a fluffy brush to make sure the lines are soft, rather than bold. As your summer tan fades (natural or not!) and your skin lightens, subtly highlighting your feature with contouring will keep your skin from looking dull., Fall is the perfect time to wear your deeper shades of lipstick, from berry colors to burgundy to deep purple. Just like summer is all about simple, light makeup, fall is about warmer, and slightly heavier looks. Pair your dark lips with light, neutral eyes for a beautiful and balanced look., Winter is the time for full coverage foundation, but it’s important to keep it from looking cakey. By adding a bit of water to your foundation routine, you can help your foundation go on smoothly and evenly. You can find both applicators at your local pharmacy or beauty supply store., After you’ve evened and smoothed out your skin with a foundation, lightly dust a contour shade along your temples, cheekbones, forehead, jaw, and the bridge of your nose. You want to use a light hand to apply the contour, because a heavy contour will look unnatural in the winter. Add a touch of a warm, rose blush on the apples of your cheek for the final bit of warmth.
 When you’re choosing eyeshadows and eyeliners for the winter, you can’t go wrong with any shade of brown. Add a deep gray and earth tones with a bit of sparkle, and you’ll be stocked for the season. By wearing more neutral colors on your eyes, you can wear bold, dramatic lips.


Make your eyes big and bright in the harshest winter days by curling your eyelashes and adding a coat of dark, volumizing mascara.
 Winter is the perfect time for deep lipsticks in festive colors like wine, chestnut, and even bright red. Bold lips will warm up your face in the dead of winter, when it needs it most! Choose lip products with moisturizers, because lips are bound to get chapped in the cold, dry winter weather.


Add a gloss over your deep lip color for added dimension.
 As the snow melts and the sun comes back out, it’s time to also lighten up your makeup. Put the bold, dark colors away, and get excited for fresh, softer looks. You can also swap out your powder products for creams to rejuvenate your skin after winter weather., Whether you want to invest in some pastel eyeshadows or soft pastel lipsticks, spring is your chance to do it. These softer colors will brighten your skin after the darker colors of winter. Sheer colors work beautifully on the eyelids, and pink lips and cheeks are always a good idea. Just think light!, The fresh air of spring feels great for you and your skin. Swap out your full coverage foundations for medium or light coverage, or ditch foundation all together. Tinted moisturizers work well in the spring, and you can also simply conceal blemishes or spots.