


If you are less than proficient with the knife, there is still a way for you to use it, but will still require some ammo. Shoot zombies a few times until they fall, but not die. Go over and slash their fallen bodies as quickly as possible. If they get up before you are done, finish them off with a gun. If you want to do this to multiple zombies at the same time, kill all but one of them and do the trick on the last one standing. If you really want to save some ammo, try angling your knife downwards and slashing them in the legs a few times whilst they are still standing. This will bring them down and allow you to lay into them freely.;
, Only kill enemies in spots you will be backtracking through a lot, pose a big threat or are bosses and must be killed as part of the plot. Be sure to remember where the living enemies are, though, so you can be prepared or don't accidentally go there if you are lost. Remember, Resident Evil is about surviving, not killing.
 Examine the color of rooms on the map to see if you forgot anything. If you run out of inventory space, go to an Item Box and come back.
 Each weapon has its own uses. Weapons where ammo is scarce are usually meant to be used on bosses.


Handgun: Your primary weapon in all games, ammo is common. Useful against zombies and other weak, common enemies.
Shotgun: Usually the first weapon you find in the game, shells are second most common to Handgun rounds. Also a great multi-purpose weapon - while it is deadly in close quarters, you can also take advantage of the wide spread of the pellets and use it to damage multiple enemies at the same time at a distance.
Automatics: These include Sub-machine guns like the the MAC-11 (RE2) and the Assault Rifle (RE3). One shot from one of these is weaker than that of a Handgun, but being Full-Auto makes up for that. They also usually have high capacities. Exceptions include the Gatling Gun (RE2 and 3) and the AK-47 (RE:CVX).
Special Weapons: Includes Magnums and Grenade Launchers. Ammo is scarce, suitable for bosses, and can usually be replaced by the shotgun.

