 Learn about the music scene, the party scene, the food scene – anything that you think would enhance your quality of life. Try to grasp the cultural idiosyncrasies that make each place unique. Read about the ratio of younger people to older people, and try to see the trends in why people are moving to a particular place.


Perhaps your favorite band or a beloved author hails from a certain city. Maybe you've heard that a city has a notoriously active and outdoorsy populace.
Living around others who are in the same socioeconomic bracket can be more comfortable than living among people who make considerably more or less than yourself. Whether you will be renting or owning a home in your new area, try consulting with a real estate agent to get a better idea of the neighborhood.
 It is important to make an informed and practical decision, but you should also find a reason to be enthused about the place you're going to live. Create a mental image of what life would be like here, and then evaluate whether that life is something you want.
 Determine whether you want to live somewhere hot, cold, wet, dry – near the coast or in the mountains. Basic research on a city or region should give you a good idea of the weather patterns. Consider the effects that a different climate (say, a very rainy place, or somewhere that freezes over in the winter) will have upon your lifestyle and your goals. Consider the temperature, the average precipitation, the air pollution, and the seasonal flux.


Some people suffer from Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD), which is a cyclical depression pattern related to the changing of the seasons. People often find themselves most down in the winter or the rainy season, when the skies are cold and overcast.If you are unsure of the climate in a particular area, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)has excellent data on everything from temperature to air pollution.
 This can also help swing your decision, although it may not be the most weighty concern. Some areas face a high risk of hurricanes and tornadoes, while other areas get a lot of earthquakes. Some areas are prone to drought, and others to mighty storms. Inform yourself of the danger so that you can make a conscious choice.