 During a disaster you may get separated from your pet, so it is important that your dog wears an identification tag at all times. The tag should include your address and cell phone number. You may also want to include the name and emergency number for your veterinarian.It also a good idea to include the phone number of a friend or relative who lives out of town.
This way if your pet is found during an emergency there are multiple ways to get ahold of you.;
, You can increase the likelihood of being reunited with your pet during a disaster if your dog is microchipped. A microchip is implanted under your dog’s skin and can be scanned to provide your name and number. This way if your dog loses its collar it can still be identified.Always keep your contact information up-to-date with the microchip company.
 Another way to prepare for a disaster is to create an emergency kit for your dog. This kit should contain all of the necessary supplies for your dog to survive a few weeks away from home. Place the emergency kit near an exit to your house so that it can be quickly retrieved. Replace any food and medication contained within the emergency kit on a regular basis so that they do not expire. Things to include in an emergency kit:Food and water for up to two weeks. Food should be stored in waterproof containers.
Bowls.
Plastic bags for poop.
Treats.
Medication for two weeks.
Leash and harness.
Carrier or cage.
Medical records: including vaccination certificates, microchip number, medication prescriptions.
Recent photo of your pet.
First aid kit.
 If you are forced to evacuate during a disaster, your pet should have a travel carrier. Your pet may be anxious during an emergency, depending on the type of disaster. It is a good idea to have a way to contain your dog. Your dog may also require a crate if it is housed at an emergency animal shelter during the disaster.Your dog’s crate should be large enough so that your dog can stand comfortably and turn around.
 Before a disaster strikes, you should have a plan for where to shelter your dog. In many instances emergency shelters for humans will not allow pets or animals. As a result you will want to have alternative arrangements prepared for your dog. Here are a few things you can do in advance to ensure your dog will have a place to stay if you are evacuated from your home during an emergency:Contact your local emergency management office and ask if they offer accommodations for owners and dogs.
Contact your veterinarian and local animal shelter to find out if boarding is possible during an emergency.
Ask family and friends who live outside of your area if they would shelter you and your dog during an emergency.
Find a pet-friendly hotel or motel in the area or somewhere along the evacuation route where you could stay with your dog.
 A rescue alert sticker can be placed on the front window or door of your home and alerts emergency responders to the fact that you have pets in your house. This way if you are unable to evacuate your dog, it may be evacuated later by emergency workers. The sticker should include the types and number of pets in your home.You can purchase these stickers at pet supply stores or order one through the ASPCA website.
If you are able to evacuate your pet and if time allows, write the word evacuated on the sticker so that responders know there are no pets inside.

