 You must have an Application Receipt Number to check the status of your immigration case online with the USCIS. This 13-character number can be found on any application notice you've received from the USCIS.You will be issued this number on the notice sent by the USCIS acknowledging receipt of your application.
The number begins with three capital letters, such as EAC or LIN, that correspond to the office handling your application.
If you filed an application several weeks ago and still haven't received this first notice, you can go to the USCIS website and make an appointment to speak with an agent at a local field office.
Bring personal identification and your copy of your application to this appointment, along with any proof of submission that you have.;
, Once you have the information you'll need to check your application's status, go to the USCIS website at www.uscis.gov and click the "Check My Case Status" link to get to the case status page.From this page, you can either enter your application number and check your status directly, or sign up for an online account.
 From the USCIS case status page, type your 13-character receipt number in the blank. Double-check what you've entered to make sure it's correct, then click "Check Status" to get information on the status of your application.You shouldn't enter any dashes, but any other characters are considered part of your unique number.
Since your Application Receipt Number is unique to you, no additional information is required to retrieve the status of your application.
Keep in mind this status check only shows you the most recent status – you can't access your case history.
 While on the page to check your most recent case status using your Application Receipt Number, you also have the option of creating a MyUSCIS account, which can help you manage your case information more easily.While you can check your most recent case status online at any time, you don't have the ability to look at any previous status updates to check the progress of your case, or download copies of your application or other forms you've filed.
With an account, you have the ability to view your entire case history, as well as view and download copies of petitions, applications, and any other documents filed or notices generated with respect to your immigration case.

