 Your counselor will help your shift the way you think about your relationship while in couples counseling. This will help you get to a place where you no longer blame each other for problems, see where your partner is coming from, and see your relationship in an objective manner.Your counselor will watch the way you and your partner interact in order come up with ways to bridge the gap between you and help you get to a place of mutual understanding.
For example, if you are having communication issues, your counselor will figure out where you are lacking in that area and give you ways to overcome the barriers.
 In many couples, your problems can make you change the way you behave with each other. This can lead to even more problems. Your counselor will help you examine the current behavior patterns between you and your partner and give you ways to change them to be more productive and loving.This can help you stop causing emotional or harm to you and your partner.
 When you are working through your problems with your partner, your counselor will help you figure out a way to express your honest emotions with each other. If you stop connecting with your partner emotionally, you will continue to have problems and grow farther apart.Your counselor will also help you figure out if you or your partner have any underlying issues that can cause emotional distance, such as fear of rejection, insecurity, or unwillingness to accept attachment.
Your counselor will help each of your work past these underlying issues and figure out how to grow closer as a couple.
This will help you learn to be more emotionally intimate with each other. Emotional intimacy focuses on being mutually vulnerable and open with each other through sharing your feelings in an honest, real way., As your couples counseling draws closer to its end, you will have worked past most of your issues. At this point, your counselor will begin to focus on the strengths you have as a couple. This will help you realize how resilient your relationship can be and how much the two of you can endure. This will help you focus on the good things about each other and on the pleasure you can derive from your relationship.This is usually a welcome change from all the focus on your problems as a couple.
Your counselor may focus on things you do to compliment each other or ways in which you emotionally support one another within your relationship.

