 Most dieters report that they count calories, but an overwhelming majority also say that they don't really know how many calories they need. We are trained to think that fewer calories means more weight loss, but really, you need to be mindful of where you calories are coming from, not just how many you consume.Men report eating an average of 2,600 calories per day, with women consuming about 1,800. You may need less than that if you are trying to lose weight, but you should always eat at least 1,200 calories a day. Any fewer and your body thinks it is in starvation mode. That means it will hold on tightly to fat stores.
Ask a registered dietitian or personal trainer to help you figure out how many calories you should eat per day for healthy weight loss. Take into account how active you are.
Make your calories work for you. Fill up on foods that have a lot of fiber (whole grains) and protein (lean meats). These will help you feel full longer and give you more energy.
Avoid "empty" calories that don't give your body much fuel. Alcohol and items like potato chips are good examples of calories that aren't serving much of a nutritional purpose.;
, The USDA has dietary recommendations to help ensure you get the proper amount of nutrients from your meals and eat a balanced diet. This means you are getting the proper amount of servings from each of the food groups without eating too much from any one group. You also want to vary the foods you eat in each group — don't only eat apples and no other fruits, for instance. Other key recommendations include: make less than 10% of your daily calories from added sugar; make less than 10% of your daily calories from saturated fats; and consume less than 2,300 mg of sodium daily.In addition, there are specific recommendations for the amounts of foods you should strive to eat every day. These are as follows:


Eat nine servings of fruit and vegetables daily. One serving of fruit is equivalent to about 1 cup of chopped fruit or one small piece of fruit. One serving of vegetables is equivalent to 2 cups of loose, leafy greens, or about 1 cup of cut veggies.
Eat six servings of grains per day and make at least half of those grains whole grain. One serving of grains is equivalent to one slice of bread or 1/2 cup of cooked rice or pasta.
Eat two to three servings of dairy per day, but try to make it low-fat dairy. 1 cup of milk is the equivalent to one serving of dairy.
Eat two to three servings of proteins daily. One serving of meat is 3 oz., or about the size of an adult's palm. One serving is also equal to one large egg, 1 tablespoon of peanut butter, 1 ounce of walnuts, and 1/4 cup of beans.
Try to "eat the rainbow," meaning eat foods that are a variety of colors (blueberries, red apples, asparagus, etc.). Different colored foods mean you are getting different nutrients and vitamins.
 Paying attention to the nutrition labels on food packages can help you make sure that you are making healthy choices. One of the most important parts of the label is the serving size information. This tells you how many servings are in each package, and what the nutrition facts are for each serving.You should also note how many calories are in each meal.
Try to limit the following nutrients: trans fats, saturated fats, and sodium. These are not only linked to obesity, but also to heart disease and high blood pressure.Look for foods that have significant amounts of fiber, vitamin A, vitamin C, iron, vitamin D, and calcium.
Your dietitian can help ensure you are getting all the nutrients you need and in the proper quantities.
 Eating out or buying prepared foods is convenient, fast, and easy. But it also means that you can't control how your food is prepared or what ingredients are used. One of the most effective ways to lose weight is to cook your meals at home. You can choose healthy cooking methods (e.g. baking instead of frying) and fresh ingredients.Plan your meals in advance. By making a weekly menu, you will be less likely to go off track and call for take-out midweek. You can make things easier on yourself by preparing healthy meals to keep in the freezer and eat as needed.
Make cooking fun. Treat yourself to a new set of knives or a cute apron. These sorts of things can give you the motivation you need to spend more time in the kitchen.
 Good news! You actually need to snack while you're dieting. Eating frequently keeps your metabolism going and will help your body burn more calories throughout the day. Healthy snacks can also reduce hunger and keep you from overeating at meals.The key is to make sure that you are choosing healthy snacks. Reach for fresh fruits and veggies, nuts, or low-fat dairy. Try some cucumber slices with hummus for a satisfying afternoon snack.
Keep healthy snacks handy in your desk at work. If you have some roasted almonds nearby, you'll be less likely to head for the cookies someone left in the break room.
 If foods taste great, you're more likely to eat them. One way to add flavor to any healthy food is to add some salsa. Try topping your baked potato with salsa instead of butter and you'll save on calories and fat. Bonus: you've also added an extra serving of veggies to your meal.Adding salsa to your chicken, fish, and even salads, can help liven up your meals and provide a little more zest. Try buying fresh salsa at the grocery store, or even making your own.
You can add flavor to almost any dish by adding herbs and spices, most of which contain almost zero calories. Try buying fresh herbs such as parsley, rosemary, or thyme. They will make your chicken, pork, or salad taste fresh and original.
Some ingredients offer an added bonus other than flavor. For example, garlic is known to have anti-inflammatory properties. Season your fish or soups with garlic for a flavorful meal that is also healthy.Turmeric is another popular, flavorful staple that should be in your spice rack. Try adding it to healthy salad dressings for an extra pop of flavor.
 It can be very tempting to try the latest trend in dieting. The media is often full of stories about celebrities who tried a fad diet and had great success. However, it is important to remember that not only do fad diets often not work, they can also be harmful to your health.Most fad diets require you to cut out a major food group, such as carbs. The most important part of a healthy diet is making sure that you are eating a well-rounded meal plan that includes all nutrients. Avoid diets that require you to cut out food groups.
Some fad diets can make you sick. Many fad diets promote eating a very low amount of calories, which can be dangerous to your health. Instead, eat the recommended number of calories for your body type and make healthy choices.

