 In order to expedite the contact importing process from within your chosen IM service, you'll need to update your phonebook with your friends' IM names.


For efficiency's sake, text your friends this inquiry--you'll be entering their IM names into your contact list later.;
, You'll need to update your current contacts with their IM usernames.


On Android, you'll do this from the Google Contacts Manager by default; for iOS platforms, tap the "Contacts" app to access your contacts.
 This should be a contact whom you wish to add to your IM database.
 On both iOS and Android platforms, there is a space on each contact's card for IM names; on iPhones, this option is under the "Edit" setting, labelled "add instant message". For Android, you'll need to navigate to your pertinent contact-managing app and go into each contact's settings in order to add IM usernames.
 If you're using iOS, tap the "App Store" app; for Android, tap the "Google Play Store" app.
 You can type your app's name in from here. For an iPhone, tap the "Search" button in the bottom right side of your screen. If you're using an Android, tap the magnifying glass icon in the top right corner of your screen.
 WhatsApp is a good choice for all-around texting and international communication.
 Skype is a robust video- and voice-chat app with texting functionality.
 Facebook Messenger supports texting, calling, and video-chatting with both Facebook friends and phone contacts.
 Snapchat is a casual social app from which you can send picture, video, and text messages.
 This will begin downloading your app. Depending on your app's size and phone's connection speed, your download may take a few minutes.


On Android platforms, the "GET" button is replaced by one that says "Install".
 Before you can send a message on WhatsApp, you'll need to confirm your phone's identity and add some minor profile information.
 Opening WhatsApp for the first time will bring up a menu asking for permission to use your contacts; you'll need to press "OK" to enable this option.
 Doing so acknowledges that you agree to WhatsApp's Terms and Conditions of use.
 WhatsApp will send you a text with a code; you'll need to enter it in order to confirm your phone's identity.
 This will take you to your WhatsApp account creation page.
 This will help identify you to contacts.


You can also tap "Use Facebook Info" to use your Facebook picture and name.
 This will bring up an empty page; after you talk to somebody, your chat history with them will appear here.
 This will bring up a list of all the people in your contacts list who use WhatsApp.
 This will select that contact for your instant message.


You can also do this from the "Contacts" tab by tapping a contact's name and then tapping "Send Message". This contact must be on WhatsApp to receive your message.
 You should be able to use any keyboards or emoji you have installed on your phone.
 As long as the contact to whom you wish to talk is currently using WhatsApp, they should be able to receive your message and respond to you in a matter of seconds!

, Before you can use Skype, you'll need to create a user account. You can do this from within the app--it should only take a minute or so.
 Skype will request access to your contacts when you open it for the first time, so make sure you enable this option by tapping "OK".
 This will prompt you to agree to Skype's Terms and Conditions of use.
 This will take you to the account information entry page.
 This will include the following information:


Your full name
Your preferred Skype username
A password of your choice
A working email

, Skype will ask you to confirm your phone number by sending you a text message with a PIN.
 After you do this, you'll be able to begin using Skype for mobile., This will open a list of your current contacts on Skype.
 This will open the "Add contact" field in which you can type a contact's name to add them to a conversation.
 You should have this information from when you updated your phonebook. If your preferred contact has a Skype account, they will show up; tap their name to open a conversation with them.
 You should be able to use any keyboards or emoji you have installed on your phone.
 This is on the right side of the message bar. As long as the contact to whom you wish to talk is currently using Skype, they should be able to receive your message and respond to you in a matter of seconds!


Unlike WhatsApp, Skype requires the recipient of your IM to accept a contact request from you before they can read your message.
 Facebook Messenger has a comparatively easy set-up process, but you'll still need to log in with your Facebook account information to access your Facebook contacts.
 Even though Facebook Messenger uses your friends list, it will still ask for access to your contacts list when you open it for the first time; make sure you enable this option by tapping "OK".
 This will activate your Messenger account and allow you access to your Facebook friends, even if you don't have their phone numbers.If you use your phone number to log into Facebook, you can also use it to log into Messenger.
 This will take you to all of your available contacts.


You can also access contacts through the "Active Now" list on the Home tab, which is where Messenger opens to by default.
 This will open a conversation with that contact.


You can also add people to this conversation by tapping your contact's name at the top of the chat window, then tapping "Create Group" and typing in the name of another contact.
 You can add photos or emoji to this conversation from beneath the text field as well.
 As long as the contact to whom you wish to talk is currently Facebook Messenger, they should be able to receive your message and respond to you in a matter of seconds!

, Snapchat is less based in text messaging and more photo- and video-oriented.
 Snapchat should request access to your contacts as soon as you open it, so make sure you enable this option by tapping "OK".
 You will need to enter a few items to complete your user profile:


Your name
Your birthday
A preferred username
A preferred password
A working email address

, Snapchat has several different minigames it employs to make sure you aren't a spam program; you'll need to complete one of these to proceed.
 This is the camera interface; doing so will open Snapchat's settings page.
 This should be in the middle of the page.
 From here, you can tap the "+Add" button next to each contact you wish to add.
 Once you return to the settings page, you'll need to tap the circle at the bottom of the page; this will take you back to the main page.
 This will take you to the "Chat" page.


You can also tap or hold the circular button on the main page to take a photo or a video, respectively.
 This will open a chat window with that contact; you can type an instant message from here.


If you choose to take a picture/video, you'll need to tap the white arrow in the bottom right corner, tap a contact's name, and tap the white arrow again to send your media to them. You can also add text to photos/videos by tapping the screen after you take them.
 This field should be marked "Send a chat".
 As long as your recipient is currently using Snapchat, they'll be able to receive and respond to your chat in a matter of seconds!

