 Don't go solely by appearance--What is their reputation for reliability? What are the consequences to them if they don't show up?


Consider using an agency rather than going freelance. When an agency model no-shows, they are, at best, given a serious telling off and, at worst, dropped from the agency's books entirely. There is a bigger consequence to them than a freelancer if they don't show up. Use the Yellow Pages or an Internet search engine to find your local agencies and ask them who is suitable.
If you don't want to go via the agency route, then using a modeling hub to find a model. Remember to ask the people whom they've worked with what the model was like - did they turn up late? Did they cancel before the final shoot?
You may consider doing an in-person casting beforehand. These can be good because if your model shows up for this, they're likely to show up at the real shoot.;
, If the model has enough experience, they might be happy to give you the contact information for photographers they have worked with who can attest to the model's reliability. Make sure that the reference is really a photographer; there is always a possibility that it is the model's friend pretending to be a photographer. Check the photographer's website and call the business number listed there.
 There are many tales of photographers who thought they'd had a no-show, only to receive an e-mail from the model later that day explaining that they got lost or missed their train. Don't let this be you!

, One reason behind a lot of no-shows and late cancellations is models not sorting out travel in advance. Give your model as clear directions as possible to your locations, including, where possible, an accurate post or zip code.


If you will be working in a very remote location and/or you know your model cannot drive, it's a nice idea to offer a lift or have taxi details prepared for them.
Encourage your model to have alternative travel plans, in case their train gets delayed or the person who was offering a lift falls ill.
If you work out of the same location on a regular basis, consider having a map and directions on your website.
 Let them know that they can cancel up to 24 hours before the shoot (or whatever you feel is reasonable). Also let them know that if they cannot make it to the shoot and it is less than 24 hours away, they should still call or e-mail you just to let you know so that you can reschedule. At least the model will then feel comfortable letting you know if they can't make it, rather than avoiding you completely and leaving you waiting.


One problem photographers regularly run into is a model simply not replying to e-mail communication. This problem can be eased by inserting a "time condition" - something like "If I have not heard back from you by noon on Monday, I will assume you are not interested in the shoot". That way, if your model does not reply by your time limit, you can happily get on with casting a new model.
 If they are starting out and want to improve their reputation, this may be a good incentive to show up and work hard.
 If they stop hearing from you, they may jump to the conclusion that you have canceled the shoot.
 Do this by giving the model a quick call to make sure they are still able to come. This can also be a good idea to ask them to bring an additional item that your shoot may need. Also, if you find out they are not planning to show up with 72 hours to spare, this can be enough time to run an emergency casting for a replacement or cancel your studio without cost.
 If you need to leave ahead of the model, call the model to find out how they are doing on the schedule first. Make sure this is known to the model in advance, so that no confirmations means no shoot.

