 This is an inexpensive and effective way to get new customers. Focus your distribution on the areas where your target audience lives or works. Include a unique coupon on the flyer so you can track how many customers you gain from this approach.You may have the opportunity to speak with some potential customers if they are around when you are handing out the flyers. Be sure to have a quick description of your business.
In the residential cleaning sector, the most likely customers are higher, dual-income families and elderly people who are unable to clean their own homes. These customers are likely looking for quality, convenience, and a competitive price. Post flyers in neighborhoods where this population lives.
 Always be thinking of your business when you are out and about in your community. Think of everyone as a potential client. Even if they do not need your services, they may know someone that needs your service. Look for opportunities to get your business out there.Go to small business breakfast and lunches offered through your local chamber of commerce.
Volunteer your cleaning services to a charity event to get your name out and develop a good reputation.
If you are trying to gain new commercial cleaning customers, networking and getting referrals from other business is your best bet.
Keep your business cards with you everywhere you go. You always want to be prepared.
 The most important thing is getting a reputation for excellent, skilled, quality work at a reasonable price. You must show that you are thoroughly reliable and consistent. A happy, loyal customer is one of the best advertisements you can ever have.


Follow up with your customers after you provide a service to see if they are satisfied.You may not be able to slash your prices, but you can provide superior service.
If a customer has a complaint, listen and do not argue with the customer. Ask the customer if there is anything that you can do to fix the situation.Offer the customer a discounted or free cleaning the next time they use your services.
 Customers want to feel like they are important. Don't save all of your coupons and discounts for your new customers. Provide incentives for customer referrals and let them know how much you appreciate their business. They will tell other people about the great service that you are providing.


Give a free cleaning or a gift card to the customers who send you the most referrals or for long term customers., Professional organizations offer networking opportunities and resources for your business. You can also learn from experienced professionals in your industry. Good associations for the cleaning industry include:Building Services Contractors Association International
Association of Residential Cleaning Professionals
International Janitorial Cleaning Services Association
Cleaning Management Institute

