 The benefits you provide, existence of written contracts, and how the organization and the staff member perceive the relationship also affects whether they are classified as an employee or a contractor. The existence of a well written contract is pretty good proof you have a contractor relationship with them. You are more likely to have a client-like relationship with an independent contractor. They provide a service and you pay them for that service, but they also are free to provide that service to other individuals or organizations at a price they negotiate.
Think about this relationship in terms of the charitable interests of your organization. An independent contractor who writes grant proposals for you technically could write a grant proposal for another organization whose interests directly conflicted with yours. If the staff member was an employee, however, this wouldn't be appropriate.
Expecting a staff member to be loyal to your charitable cause typically indicates that you have an employee-employer working relationship with them. Similarly, on the other hand, they typically would be considered an employee.;
, While you may think classifying employees as contractors will save your organization some money, this classification isn't entirely up to you. The IRS looks at several factors to determine whether you should be paying payroll taxes for your employees. One of the factors the IRS looks at to determine whether someone is an employee or a contractor is how much control the organization has over what that person does and how they do their job.This factor generally concerns the extent to which you control the employee's time and behavior. For example, if an employee is working on the clock in your organization's offices, they typically couldn't be considered an independent contractor because you have extensive control over their actions while they're on the job.
In contrast, if you have a staff member who works from home on their own time and is free to work whatever hours they want as long as they complete a certain amount of work each week, you are exhibiting a lot less control over their behavior.
Typically someone who is paid by the hour and works in the organization's offices will be considered an employee. This is particularly true if they have scheduled hours and breaks and are expected to remain at their desk or other designated area while they are on the clock.
Keep in mind also that the amount of training your staff receives may affect whether the IRS will classify them as employees or contractors. Contractors typically are expected to bring their own skills and work ethic to bear on an assignment, while employees are told exactly how to complete a task.
 Staff members are more likely to be classified as employees rather than contractors if the organization reimburses expenses and provides the tools or supplies needed to carry out their work.If a staff member is responsible for providing their own equipment and supplies, you're typically safe considering them a contractor rather than an employee, assuming the other factors line up with that classification.
Similar analysis applies to whether staff members are reimbursed for any travel expenses. Since contractors customarily deduct business expenses, you typically would require them to cover these things. However, this depends upon the contract language; many contractors require reimbursement of third-party expenses.
Staff members who have the freedom to hire their own assistants or delegate part of their work to others also may be considered contractors.
On the other hand, if staff members are required to complete their work on their own, this typically weighs in favor of them being classified as employees.
Typically contractors are paid by the job. A staff member still may be considered a contractor even though they're paid by the hour, if they're paid by submitting you an invoice for their time rather than clocking in to a time clock on the premises.
Staff members' paid salary will almost always be classified as employees. Keep in mind that if your organization incorrectly classifies  employees, the IRS may determine you owe significant money in back payroll taxes, and your 501(c)(3) tax-exempt status may be in jeopardy as a result.
 Employee compensation is considered reasonable under IRS regulations if it is a similar amount that normally is paid for comparable services by comparable organizations under comparable circumstances.Your state nonprofit council typically has information on average salaries and other compensation paid by nonprofits operating in your state.
You usually can get a report that lists compensation for each year, along with details regarding the organization's size and budget. These statistics will help you find organizations that are comparable to yours.
Generally, you want to look at the compensation offered by organizations who are conducting similar activities, and who have a similar staff size and annual operating budget as yours.
In addition, it can be helpful to look at organizations located in the same, or similar, geographic areas. Clearly a national organization would not be comparable to a small nonprofit that only operated in a single rural county.
Because costs of living and operating an organization differ, look for organizations that operate in areas demographically similar to yours. For example, if your organization is located in the inner city of a medium-sized metropolitan area, organizations located in sparsely populated farming communities or major cities wouldn't be comparable.
 A salary review should consider the market value of a person providing similar services with the same responsibilities and authorities. This is not limited to other non-profit companies only, but comparably sized corporations. However, having an independent firm or people not on your nonprofit's board of directors conduct a review of the salaries offered to employees at comparable nonprofit organizations ensures your compensation is kept at a reasonable level.You can work with your state's nonprofit council to find individuals who would fit the bill and recruit them to conduct the review.
Ideally, you want to create a committee of several people who would be responsible for reporting to your board of directors each year.
Set up a system whereby compensation is reviewed annually and voted on by the board.
 Once the review is completed, written documents and evidence of the review process and the organizations compared should be kept in case the IRS questions the amount of compensation paid.Start a file to keep with your other business records and maintain documentation for each year.
Put the data collected regarding comparable organizations as well as reports produced by your comparability review committee and notes or minutes from the board meeting in which the report was presented and compensation put to a vote.
 Minimum wage laws are constantly changing, so be sure that you know the most recent wage limit for your state each year. These laws apply to both for-profit and nonprofit organizations. While many states introduce minor changes each year, or every few years, to account for inflation or cost of living, some states, like California and New York, are making drastic changes over the next few years. Make sure you plan ahead when paying your minimum-wage workers., Since most nonprofit organizations don't have extensive resources, benefits offered to employees should fit within your organization's budget as well as falling within the IRS's "reasonable compensation" guidelines.One way to reduce costs while staying within "reasonable compensation" guidelines is to offer retirement plans, but reduce or eliminate the amount of matching funds the organization adds to the employee's contributions.
Using health savings accounts or fixed reimbursement amounts rather than health insurance is another way to offer benefits.
There also are a number of group health insurance policies specifically designed for nonprofit organizations that offer health benefits at a lower cost to your employees without incurring much additional expense on the part of your organization.
You also can provide benefits in other ways that don't result in taking money out of your budget. For example, many gyms offer membership discounts for people who work for a nonprofit, but you often have to register your nonprofit with the company first.
Extending discounts to your staff members is an important way to offer benefits without breaking the bank.
Other options perceived as benefits by your employees can actually save your organization money. For example, you may provide your employees the ability to work from home a certain number of days per month. Creating desk-share systems with staff members who work from home can reduce the overhead of maintaining an office.
Consider giving your employees a four-day workweek. The extra day off will be seen by your employees as a benefit, while staggering shifts can ensure you have the people you need on site on any given day.
 The IRS considers bonuses and benefits that have monetary value as part of an employee's total compensation, and these also must meet the reasonability standards for nonprofits. Your independent compensation review committee that you formed to assess your compensation levels should also be used for assessing these bonuses and benefits.The independent committee should conduct a comparability review similar to that done for salaries to determine whether the bonuses and benefits you have in mind compare to those offered by similar organizations.
As with salaries, make sure the reports and documents generated by the committee are kept in the organization's files with other tax and business documents in the event the amounts are questioned.
Your entire bonus plan should be designed and implemented by the independent committee, with procedural safeguards to ensure employees can't take advantage of loopholes or otherwise abuse or manipulate the plan to get more money than they deserve and defeat the purpose of the plan.
 For a bonus plan to pass IRS muster as reasonable, you must be able to demonstrate that the plan furthers your organization's charitable purpose, and isn't simply a device to distribute profits.You typically don't want to have bonuses directly earned as a result of collecting a certain dollar amount in donations, as this looks too much like a sales commission.
Rather, set objective standards for employee performance and base bonuses on those scores or other related criteria.
For example, if your organization operates a soup kitchen, you could offer a bonus based on the number of people served in a given month.
Bonuses should be related to the charitable purpose of your organization, rather than performance of tasks related to the operation of the organization itself.
 In early 2016, overtime pay was expanded to cover more salaried workers. That is, any salaried workers making less than $47,476 annually are now entitled to overtime pay for hours worked past the standard, 40-hour workweek. The previous salary limit was about half of this new one. This law, like other compensation regulations, applies to nonprofits as well. You may have to reassess your compensation if your salaried workers are making under this limit and working overtime each week.Note, however, that in 2017 a temporary injunction was filed to block the expansion of overtime pay. This means the law may return to a number around the previous threshold of $23,660. , Bonuses and benefits, or the equivalent monetary value thereof, are included by the IRS in an employee's total compensation when it conducts its analysis. Even if the salary falls below the "reasonable compensation" threshold, benefits and bonuses may push it over the top.To help easily evaluate the reasonableness of total compensation, any bonuses earned should be capped at a certain percentage of the employee's salary. That way you can evaluate potential total compensation using that maximum number.
Keep in mind that whatever the maximum amount an employee could potentially earn in bonuses, you have to assume for the purposes of evaluating the reasonableness of their total compensation that they will in fact earn that maximum amount in any given year.
If the maximum amount of bonuses, together with salaries and benefits, ends up being significantly greater than the compensation offered by comparable organizations, you run the risk of jeopardizing your organization's tax-exempt status.

