 Once you’ve mixed up your boxed brownie mix, pour about half of it into your pan. Put the second half of batter to the side. Then, carefully place a layer of Oreos over the layer of brownie batter. Leave the Oreos whole, placing them side-by-side until the batter is covered. Pour the second half of the brownie batter over the Oreos.Bake your brownies according to the box instructions. The Oreos will soften and form a delicious, smooth middle layer.
You aren't limited to using traditional Oreos. Use Golden Oreos or flavored Oreos for a unique taste. Cookies like Nutter Butters, Milanos, and chewy Chips Ahoy work as well.
 This boxed brownie enhancement involves adding candy to your mix, but in a much more methodical way. Mix up your boxed brownie mix according to the instructions on the box. Pour half of the batter into the pan. Then, carefully add a layer of caramel-filled chocolates. You should be able to find several different brands and versions of this kind of candy at your local grocery store.After you’ve carefully laid the candy over the batter and filled the entire pan, add the second half of your batter over the candies.
Bake your brownies according to instructions. When you slice them, you’ll have a decadent layer of caramel in the middle!
The candies work well to hold the caramel in a layer. You can use a store-bought caramel sauce, but it will be a bit runnier and form less of a solid "layer."

, If you love brownies and you love cookies, why not combine the two? Don’t worry, you can buy store-bought cookie dough for this, so it doesn’t require any extra mixing. Simply press your cookie dough into the bottom of your pan, covering the entire thing as if you were making one huge cookie. Then, pour your brownie batter over the top.Bake your brownie cookie hybrid for the lowest amount of time on the box. Then, check it by sticking a toothpick into the brownie portion. When it comes out clean, your cookie brownies are all done!

, Smash up some graham crackers and measure out two cups of crumbs. Put them in a bowl, and add a quarter cup of granulated sugar and 6 tablespoons of melted butter. Mix that all up to create a dough. Line your baking pan with foil and then press the graham cracker mixture into the bottom of the pan. Pour your brownie batter over those graham crackers and bake! The finished product will taste a bit like s'mores.