 Before dyeing, wash and dry the fabric as you normally would. This removes any dirt and oil that could keep the rub from penetrating evenly.


You can wash the fabric with the rest of your clothes or just wash it by itself, depending on your preference.
Be sure to follow the washing instructions of the fabric, if provided.
 The amount of coffee that you should brew will depend on how dark you would like the fabric to be. Stronger coffee will achieve a darker tint.


If you are looking to create a darker tint with the coffee, use more coffee or use a dark/very strong roast. If you would like a lighter tint, use less coffee or use coffee that is a light or medium roast.
As an alternative to preparing several batches of coffee at home, you can use instant coffee or you can purchase brewed coffee from a local store or coffee shop.
 You can put it in the refrigerator for about 20 minutes or simply wait for it to cool for a couple of hours at room temperature.
 This is so you can pour the dye onto the sections without spilling anything into other sections.


Reserve different squeeze bottles for different types of roasts (i.e. one squeeze bottle with a dark roast, another bottle for a light roast).
 You can twist the fabric and use the rubber bands to section the areas. This will ensure that you know which sections should be dyed and will also prevent the dye from sinking too far into the fabric.


Spread the fabric out completely.
Take your finger, place it in the middle of the garment, and begin turning your finger and hand clockwise.
The fabric will start to bunch up as you twist. Be sure to keep the fabric orderly and create a circular shape, like a very wide and short cylinder, similar to the shape of a pie.
Once the fabric is shaped like a pie, rubber band it in sections, as if you are dividing the pie into eighths.
 Use the squeeze bottles to pour the coffee onto the fabric. You may want to use more or darker coffee on certain sections to create a color variance.


Once you have finished dying the top part, flip it over and dye the bottom.
 Depending on the size of the fabric, you can use a plastic container or a ziplock bag. Seal the bag or container and place it somewhere warm for 24 hours.


If you have a lot of fabric, you can use a plastic storage container. They vary in size from a shoebox size to large enough to store kitchen appliances and other large items.
 Once the coffee dye and fabric have set, open the ziplock bag or the container and remove the fabric. Rinse well under cold water, until the water runs clear.

