 If you don't have them, try a hair dye and colored contacts, but this isn't a necessity.;
, Massie wears subtle, trendy, and natural-looking make-up, like lip gloss, eyeshadow, blush, mascara, and bronzer. Get what you think will look good with your colors. If you have a strict family, or can't afford make-up right now, Massie is not the character for you (try Claire or Kristen). If you think you have what it takes and this is the only dilemma you have, use chap-stick. DO NOT buy any cheap make-up. Don't buy foundation, cover-up, or powder from Claire's, because it could severely ruin your skin.
 You may want to get really expensive clothes if you can afford it like Prada, Gucci, Chanel, Juicy, etc. But if you can't, try cheaper (but still fashionable) cute clothing lines, such as L. A. M. B., A&F, American Eagle, PacSun, Hollister, and Forever 21. Don't go any lower than that, and you need at least a few designer items, namely: at least one pair of designer jeans, at least 3 Juicy Couture tracksuit hoodies, a few designer jackets, a few designer tops, and ALL your shoes NEED to be designer. Coach actually has pretty cheap shoes when they go on sale sometimes. You also need Juicy sneakers, a few pairs of Nikes for any intense sports, at least 3 pairs of REAL UGGs Australia and at least 2 pairs of designer heels, like Manolo Blahnik, Jimmy Choo, or Miu Miu.
 She is the queen of come-backs. She can outdo you in a flash. She has numerous catchy come-backs.
 Try being part of a local community Lip Gloss Club or a mini fashion shoot. Don't act too snobby, though, or your parents may ground you, and then you wouldn't be able to go to the mall. That would be a total nightmare! However, if that is a thing your parents would do, Massie probably isn't right for you. Massie's parents are REALLY, chill!

, In the books and movie, Massie has her own private (and sometimes public, as she does publish them to a blog and share them with others sometimes) way of sharing what is in and what is out. Try writing one everyday, and reflect it on that day's events (i.e., if your friend was mean to you, she can be marked OUT, while someone else could be IN. Same with adults, activities, objects, clothes, accessories, anything!).
 Massie is the only child, but in all the books, Massie has a sidekick: her cute dog, Bean. She also has a white horse, Brownie. If you have a pet, make him/her your sidekick pet. In one of the books, her ringtone was even Bean barking! Also, in all the books, Bean is included whenever the girls are at her home. Try to include your pet whenever your friends are at your house!

, Make sure you have purple everything! Massie also lives in a huge mansion and has a gigantic room with TONS of walk-in closets. Her room is pure white with a few accents of purple. As stated in the book, her room would look terrible if it were ALL purple!

, Massie has a Tiffany&Co. charm bracelet that became a major hit at her school all because of the trend SHE started!

