 The 70s are over, and untrimmed pubic bushes are either a sign that you are stuck in the past, or just don't care. Either way, it's not a real plus for your partner, so trim it up. Do this before you shower, so that all the trimmings are washed away.


If you have hair clippers, set it to a depth that suits you—1⁄2 to 1 inch (1.3 to 2.5 cm) suits a lot of people. Trim carefully all the way around and under for a clean look.
No clippers? Use a pair of sharp scissors, and snip away evenly to a length that suits you.
Some people have taken to shaving the hair down there. If you and your partner favor this look, go for it!

Soak in a bathtub for a bit to soften the hair up. It'll make it a lot easier to shave.
Trim with scissors before lathering up the shaving cream and pointing sharp objects at your privates.
Be careful. It's easy enough to nick yourself when shaving your face, and shaving is something you do every day!
Note that when you shave, within a couple days it could get really itchy. If you're scheduled to give a big presentation to the board then, you might want to think twice, and save the shave till after the meeting. Alternately, use an unscented moisturizing lotion to minimize the itch.

;
, When you shower, or bathe, don't go light on the soap when you wash your crotch.


If you're circumcised, taking care of your penis is pretty straightforward. Soap it up, rinse it off.
If you're uncut, clean under the foreskin. Neglecting this will cause a buildup of a whitish substance with the oddly unpleasant name of smegma. It's harmless, but not something you want sticking around.
Scrub (somewhat gently) from tip to tail, and all the parts in between.
 Who needs soapy buildup, or a soapy smell? For a lot of people, it can be just as unpleasant to smell perfumed soap as eau de nether.


Some people enjoy a natural (i.e., clean but not overly fragrant) smell from their partner. When in doubt, it's a good idea to favor neutral over perfumed.
 Wear a fresh pair of underwear daily.


Keep your clean, unused undergarments in a cool, dry place. Whether you prefer boxers or briefs, make sure you dry them as soon as you wash them. Otherwise, you risk your clothes smelling worse than you (did).

