 He can bless your house and advise you on obtaining and setting up a kamidana. However, since you are reading this article, it will be assume consulting a priest is not a viable option.;
, In most Japanese homes, it is placed on a shelf high on the wall. If this is impossible, consider placing it upon a lower shelf or table reserved especially for it. If you do not have a butsudana, consider placing the kamidana in the parlor. If you do, then another room might be more appropriate.
 If you are in Japan, this can be as simple as buying one at the local Homeac. If you are not in Japan, this can be done through Amazon.com or other websites. They cost anywhere from 5000 to 40000 yen.
 Accessories usually include two small saucers, a lidded bowl, two mizuire (vase-like lidded sake jars), two vases, and two candle holders. Excepting the candle holders, these are usually of white ceramic. The candle holders are usually of black metal. There is also often two Chinese style ceramic vases and/or a kagami (a disk of polished metal, held in a wooden stand).
 This usually includes two sprigs of sakaki, salt, rice, water, and sake. You will also want white candles for the shrine.
 An ofuda is a talisman inscribed with the essence of a kami.
, In front of the stairs, place one of the saucers. Fill it with salt. To the left place the other saucer. Fill it with rice that has been washed, but not soaked. To the right, place the lidded bowl. Fill it with water. These are the three essentials of life which you are offering to the kami.
 To either side of center stairs, first place the mizuire, then the Chinese vases, and finally the vases. Sake is poured into the mizuire, and sakaki sprigs are placed in the tall white vases.
 Candles can be set in them. Your kamidana is now set up.
 Many kamidana are placed within a wooden box, often with glass doors to protect it. A curtain, often of bamboo or purple fabric emblazoned with a white mitsudomoe, can be placed in front of the kamidana. A shimenawa (rice straw rope) can be hung in the very front. Shide (folded strips of white paper), often wrapped within the shimenawa, mark the area of the kamidana as pure.
 Offerings or other talismans can be placed in front of the kamidana. For instance, a hamaya (demon breaking arrow) or kagami mochi might be placed so.
