 Emphasize the child’s good behavior instead of pointing out the negative. It is important that you maintain the relationship with this child by correcting their behavior in a positive, empathic way. Disciplining a RAD child with harsh words and negative feedback only reinforces their view that they are alone in the world.Say “yes” instead of “no.” For example, the child wants to play outside, but has not yet finished their homework. Say, “Yes, you can go outside as soon as your homework is done!” instead of “No, you need to get your homework done.”
Praise rather than scold. Commend what the child did correctly rather than make an issue of what they didn’t do. For example, if the child leaves the door wide open in the middle of winter to rush outside and play in the snow, you might say, “Wow, you did a great job getting all your winter gear on all by yourself! Can you do me a favor and remember to close the door next time? We want our house to stay warm.”

, The child may argue with you, antagonize you, and intentionally get into trouble in order to maintain their control over the situation. Your job as their caregiver is to not engage with their drama. Acknowledge their feelings, but do not fight with them.If the child is having a temper tantrum, for example, you could calmly say, “I understand that you are angry and upset. I will let you work through it so long as you don’t hurt me, or others, or yourself.”
Wait until the child has calmed down before talking to them. Stay close to the child to let them know you are there, and restrain them from self-harm or hurting you if necessary, but let the behavior run its course. They are so worked up that talking to them will not accomplish anything.
 These are sentences that can prevent power struggles and place responsibility for the child’s behavior on the child.Stay calm and free of sarcasm, and consider using some of the following to diffuse an argument:


”That’s interesting.”
”Hmmmm.”
”I’ll be glad to listen when your voice is as soft as mine.”
”Thanks for the honest answer.”

, Timeouts only reinforce the self-isolating behavior of a child with reactive attachment disorder.Instead, you may wish to keep the child with you, talking about what happened and how they could do differently next time.


You could say, “I’m so glad you’re sitting here with me. I know it must be hard after what happened. I know you’re upset. But let’s talk about why you’re so upset that you kicked Xavier. What do you think you could do differently next time?”

, Following a tantrum, argument, or bad behavior, reassure the child that you still love/care about them, that you are not going to hurt them, and that they are safe. Children with RAD, as well as neglected children in general, are more attuned to others’ negative emotions than typical children.Tell the child that while you may be upset at the moment, your feelings for the child haven’t changed.


For example, you could say, “Emma, I know we were both a little angry before. I want to let you know that I am disappointed in your behavior, but there is nothing you could do that would make me stop loving you. I want to help you make a better choice next time. Let’s talk about how we can fix this together.”

