 If there is a dog in your neighborhood that constantly barks or howls, the first course of action is to talk to the owners directly. Let them know their dog’s noises have become a problem, and ask them if there is anything that can be done.Remember to be calm, polite, and reasonable. There is a good chance your neighbor doesn’t know about the barking, since it may happen when they are not home.
Let the owner know, "I hear your dog barking frequently, and the noise can be disruptive for some of us in the neighborhood. Is there anything we can do to help calm down your dog and reduce the noise?"
Do not demand anything of your neighbor. They know what solutions will work best for their pet. Simply bring their attention to the issue, and ask what can be done.
 If your neighbor is unwilling to strike a compromise regarding their dog, consider going to mediation. The mediation process allows you and your neighbor to sit down with a trained, impartial third party to discuss the core issue and reach a mutual solution.Mediation helps keep matter from escalating to a lawsuit or other formal actions. Your neighbor is not required to mediate, but you can encourage them to do so in lieu of a formal complaint.
You can find a mediator online through groups such as the American Arbitration Association, or contact a local law office for recommendations on mediators in your area., File a complaint with your local Animal Services office letting them know about the noise. Many cities and counties have protocol for issuing written notices letting owners know that excessive noise must be dealt with.Contact your local animal shelter to ask them about the complaint process. Let them know your concerns, and ask them if they offer an abatement program to open an investigation into and help deal with excessive noise complaints.
 Your neighbor’s dog may be barking because of an annoyance such as a squirrel that likes to run through the lawn. It may also be barking if it has poor living conditions, such as being left alone outside 24/7 with improper access to shelter, food, or water.If it is a minor annoyance, work with your neighbor to resolve the issue. If a squirrel is the problem, for example, have one of you contact animal control to have the squirrel rehomed.
If the dog does not have quality living conditions, contact animal control immediately to get the dog the help it needs.

