 Squirt one nail-sized drop of your favorite primer and one nail-sized drop of your preferred face lotion onto the back of your hand. Use clean fingertips to tub the primer and lotion together so they're combined.Using a primer will help keep your makeup in place and the lotion will keep your skin hydrated for several hours. Look for a lotion that contains minerals which can nourish your face.;
, Dab the mixture with a few clean fingertips and gently sponge it all over your face. Make sure you cover your entire face with the primer and lotion mixture since it will help the sculpting makeup go on easier.








Avoid pulling or rubbing the mixture into your skin. Rough handling of your skin can actually damage it.
 Before you begin sculpting your face, you should hide any blemishes or areas of uneven skin tone. For example, if you have dark under eye circles, use a concealer that matches your skin tone to cover and smooth out your skin tone.








You can use a concealer brush or your fingertips to dab the concealer into your skin. Use whichever one you feel more comfortable with.
 Use your favorite foundation to create a base layer of makeup across your face. Dab the foundation onto your face and then use a brush to spread completely over your face. Consider using a flat top buffer brush to spread the foundation. This will ensure even coverage across your entire face.









Avoid using a shiny foundation that might have a pearly or sparkly look. Instead, look for a matte foundation which will appear more natural., To reduce any shine from your foundation and completely blend your foundation, take a beauty sponge and dab the foundation all over your face. Ensure that the foundation is worked into the corners of your nose and all along your hairline and jawline.








If you don't have a beauty sponge, you can also use a beauty blender to dab the foundation.
 Choose a concealer that's a shade or two lighter than your foundation. Dab the concealer beneath your eyes and along your nose, forming a triangular shape. You should also spread the concealer down the center of your nose and the center of your forehead.You could also use a lighter foundation instead of a concealer to highlight key areas of your face.
 If you'd like to sculpt your cheeks, dab a little of the light concealer below your cheekbones. The concealer should be in a diagonal line that points toward your mouth. You should also dab concealer on the center of your chin.To find the best place below your cheekbones for the concealer, feel the bones of your cheeks. Gradually feel below the cheekbones until you feel a hollow space. This is where you should place the diagonal line of concealer., Dip your beauty sponge or beauty blender into warm water and squeeze it out. Take the damp sponge or blender and gently dab the concealer into the base foundation. Use the large side to blend the makeup so you don't have any sharp lines where your concealer meets foundation.








If you don't have a beauty sponge or beauty blender, you can use disposable makeup sponges although these may absorb more of your makeup than the reusable sponge or blender.
 Use a translucent powder to help set your cream or liquid foundation and concealer. This will keep your makeup in place and can control shiny or oily skin. Translucent powder is also best if you repeatedly touch up your powder or makeup throughout the day since it won't add color to your face.








If you want to bring out the highlighted areas of your face even more, dust the areas you placed the light concealer with a face powder in a lighter shade.

