 The only way to stay regular with your prayers is to understand what it is and to learn the benefits of it. You could be standing in prayer and have no idea what you're doing, but you're doing it anyway because you have to. This is not the correct way to stay regular with your prayers and could cause you to feel discouraged and prevent you from praying. Learn the meaning of it and understand what it is by looking into the Qur'an and reading Hadiths.


In the Qu'ran it says, "And I have chosen you, so listen to that which is inspired to you. Verily, I am Allah! There is none worthy of worship but I, so worship Me and offer prayer perfectly for My remembrance." We pray only to worship Allah and to remember him. It's mentioned in a Hadith that states "The first matter that the slave will be brought to account for on the Day of Judgment is the prayer. If it is sound, then the rest of his deeds will be sound. And if it is bad, then the rest of his deeds will be bad." ;
, To be aware when it's almost time to pray, set alarms for each prayer that is five minutes before the actual prayer. This can help prepare yourself such as wearing proper clothing, finding an area to pray, making Wudu, and encouraging your Muslims friends or family members to get ready to pray, too.


You may want to set alarms on your phone, tablet, or computer so you can get a notification about prayer.
If you can't set an alarm, try sticking the times of prayer on a piece of paper and placing them all around areas in the house that you'll see such as on the fridge, on your calendar, etc.
If you find it hard to stick to an alarm, you might find it helpful for a Muslim friend or family member to remind you when prayer time is near. However, do remember you are responsible for your own prayers so avoid depending on them too much. , It can be hard to always pray at the masjid (mosque) everyday so if you are busy and have other tasks to do, it is acceptable to pray at home. If you're out and know you won't be coming home in awhile, you can pray at the place you're in as long as you pray in a quiet, clean area (i.e praying at school, work, store, etc.).
 Praying regularly is a great blessing and the rewards for it are great. Constantly remind yourself how important prayer is and the benefits of it. Prayer brings you closer to Allah and allows you to reflect on all His gifts He has given you. It also allows you to ask Allah for help when you are going through a difficult time. The prophet Muhammad (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) said, “The most important of all matters is Islam, its spinal cord is prayer and the highest rank is Jihaad for the sake of Allah.” Prayer also wipes off any bad sins. The prophet Muhammad (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) said, "Tell me, if there's an overflowing river in front of the house and you bathe into it five times a day, will there remain any dirt on you? They said, ‘No dirt will remain on him’. He then said: “That is the example of the five daily obligatory prayers by which Allah erases sins.” , The only way to be regular with your prayers is to remember Allah daily. This will prevent you from forgetting Him and will allow you stay regular with your prayers. Do Islamic tasks often such as making Dhikr, giving charity or Zakat, attending Islamic gatherings or speeches, listening to Islamic lectures, reciting the Qur'an, fasting, and participating in other good deeds. , Keeping at your prayers regularly is not always easy and you will feel lazy or discouraged at times. Understand that this is normal and many Muslims know that feeling. However, it's important not to give in and to ask Allah to help you by making Du'a. You can find many good Du'as in the Qur'an or you can create one yourself by expressing yourself truthfully on how you need help to Allah. Some Du'as in the Qu'ran include:


"My Lord, make me an establisher of prayer, and from my descendants. Our Lord, and accept my supplication."
"Our Lord! Perfect our light for us and forgive us our sins, for verily You have power over all things."
"Our Lord! Pour out on us patience and constancy, and make us die as those who have surrendered themselves unto You."
"Our Lord! Let not our hearts deviate from the truth after You have guided us, and bestow upon us mercy from Your grace. Verily You are the Giver of bounties without measure."

, If you're traveling, you are allowed to combine your prayers to help make it easy for you as you travel. If you're very weak or sick, you can pray sitting down, and if that's hard enough, you can also pray laying down. Point being: Praying should not be a hassle and Allah has made it very easy for you. It takes approximately 10-15 minutes to pray, and sometimes even less depending on how much you pray or what prayer it is.
 There are times where you won't exactly be on time for prayer (e.g if you are a surgeon you can't step out to pray during an operation, if you're a student you can't go pray during an exam, etc.) nor will you be absolutely perfect for each one. You might wake up late and miss your prayer or just simply forget about it at one point. Don't feel discouraged and keep striving to be on time and regular to your prayers.


Understand that Allah is the All-Forgiving (Al-Ghafoor). If you do end missing your prayer or delaying it for whatever reason, repent to Him and ask Him to make it easier for you. , Give yourself a small gift to reward yourself when you start to stay regular for your prayers daily. You could perhaps buy a small gift, eat out, or do something fun such as go out to the park. A small gift will encourage to keep up the habit and stay regular with your prayers.
 If you're new to praying or have recently converted, keeping regular at your prayers isn't always easy and will require a lot on your part to stay regular. Understand that Allah helps those who really try to worship Him, and with His will, you'll be able to pray regularly and keep at your prayers.

