 If you want to initiate a snuggle session, you have to make your girl want to get all cuddly with you. There are a few ways for your body to say, "It's snuggle time," without you having to be too obvious about it. Once you show her you're ready and that your body is the perfect snuggle tool, she'll come closer. Sit down on the couch first, and let her know what you want. Here's how to show her:


Keep your body open. Your arms should be out and your legs should be a little bit apart. Make yourself look bigger than you really are. Expand the snuggle territory.
Bonus points if you drape a blanket around yourself or put it on your lap. Women love blankets, and the blanket will draw her near you. If you want, you can even set the temperature a little colder than usual so she'll want your body heat, and the heat of the blanket.
Dim the lights. Whether you're watching a movie or just hanging out, nobody want to snuggle with all the lights on.
Make sure to have showered and to look your best. If you just came straight from the gym, she won't be too excited about snuggling with you.;
, Smile and make eye contact when she sits next to you. Without saying anything, let her know you think she looks amazing and you want to get closer. Don't be too obvious about it. Even if your heart is jumping, play it cool.


Once she joins you, scoot just a little bit closer to her without being too obvious about it.
 You can slowly do this before she joins you, or even do it once she sits next to you. Just avoid the corny "I'm pretending to yawn but really just awkwardly putting my arm around you" move.


Remember, your arm should go around the couch, not around the girl. If you put your arm firmly around the girl, she may feel stuck where she is and won't be open to more snuggling.
 First, put your other hand on her knee and lightly caress it. If she's receptive, you can start holding her hand, and playing with her fingers. As you do this, continue to subtly move closer together.


This should feel natural because both of you are moving toward each other. If she's not into it, you'll know because she won't want you to touch her hand or her knee. But if all goes according to plan, you should be moving closer together, so that your knees are almost touching.
 Now it's time to put old "couch arm" to work. Once you're caressing your girl with one hand and put the other arm around her, you will be in full-out snuggle mode. But you have to be subtle when you put your other arm around her, or she may be startled by your abruptness. Here's what to do:


Continue to caress her with your other hand. This will keep her occupied, and will make it easier for you to put your arm around her without her even realizing it.
Gently stroke her hair with the arm that was around the couch. Lower the arm until you've stroked her hair a few times.
Then, put your arm around her. You've done it!

, If everything goes according to plan, your girl will love your snuggle moves, and will want to keep things going. Now that you've got your arms both wrapped around her, you should be so close together that your knees are touching.


Wait for her to put her head on your chest or the crook of your arm.
Stroke her shoulder with the arm that was around her shoulder.
Give her a light kiss on the top of the forehead. Girls love this move if it's done correctly.
Remember to keep active. You don't have to be caressing the girl every second and it's good to take some to stay still, but ever so often, you should still caress her arm or stroke her hair so you don't feel so locked in.
 If you like where your cuddle session is going, you can tilt your body until your head is resting on the side of the couch, and your legs are still near the ground but turned toward the other side of the couch. She'll still have her head on your chest, and if you both move correctly, you'll be snuggling with her lying on you.


Your bodies won't be facing the exact same direction. Don't lie completely on the couch with her body exactly over yours or that will feel awkward. Just shift your body so you're more in the reclined position so she can drape her body across the couch while still snuggling with you, or even using you as her snuggle pillow.
 If your snuggle session is going strong, you can try mixing things up so the same old pose doesn't get old. Whether you're sitting up and getting close, or if she's reclined with her head on your chest, you can expand your snuggling repertoire with these easy moves:


The sitting spoon. In this classic move, you're both sitting up with your arms around each other, but your girl's legs are folded and turned towards you, so her legs fit onto your lap, and your legs fit below hers.
The "Mama Bear Spoon." In this variation of the spoon, your girl will be curled behind you while putting her arms around you.
The "Papa Bear Spoon." In this version, you're still spooning with your girl curled up behind you, but this time, you've put your arms around her.
 Though snuggling on the couch is a perfect way to get closer to your girl, there are a few awkward poses that can lead to you getting too close, or just feeling weird. When you expand your cuddling moves, make sure to avoid these poses at all costs:


The dead arm. This is the most common snuggling faux pas. When you're snuggling while you're sitting up, don't spread your arm out in front of your girl's extended arm, so her arm is caught behind you and you've cut off her circulation.
The face-to-face cuddle. Unless you're having a make-out session or are dying to let your girl smell whatever you had for dinner, don't cuddle sitting up while your faces are pointed toward each other.
The tight squeeze. You may love snuggling with your girl, but don't squeeze her so tightly that she can't breathe. That is not what people mean when they tell you that you should "take her breath away" with your moves.
The human knot. If you and your girl are so entwined that it would take an hour just to find out where the heck you've placed your arm, then you are committing a cuddling crime.

