 The majority of broken resolutions come about because an individual set a goal for themselves that was overly ambitious, or simply unrealistic. You can revive the resolution but in more moderate, manageable terms—this will allow you to note the progress you’re making and feel good about yourself, rather than making you feel as though you’re up against impossible odds.For example, if you resolved to lose weight—one of the most common New Year's resolutions—modify the amount you want to lose. If you resolved to lose 20 pounds, cut that number in half.
As another example, if you resolved to exercise more, you don’t have to hold yourself to hitting the gym every day. Set a minimal goal at first—going to the gym once a week—and then increase your gym attendance over the course of the year.;
, Vague resolutions such as “I want to be a better person,” “I want to find a better job,” or “I want to get in shape this year” are practically bound to fail, as the terms they use are vague and difficult to think about concretely. If your resolution had been vague, re-word it using more specific language. This will give you a definite goal to pursue, and also let you measure progress as you work on the resolution.For example, the resolutions listed above could be clarified to say:


“I want to tell fewer lies to my supervisor and coworkers.”
“I want to quit my current job by March and send out 6 applications by April.”
“I want to visit a gym twice weekly and lose 5 pounds this year.”

, New Year’s resolutions often seem like overwhelming, monumental tasks that will be impossible to complete. This is often the reason why many people fail to complete their resolution. To improve your chances of success, focus on small goals throughout the year, rather than one large goal for the end of the New Year. You can motivate yourself to complete your resolution by completing series of small steps and tracking this progress.For example, if you’ve resolved to stop smoking during the New Year, set yourself small, manageable goals. Rather than expecting to stop cold-turkey by March, be realistic: if you start the year smoking 1 pack a day, cut back to ½ a pack by May, ¼ of a pack by October, and kick the habit by January.

