 Lenphad is at the Equipment Shop found in Elder Village. She will give you a list of monsters to be killed in certain dungeon level.


In order for you to take the Sword Knight quest, you must be an Elsword level 15.;
, You can find the Bomber Mongs in Wally's Castle. Bomber Mongs are the monkeys wearing junk parts from the roof of the castle. They're easy to kill, even in the hardest level of the dungeon.


This quest can be done on any difficulty.
 These monsters can be found in Wally's Castle as well, but in the quest description, you can only do this quest under the hard or higher level of the dungeon.


The dungeon is best cleared with a party to easily complete the map.
You can kill these monsters along with the 15 Bomber Mongs.
 Head to Elder Village and talk to the Accessory Shop owner. The NPC will give you another quest: complete the Wally's Castle under Very Hard mode within 15 minutes.


You can do this quest with other players to quickly clear the dungeon.
If you fail this quest, you can enter the dungeon to try again.
After you have completed the Knight quest chain, you can decide between advancing as a Sword Knight, Magic Knight, or Sheath Knight.
 This is an active skill available for the Elsword class. The character smashes his flaming sword into the ground to erupt 3 Flame Geysers.


This skill is usually used in the PvP and PvM.
This gives additional 388% magical damage and gets higher as you level.
The skill cost 300MP per use and has 15 seconds cool-down.
The maximum hits is 18, which can kill enemies in PvP if you have strong equipment.
 This is another ultimate skill for the Elsword class. This is a special active skill that unleashes a series of deadly combo attacks followed by a final Mega Slash.


The skill is available for the Knight, and the requirement level is 20.
The attack consists of 7 normal slashes, which damage the enemies more than 277%, and then ends with 1 final slash, which inflicts more than 1068%.
When this skill is used under the Awaken mode, the 1 final slash will be changed to 7 Energy Bursts, which inflicts more than 289% per hit.
This skill cost 250 MP and has 15 seconds cool-down.
 This is a passive skill that activates when you are knocked down. Pressing X will allow you to recover yourself quickly and attack targets without knocking them down, which gives you longer combo.


Each level you invest into Counter Chance will increase your accuracy by a certain percentage.
This is a useful skill for PvP.
 This is a special active skill that can be used as the final blow for the ultimate skill. Elsword slashes his enemy with a charged sword attack, dealing heavy damage.


The skill inflicts more than 1279% damage for the cost of 100MP.
Cool-down last for 7 seconds.
The higher you level the skill, the stronger it gets.

