 Scorpios are curious and like solving puzzles.The more you hold back about yourself, the more she will want to find out about you. If you divulge too much information about yourself too quickly she will lose interest fast. Instead of talking too much, let her chase you, and the more she’s able to uncover the more she will want to learn.


Withhold something that you’re talented at. When it comes up in conversation, you can talk about your experiences and she will be impressed.
Be genuine. Lying to a Scorpio woman is a betrayal of her trust, and she will have a hard time forgetting about it.
 Scorpios are highly private and do not like to be poked and prodded about their past. In fact, pushing her too hard to reveal details about her past will turn her off. When talking to a Scorpio, let the conversation flow organically, and allow the Scorpio to open up when they are ready.


Acting accusatory about the past of a Scorpio could ruin any relationship you’d have with her.
Try to keep conversation on what you are currently doing, and your aspirations for the future, not what you’ve done in the past.
 It can infuriate a Scorpio woman when someone else tells them what to do. Try to limit how much you are trying to take control, and let them be independent. Similarly, they don’t like to be rushed or hurried, especially when it comes to intimacy or a romantic relationship, so let them get comfortable on their own terms.


Don’t let them take control over you. While they like to maintain control they also hate weakness in other people.
Some Scorpios will withhold intimacy at first to see how hard you’re willing to work for it., Scorpios are sexual beings and will look for that in someone else. Don’t be afraid to try new things as Scorpios love sex. Being too conservative will turn a Scorpio woman off, as intimacy is often of paramount importance to them. Start off with light touching like trying to touch or hold her hand. You can also try putting your arm around her. If she doesn’t like it, back off, and let her control the situation.


Never be pushy or demanding. Let her become attracted to you and her lust will be insatiable.
Remember to always work in your own comfort zone but be willing to try new things if you think it could be fun.
Don’t dismiss your Scorpio when it comes to physical attention. If you withhold it from her, it can have negative effects., If the conversation went well and you are both in a private setting, there’s a good chance she may want to kiss you. The important thing is to make sure that she wants it. Make sure that you have already established light physical contact like holding her hand or putting your arm around her shoulder. Wait for a lull in the conversation and look deeply into her eyes, while you move your face closer to hers. If she moves closer to you, and does not look down or away, try to give her a kiss.


NEVER try to kiss her if she doesn’t implicitly show that she wants it.
It may not be as effective, but if you are truly unsure, you can ask her if she would like to be kissed first.

