 Common choices include peanut, canola, and vegetable, as they have a light flavor and a high smoke point. If you have a deep fryer, set it to 400F/205C.


A candy thermometer is a great way to gauge temperature if you don't have a deep fryer.
 Crispy chips are fried not one but twice. In between, you must cool the potatoes and drain excess oil -- thus the paper towels.
 Without a thermometer, you can test the oil by placing a scrap of bread in the oil to see how quickly it browns. It should bubble gently and brown within 45 seconds. Once the potatoes hit, they will naturally lower the temperature of the oil to about 360F/180C. Keep it this way by lowering the heat to medium.


If using a deep fryer, reset the temperature to 360F/180C once the potatoes hit.
Make sure that the potatoes are completely covered in hot oil, stirring once but mostly leaving alone until done.
 They should just be turning soft, with no more than a little golden coloring. Use a slotted or mesh spoon to pull the fries out, leaving the hot oil. Pat dry with paper towels.


You can cut the heat to the oil on the stove or deep fryer.
Try more than 1 minute if you like your chips/wedges fluffy in the middle not rock solid.
 During this first fry, water molecules in the potato heat up and flee from the center of the chip, making it to the edges of the fry. As the potato cools, this water mixes with the starch and oil to form an invisible, gummy coating. This coating, which is cooked during the second fry, is the crispy, delicious exterior that makes the best chips., This means using your medium-high setting once more. Remember, a piece of bread dropped in the oil should be bubbling and browned in 20-30 seconds. If using a thermometer, note how the oil temperature once again drops to about 400F/205C. Try and keep it here.
 Once they look good to you, they are good to come out of the oven. Note that the fries tend to darken up just a little as they cool, so take them out 15-20 seconds before they are perfectly golden brown to get the best results.


Make sure, once more, that all the potatoes are covered in the hot oil as they cook.
 Again, get all the excess grease off, otherwise the fries will become gross and soggy. Once they are cool enough to eat, dig in.


If adding seasoning, toss it into the fries while they are still nice and hot -- this helps distribute the salt and seasoning more evenly.

