 In many cases, you'll get better results if you start with a drill bit a little smaller than the final hole size. Drill a shallow "pilot hole," then switch to the larger bit to finish the job. The pilot hole will help prevent your drill bit from slipping, and reduces the chance of splitting wood or other damage.Very brittle materials such as ceramic and glass require extra care. Make a small "X" in masking tape where you want the hole, to help prevent slipping and chipping. Instead of drilling the pilot hole, place the drill bit over the X, then gently tap it with a hammer to create a small dent.
 Hold the drill steady and push it into the material you're drilling. If it takes more than light force to drill the hole, you're probably using the wrong bit., Each drill has a twistable collar to adjust the torque, often with a series of numbers on it. The higher the number, the more torque (rotational force) the drill will apply. If you are having trouble penetrating the material, increase the torque. If you are over-driving screws (burying them too deep), or if drilling too deep could damage something, lower the torque.


Some models mark the highest torque with a drill bit icon., If you are drilling through hard materials or drilling at high speeds, the drill bit will encounter an immense amount of friction. This can rapidly overheat the bit, to the point where it becomes red hot or burns the material you're drilling. Start at low drill speeds, and only increase the speed if the drill isn't moving smoothly. If you're drilling through hard materials, or drilling many holes in any material, stick to slow speeds and pause occasionally to give the bit a few seconds to cool down.


When drilling glass, ceramic, or stone, give the bit a steady supply of water to keep it cool. One way to do this is to build a "dam" out of putty or modeling clay around your drilling area. Fill the area with water so it flows down into the hole. "Pump" the bit up and down so the water can reach the tip.Even if the drill bit doesn't look hot, give it time to cool down before touching it.
 If the drill bit gets stuck in the material, don't try to force it out by running the drill. Unplug the drill, separate the bit and the chuck, and remove the bit using manual tools.