 Before you attract a man, you need to love yourself and want the best for yourself. This may seem like common sense, but it's an important aspect that many people forget before dating. If you can't see your self-worth, then others will have a hard time seeing it as well.


Appreciate your small victories and recognize that while you do have imperfections, those are the things that make you unique.
Don't dismiss all the negatives. Work to improve in areas that you think need improvement and be realistic with your goals and what it will take to achieve them.
 You can appear more confident by having a straighter posture, smiling, and making eye contact with people while you talk with them.Don't continually self deprecate or be overly critical on yourself. Think about all the positives about your personality, and work to improve in the areas that you lack.


Pretending to be confident may initially land you a guy, but you must develop a healthy self-esteem if you hope to last in a long term relationship.
 Smelling fresh and appearing clean is something that will help you attract other people. Remember to bathe every day, wear underarm deodorant, and to keep your nails clipped and clean.Having bad personal hygiene is a huge turnoff for most people, so make sure to keep it in mind while you're looking for a mate.Having clean clothes is also important when you are dating., When you are going out to meet new guys, it's important that you feel confident and comfortable in your clothes. However, if your outfit makes you feel ridiculous or uncomfortable, it will affect your mood and the way that the date progresses.Pick out something that you would usually wear, but make sure that it's clean and looks fresh before you go out.


Wear an outfit that highlights your best features. For instance, if you have muscular arms, wear a t-shirt to show them off.
 Eye contact is necessary when initially trying to get your man's attention. Eye contact is also an integral part of romance and feeling connected with someone else.If you're in a public place, and you don't know the guy, make eye contact first to show him that you're interested. If he returns the eye contact, smiles in your direction or keeps looking back in your direction, then you should approach him.


If he looks away or ignores you then there's a good chance he isn't attracted. Make sure that he sees you looking at him and then gauge him from there.
 The fear of rejection can be a powerful emotion that prevents you from putting yourself out there and finding a man. Rejection can cause someone physical and emotional pain, and past experiences may shape how you see your current relationships in a negative way.To reduce fears of rejection, make sure you aren't investing too much emotionally into one moment. Another way to get over the fear of rejection is to desensitize yourself to it over time. That is, introduce yourself to many men and get used to rejection occasionally. Gradual exposure is a common treatment for people who have phobias or people with anxiety.When you delay approaching or showing affection to someone you like, you are putting pressure on yourself and investing too much into one interaction which may end poorly.Don't build up a scenario on how things will go because you can't foresee the future.
Use the three second rule and approach a man within three seconds after noticing him. This will prevent your brain from building up unnecessary anxiety.

