 Planning ahead can help a child prepare for upcoming changes. If you expect there may be an upsetting or unexpected situation coming up in your lives, think of some ways to help your child handle the change. Use a countdown timer or a visual aid like a calendar to help the child understand when the change will take place.Instead of using clock times, try using events such as waking up or lunchtime as reference points when you explain the new activity. If you tell an autistic child that something will happen at three o’clock but it doesn’t actually happen until four o’clock, they may be upset.;
, Autistic children prefer the known to the unknown. Not knowing what to expect can induce a great deal of anxiety in an autistic child. By talking to the child about what will occur during a new event, you can make the change seem less unfamiliar and scary.Emphasize the positive aspects of the change to the child. Say something like, “You’re going to learn so much at this new school” or “This checkup might not be fun, but it is important to make sure you are healthy.”

, Routines are comforting to autistic children. The more you can integrate familiar objects, people, or activities into a new situation or event, the less anxious the child may feel.For instance, you could bring along a familiar toy on vacation or pack the same lunch for your child when they start attending a new school.
 Autistic children may find school and other social situations particularly stressful when they are dealing with a change in their life. Tell your child’s teachers, babysitters, and other caregivers about the new situation, and make sure they know the best ways to help the child deal with their anxiety.You might say, “Billy is really worried about attending the new after-school program. If you could be sure to make positive comments about the program to him, that would be helpful.”

, Autistic children like knowing what to expect. Many autistic children respond better to pictures than to words, so visual aids can be a helpful way to prepare for new situations.


Show the child images or videos of new activities, situations, and people to help them feel more comfortable with the change before it happens.For example, if you are going on a vacation, it may be helpful to watch a YouTube video of a guide walking you through the new location to put the child at ease.
 By practicing for new situations or unexpected changes ahead of time, you can help your child feel prepared to deal with these events. The child will gain a comforting sense of predictability from stepping through these scenarios in a familiar, non-stressful environment.For instance, you can say “What will you say when your teacher asks what you did over the summer, Anne?” Then give your child the opportunity to brainstorm and practice what they might say in this scenario to make the real situation less stressful.
 Social stories depict common social situations such as the first day of school or a visit to the doctor. These stories can help children understand what will happen during a new activity. Illustrated social stories can be an especially big help for an autistic child due to their visual component., Help your child feel secure by listening to their concerns about the change and answering any questions they might have. Remain positive and reassure the child that the change is a good thing and they will be able to handle it.Say, “I know you are worried about going to this new daycare. Is there something you would like to ask me about it or what goes on there?”

, Some stressful situations are unavoidable, but good coping strategies can help the child handle them calmly. Deep breathing exercises, positive self-talk and reassuring affirmations are several good methods of staying calm in anxiety-inducing situations.Some ideas for affirmations to use might include “I am letting go of my tension and worry” or “I can handle change, even if it makes me uncomfortable.”

, For many autistic children, praise and positive attention are the best motivators for establishing new behavior patterns. Tell the child what you like about their behavior, and provide other rewards such as a piece of candy or play time with their favorite toys when they handle a new or unexpected situation well.For instance, you might say something like, “Thank you for waiting so patiently, Susie” or “I like the way you whisper in the library, Jack.”

, If your child feels listened to and emotionally supported, they are more likely to handle new situations calmly. Take time to talk with your child, soothe their fears, and reassure them that they will be able to handle the upcoming activity and maybe even enjoy it.


Speak words of validation like “I can see that this is challenging for you, but you are handling it well.” This can help your child have confidence in their abilities.
 For autistic children, a period of gradual adjustment is often easier to manage than an abrupt change. Be patient as your child gets used to their new situation, and provide ongoing emotional support for them. As the child adjusts, you can help them practice flexibility by introducing small changes into their routine and praising them for handling the changes well.