 If your environment is dry, your eyes will have a harder time staying lubricated. Bring in a humidifier to maintain adequate moisture. If you sit in an area where you're blown by a fan, adjust your seating or adjust the fan to protect your eyes.If you must continually shift your visual focus between the printed page and the computer screen, use a paper stand to position the paper at the level of the screen.
Make sure your workstation and your chair are at the optimal height for you.
 If you work at a computer, the ambient lighting in your office should be about half as bright as a typical office environment. Close your blinds, shades or drapes to cut down on glare and ambient light. Using lower intensity light within your office or room can also help.Avoid using florescent lights, even full-spectrum lights.
Indirect incandescent or halogen lights are better choices if you're at risk of eye strain.
You can also adjust the lighting of your screen. Using a cool gray background rather than a bright white one may be more gentle on your eyes.
 When engaged in work that requires careful visual attention, make sure to schedule plenty of short breaks. Look away from your screen, and focus on an object across the room. If you're driving, stop every hour to take a short break.Looking down the hall or out the window even for 30 seconds allows your eyes to refocus, providing a break.
Avoid rubbing your eyes. Closing them will restore lubrication, while rubbing may irritate.
 With your elbows on your desk, place your palms in front of you. Allow your body to fall forward, and your head will rest in your hands. Close your eyes, and move your head so that your hands cover your eyes. Your fingers should gently reach toward your forehead. Take a deep breath through your nose, count to 4, and then exhale. Repeat 10 times.Perform this simple exercise several times a day.
Vary the count so that you're counting during the exhale, rather than the inhale. Repeat 10 times.
If you're unable to cover or close your eyes completely, allow your eyes to rest by positioning your lids almost all the way down. Allow your vision to become unfocused.
 Try to make sure your computer monitor is about 5 or 6 inches below your eye level, and 20 to 28 inches from the eyes. Your eyes should be gazing downward towards the screen.Having your gaze lowered prevents your eyes from drying out.
An adjustable chair will help you find your optimal position.
If you use a standing desk, make sure that your screen is still placed below your eye gaze, and that your posture is comfortable.
 Keeping screen time to a comfortable minimum is the most direct way to address eye strain, particularly in children. Children may not make the connection between computer use, eye strain and the need to rest their eyes.For every 2 hours of screen use, take a break for 15 minutes.
Follow the "20/20" rule: For every 20 minutes of screen time, look into the distance for 20 seconds.
 Older computer monitors (CRT, or cathode ray tubes) are more likely to cause eye strain than the newer, LCD (liquid crystal display) screens. Screens that have a noticeable "flicker" of the images should be avoided.Get the highest resolution screen possible.
Flicker isn't an issue with the LCD screen.
 If you've tried a number of treatments for eye strain and your symptoms haven't improved, schedule a visit with your eye care practitioner. The signs of eye strain are also found on other eye conditions, and may require additional treatment. During your eye exam, make sure to mention the number of hours you spend working at or looking at digital screens.Ask about eye wear or lenses specific for computer use.
Specially developed lens coatings and/or tints might also help with your eye strain.

