 To ready the oven for the pork, move the rack to the lower middle position. Next, set the temperature to 325 degrees Fahrenheit (165 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat.Keep an eye on your oven so you know when it’s reached the proper temperature. Most models will flash an indicator light or beep to alert you.
 Add 2 tablespoons (25 g) of light brown sugar, 1 tablespoon (18 g) of kosher salt, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of ground black pepper, 1 teaspoon (3 g) of ground cumin, 1 teaspoon (3 g) of ground coriander, 1 tablespoon (7 g) of paprika, 1 tablespoon (5 g) of dried oregano, and ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of cayenne pepper to a small bowl. Use your fingers to mix the spices together, and then rub them all over the surface of a 6 to 8 pound (2.7 to 3.8 kg) bone-in pork shoulder.You can substitute dark brown sugar for the light if that’s what you have in your pantry.
You can add or substitute your favorite spices for the rub. For example, chili powder and onion powder are options you may want to consider.
 After you’ve rubbed the pork with the spices, place it on a foil-lined rimmed baking sheet. Set it in the oven, and allow it to roast for approximately 3 ½ hours or until you can easily shred the meat with a fork., Remove the roasted pork from the oven, and let it cool for 15 to 20 minutes or until you can handle it comfortably. Use clean fingers to pull the meat from the bone and shred it.If you prefer, you can use a fork to shred the pork.
 Place all of the shredded pork in a large bowl. Mix in ½ cup (125 ml) of cider vinegar, 2 tablespoons (25 g) of sugar, 1 tablespoon (5 g) of red pepper flakes, ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of natural liquid smoke, and salt and pepper to taste. Toss well to ensure that the meat is fully coated.You can adjust the amounts of any of the seasonings to suit your taste.
If you prefer, you can mix the shredded pork with approximately 1 cup (225 g) of your favorite barbeque sauce instead of the other seasonings.
 When the pulled pork is seasoned, place some on 8 to 12 sandwich rolls that have been lightly toasted. Add chopped cherry peppers, chopped onions, pickles, coleslaw, and/or your favorite toppings to the sandwich before closing them.Potato salad, macaroni and cheese, and macaroni salad are all tasty side dishes for the pulled pork sandwiches.

