 If the topic is clear, the deaf person will have an easier time following what’s being said. If the conversation shifts into a new topic, state the new topic for the deaf person. , While too much movement can make it hard for a deaf person to follow what you’re saying, using gestures or facial expressions can be useful for filling in gaps. If the person’s having trouble figuring out what you’re saying, try acting it out. , While you don’t want to exaggerate your facial expressions, don’t try to hide your emotions as you speak. Facial expressions and emotional cues help deaf people to understand the tone of the conversation. , Don’t assume just because a deaf person is nodding that they understand what you’re saying. Just like anyone else, deaf people don’t always like to ask people to repeat themselves or admit they don’t understand what’s going on. You can ask your deaf companion open-ended questions to check that they’ve understood everything that’s been said without embarrassing them or calling them out. , This will ensure that the person understands important points. You can also offer to summarize what’s been said. , Lip reading is useful, but it’s not perfect, and often important details get missed. If your deaf companion doesn’t understand what’s been said, try to say it in a different way. Ask what the deaf person understood, so you can figure out what they missed.
Re-word phrases and sentences whose message didn’t come across the first time. Don’t just say the same thing over and over in the same way.
Monosyllabic words can be harder to read than longer words, to try using a longer word. Slow down your speech.
Break what you want to say into shorter, simpler parts. If you’re still having trouble, write it down.
Never tell a deaf person “never mind” or “it’s not important.” This will make your deaf companion feel left out, and may hurt their feelings. If you keep trying, the message will come through eventually and the deaf person will appreciate your efforts. 