 Once you have found a product that draws your interest, look up their ingredients. When you have the information, find out through experts (not hair product manufactures), if it will enhances what your hair does naturally. In the beginning, it's a little time consuming but once you have gathered the information, knowing how to search and understanding ingredients will make your future searches easier.;
, Professionals and Novices Only Recommend From Their Own Perspective: Professional stylists have very little experience regarding the truths about what hair products can and can't do. Once you leave the salon, you are on your own. Stylists are fed the same hype as novices but from professional sales people. The buck stops with the CEO of product companies. They know they are selling hope in a bottle. Make it smell good, creamy, smooth with hot packaging then sprinkle in great marketing and magnifique.
 Water soluble products are easier to work with and shampoo out easily. The problem is they are subject to moisture, which dilutes them or the lack of moisture, which makes them dissipate, both affecting their performance. This being true, forces some women with frizzy hair to multi-layer products to make up for what one product should accomplish. This is the perfect environment for hair product manufactures, to have the consumer purchase more than one product at a time.
 Find one that will do the job of many. You can save money on the initial purchase by purchasing cheap products but eventually more and more products are needed to make them effective. Over time women end up spending more by trying to save less with cheaper products. Women purchase emotionally instead of researching prior to purchase. A man likes his toys and a women likes the look, feel, smell and color of a product. Both man and woman end up with the same result, something that is emotionally purchased that ends up in the trash or stacked in the garage. There are only three non-water soluble product that I know of, especially for frizzy hair, Lok & Blok, Moisture Block and Finisher. All three are made by Sabino Hair Solutions. These are products that will prevent frizzy hair reversion, maintain volume and control moderately dry hair from shampoo to shampoo, saving you money.

