 It is possible that some of your behaviors may increase the likelihood of being left out? For example, research suggests that kids who are socially ostracized have more difficulty entering into social groups (i.e. starting conversations), dealing with peer provocation (i.e. a peer doing something to aggravate a child such as throwing a piece of rolled up paper at his head), and coping with failure.Try building your social competence by learning new social skills. You can attend a Social Skills Training group, attend therapy, or find useful information online to learn to develop better interpersonal skills., Thinking you are likely to be rejected may result in you acting in a way (such as avoiding social interaction or seeming overly nervous) that influences other people to reject you. This is known as a self-fulfilling prophecy.Instead of thinking thoughts such as, “They are not going to invite me, I know it,” think something like, “I can’t really predict what they will do, but either way – I will be fine.”

, Learning to focus on, accept, and love yourself is integral to getting other people to do the same. If you are confident and secure, you will act in a way that shows this to others.


Focus on your schoolwork or your job. Being and feeling successful may help reduce social rejection.You will feel more successful and confident and others are likely to notice this.
Instead of staying home and thinking about how you were left out, do something positive for yourself; go out for a long walk or meet up with some friends. Keep your mind off the people who are leaving you out. They're not worth your time!

, Try getting new friends or cultivating existing friendships that are healthy are supportive. People who leave you out simply don't deserve your time, and will most likely continue to mistreat you.


Tell a person who you trust how you feel. It is healthy to let emotions and thoughts out in a trusting and supportive environment. If you talk to a friend or family member that you trust, he may stick up for you and intervene if you are going to be rejected or left-out in the future. It is good to have people on your side and looking out for you.
Surround yourself with individuals that you are confident won’t reject you or leave you out.
Seek out individuals who do not bully or mistreat others because they are likely to do this to you as well.
Sometimes it can help to find people in the same situation as you who are also left out, and bond together.
If you continue to have issues with peers, you can talk to a school counselor or administrator to help with conflict resolution.

