 These include:



Liver disease. Vitamin D that is absorbed through your diet or through sunlight is metabolically inert (i.e. non-functional in the body), until it has undergone two reactions, the first of which occurs in the liver. A damaged liver may be unable to perform these reactions and may result in vitamin D deficiency.

Kidney disease. The second key reaction to metabolize vitamin D and make it functional in your body occurs in the kidneys. Kidney disease may interfere with your body's ability to perform this reaction, which may cause a vitamin D deficiency.
Gastrointestinal diseases such as Crohn's (a form of inflammatory bowel disease), Celiac disease, and Cystic Fibrosis. All of these impair absorption of nutrients through the digestive tract, and thus may lead to inadequate vitamin D absorption.
Poor nutrition. Those with vegetarian or vegan diets, and/or milk or lactose allergies or intolerances are more susceptible to not getting adequate vitamin D in their diet.
Lack of exposure to sunlight. Those in northern climates with little sunlight are more prone to lacking vitamin D production through the skin.
If you fall into any of the above categories, or if you have had a recent unusual fracture (which may be a sign of vitamin D deficiency as it can lead to weakening of the bones), your doctor will likely recommend a blood test to assess your vitamin D levels.
 Here's how to interpret your blood test results:


A vitamin D level of less than 30 nmol/L indicates that there is a high probability you are deficient.
A vitamin D level of 30 – 50 nmol/L indicates that there is a possibility that you are deficient (there is no exact number that serves as the cutoff).
A vitamin D level of greater than 50 nmol/L indicates that you most likely have sufficient vitamin D.
A vitamin D level over 125 nmol/L indicates that you may have excess (too much) vitamin D.
 It is recommended to consume 400 – 1000 IU (international units) of vitamin D daily, depending upon your degree of deficiency.


1,000 – 1,200 mg of calcium daily is also recommended for those who have been diagnosed with vitamin D deficiency.
You will also need to have any underlying conditions that may be contributing to your vitamin D deficiency treated.
Your doctor will advise a repeat blood test three months after beginning vitamin D supplementation to once again assess your levels.

