 Watching the movie will help you gain a better visual understanding of what vampires in the Twilight universe look like. However, more detailed information will be available in the Twilight novels, written by author Stephenie Meyer. You might want to take notes on a blank sheet of paper to list notable characteristics of vampires in Twilight so you can imitate them more accurately.


You’ll likely find the extra details provided in the Twilight novels offer you a more complete understanding of vampires in the Twilight universe. To build the scene and tone in text, a novel cannot rely on images the same way film does. Because of this fact, extra information is included in the written novel to communicate a sense of depth, reality, and setting.
Jot down notes about the physical characteristics of vampires in the movies as well. Especially when it comes to makeup and the physical elements of style, like clothing and accessories, the movies will be one of your best resources. By watching the movies, you can see firsthand how expert costumers choose to visually portray the vampires in Twilight.
Borrow from the appearances of characters in the series. You may not want to look exactly like main character Edward Cullen, but you could attempt his windswept hairstyle in place of your own. You can pick and choose from the costumes of various characters to come up with a design completely unique to you.;
, This will be far easier than coming up with your own. Inventing your own character will require you to imagine various details, like motivation, backstory, personality, tastes, hobbies, and more. By choosing a character from the books to base your vampire identity around, you can get right into acting like a vampire without getting bogged down in creating one from scratch.As you play your character, you should start developing his/her backstory along with other details. This will allow you to identify with your false persona on a deeper level. Little by little, as you tailor your imaginary vampire persona to your vision, the character will become more “real” to you. This will make getting into your vampire persona easier.
While there are many characters throughout the series you might choose to base your vampire persona off of, a short list of noteworthy cast members includes: Bella Swan, Edward Cullen, Rosalie Hale, Emmett Cullen, Alice Cullen, Jasper Hale, Esme or Carlisle Cullen. You might even mix and match features from two different characters you adore to create your new vampire persona!, As a vampire, you’ve have plenty of time to master many skills, like sports, feats of dexterity, and precision tasks. And you’ll need to develop your skill in this area so you can pull off the most difficult moves while making it look easy. This way people will take you seriously when you say, “Ah, yes. I played much soccer when I was a young vampire. It’s been about 20 years since I played last, so I’m a little rusty.”


Spend some time honing your situational awareness. Vampires have supernatural senses, which mean they read their surrounding environment better and react faster to things in it. By improving your situational awareness, you will become more conscious of what’s happening around you, making it seem like you have supernatural senses like a vampire.
You should also have some hobbies that you’ve mastered in the hundreds of years you’ve lived as a vampire. You could actually master a hobby, like chess or painting, to lead people to believe you’ve had decades of practice, but this might be difficult. Feel free to get creative with your character to solve this problem. You might point to an elegant painting of art on the wall of your home and claim to your friends that you painted it yourself, decades ago when you were a younger vampire. When they ask you to prove you can paint, simply look at the paintbrush with a distraught look on your face and say, “Oh no. I don’t paint anymore. Not since that day… no, I’d rather not talk about it.”, Your supernatural strength, senses, and the physical mastery over your body should translate to graceful, controlled motion in everything you do. A vampire has lived to see it all, and is surprised by virtually nothing. Be confident in your character and always carry an air of mystery around you. This will give people the impression that you are more than you seem. Maybe even supernaturally more than you seem. To improve your sense of grace, you might:


Learn to dance
Improve your balance
Improve your agility

, As a vampire, you'll be surrounded by the temptation of human blood constantly. It is only through a supreme act of self-control that you prevent yourself from sinking your teeth into a nice human meal, and this should reflect itself in your behavior. However, just like humans have different personalities, so too do vampires. You might be a seductive vampire, you might be more aggressive, you might be serious and scholarly, or something else entirely.


Whatever you decide, you should be refined and controlled in all you do. Remember, as a vampire you have improved senses and likely have lived many years. These qualities will certainly make human affairs seem more trivial, giving you an air of aloofness.In most vampire mythologies, due to the fact that vampires are already dead, they cannot cry. Be sure you keep your emotions in check during the sad parts of movies if you want to preserve your vampire persona.
 One of the most notable features of Twilight vampires is their eyes. To simulate this look, you might have your eye doctor prescribe gold contact lenses if you plan to be a “vegetarian” vampire or red lenses if you plan to be a human blood drinker. You could also order your contacts online. For hair you might want to choose elegant styles, like a classic updo or a stylishly tousled look for men.


The vampires in the Twilight series are fair skinned and nearly perfect in appearance. Men and women can both achieve this look by using foundation and concealer to create a flawless, light skinned complexion.
Add glitter to your visible skin. A remarkable feature of Twilight vampires is that they sparkle in the sunlight. You should add a light dusting of glitter to give yourself a supernatural sparkle.

Apply some eyeliner to give your features a more supernatural, sharper, and sexier appeal to those who see you. You might even try a smokey eye with your makeup. Try not to overdo it – the look you’re aiming for might be described darkly enticing.
If you’re not a fan of wearing contact lenses, you could always claim that your natural eye color is a contact lens. Tell your friends that you feel like your natural eye color attracts too much attention. Or you could claim that your superior vampires have commanded you not to reveal your true form to humans without permission. Take liberties with your character and have fun!, Your style of clothing should be elegant and classic. As a vampire who’s been around for a century or two, you’ve had time to accumulate a wardrobe that’s refined to your tastes and personality. You’ve also seen fads come and go, and you’re too smart to be swayed from tried-and-true, classic outfits. This is why your species tends to buy clothing that is described as classically beautiful.


A good way to gather classic clothing on an affordable budget is to shop at secondhand stores and thrift stores. These shops will often have retro outfits sold at a fraction of the original cost.
 Meyer’s Twilight vampires are allowed to eat human food, but due to the fact that the bodies of vampires cannot digest food, they must cough up any food they consume. However, as a classic vampiric trait is abstaining from food and surviving solely from blood, you utilize this superstition to your advantage while acting like a vampire from Twilight.



Make yourself small, energy and nutrient rich snacks. Food similar to meal replacement bars will have many of the nutrients you need to keep healthy, but will be small and easy to hide from others. This way, when you do get hungry, you can find a hiding place to eat your meal replacement bar, or other healthy snack, in secret.
 Another characteristic of vampires in the Twilight series is that their breath and scent are irresistibly attractive. A sweet, pungent aroma to your breath will give people the sense that you have the same naturally sweet smelling aroma as a vampire from Twilight!


You might also want to wear a cologne or perfume that you find to be primal and attractive to others. Which perfume or cologne works best for you will depend on a lot of personal factors, so you might want explore fragrances that suit you at your local department store.

Wear essential oils to give yourself a refreshing, alluring atmosphere, or consider making a perfume with essential oils. These concentrated herbal oils carry a powerful scent, but by diluting or preparing the oil in certain ways, you can create a powerfully attractive body scent unique to you.
There are many combinations of essential oils you might use, but to get that sweet elusive scent, you might use fragrances like musk, leather, cinnamon, and honey. Combine these scents in the ratio of one part essential oil, six parts perfume diluent (or rubbing alcohol), and one part fixative (like liquid benzoin)., You might want to spend some time memorizing your history lessons. A general knowledge of world history will help you to claim outdated technology or ancient events as something you experienced. For example, if you were to see a buggy and carriage, you could claim, “I remember when buggy and carriage was the only means of travel. Though I was quite fond of trains when they finally came around.”


To better understand the spirit of the times you learn about in your historical studies, you should also read some literature from these periods. Literature is a reflection of the ideals and issues of the period of time in which it was written. By reading books from the historical times you study, you’ll have a better feel for the language and spirit of the times. For example, you might say in English class, “Everyone romanticizes about Shakespeare’s time, but it was awful back then. It was easier for me because I was a vampire. The worst part about it was the smell… plumbing has improved a lot in the last 60 years.”, The vampires in Meyer’s Twilight series have special abilities they make use of in both the movies and books. From exerting psychic power to cloud minds or convince people to perform tasks, to their keen sense of danger before it happens, there are many mystic traits you could choose. However, it will be difficult to prove many of these “mystic” powers.Decide what kind of mystic power you'd like to have. Some common vampiric powers include mind control, changing forms to nocturnal animals or fog, moving objects with mental power, the ability to predict the future, heightened senses, increased speed/reflexes, and many more., Choosing to have a mystic power like the ability to see the future might be your best bet for convincing others you actually possess this ability. Say vague and metaphorical things about future events, and then after things come to pass, interpret the things you have said to describe what’s already happened. Keep doing this until everyone believes you really can predict the future. Or you could become clairvoyant.You can give your predictions an air of mystery if you do some set up beforehand. A classic séance generally involves you and others sitting around a table in a dimly lit room, with a mystic object, like a crystal ball, at the center of your group. This kind of setup may make your friends take you more seriously than if you had only claimed you could see the future.
 If you plan to choose the ability of telekinesis, which is a fancy name for the ability to move objects with your mind, you might benefit from learning lots of Levitation Tricks. Once you master many levitation tricks, perform these on various occasions to leave your friends bewildered. When they ask, “How did you do that?” Simply tell them, “I’m a vampire. I moved it with my mind.” Particularly you might want to learn how to:Levitate
Levitate a Card
Levitate a Coin
Levitate an Object

, If you want to appear psychic, train yourself in the art of cold reading people so that you can discern information from them at a glance. You’ll want to observe things like mannerisms, accessories, fashion sense, politeness, and so on. Then you’ll use this information to make predictions about the person whose mind you are "reading."


Once you are practiced at cold reading, you’ll be able to seem like you are psychic by saying things like, “Ah, Mr. Smith. How did you like the panda exhibition?” He’ll think you’re psychic that you knew he was at the zoo earlier, but what’s really happened is that, while cold reading him you noticed a pamphlet from the zoo sticking out of his pocket.