 The first step to creating an email account with Gmail, Google's free email service, is to visit Gmail's main site. Type "gmail.com" into your browser's navigation bar, or, alternatively, type "Gmail" into your search engine of choice and click the relevant result.;
, On Gmail's login screen, look for an account creation link under the email and password entry boxes. Click this link to proceed to the account creation process.


Note - if you already have a Gmail account registered on your computer (for instance, if a family member already has his or her own account), you will need to click on "Manage accounts on this device," then "add account," then, finally, "Create an account."

, On the next page, you'll be asked for your name, phone number, birthday, and an alternate email address. Some of this information, like, for instance, the alternate email address, is optional.
 On the same account creation page, you'll also be asked to decide on an email address and a password. The password you choose must be at least eight characters long, while your email address must not already be in use by someone else. Enter this information in the appropriate boxes.


You'll need to write your password twice to confirm its accuracy.
 Scroll down until you see a picture containing some distorted numbers and a photo of a building's address marking. Type these numbers into the designated box - doing this ensures that you are human and not an automated program attempting to register an email account for commercial/nefarious purposes.


If, for whatever reason, you don't want to participate in this verification process, you may be required to verify via phone later.
 Check the box next to the text that says "I agree to the Google Terms of Service and Privacy Policy." This signifies that you understand and agree to these documents, which you can read by clicking on their links. When you're ready, click "Next step."

, You're finished! Click on "Continue to Gmail" to access your inbox, read your emails, and write new ones.

