 Initiate the high five by holding up your hand (palm outward) while facing the other person. Propel your hand forward while saying "High five!", "Gimme five!", "Up here!", or "Hit me!". Proceed to high five as above.









Keep your eye on the prize! Focus on your partner's hand or elbow to ensure accuracy and prevent either of you from getting smacked in the face.
 Instead of offering your hand to your partner with your palm facing outward, bring it down near your hip and turn your palm up towards the ceiling. Signal that you're ready by saying "down low!" Your partner should then slap your hand with a downward swing of his arm.









If you're feeling devilish, pull your hand out of the way at the last second. You may or may not want to gloat with a rhyming remark like "too slow!"
If you liked this method and are looking to expand your repertoire, try coupling this move with its cousin, the aptly named "Up High".
 The Air five (also known as the "Wi-five") is a long distance high five which only requires a line of sight to accomplish. You'll want to follow the classic High five rules without the actual hand contact - in other word, shove your hand, palm facing outward, towards your friend while s/he does the same. Try to make your palms "meet" virtually at the same time. For best results, accompany the move with high five sound effects such as "Whoopish!" or "Kapow!" upon virtual contact.


This high five variant is perfect for the digital age, as it allows two people to high five over video chat from thousands of miles away.
 Perform a classic high five as normal, but, after the initial smack, maintain hand contact for several seconds before releasing. For best results, you'll want to make eye contact with your partner. Try to use your eyes to convey a sense of longing any other host of barely-suppressed emotions simmering just below your calm exterior!









For extra fun, slowly let your fingers weave between your partner's until your hands are clasped in a lover's embrace.
 This technique is not technically a High five, but it's a related gesture that's similar enough to bear mention here. In The Bro Fist, each bro forms a closed fist with one hand, lightly taps his fist to his partner's, making knuckle-to-knuckle contact, and finishes with a hearty grunt or shout. This technique has several of its own variations - just a few are listed below:










The Rocket. Bro 1, after impact, twists his fist and makes a thumbs-up, while Bro 2 mimics the rocket's tail fire by putting his hand under Bro 1's fist and waving his fingers like a trail of fire as he slowly moves his hand toward the floor. Both bros make a whooshing noise to mimic the sound of a rocket.

The Stick Shift. Upon impact, Bro 2 grabs Bro 1's fist with a frontal grip and yells "stick shift!" Bro 2 then proceeds to mimic the shifting motion of a manual transmission car using Bro 1's fist as a gearshift while making revving noises.

The Big Bang. Upon Impact, move both fists away from each other slowly as if there was an explosion in the middle. Make low rumbling noises to mimic the sound of an atomic bomb exploding far in the distance.

