 Olive crops thrives best in climates with mild winters and long, dry summers. Suitable geographic areas, for example, include Europe's Mediterranean region and coastal valleys in the state of California. It is difficult, if not impossible, to grow olives in tropical climates.Frost will kill many olive trees if care is not taken. Temperatures that hit 22 °F (−6 °C) can harm small branches, while large branches and even whole trees can be killed if the temperature dips below 15 °F (−9 °C).Even if branches and trees survive the cold, the flavor of the olives and the resultant oil can be compromised by cold streaks. Avoid growing olives if you live in an area prone to these temperature dips.
Olive trees do need a certain amount of cold, however. Proper flower development depends on the climate dipping to 45 °F (7 °C) or below, although this number alternates with olive tree varietals. This is why cultivation is extremely difficult in the tropics or very warm areas.
Make sure that bloom season is fairly dry and moderate. Bloom season (April to June) should be fairly dry and not excessively warm. Olives are wind-pollinated, so wet conditions can hamper a tree's fruit set.;
, The soil should be moderately acidic or moderately basic, with a pH greater than 5 and less than 8.5. Many farmers believe 6.5 to be ideal. Get your soil tested at the Department of Agriculture or use a home testing kit from a department store. If the pH isn't in the right range, adjust it as necessary.Limestone is used to raise a soil's pH level, while sulfur is used to lower it. You can buy sulfur and limestone powder or pellet form, online or at a local greenhouse or hardware store.You adjust pH by spreading sulfur or limestone over your soil. The precise amount varies based on how much you need to adjust. You can read the instructions on your package. It may take a few days for limestone or sulfur to be adequately absorbed.
Once your pH level is at the right level, keep monitoring it throughout the growing process, especially after using fertilizers which can affect pH level. You may have to adjust pH levels periodically as you grow your olive trees.
 Watch how water affects soil in the area you want to grow. Olive trees thrive in areas that have good drainage. After rain, check the soil. Do not plant in an area where the soil stands above ground during rainy periods. Also, dig a hole that's two feet deep and add water. If water steeps, opt for a different area.Planting your olive trees on a gentle slope can solve a lot of drainage problems. There tends to be better drainage on inclines., The best indicator that an area will grow olive trees successfully is if an area has grown trees in the past. If you know olive trees have previously grown somewhere, grow your trees there. You can also grow your trees near existing olive trees.If you know other farmers or gardeners in your area, try asking them where olive trees have previously grown.
 Full sun, without any shade blocking your trees, is ideal. Any area you choose should at least get some direct sunlight for at least six hours a day. Very shady areas are not recommended for growing olives.