 It helps to have a working knowledge of how the game plays before you try to become a contestant. Some game shows have developed strategies that can help contestants, such as the clues contained within the answers on "Jeopardy!" or the vocal inflections for synonyms and antonyms that were part of giving clues on "Password" during its run.


Some game shows yet to be broadcast put out calls for contestants. In such cases, it's impossible to have a working knowledge of the show before applying to be a contestant.
 All game shows have certain eligibility requirements for their contestants. Generally, you must be at least 18 years of age, except for those shows that use child or teenage contestants, and you are allowed to appear on no more than 1 game show per year. (Some shows have more stringent requirements, such as a minimum age of 21 or not accepting contestants who've appeared on 2 shows in the last 5 years or 3 in the last 10.) You are also not allowed to be affiliated in any way with the game show's production company, the network or syndicator that distributes it, any of the stations that carry it, or its sponsors or advertisers.


You can appear on a game show if you belong to an actors' union such as the Screen Actors Guild (SAG) or the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (AFTRA), provided your primary income at the time of your appearance comes from work other than acting.
Affiliations that can prevent you from appear on a game show include having been an employee of any of the organizations connected with it, being related to an employee, or knowing an employee.
 Most game shows include a broadcast segment featuring instructions on how to apply to be a contestant. For network game shows such as "The Price is Right" and "Let's Make a Deal," which choose their contestants from their studio audiences, this means asking for tickets to attend a taping. For most other game shows, it usually means contacting the show through its website or the website of the network that carries it, although some shows also offer telephone numbers and mailing addresses as alternatives.


Some game shows need only your name, address, age, and other information to identify you as meeting its eligibility requirements. Other shows may also ask for a photograph or short video, along with a short biography. ("Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader?" wants photos of the contestants as they appeared in the upper elementary grades, as the contestant's childhood photo is displayed after the contestant comes on stage.)

, Most game shows have an audition/interview process to identify potential contestants who fit the show's profile and weed out those who don't. For game shows that choose their contestants from the studio audience, this takes the form of interviewing each member of the studio audience before taping. For other game shows, contestants may be given a test of general knowledge and their ability to play the game in addition to the interview; these auditions usually occur well before the taping and may be held in locations other than those where the show is taped.


If you pass your audition, you will have a chance to appear as a contestant. The time from your audition to your appearance may be anywhere from a few weeks to a year and a half, depending on the show's popularity and the number of people who qualify. If you don't get to appear after the period of time indicated by the show's producers, you can apply again.

