 In Portal, you have to use "portals" to complete puzzles and move onto the next one. There are two portals: blue and orange. When you go in one portal, you come out the other. However, not all surfaces can accommodate a portal!;
, Using the "X" (on Xbox 360) or "E" (on PC) button, you can pick objects up. Almost all objects can be picked up. This will become essential if you want to solve every puzzle in Portal.
 In Portal, many puzzles are solved by the laws of momentum. Momentum is kept through portals, so when you are falling at a fast velocity into one portal, you will come out of the other portal at a fast velocity. This is useful for levels in which you need to jump a long distance otherwise unreachable.
 In Portal, you will frequently be given cubes to solve puzzles. You may ask, "How can a cube help me solve a puzzle?". It will help you more than you think. When a cube is given to you, it is usually for the purpose of placing on buttons to open doors to advance. They can also be used as shields against turrets and energy balls.
 In certain levels, you have to fight against turrets. Once these turrets point their laser sights at you and lock on, you will be shot at relentlessly, and without proper cover, die very quickly. To stop a turret, it must be knocked down. This can be done many ways. Shooting a portal below the turret usually does an adequate job. However, you can also shoot down a turret with another turret, or knock down a turret by running at it. Another way is to shoot a portal above the turret and a portal under a cube to knock the turret over. When protection is needed, you can use many objects to protect yourself. A cube or another turret can help you with that job.
 In order to go on to the next puzzle, you might have to solve "energy ball puzzles". These "energy balls" are electric balls that fly and bounce off of walls. In order to solve these puzzles, you need to get these balls back to their "holders" using portals. Once they lock into their "holders", something, such as a lift, will activate. However, watch out! If these energy balls contact you, you will die! Much like turrets, use items such as cubes to protect yourself from them.
