 Pre-sliced bread is usually too thin and too flavorless to make good French toast, sometimes called eggy bread or French-fried bread. Instead, slice a loaf of challah, egg bread, brioche, or other thin-crust, tight-crumbed bread into slices ¾–1 inch (2–2.5 centimeters) thick.Ideally, leave a fresh loaf out overnight to make it slightly dry and absorbent; fresh bread should work fine if this is not feasible.
"Tight-crumbed" refers to the interior of the loaf, which should be spongy and free from large holes.
 Before you start frying, you'll need a soupy custard-like batter that will envelope the bread in a golden envelope. To make enough batter for eight slices of French toast, beat together the following:


3 large eggs
Pinch of salt
⅔ cup (160 mL) half-and-half. Substitute whole milk for a healthier alternative, or cream for an extremely rich dish.Use well-shaken buttermilk instead for additional flavor.Use less dairy for thin-sliced bread, or if your French toast ends up soggy., French toast can be a sweet or savory dish. Flavor your batter accordingly:



For sweet toast, mix in 1 tbsp (15 mL) sugar and 1 tsp (5 mL) vanilla extract. If you do not plan on serving the toast with maple syrup or another sugary topping, you can mix in an addition 1 or 2 tbsp (15–30 mL) sugar. Optionally, add 2 tsp (10 mL) cinnamon and/or 2 tsp (10 mL) freshly grated orange peel.For savory toast, mix in 5 tsp (20 mL) hot sauce, 3 tbsp (45 mL) chopped basil, and a generous amount of black pepper.Parmesan, garlic, and any savory herbs can be added as well, or substitute for the other ingredients., Pour the batter into a wide pan, and place the slices of bread into it to soak. Many cooks prefer to whip up this recipe quickly, and only soak the bread briefly while they heat up the pan of butter. Soaking for as long as 15–20 minutes, however, will increase the amount of batter absorbed, and is recommended if you are using dense, thick slices of bread.Flip the bread over once, halfway through the soaking process.
 You'll need about 2–3 tbsp (30–45 mL) butter total, but unless you have a skillet that can fit eight slices of bread, you'll probably be dividing it into three or four batches. Melt the butter in the pan, and heat until it foams and subsides.


You can use a neutral-flavored cooking oil such as canola oil or peanut oil instead, but the dish will be less flavorful.
A small amount of oil mixed with the butter will prevent it from burning. This may be helpful on an electric stovetop or skillets that heat unevenly.
 Drop as much bread as comfortably fits in the pan. Fry until golden brown on one side, then flip and cook the other side. This will only take a couple minutes on each side.


If you have additional slices of battered bread to fry, quickly wipe up the remaining butter with a dry paper towel, then melt more butter in the pan before adding the next slices.
Spreading custard is a sign that your pan is not hot enough, or that there is too much liquid in your batter., French toast can be served plain, or with a variety of toppings. Try maple syrup, fresh fruit, or powdered sugar for sweet varieties. Savory French toast can be eaten with pesto, sautéed vegetables, or Parmesan.

