 For every one serving of an acidic food, you should have four servings of an alkaline food. In order for the body to function at optimal efficiency, it must maintain a pH balance of 7.4. Eating additional alkaline foods keeps your body from taking nutrients from other areas in order to neutralize an acid-heavy diet.If you want to be even more precise, you can invest in a food scale. Weigh each food portion carefully and write down the results in a notebook divided into two acid/alkaline columns. At the end of each day, add the columns up to see how close you got to the 4 per 1 ratio.
For example, for lunch you could have a veggie sandwich. Try using whole-grain bread with hummus, avocados, and cucumbers packed inside. Fruit is always a good breakfast option.
 This will provide you with the maximum nutritional benefit. If fresh produce is not available, frozen is the next best alternative. Canned produce should usually be avoided as it contains high levels of sodium and other add-ons.


Not all vegetables and fruits are the same or equal, however. Try to vary your intake of produce so that you get the full array of benefits. Asparagus, for example, assists with the nervous system. Watermelon is helpful for hydration as it is 92% water., Although grains are usually acidic, there are natural options that count as alkaline. Purchase grains that are minimally packaged, the closer to fresh the better. Be creative when choosing grains.


For example, amaranth is one that many people aren’t familiar with. It is high in protein, which is unusual for a grain.Quinoa, buckwheat, and millet are other grain options.
 This is always part of a healthy diet, but when you are mixing food categories, it is particularly important. Most people consume artificial and processed foods in these categories. Consuming foods high in fat and sugar pushes your pH level into acidic territory and can contribute to a host of health problems including diabetes and kidney damage.Instead of eliminating desserts entirely, you might try making sweet treats from acidic foods, such as melons or apples. You will feel less deprived and make some progress toward your food combining goals.
Watch your drink consumption as well. Many sugary drinks, such as soda, will throw off your pH balance as well. Just drinking one soda a day can increase your diabetes risk by 26%.