 Check the beneficiary designation on your account. You can exempt your ESA from your bankruptcy estate only if the beneficiary is one of the following:your child
your stepchild
your grandchild
your step-grandchild;
, Some deposits into the ESA will be exempt, but others won’t be. The following rules apply, so check your history of deposits:Any deposits made within 365 days of filing for bankruptcy are not protected. For example, you might file for bankruptcy on July 1, 2016. If you made deposits in August 2015, then they are not exempt.
Any deposit made 365 to 720 days prior to filing for bankruptcy are exempt up to $6,225 per beneficiary. If your account has two beneficiaries, then $12,450 is exempt.
Any deposit made more than 720 days prior to filing for bankruptcy is completely exempt.
 Your state law might change the amount that you can exempt.About half of all states have protections already on the books.You should meet with a bankruptcy attorney to discuss this issue.
 You should talk about what options you have with a qualified bankruptcy attorney. There are many issues you need to discuss, such as whether your state law protects your savings account more than the federal law and whether you should file for bankruptcy at all.


You can get a referral to a bankruptcy attorney by contacting your local or state bar association.When you have a name, call the lawyer up and ask to schedule a consultation.
Also ask how much the lawyer charges for the consultation.
 In a Chapter 13 bankruptcy, you get to keep your property. You come up with a three to five year repayment plan. At the end of the repayment period, any unpaid debts owed to unsecured creditors are wiped out (“discharged”).However, you must pay your unsecured creditors an amount of money equal to non-exempt property. This means that if you have $15,000 that isn’t exempt in an ESA, you can keep the account but you must pay your unsecured creditors $15,000. If you can’t come up with the money, then you may not be able to do a Chapter 13 bankruptcy. Instead, you would probably have to do a Chapter 7, and the trustee can seize the non-exempt money in your ESA.
Talk with your bankruptcy lawyer whether a Chapter 13 is preferable to a Chapter 7. There are many factors your lawyer will need to consider.
 You might be better off not even filing for bankruptcy—particularly if you have a lot of money in an ESA that isn’t exempt. You should look into the following alternatives:Debt counseling. You can work with a debt counselor to come up with a plan to pay off your creditors. The debt counselor can negotiate with your creditors to try and reduce the amount of the principal or the amount of the interest. Once you come up with a plan, you make a single payment to your debt counselor, who then distributes payments to your creditors.
Negotiate on your own. You can also try and negotiate a reduction in the amount you owe by contacting each creditor. You will then be responsible for paying them individually.
Consolidate your debts. You can also try to consolidate your debts by getting a loan or transferring debts to a low-interest credit card.
 Instead of working with a credit counselor, you could try to negotiate with creditors directly. You should remember the following tips for maximizing your advantage:Mention that you are thinking of filing for bankruptcy. If you file, then your unsecured creditors might get very little money—only pennies on the dollar in many situations. If you scare them with a threat of bankruptcy, then they might be more willing to cut you a break.
Offer 15% of the debt initially. For example, if you owe $40,000 in credit card debt, then offer to pay $6,000.
Don’t agree to pay more than 50% of the total debt. Most unsecured creditors will settle for 30-50%.
Agree to pay in cash, if possible. A creditor might be more willing to cut a deal if they know they can get immediate cash.
See Negotiate With Creditors for more information.
 If you hire a lawyer, they can fill out your bankruptcy petition and accompanying forms. However, if you want to file on your own, then you can get a packet of forms from the court clerk. You are strongly encouraged to use an attorney. Those who file on their own have much lower rates of being approved for bankruptcy.


Find the nearest bankruptcy court. Bankruptcy courts are federal courts, and you can find yours by using the U.S. Courts court locator feature here: http://www.uscourts.gov/court-locator. Type in your zip code and select “Bankruptcy” as the court type.
These forms are also available from the U.S. Courts website here: http://www.uscourts.gov/forms/bankruptcy-forms.
 Individuals filing for bankruptcy must fill out Schedule A/B.You will report the institution name of your education savings account and the current value on line 24.
 You claim exemptions on Schedule C.On this form, you will need to provide a brief description of the account and state that you are referring to line 24 of Schedule A/B. Then you will need to state the amount of the exemption you are claiming.


You should also mention the laws that allow for the exemption. This will be the federal law or your state law. Your attorney should have this information.

