 Children retain information better when their hands and their brains are simultaneously busy, or engaged. This is accomplished by developing lessons and activities that require students to talk, listen, and move. These types of lessons and activities will benefit active, auditory, and visual learners.


Incorporate more arts and craft projects into your lessons.
Have students move around to different learning stations.
Group students by interests or strengths. Provide them with activities that let them explore a topic in a way that engages them., Field trips provide students with the opportunity to connect the abstract concepts they are learning inside the classroom to the real world.


As an educator, select field trips that promote hands-on learning. For example, if you are studying your nation’s government, take them to your state’s capitol building.
As a parent, you have the luxury to use your time and resources a little more creatively. Take your child to an art museum out of state to see their favorite painting or to a distant historic site to experience your nation’s history. Sign your child up for an engineering camp or have them shadow one of your friends at an office., Instead of limiting or checking their imagination, allow their creativity to run rampant. Foster their creativity by designing lessons that encourage the use of arts and crafts, role playing, or a range of similar activities.


When teaching students about the judicial branch, have your students hold a mock-trial.
When younger students study historical figures, ask them to dress up as their subject for a formal presentation.
Provide your children with the freedom to express themselves through a variety of forms. Older kids may enjoy writing poetry, telling stories, penning a play, or creating collages. Younger kids tend to enjoy drawing and coloring., After teaching a lesson to your students or studying a concept with your child, allow them to play an educational game that will test them on their new knowledge.


Find a relevant educational game through a quick internet search or download an app on your tablet.
Create a review game based on a popular game show or hold a trivia tournament.
Encourage your students or children to play board games or card games., Throughout their educational career, students are introduced to numerous abstract concepts that seem irrelevant to their lives. When you teach a new lesson, it is important to explain how the concepts are used by people on a day to day basis.


To explore mathematical and business principles, have the kids set up a store or lemonade stand. Encourage them to set prices, keep track of the inventory, and account for the money.Ask students to find recent news articles or tv clips that relate to what they are learning in school.
Have your students role play:

Conduct a mock trial.
Host a salon and ask each person to come as an important historical figure.
Reenact a famous battle.
Hold a mini-model UN session.



