 After they have been exercised and any medication has had a chance to take effect, your hyper dog should be somewhat calmed down. If they are still high energy, take this time to try to soothe them by petting them, and talking to them in a calming voice. If you are using a leash to keep your dog close to you, you do not need to take their collar off. Otherwise, remove their collar.


When you are bathing them in your bathroom, place them in the bathtub. The bathroom should be secured and the door should be closed.
When they are being bathed outdoors, you should have the hose ready. You will either need to hold on to them while they are being washed, have their leash tied to something immovable nearby, or have another person hold them.
 Make sure the water is warm, but not hot. You can use your hands, a hose, a shower head attachment, or a bucket to wet their fut. Their fur should be completely wet so you can begin to wash them.Avoid getting water in their ears, since this can cause an infectionYou can put a cotton ball in each of their ears to prevent some of the water from entering their ear canal., Using a shampoo that is specially designed for dogs, put a small amount of shampoo into your hands and start to lather it into their coat. You want to use shampoo on their entire body, and pay special attention to areas that are dirtier, like their paws. Be careful washing their faces. Shampoo can irritate their eyes, and you want to avoid getting water and shampoo into their ears. Here, it may be helpful to have another person hold your dog’s head., Use a cotton towel to dry your dog off. While a blow dryer is a popular option to dry your dog off, a hyper dog is unlikely to sit patiently in the time it takes to blow dry their coats.Use a towel instead and cut down on the time it takes to dry their coats.


If you want to prevent your dog from shaking water all over your bathroom, try this trick. Gently take hold of their muzzle with your hand, using your thumb and forefinger. When dogs can’t shake and rotate their head, their body also won’t shake. This way, you can towel dry them and limit the amount of mess they’ll make.Remember to remove the cotton balls that are in your dog’s ears. Taking a soft cotton cloth, wipe the inside of their ears to dry them.
 You may want to clip their nails, brush their fur, trim their fur, or brush their teeth. Bathing is typically more difficult with a hyper dog, since water is involved. During the rest of these grooming acts, you can hold your dog still by either putting them on your lap or wrapping your arm around their midsection and holding on to their collar. You can also ask someone else to hold onto your dog while you are working on them.
 After you’re all done grooming, be sure to praise and reward your dog for their good behavior. You want grooming to be an enjoyable process for both you and your dog. Positive reinforcement teaches your dog that when they obey your commands and behave well, they’ll be rewarded. This encourages good behavior and can help make grooming a smoother process in the future.After they’ve been groomed, praise them for being a good dog and for listening to you. You can give them their favorite treat, or take them out to play a game that they love.

