 The printer must be turned on in order for the iPhone to connect to it later on. If you’re unsure if your printer is AirPrint-compatible, check its user manual.;
, It can be a file saved on your device or a file saved in the cloud through iCloud, Dropbox, or other cloud service. Note that not all apps support the AirPrint feature though.
 Navigate through the app until you find the document you want to print. Tap the file to open it on the screen.
 After opening the document, find and tap the sharing option. This can be found either as an option in the Settings menu of the document or as a share icon at the top or bottom of the screen. Tap the option or icon.
 You will be shown a list of available printing options. Select “AirPrint” from here.


If your printer is AirPrint-compatible but you don’t see on the list, make sure that your iPhone and the printer are connected to same Wi-Fi network. Also make sure that you are within the range of the printer.
 A Print menu will open up. It will ask you for the number of copies. Enter the number of copies you wish to print; by default, this number is set to 1.


You can also edit other printing options like color, paper size, layout, among others (though this depends on the app).
 After finalizing the print options, tap the “Print” button at the bottom. The print task will be sent to the printer. Depending on your network connection or existing queues, the document will be printed out shortly after you hit the “Print” button.
 If you have several print jobs in queue, you can view them through the Print Center in the App Switcher. You can also cancel any print jobs in queue here. Open the App Switcher by double-clicking the Home button of your iPhone.
 In the App Switcher, select the printer icon; this will open the Print Center.
 The print center will list all active print jobs. Tap on a print job and all of its information will be displayed (e.g., file type, number of copies, time of print, etc.).
 Select a print job to cancel in the Print Center to open its information screen. At the very bottom is a “Cancel printing” button. Tap this to cancel the selected print job.