 When you have epilepsy, certain activities can impose additional risks. However, risk factors are different for everyone. You can begin to understand your own level of risk by keeping a detailed log of your seizure activity. This log can help you determine how likely you are to have a seizure during a specific activity.Ask a friend or family member who spends a lot of time with you to help you keep track of:


What happens during your seizures.
How long your seizures typically last?
How often they happen?
What triggers your seizures?
Do you get a warning before the seizure occurs?
How well do you recover after a seizure?

, The riskiest situations for individuals with epilepsy are those that involve heights, traffic, water, or sources of heat/power. You may not be allowed to drive for a period of time after having a seizure or if your seizures are frequent or hard to control. This may be difficult at first, but it is important to follow the advice of your medical team. Additionally, who you will be with and what you’ll be doing play a role in your safety. After you have reviewed the risks, you can better decide if an activity is right for you.Before you engage in an activity, ask yourself the following questions:


When and where will the activity occur?
Will other people be with you?
Will any (potentially) dangerous equipment be involved?
How far will you be from help (if you need it)?

, One of the most simple and effective ways to reduce risk while you are out is to bring a friend with you. Having a friend who is aware of your condition can help to keep you safe if a seizure should happen, and/or contact help if need be. Plus, doing an activity with a friend is always more fun than doing it alone., It may be possible that requesting some extra equipment could make your experience safer, and help you to reduce the risk of injury. This could include a life vest (if you will be near water), a helmet or additional harness (if you will be doing climbing), or using a seatbelt (in a trolley or other vehicle). Consider phoning ahead to see if such accommodations will be available to you., A smart watch can also inform them of your location. Although these devices can be expensive, they can greatly reduce your risk of injury and help you to perform more activities with confidence., Anytime you leave the house, but especially if you are doing an activity that may be dangerous, carry a medical card or wear a medical bracelet. This can help ensure that you get the proper care in the event of a seizure.