 It is hard to act in a way that is genuine to your personality if you doubt yourself. If you have some emotional baggage, give yourself the time to think about it and move on if possible.;
, Authentic people are in touch with their moral compass. Ensure that you haven’t adopted a partner’s, parent’s or friend’s beliefs without figuring out if they are right for you.
 This can be through classes, volunteering or hobbies. Regularly doing hobbies that inspire you to improve skills is a great way to define what makes you happiest.
 Most people can work a job without loving it, but a job that forces you to act differently or be uncomfortable all day doesn’t align with your core self.
 You may find yourself filling a role that has been assigned to you, instead of how you really feel. When you start to feel uncomfortable with a situation, ask if you feel pressured into acting a certain way, rather than responding with your intuition., Many people describe themselves as a parent, wife, or teacher. Try describing yourself according to your desires, hobbies and outlooks on life, rather than social roles.
 Being comfortable with yourself requires you to accept that you are not perfect. If you know your flaws and make efforts to avoid hurting others or yourself with them, then you are much more in touch with reality., Playing up to what other people like when you are networking can help you professionally, but you are unlikely to be comfortable with the people if they don’t know what you really think.
 Intuition can lead you to choose friends who complement you. Although a pro/con list is still a good way to analyze big changes, intuitive choices may be your moral compass leading the way.
 Talk about your opinion when it matters to you. Authentic people are comfortable speaking their mind and communicating when they have a problem.


If you are uncomfortable with communication, then focus on building this skill. Talk to others, take classes or be part of a group that encourages open communication.
 Build trust and respect with other people. These two relationship values are not built overnight and are very rewarding and self-affirming.
 Striving for benchmarks can give you confidence to develop and grow.
 Talk to friends and family regularly. If you need additional support, seek help from a counselor or a support group.
 Genuine people accept that they aren’t perfect and ask for help when needed.
 You can remain authentic despite a lie or two; however, if lying is commonplace, you are not following your moral compass or your intuition.

