 When a nail or a portion of the nail gets completely ripped from the nail bed, you may need to remove the nail in order to treat the injury. Use nail scissors to carefully snip away any portion that is partially attached and lift the nail out using tweezers.









By removing the nail, you allow yourself better access to the injured nail bed beneath. As a result, you might be able to reduce the risk of infection by treating the area better.
Alternatively, you could leave the detached nail in place and clean around it. Doing so is harder, but possible. The detached nail will fall off on its own once new nail grows in its place.
 Depending on how severe the detachment was, your nail bed may be bleeding a lot. Before you can continue treatment, stop the bleeding by applying pressure to the injury.









When possible, use medical gauze or sterile cotton pads. Place the cloth or pad directly over the injury and press firmly for several minutes. Use even pressure.
 Use nail clippers or sharp nail scissors to cut away any jagged or sharp edges. You should do this regardless of whether you removed the detached nail or left it in place to prevent further catching and tearing.









Contact your doctor and have her trim your nail if it is too painful, or if you are not comfortable doing so yourself.
 Immediately after you trim the nail, soak the damaged nail bed in a bowl of cold water for 20 minutes.


The water should be cold enough to soothe and numb the area.
Soaking your toe or finger in cold water helps regulate blood flow in that area of your body.
 After using the cold water treatment, switch to a treatment of warm water and salt.









Mix 1 tsp of salt into 4 cups of warm water.
Let your damaged finger or toe soak in the salt water for 20 minutes. The salt water helps prevent infection.
Repeat this procedure two or three times daily for the first three days.
Pat dry using a clean, soft cotton cloth.
 To further speed up the healing process and reduce the risk of infection, use your fingers or a clean cotton swab to gently rub a layer of antibiotic ointment over the entire area.








Make sure that your hands are clean as you handle the injury.
 Wrap an adhesive bandage over the damaged nail to prevent further snagging and reduce the risk of infection.









Keep the bandage over your nail bed until enough new nail has grown in to cover the entire nail bed.
Change your bandage each time you soak or clean the wound. Make sure that the wound is dry each time you change the bandage. If the bandage gets wet, change it too.
 Watch for signs of infection each time you change the bandage. This is especially important during the first 72 hours, but you should continue to check until enough nail grows in to cover the exposed nail bed.









Signs of possible infection include: fever, redness, increased heat to the injury, pain, tenderness, swelling, or puss.
If you suspect that an infection has set in, schedule an appointment with your doctor.

