 Every conversation conveys something. If you're going to carry on a conversation with someone you know, it's probably either to tell them something or to ask them something. Before you get too far into the conversation, it may be helpful to know in advance what you intend to talk about.Is the purpose of your conversation to apologize? To let someone know that you're upset about something? To talk about an incident that occurred between you and a mutual friend? Each of these conversations will have a drastically different tone, and should be approached with a different conversational agenda.You don't need to dictate how the conversation will progress. It's simply helpful to be aware of what your intentions for the conversation are (if you have any) so that you do not have to change gears abruptly.;
, It's a good idea to plan out important conversations. That way, once you're talking to someone and find a gap in a conversation, you can easily draw on what you've planned in advance. Of course, that doesn't mean planning out the entire conversation. But it can be helpful to have a few basic phrases or topics in mind, like how you intend to open up the conversation and what kinds of questions you might ask to keep it going.Planning out the specifics of a conversation will make it feel scripted and forced. Don't plan out everything you're going to say. Instead, just give yourself a basic idea of the kinds of things you'd like to talk about., This works in two ways. First, it may be useful to acknowledge your physical surroundings as a way to keep the conversation going. For example, if you're in a park, you can comment on the scenery if the conversation begins to drag.Second, it's important to be aware of your surroundings and know what's appropriate. For certain conversational topics, like letting someone know about a recent death or other upsetting/unpleasant news, there's a right and wrong time and place.Bringing up the wrong thing in the wrong time/place can be a real conversation killer.It's important to be aware of your surroundings. It can help or hurt a conversation, and may even dictate the tone and topics of the conversation.
 You may go into a conversation knowing that your favorite movie/artist/band is the greatest, but not everyone will feel that way. And that's okay - in fact, it's a good thing. Different tastes and opinions will combine to create an interesting dialogue. But the important thing is to be respectful of those differences, and to remember that they exist.Not everyone will see/think/feel the way you do. It's imperative that you be aware of this reality, and respect the way others see/think/feel. Nothing will kill a conversation faster than telling someone that they're wrong to think or feel a certain way.Try to put yourself in the other person's shoes. It will help keep the conversation going and may help bring you closer to the other person., Many people don't think about their own body language, but most people recognize body language cues (both conscious and unconscious) in other people. If you avoid eye contact, turn your body away from the person talking to you, and cross your arms across your body, it conveys a lack of interest or an unwillingness to listen.Face the person you're talking with, and make eye contact while you chat.