 Learn it thoroughly with careful attention to establishing consistent fingerings, dynamics, articulation, and any repeats.


Once you're familiar with your piece, memorize it. Memorize measure by measure or line by line. Even after you've learned and memorized it, continue to practice diligently at slow tempos to fix any new problems that develop.
Practice with the understanding that you won't be able to make changes at the last minute, and your performance will sound much like your practice.;
, If your piano is at home, play for your family and guests. Find pianos in public places and play your piece for passersby.


If you practice in a music school, play for other students. Evaluate each performance for its good and bad moments, and develop a plan for fixing the mistakes.
 Pick out the clothes you'll be wearing and make sure they don't restrict your movement or look awkward when you play. Knowing you look great gives you one less thing to worry about on the day of the recital.
 On the day of the recital, play your piece slowly with the music. Pay attention to troublesome spots, but understand that it's too late to make major changes. Once you've looked over your piece, play something that you love to play, gets you excited about sharing your music with others, or relaxes you.
 If possible, test out the instrument you'll be performing on. Evaluate its soft and loud dynamics, tonal control, relative loudness of the octaves, and pedals. You should arrive early even if you're not able to play on the performance instrument: few things contribute to performance anxiety like arriving to your recital late.
 Be confident in your thorough preparation. The green room is no place to change fingerings or correct memory slips, so reassure yourself that you have it down. If you feel the need, review the score and play the piece in your head, but not more than once.
 As you do, smile at the audience and think to yourself, "I have prepared my piece and I feel confident!" Roll the bench up or down to the proper height for you, and take your time to get it right. Once you're done, put your hands in your lap and vividly imagine the beginning of your piece, paying attention to tempo, tone, volume, and the sensation of playing the first notes.
 Immerse yourself in the music. Enjoy the audience's captivation. Revel in sharing your hard work.

