 Take your prunes and figs and cut them into smaller pieces using scissors before adding them to the bowl. Combine your currants, raisins, sultanas, prunes, figs, peel, nuts, pear, vegetable suet, and spices and mix them together in a large mixing bowl. Make sure to incorporate the spices over the rest of the dry ingredients so that your pudding has a full, consistent flavor., Add 50g (5oz) of the pureed pear and 50ml (5fl oz) of the pear juice to your bowl and stir your mixture vigorously, making sure that the dry ingredients are fairly distributed throughout it. To kick your gluten-free pudding up a notch, you can use 100 milliliters (3.4  fl oz) (3½ oz) of apple or pear juice and 50ml (2fl oz) of brandy instead of just using pear or apple juice.

A large wooden spoon or sturdy whisk is great for mixing gluten-free pudding.
 Combine your 100g (3½ oz) of gluten and wheat-free flour with a fine sieve until they are completely mixed. Sifting the flour with the baking powder allows the flour to aerate which will add to the fluffiness of your pudding.It will also help incorporate all of the ingredients together., The gluten-free and wheat-free flour will help bind your mixture together. Carefully pour each flour, one at a time, into your mixture. Use your spoon or bowl and continue stirring until your mixture has a thicker viscosity. Work out any lumps by continuing to stir and fold the mixture together., Use a 1.5-liter pudding basin when making your gluten-free pudding. Cover the top of the basin with the lid or a piece of greaseproof paper. You can purchase a pudding basin online or at most department stores or cook shops., The water in your deep pan should come halfway up the side of your pudding basin. This will ensure an even cook throughout your pudding., Put a lid on the pan and keep your pudding on the stovetop for 4-5 hours on low-medium heat. During this time, the pudding should solidify. Check back on the water level in the pan every hour and add more water if it's evaporated.

When adding new water, make sure to add hot water.
 Remove the lid and attach cling wrap to the top of your pudding basin. You can store your Christmas pudding for almost three months before it goes bad., When you're ready to serve your gluten-free pudding, you have two ways of reheating it. You can either put it back into your tin or deep pan and re-steam it for one to two hours. Alternatively, you can put it in your microwave for 3-5 minutes, or until it becomes soft.You can garnish your Christmas pudding with holly and serve it with cream or brandy butter.

