 The goal is to find the sturdiest Y-shaped piece of wood you can find. You can make a slingshot with a forked branch of just about any size, but a piece about 6 to 9 inches (15.2 to 22.9 cm) long with a fairly uniform thickness of 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5.1 cm) will make a strong, easy-to-use slingshot.









Try to find a piece with as few imperfections as possible--even moderate cracks can render your slingshot dangerous or unusable. If there are knots or bumps you can cut or sand them off.
You can peel off the bark to make the handle more comfortable to hold.;
, If you're working with wood that has recently been cut, it will contain moisture that will not make for a very sturdy sling shot. To dry your wood fork out quickly, pop in in your microwave oven.









Wrap your fork in a kitchen dish towel and pop it into the microwave. Heat it on high in a series of 30 second intervals.
After every 30 second interval, allow the wood to rest for a few seconds and listen for hissing. Once the hissing has stopped, all the moisture has been removed from the wood, and you can proceed to the next step.
 With a sharp pocket knife, make a notch towards the top of each of the fork prongs. The notch should be where you want to attach your bands. An inch or so from the end of the prong is a good location.
 ¼" latex surgical tubing (found at hardware stores) is a good, solid option for a firing mechanism. Determine how long you want your bands to be. Shorter bands will produce more powerful shots, but you need some give to be able to pull the band back.









When you have determined the desired tube length, double it and cut it in half, yielding two tubes of equal length.
 Wrap one end of the tubing around a fork prong and back on itself to form a "C" shape. The tail end should approximately 1" long.









Tightly wind a 10" piece of dental floss around both lengths of the tubing so the tubing is firmly affixed to the wooden prong. Tie a square knot to secure the floss and trim off any excess.
Repeat this tube attachment on the other wooden prong.
 You can buy a rectangular piece of leather or strong cloth from a hobby or fabric store. This material should measure approximately 4" wide by 2" high.









Cut a slit on each side of the pouch. Use a knife to make an incision about ¼" to ½" in from each of the shorter edges. The slits should be just large enough for the tubing to fit through.
You can opt to trim off ½" from all the corners of the rectangle. This octagonal shape cups and supports the rock or stone you are shooting with.
 Secure the loop (as you did when you attached the tubing to the prong) by wrapping dental floss around both lengths of tubing. Secure with a firm knot, and repeat on the other side.
 Try using small rocks or stones to shoot at targets. Use caution when shooting around people and pets.








