 Before you ask your parents for anything, spend a couple of weeks improving your standing. Begin helping out around the house a little more than usual. Begin doing those chores you would do for an allowance for free, to give your parents a sense of what your work is worth., If you want to show your parents that you are responsible and deserving of an allowance, a great way to do this is to try a little harder in school. For at least a few weeks prior to talking to your parents, do your very best on all homework assignments and exams. Show your parents your good grades and let them see you studying., Another way to prove your value and gain your parents’ respect is to take on some volunteer work. If you are in high school, you can find volunteer work at a local animal shelter or food bank. If you are still in middle school, you may be able to find afterschool volunteer programs through your school.An added benefit to volunteer work is that it will look great on college applications later.
Additionally, if your time is filled with unpaid volunteer work, your parents will be less likely to suggest that you get a part-time job.
 Finally, if you want your parents to respect you, and be willing to fork over some cash, you need to show that the respect is mutual. Do this by following the rules at home. This may mean sticking to your curfew, picking up after yourself, doing your homework right after school, or any other household rule that your parents have set for you., Before you sit down and talk to your parents, take some time to understand the benefits of an allowance in order to make your case. Fortunately, experts claim that when parents give kids a sum of money to manage regularly, it helps their financial skills as adults. This is a big benefit! Practice explaining these benefits to your folks., Participating in household chores also helps kids to feel more connected to the family. Practice outlining these benefits., Your parents are not going to want to throw their money away. Rather than using all of your allowance as pocket money, make a plan for what you would like to do with it. Presenting your parents with a plan for what you’d like to do with the money makes for a much more compelling argument. This will make them more likely to give you a fair rate.Maybe there is a larger purchase that you would like to save for.
Maybe there is an upcoming family vacation that you’d like to have extra money for.
Maybe there is a photography class you’d like to take.
When you have a plan for what you’d like to do with the money, your parents may be likely to give you more.
 Another very compelling argument is to offer to take 10% of your allowance each week (or month) and place it in a savings account. Saving $1 per week (if you earned $10, for example) may not seem like a lot. However, putting away 10% of what you earn is an excellent habit to get into that will serve you well in life., If you are not receiving an allowance, chances are that your parents buy a lot of things for you. In addition to room and board, they probably pay for your school supplies, personal hygiene products, and favorite snacks. You may be able to convince them that an allowance is a good idea if you offer to buy some of those things yourself. This can teach important lessons.For instance, you could offer to buy your own shampoo with your allowance.
This will help to teach you budgeting practices, as well as teach you the value of certain goods.
If your parents can see where your allowance is going, it can help them see the value in it.
 Before you begin talking to your parents about your allowance, take some time to prepare what you will say. Figure out your main talking points, and practice a little with a friend or in the mirror. Do some research. What are the average allowance amounts in your area and for your age group?
If you show that you’ve really thought about this and done a bit of homework, your parents will take your request more seriously.This information will help ensure that you get an adequate amount of money.
 You want to approach your parents when they are in a good mood. It is best not to interrupt them while they are doing something else, or bother them right when they get home from work. Choose a time when they seem to be free (such as a weekend), and when they appear to be in good spirits., Make sure to be direct and clear. Explain exactly what you are asking for, and why. Be as specific as you can, and include details. Give your parents time to consider your request.


Avoid making demands. Don't tell your parents that they "have" to give you an allowance.
Focus on using "I" statements. This keeps the focus on you and why you deserve this allowance.
You could say "I have been doing my chores, and I feel like I could earn a good allowance." This is much better than "You need to give me a good allowance."

, Listening is an important part of communication. Be an active listening with your parents. Give them a chance to think, and to ask questions. When they give you an answer to your questions, try to really listen to what they are saying, and don’t immediately get defensive. If they feel that they are being listened to, they will respect you more, and may be more likely to trust you with an allowance.
 If your parents decline your request for an allowance (or a raise), don't lose hope. If you continue to help out at home, work hard at school, and respect the rules of the house, you may be able to change their minds in time. Keep working to earn your parents' respect and prove that you deserve the allowance you seek.
 After some time has passed (at least one month), make a plan to ask your parents again. Remember to plan what you are going to say, choose a good time to approach them, and listen to what they have to say.
 No matter what happens, it is important to make the most of what you have. If you are getting any allowance at all, try to be grateful. You may also consider raking leaves, babysitting, or picking up a paper route to earn some extra cash.

