 It will not help you land the role if you're rude to the casting director. Remember to shake their hands, say "hello," and ask how their day was before jumping into the role.The casting director will be making the final decision on whether you get the role, so make sure that you leave a good impression.


Don't let the small talk ruin the audition. Try to gauge the casting directors attitude and whether they enjoy small talk.
 Concentrate on physical facial expressions and your vocal delivery. Make it as realistic and genuine as possible. Try to convey the emotion of the character without overdoing it.If you come from a theater background, it's reasonable to assume that you are used to using grandiose physical gestures and using a lot of energy in your line delivery. This does not translate to TV most of the time.
 Casting directors don't want a typical type of character fulfilling a role. Make sure that your personality shines through whatever role you are assuming. Use your lines to develop a meaningful and unique personality for whatever role you are presented with.


For example, if you are playing a detective, don't try to replicate what is popular amongst detectives as the performance can often come off as forced and unrealistic., Extrapolate what your characters motivations are and what drives them.Much like actual life, personalities are not based upon a person's actions. What's more significant is what drives and motivates them to commit those actions. Get into the brain of your character and think how they would think. Consider your character's likes and dislikes, and what drives them to feel this way. Try to relate emotions to your personal life and draw parallels between these feelings. Do your homework on your character and the conditions they've lived in or how situations in their past affects their behavior now.


Even if you've never been in a similar situation, there's a good chance you've felt similar emotions.
If you aren't given any background information on your character, make one up. Create their motivation in your head to understand the role and act more like that character. For example, if tasked with portraying an angry son, create a backstory in your head of what drives the son's anger and motivations., Acting is not only about delivering lines well, it's also about embodying your character. Think of how your character would stand, talk, walk, sit, or gestures that they would use in conversation.You make a greater impact with an audience when they believe you are the character.
 Something that casting directors are looking for is your ability to own your character. Don't make excuses or apologize to the casting director. Go in with a vision of your role and a goal to land the part, and deliver your audition with confidence.If you have prepared beforehand, you'll feel more confident going into the audition.

