 Bolts that meet this criteria are usually fasteners that will cause machine failure if they are to loosen during operation. Or they are bolts that will pose a safety threat to the operator if failure occurs.;
, Follow the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) specifications for the correct amount of torque to apply to the bolt. Fasteners of different sizes require different amounts of torque.
 Since the bolts are now in the position they will be in during operation you can determine which direction the holes will need to be drilled in the bolt. Once determined you will want to mark the direction on to the head of the bolt. A paint stick if the most effective however, any type of marking will be sufficient as long as it does not compromise the structural integrity of the bolt.
 Later the bolts will be installed back to their original location; keeping track of which bolt came out of what hole will aid in this process.
 By adding a nut on to the bolt will create a level surface on the side of the bolt head. Keeping the bolt head level and perpendicular to the drill will greatly aid in the drilling process.
 The use of the center-punch will keep the drill bit from “walking around” on the drilling surface.
 Most drill presses have a set of pulleys located on top. Follow the drill press manufactures’ procedural guidelines when performing this step. Hardened bolts will require a slower drilling speed. A drill speed greater than 1100 revolutions per minute (rpm) is NOT recommended.
 A higher quality drill bit is recommended. Bolts are usually made from hardened steel; this material can be extremely difficult to drill through. Using bits made from Cobalt or a High Speed Steel (HSS) Titanium coated material are strongly advised.
 Correct alignment is critical be sure to be as accurate as possible during this step.
 Light drill pressure is all that is required for a successful hole. Resist the temptation to apply large amounts of pressure; as this could lead to over heating the cutting surfaces or lead to catastrophic failure of the drill bit.
 Squirt cutting oil on to hole every 30 seconds. Proper lubrication is essential for the drilling process. The lubrication reduces heat and friction between the material being drilled and the cutting surfaces of the drill bit. A petroleum based cutting/ drilling oil is recommended.
 After 45 seconds to 60 seconds of drilling back the drill bit out of the hole and remove the shavings that have formed during the drilling process. This step will ensure that the flutes of the drill bit do not clog with shavings. Figure 12-A depicts when this step is necessary.
, This is a recommended “trick of the trade.” Install a drill bit in to the drill press that is two times the diameter of the hole and start to drill the hole slightly. This process will create a chamfer on the end of the hole. This chamfer will reduce stress risers in the bolt and will create a softer surface for the lock wire.
 A single bastard straight file will work the best. However, any type of file will work fine.
 Lock wiring or sometimes referred to as safety wiring is a skill that requires training and practice to be done CORRECTLY. Due to the complexity of this process we will not discuss this procedure any further. Click here for lock wiring instructions.

