 Herbal teas contain antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties that can help relieve stress and soothe sore muscles. Some teas can take up to 2–3 hours to take effect.Herbal teas that help reduce the symptoms associated with headaches are:


For headaches accompanied by nausea or anxiety, use 1/2 teaspoon dried peppermint and 1/2 teaspoon dried chamomile flowers in 1 cup of warm water (80-85 C). Drink 1-2 cups, as needed during the day until your headache decreases.
For headaches accompanied by insomnia, try Valerian tea. Infuse 1/2 teaspoon of valerian in 1 cup of warm water before sleeping.Be aware that valerian has several drug interactions. Talk to your doctor before trying valerian, especially if you are taking naloxone or buprenorphine.
 Ginger can help reduce symptoms of anxiety, nausea, vomiting, high blood pressure and digestive problems that may accompany some headaches, thus reducing the severity of the headache. Studies have shown that ginger can also help reduce the chances of migraines.Ginger extract is also available in dietary capsules or as oil at most nutrition food stores. Ginger can be a strong herb, therefore the recommended daily intake is 4 grams, including dietary sources. Pregnant women should not take more than 1 gram of ginger per day.Do not take ginger if you have a bleeding disorder or if you are taking blood-thinning medications, including aspirin., Research shows that feverfew is an effective medicine for preventing or stopping migraine headaches. Feverfew supplements are available fresh, freeze-dried, or dried. They can be purchased as capsules, tablets, or liquid extracts. Feverfew supplements should contain at least 0.2% parthenolide, a natural compound found in the herb. The recommended daily intake is 50–100 mg once or twice daily. Some precautions to remember are:


People with allergies to chamomile, ragweed, or yarrow may be allergic to feverfew and should not take it.
Feverfew may increase the risk of bleeding, especially if you take blood-thinning medications. Ask your doctor before taking feverfew if you take blood-thinners.
Pregnant and nursing women as well as children under 2 should not take feverfew.
If you are scheduled for surgery, be sure to tell your doctor if you are taking feverfew. It may interact with anesthesia.
Do not stop taking feverfew abruptly if you have used it for more than 1 week. Gradually lower the dose before stopping use. Stopping feverfew too quickly may cause rebound headache, anxiety, fatigue, muscle stiffness, and joint pain., Rosemary is widely used as a spice when cooking, especially in Mediterranean dishes. Rosemary has been used medicinally to improve memory, relieve muscle pains and spasms, improve digestion and support the circulatory and nervous systems.


Do not exceed 4 - 6 grams of rosemary per day. Any more and it may cause dehydration or hypotension. It can also act as an abortifacient. , Lemon balm (Melissa officinalis) is an herb often used to reduce stress and anxiety, promote sleep, improve appetite, and ease muscle pain and discomfort from indigestion. It is also often combined with other calming, soothing herbs, such as valerian and chamomile to help promote relaxation.


Lemon balm is available as a dietary capsule supplement with a recommendation of 300–500 mg, 3 times daily or as needed. Pregnant or breastfeeding women should consult with a doctor before using lemon balm.Lemon balm should not be taken by anyone with hyperthyroid disease.
 People with migraine, cluster, or post-traumatic headaches are at a higher risk of experiencing anxiety, depression, mood swings, and personality changes. St. John’s wort is an herb used to treat mild to moderate depression. It is available as a liquid extract, capsules, tablets and commercial tea. Ask your doctor which will be right for you.


Supplements are standardized at 0.3% hypericin concentration, one of the active compounds in the herb, and should be taken three times daily in 300mg doses. It may take 3–4 weeks to show significant improvements. Don’t stop taking St. John’s wort all at once, because that may cause unpleasant side effects. Gradually lower the dose before stopping.Some precautions to remember are:
If your headaches get worse, discontinue use.
People with ADD (attention deficit disorder) and bipolar disorder should not use St. John’s wort.
Do not use St. John’s wort if you are taking medications such as antidepressants, sedatives, birth control pills or allergy drugs.
Pregnant and breastfeeding women should not use St. John’s wort.
St. John’s wort should not be used to treat severe depression. If you experience thoughts of aggression or suicide, you should see a doctor immediately.