 Exercise can help relieve menstrual symptoms in general, include cramping. Exercise releases endorphins, which are natural pain relievers. Endorphins also help counteract the prostaglandins in your body that cause contractions and pain. Because of this, physical activity may help relieve cramps.Try different kinds of aerobic exercise, such as walking, running, cycling, swimming, kayaking, hiking, or a class at the gym.
 Stretching helps relax your muscles and alleviate cramps. Sit on the floor with your legs stretched far apart. Stretch forward to catch your toes or ankle. Breathe in while keeping your back straight. After a few breaths, lean forward towards the floor.


You can try other simple stretches as well to stretch out your back or abdomen, depending on which areas hurt the most.
 Some women experience relief from menstrual cramping with orgasm. The reason behind this is not well understood, but may have something to do with endorphins released during sexual arousal. Much like with exercise, the endorphins released during orgasm can help relieve the menstrual cramps and inflammation. , Similar to aerobic exercise and stretching, yoga helps relax the body and reduce aches and pains in the lower back, legs, and abdomen. When you begin to feel menstrual cramps, you can try various yoga poses to help you with your pain. Before you start, get in some comfortable clothes and put on soothing music.


You can do the head-to-knee forward bend. Sit on the floor and extend your legs in front of you. Pull one of your legs in and bend it 90 degrees so that the sole of your foot rests against the inside of your thigh. Inhale and grab your shin, ankle, or foot. Stretch the torso over your leg towards the foot. Exhale and bend down from the groin. Lengthen and stretch your back instead of rounding it. Breathe as you hold the pose, extending through the heel and pressing your sitting bones towards the floor. Hold for 1-3 minutes, then switch sides.
You can also try the noose pose. Get into a full squat with your feet together. Lower down until your buttocks are towards your heels. Inhale, then move your knees to the left as you turn your torso to the right. As you exhale, wrap the left arm back behind you and around your knees and legs. Inhale and reach the right arm around to clasp your hands. Exhale as you gaze over the right shoulder. Hold for 30-60 seconds as you breathe. Switch sides.
You can also attempt camel pose. Get on your knees, hip-width apart. Make sure your shins and feet are pressed firmly into the floor. Rest your palms on the top of your buttocks with the fingers pointing down. Inhale. Lift your chest and move your shoulders down towards the ribs. Exhale, then push your hips forward as you arch back. To stabilize yourself, rest your hands on your heels. Lift the chest. Breathe steadily for 30-60 seconds.