 Orchids, in general, have sensitive roots that are prone to rot if allowed to sit in too much water. Watering your mini orchid with ice cubes provides a measured amount of water that gradually melts and sinks into the media, reducing the risk of over-watering. While standard orchids can take up to three ice cubes, mini varieties only need one.
 Under ideal conditions, one ice cube once a week provides enough water. In excessively hot or dry conditions, you may need to add an additional sprinkle of water in the middle of the week. Allow the media to get partially dry, but add more water once it feels dry even 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) below the surface.
 Place the flower in an eastern window that only receives muted sun, or block out some of the direct sun by placing it behind a translucent shade or screen in a southern window.
 Fluorescent lights or High Intensity Discharge lights offer the best alternatives. Place the lights 6 to 12 inches (15.24 to 30.48 centimeters) away from the top of your mini orchid to prevent accidental over-lighting.
 You can usually determine whether or not your orchid receives the right amount of light based on the way its leaves look. Too little light will result in dark green leaves with no flowers. Too much light will cause the leaves to turn yellow or red. Some leaves may even develop brown "sunburn" spots.
 Mini orchids thrive in warm, humid conditions. For best results, keep the temperature on the high end of the scale during the day and drop it by about 15 degrees Fahrenheit (8 degrees Celsius) at night. Never allow the temperature to drop below 55 degrees Fahrenheit (13 degrees Celsius), however.
 Avoid letting it sit near open windows and air vents.
 Orchids like humid conditions, and misting the plant every day or two will mimic humidity. If this does not work, run a humidifier in the same room during the day.
 Use a balanced fertilizer and mix it with water, diluting it down to half its recommended strength. If this fertilizer does not seem to do well for your plant, you can also try a high-nitrogen fertilizer, especially if you use a bark-based growing media.

