 Ensure the room is not a high-traffic area, and is free of dangerous objects or machinery.Bedrooms that you don’t use (a good option if your children have moved out), sun rooms, or former offices are good options for your free range chameleon habitat.


Upstairs rooms are best, because the chameleon won’t be stressed by seeing passing animals and cars.
Rooms that should never be used include bathrooms, family bedrooms, recreation rooms, garages, or utility rooms.
If you don’t want to completely devote one whole room to your chameleon, ensure that the room you choose provides a balance of features that accommodate both you and your chameleon.
 On the low end, provide a shaded space away from the windows where the chameleons can cool down to around 75-82 degrees Fahrenheit.


By providing a range of distinct temperature zones within the room, your chameleon will be able to select a comfortable temperature for itself.
Place an incandescent bulb or heat lamp near the top of a climbable tree or perch to prevent burns.
 If your chameleon has free range in a room, ensure that you don’t have anything that you wouldn’t want your chameleon climbing, walking, or pooping on. All surfaces -- tables, furniture, and window ledges -- should be smooth and easily cleaned. Plastic tables and chairs are good furnishings. Plastic coverings to cover your pillows are readily available at many home furnishing stores.


Materials of plastic, Formica, bamboo, and stainless steel are best., Chameleons love climbing on trees, both to explore and to just sit and bathe in the sun. Weeping figs and bamboo palms are favored for the climbing opportunities they afford.Smaller plants like the heartleaf philodendrons, moth orchids, peace lilies, and bromeliads enhance the natural feel of the free range habitat.For a full list of plants that chameleons can tolerate, check http://flchams.com/chameleon-safe-plant-list/.
 If you want to go all-out and transform your chameleon room into a miniature chameleon forest, you will need to place your plants and decorative fountains on a sturdy mesh rack with trays or buckets beneath each plant and water source. You might also have to incorporate a sump pump and reverse osmosis machine into your room, just as you would in a vivarium setup.


If you choose to do this, ensure your pumps are housed in a small, sealed case that the chameleon cannot access.
If you include a mister in the room, you should have tile or vinyl floors (not carpet), and paint your walls with exterior grade paint.If you have a mister, you’ll need to install gutters as well.
 If you don’t want to get so extensive that you rewire your home’s plumbing and give up an entire room, you could satisfy your chameleon’s sanitary and water needs another way. Put your chameleon on a small tree (a fig tree would work nicely) and place the tree/chameleon combo in the shower for about 30-45 minutes every other day.Set the water to a lukewarm temperature. This will give the chameleon the opportunity to bathe, defecate, and drink water. Let the tree and chameleon get relatively dry, then move them back into the free range room.

