 North Carolina law does not permit one parent to change a minor child’s name without the consent of the other parent, if both parents are living. Any parent who is on the child’s birth certificate, has had paternity established by court order, or who is ordered to pay child support for a child must consent to a name change for the child.A minor child who is over the age of 16 can change his or her name with the consent of his or her custodial parent if he or she can show that the noncustodial parent has abandoned the child, or if he or she has committed certain crimes against the child or a sibling of the child.
The Clerk may attempt to reach the noncustodial parent if there is a claim of abandonment. The Clerk can mail a notice to the parent’s last known address that it will declare the child to be abandoned by the noncustodial parent by registered or certified mail. If the parent does not respond in ten days, the child will be declared to be abandoned by that parent.
Eligible crimes that eliminate the need for a noncustodial parent’s consent for a name change include felonious or misdemeanor child abuse, taking indecent liberties with a minor in violation of G.S. 14-202.1, rape or any sex offense, incest in violation of G.S. 14-178, and assault, communicating a threat, or any other crime of violence. The parent seeking the name change must provide proof of the conviction of the other parent of the crime.
 This paperwork is similar to that required to change an adult’s name. There are no statewide standardized forms that are available for use. However, sample forms are located here. The required paperwork includes the following:The Notice of Name Change of Minor Child must be fully completed. This document gives notice that you are asking for your child’s name to be changed.
The Petition for Legal Name Change of Minor Child must be fully completed. This document asks the Clerk to change your child’s name.
You must file a Petitioning Mother Name Change Verification, if mother is the parent seeking the name change for the child. If the father is the parent seeking the name child for the child, you must file a Petitioning Father Name Change Verification.
If the noncustodial parent is consenting to the child’s name change, then you must complete a Consent to Name Change and have the noncustodial parent sign it. If the child is over the age of 16, you also will need to have two Affidavits of Good Character completed by two non-relatives living in your county. Depending on the county, you also may need to complete an Order for Minor Name Change, as well.
If your child was born in North Carolina, you also need to complete an Application for a copy of a North Carolina Birth Certificate, which is located here. There is a $15 fee for processing the name change, $24 for the first copy of the amended birth certificate, and $15 for each additional copy of the birth certificate.
 All of the required paperwork must be submitted to the Civil Clerk’s Office for filing. This step initiates the process to change your child’s name.


A child’s name may not be changed more than two times, for good cause shown.
The Notice of Name Change of Minor Child must be posted on the courthouse bulletin board for 10 business days. If the 10th day falls on a holiday or weekend, the Notice must remain posted until 5:00 p.m. the following business day.
 If your child’s other parent does not consent to the child’s name being changed, the court is likely to set a court hearing. At that hearing, the court will determine whether changing the child’s name as requested is in the best interest of the child., The Clerk’s Office will sign this Order. You then will receive a copy of the Order in the mail. Some counties require that you provide them with a self-addressed stamped envelope in order to get a copy of your Order by mail. This Order is the official document that you will use to change your child’s name with any government or private office.
 You can take the order, along with a birth certificate and a photo ID, to your local Social Security Administration Office in order to have the name on your child’s social security card changed.

