 Possess the "Yes-I -Can!" attitude. Every new project teaches you something new and this broadens your skill set.


Allow yourself the opportunity to show your skills and build trust with your co-workers.
Even if the project is tedious, do it. After all you have to earn your position.;
, Be curious. If you are unsure of something, ask for clarification. Make sure you know what needs to get done and when.


Ask questions about your department and the overall business.
 Be careful that you do not miss deadlines, so prioritize your tasks so you do not fall behind. Set your own deadline for completion of tasks (preferably a day before the actual due date).


Ask your managers, "what is most important?".
 Soak in all of the new skills and knowledge you are gaining. Observe your team and company. How do they work together? What can be improved?


Listen carefully to your coworkers, mentors, and managers, they all can teach you something.
 Step out of your comfort zone. Finish projects fast and accurately, then ask for more work.
 Network with your co-workers, introduce yourself, find out what they are working on. See if you can do what they're doing, or get involved in some way to contribute to the team. What does your team need? Figure that out, and make it happen.
 Make your presence known. Smile, dress professionally, and perform well. Exceed expectations on your work, never just settle for the minimum. Be an over-achiever; pay attention to details and exceed expectations.
 As an intern, you will make mistakes. However, take responsibility and learn from it. Do not let failure hold you back from challenging yourself. Remember that as an intern you are not expected to know everything, so make an effort to learn.



Always follow up on emails and tasks.
Keep your managers informed on your progress with current tasks.
Let your team know of any hardships you are facing, perhaps they will have a suggestion.
 Learn everything you can from this person. Use this mentor as a resource for questions and learning new skills. Refer to your mentor for advice (especially during hardships).

