 Today, by far the easiest way to listen to a song in reverse is to use a computer (as in the section above.) However, if the song you want to reverse is on a piece of physical media (that is, something you can hold like a CD, cassette, or record), you can still get it to play backwards with a little more work. For instance, if your song is on a CD, most modern computers will give you the option to "rip" the audio from your CD, making each track an audio file on your computer (see Listen to a CD Backwards. Once you've done this, you can use one of the methods above to easily reverse the song.


There are many ways to rip the audio from a CD — perhaps the easiest involve using a program like iTunes to do the ripping automatically. It's worth mentioning that if you insert an audio CD into most modern computers, you'll automatically be presented with options for importing the files. Simply click one of these to get started.
 If you want to play a song backwards on a vinyl record, you'll need to make a few changes to your turntable so that you're able to play the record on its underside. Don't worry — none of these changes are permanent and, as long as you're careful, your turntable shouldn't be damaged in any way. Follow the steps below:


Cut a styrofoam cup in half or grab a roll of duct tape. Place it in the center of your turntable around the spindle.
Fix a soda straw to the spindle to extend it.
Remove the headshell from the tone arm, then remove the cartridge. Re-attach the cartridge so that it points up away from the platter, then re-attach the headshell.
Start the record and let the needle rise up into the groove. You may need to adjust the counterweight for this to work.

This video serves as a good visual guide for how to modify your turntable.
 It's also possible to play songs backward on a vinyl record with nothing more than your own hands. Simply set the record player to 0 RPM, then carefully grab the edge of the record and turn it backwards (counter-clockwise) while the speakers are on. You should hear the audio of the song play in reverse.


While this method is easy, it's very difficult to get the same sort of audio quality with this method that you ordinarily would — for instance, it's almost impossible to maintain a consistent speed for any length of time if you're just using your hands to turn the record.
 If the song you want to reverse is on an audio cassette, playing it backwards will involve taking the cassette apart, carefully reversing the internal tape, and re-assembling it. This method requires careful attention to detail to avoid damaging the tape — if you're worried about ruining your songs, you may want to practice a few times on blank cassettes before you try "for real." Use the steps below to guide you.Rewind the tape all the way. The full spool should be on your left after rewinding.
Disassemble the plastic case. You will probably need a jeweler's screwdriver for this. Take note of the path the tape takes through the rollers — you will need to replicate it.
Carefully take the tape spools out of the cassette. Do not flip them.

Turn the spools around so that the full spool is on the right. Do this without flipping your spools over — you just want to move the spools while keeping them flat. If you flip the spools over, you'll just be playing side B when you reassemble the cassette.
Mount the spools back in the cassette once again. Carefully thread the tape past all of the rollers so that it is exactly as you first found it. This is important — if the tape doesn't take the same path as before, it can be irreversibly damaged.
Reassemble the cassette and rewind it so that the tape is spooled on the left. You can do this by hand if you're worried about damaging the tape. When you're ready, play the cassette as normal.

