 Studies have linked fermented beans like tempeh (fermented soybeans) with improvements in bowel and menopausal health. Tempeh may also protect your heart against disease and protect you from some cancers.More research is needed to determine a daily recommended intake,but you should start by just including tempeh in your diet.


Tempeh is also a complete protein which means it has all the amino acids your body needs to make more protein. It also has antibacterial properties.;
, Vegetables are easy to ferment and they're easy to find in many grocery stores. Some popular choices include sauerkraut (fermented cabbage), kimchee (fermented Korean cabbage), and pickles (fermented cucumbers).


Research has shown that kimchee can prevent constipation, improve colorectal health, and has probiotic properties., Miso can be made from a combination of fermented barley and soy beans. Eat miso every day to improve intestinal function.Miso provides one of the major flavor compounds of umami, but it should be used in small doses since it is high in sodium.


While you can eat miso soup, you can also try substituting miso in place of chicken or vegetable stock when cooking.
Don't forget that you can cook with vinegar, which is a good fermented food base.
 There are several good options for adding fermented dairy to your diet. Yogurt is fermented milk with active probiotic bacteria. Kefir is fermented milk that's also very high in calcium. Kefir may also be used to treat lactose intolerance and improve digestion.You can also try seed cheese which is a fermented vegan cheese that's made from a variety of seeds (including sunflower and pumpkin seeds).


While yogurt has many health benefits, make sure to choose yogurt that contains live active cultures and is low in added sugar.
 Fermented tea is known as kombucha. It's a slightly sweetened black or green tea that's been fermented and often contains fruit and spices. It's not actually carbonated, but does have a natural effervescence. Studies suggest that kombucha may be effective in regulating blood sugar and treating diabetes.You can purchase a kombucha starter ("scoby") at a health food store.
Once you have made kombucha, keep ½ cup of “starter” to add instead of the vinegar.
 Fermented foods contain digestive enzymes and bacteria that is needed to help your body make vitamins (like B vitamins, vitamin K, and minerals) and neurotransmitters (like serotonin). These neurotransmitters can affect mood and they train your immune system to respond to dangerous bacteria, viruses, and other infectious organisms. Digestive bacteria may improve your overall health by reducing the risk of disease like heart disease, high blood pressure, certain cancers, and diabetes.Digestive enzymes makes digestion easier and more efficient.


Your gut contains over 1000 species of bacteria. Diverse bacteria is good for your health., Mix the following ingredients and firmly pack the mixture into a quart-sized canning jar. Leave about 2 inches free at the top of the jar. Cover the top of the jar with cheesecloth and clamp it on with a rubber band. Let the sauerkraut sit and ferment for 4 to 12 days at 67 to 72 degrees F. For sauerkraut, mix:


1 small head of green or red cabbage, chopped
1 medium carrot, chopped
1 teaspoon ginger, 1 teaspoon dill weed, and ½ teaspoon sea salt
¼ teaspoon probiotics (1 capsule) or probiotic culture starter
½ of a lemon, juiced
¾ cup of filtered water

, Mix 2 cups of coconut water, 1 cup of coconut meat, and 12 cups of water. Pour this into a glass container and add 1 tablespoon of kefir grains or 1 teaspoon of probiotic starter power (or 4 capsules of probiotics). Cover the container with cheesecloth and let it sit and ferment at 70 to 75 degrees for 12 hours. Stir and strain the kefir grains. Use the kefir after 24 to 48 hours.


You can re-use kefir grains after making your own kefir. Pat them dry with a clean towel and store them in the freezer.
 To make 1 quart of kombucha from green, black or white tea, steep 1 ½ teaspoons of loose tea (or 2 tea bags) in 2 to 3 cups of hot water. Add ¼ cup of sugar and mix it thoroughly. Once cooled, add ½ cup of vinegar. Add the “scoby” (a kombucha tea starter) which should be about 2 inches in diameter and about ¼ inch thick. Cover the jar with cheesecloth and put a rubber band around it. Let it ferment for up to 30 days at 68 to 85 degrees out of direct sunlight.


You'll see the scoby growing on top and it should become 1/4 inch thick before the kombucha is ready.
 For breakfast, consider making a fruit and yogurt smoothie. Or, make a fruit or coffee lassi by blending fruit or espresso with kefir. If you prefer something savory for breakfast, make an omelet and fill it with kimchi.If you're looking for something quick, make your own yogurt cups by topping plain yogurt with fresh fruit or jam. This way, you get the health benefits while avoiding the high sugar found in many commercial yogurt cups.
 Make a healthy sandwich by filling whole-grain bread with seed cheese, fermented pickles, and a lean meat. Or, if you have a little more time make miso soup and stir fry some tempeh to serve with noodles.


For a fermented snack, buy commercially fermented vegetable chips like lacto-fermented carrot chips to nibble throughout the day. Sourdough bread is also good to toast up and eat with a cultured dairy dip.
 Grill salmon that's been marinated in miso and serve it alongside sauerkraut or kimchi. Or, if you're eating soup, you can stir in cultured sour cream to get some fermented food in the meal. You can also garnish your meals with fermented chutneys.


Consider rounding out your meal by drinking kombucha.
 Insoluble fiber (fiber that doesn't dissolve in water) is important for regular bowel movements. It can also help your stomach and intestines digest food quicker. Eat 25 to 30 grams of fiber every day. It's better to get fiber from foods you eat, rather than from supplements. Foods that are high in insoluble fiber include:Wheat bran, whole grains
Vegetables: cauliflower, green beans, potatoes
Fruits: apples, pears, oranges, berries
Legumes, beans, nuts

, Simple carbohydrates are basic forms of sugar that your digestive system breaks down quickly. Some foods break down into sugars that your body has a hard time digesting (like lactose), which can lead to gas or bloating.Instead, choose complex carbohydrates that take longer for you to digest. These often contain fiber. Good sources of complex carbohydrates include:Beans, lentils, peas
Whole grains, brans
Vegetables: potatoes, pumpkin, corn, green vegetables
Fruits: apples, bananas, berries

, The Institute of Medicine recommends that you drink 8 eight-ounce glasses of water a day.To help you get in the habit, try drinking a glass of water before each meal. Drinking water helps your body remove waste and softens your stools, making them easier to pass.While you can drink juices to improve hydration, avoid drinking a lot of caffeine, carbonated beverages, or sodas. All of these can irritate your stomach., Regular exercise several times a week can improve digestion. Exercise like walking or yoga can help your intestines contract. Intestinal contractions can keep bowel movements regular, especially if you have a digestive condition like irritable bowel syndrome.Avoid eating too much right before you exercise since this can make you tired. Consider eating a small snack about an hour before you exercise so you have some energy for your workout., Eating slowly will help you feel fuller faster, so you don't eat as much at meals.When you chew, your saliva begins breaking down the food in a process called mechanical digestion. Taking your time to slowly eat meals and chew your food can help overall digestion, since your stomach won't need to work as hard to break down the meal. Try to take at least 20 minutes to eat a meal, since this is how long it takes signals to reach your brain telling it that you're full.


You can also help your stomach digest food by eating smaller, more frequent meals.For example, eat 5 or 6 small meals throughout the day instead of 3 large meals.
 You might notice that your digestive system doesn't handle certain foods very well. Maybe you have constipation, diarrhea, nausea, or get gassy after eating them. Consider tracking what foods bother you, so you can avoid eating them. Common food irritants include:Fatty foods: cheeses, deep-fried foods, processed or fast food
Highly acidic foods: coffee, tea, tomatoes, vinegar, citrus fruits
Gassy foods: beans, cabbage, or carbonated drinks
Spicy foods: chili, peppers

