 A title page introduces the title of your proposal, your name, and the primary institution you are connected to.


Each sponsoring agency may specify a format for the title page. If an agency does not, apply the APA style.
Include a "running head" in the upper left corner. The running head will appear on all pages of the document and should be a shortened version of the title.
Include the page number in the upper right corner. The page number should appear on all pages of the proposal.
Center the full title of your research proposal roughly 1/3 of the way down the page. Double space it, and immediately below the title, insert your name. Below you name, list the institution you are affiliated with.
 The abstract is a summary of the problem addressed in your proposal. Your proposed solution and objectives should also be included, along with your projected funding requirements.


Center the word "Abstract" at the top of the page.
Begin the text of your abstract directly below the word "Abstract." Do not indent the paragraph.
The text of you abstract will usually be between 150 and 250 words.
 Long research proposals should include a table of contents on the third page, listing each major section of your paper.


Brief proposals that only span a few pages do not often need a table of contents.
Especially long proposals may also need a list of illustrations, figures, or tables.
List all major parts and divisions of the proposal.
 The introduction should contain "Statement of Problem," "Purpose of Research," and "Significance of Research" sections.


Restate and center the title of your paper before moving into your introduction. Include a quick note about the topic being discussed and a definition of the theory from which your proposed research will be based.
Write "Statement of Problem" before moving into a paragraph detailing the problem. When writing this part of the introduction, seek to answer the question: why does this research need to be conducted and what new issues does this research raise?
Type "Purpose of Study" before writing this section of the introduction. Identify the goal of the study in one precise terms.
Type "Significance of Research." In the paragraph below, answer why the area of research is important and identify the type of research or analysis proposed.
 Identify the research problem and show why the work needs to be continued.


If desired, you can break this section into multiple subsections.
Under a header reading "Research Question" or "Research Hypothesis," describe the relationship between variables in the research or predict the relationship between variables. This essentially identifies the research problem.
Under a header reading "Definition of Terms," define the central ideas that will be utilized in the proposed research.
Also provide evidence supporting your competence or expertise in the field.
 This section is the heart of the proposal and should include all information about your proposed methodology or approach.


This section can also be titled "Methodology."
Provide a complete explanation of your proposed research. Address the explanation to experts in the field rather than laymen.
In subsections, identify your "Research Design," "Instrumentation," "Data Collection and Analysis Procedures." Also include information about what you will do to protect the rights of human subjects, if necessary, under a section called "Protection of Human Rights."
Be realistic about what you hope to accomplish, clear about your focus, and explicit about everything the research relies on. The description should also include a detailed schedule of the proposed work and thorough about all groundwork and materials needed.
Also include information about sample size and target populations, if applicable.
 If you are planning this research with institutional background, include a "Description of Relevant Institutional Resources" section to describe what your institution can offer.


Identify information like the institution's past competence or contributions within the field of research, the university's supportive services, or the institution's research facilities.
 Include a separate "References" page detailing all the references you have used thus far in identifying the problem and forming a research hypothesis.
 This section should contain biographical information about the main contributors to the research.


Note that this section is not always included, especially for shorter proposals.
State the expertise and responsibilities of each contributor.
 Indicate the anticipated costs you need the funding source to meet and specify items being paid for by other funding sources.


Each cost should include justifying information.
 A good research proposal can take up to six months to complete. Do not wait until several days before the due date to begin.
 This stage should be performed with 14 to 26 weeks remaining until the deadline.


At 26 weeks, review administrative requirements for the foundations and organizations you plan to submit your proposal to. Double-check due dates and submission requirements.
At 23 to 25 weeks, create a one to two page preliminary statement defining your proposed research.
If working with an adviser or colleagues, present this short version of your proposal at 23 weeks. Use any feedback you receive to further focus your research in week 22.
Research the context, history, and background of your research problem at 21 weeks.
At 19 weeks, write a two to three page document exploring questions and possible methodological approaches.
Contact experts in the field at 17 weeks to learn about the feasibility and relevance of each potential methodological approach.
Continue your research during week 16 and refine your research question by week 14.
 This portion of your preparation should be completed 13 to 20 weeks before the deadline.


At 20 weeks, identify and contact any relevant sources of information, including experts, archives, and organizations.
Begin researching your budget needs by 18 weeks and your protocol process by 14 weeks.
Request any necessary transcripts by 13 weeks.
 This portion should be completed between the 8 and 13 week marks prior to your deadline.


Create a single 5-page document containing your research question, framework, and proposed research design by week 13.
Gather any additional data needed to complete a draft during week 12.
Reconnect with collaborators and organizations. Determine which will be most helpful.
Add the remaining details needed to complete your draft. Use the above guidelines or guidelines provided by the provider of the grant provider. Complete this between weeks 10 and 12.
Ask your colleagues or adviser for more feedback by the 9 week mark.
Revise your draft at 8 weeks. Create a tentative budget and ask advisers for letters of recommendation.
 Begin this phase 5 weeks before the deadline and finish several days in advance.


At 5 weeks, review specific requirements addressed by the application and revise your proposal to meet this requirements and incorporate adviser suggestions.
Give yourself a break during week 4 to let things settle.
Remind your adviser and other faculty about your letters of recommendation during week 3.
At 2 weeks, assemble your materials, review your proposal, and finalize your proposal.
Ask colleagues to help you copy-edit 10 days in advance.
Print your final copy and collect your materials 3 to 4 days in advance.
Submit your research proposal 2 to 3 days before the due date.

