 However, playtime is just as important when you're older as it is when you're a kid. Adults play to learn and expand their horizons, to feel challenged, to have fun, and to get lost in a pleasurable activity. You can't expect fun to find you. You must actively incorporate fun activities that you enjoy into your daily and/or weekly schedule.


Examples for incorporating more play into your life might be picking up a new artistic hobby, spending more time with kids, or starting a regular game or movie night for you and some friends.;
, You can learn to have fun in most any activity by looking for the silver linings. Even grueling tasks offer you something worthwhile; you just have to look for the positives and embrace them.Practice finding silver linings each day with the following activity. Set aside 10 minutes daily for 3 weeks. Start by listing 5 things you enjoy about your life (e.g. "watching the sun rise each morning" or "hearing your significant other laugh"). Now, think about a time when things didn't go so well. Describe the situation. Then, look for three ways you can look on the bright side of the ordeal.
For example, your car breaks down on your way to work. You're frustrated and impatient waiting for the mechanic. But, the wait time gives you the opportunity to read over the poetry your best friend asked you to read over. You also have a few minutes to call and check in on your mother. Finally, the waiting allows you to collect your thoughts before heading into a new work day. Noticing the silver linings helps you to see that there are often positives during negative situations.
 You may not be having fun in life because you don't take advantage of the little wonders and successes. Have you reached an accomplishment lately? Celebrate it. Has your friend just gotten a new job or dropped those unwanted pounds? Celebrate it. Search for ways to rejoice in the little victories of life.Get a calendar that lists weird holidays and make an effort to participate in the celebration of as many as you can., At work, at school, or at home, bring more fun into your surroundings. Redecorate your office or bedroom in exciting, bright colors that make you smile. Get some plants to care for. Change your environment with different lighting, fabrics, colors, and other decor, such as books, that brighten your mood.The colors you choose for your environment can positively impact your mood and outlook on life. One study showed that individuals in a green room were much less likely to feel stressed as those in a red one.In general, people feel happier around yellows and greens.If these colors seem too much for your walls, select artwork, decorative elements, or even flowers that bring in these springtime hues. You can also bring in fun toys, such as slinkies or stress balls to lift your mood in your home environment.

