 You can get your own hair to look this way by using products like moisturizing shampoo/conditioner. Sienna usually goes for a natural look, so try not to use too many products, but if you want to then try an anti-frizz/shine serum; it will make your hair look sleek and beautiful. Sienna does have blonde hair, but that doesn't mean you have to dye your hair if you're not a blonde! Keep in mind that Sienna also tends to change her hairdo quite a bit--long and wavy one week, short and cropped the next. If you're not quite as daring, that's no problem--just experiment with different hairstyles that don't require a trip to the salon (Ex: ponytails, braids, buns, curled hair, straightened hair...);
, If you need it, use concealer or foundation, but it's better to have a natural look, so try to keep your skin healthy without cover up makeup. As for the makeup you should wear, be sure to keep it nice and simple--Sienna is very beautiful and she uses makeup to enhance her natural features, not cover them up. Try: black mascara (or dark brown for a less dramatic look), a peach-colored cream blush that goes with your skin tone, and a shiny lip gloss that matches the blush somewhat. If you want to, add shimmery nude eyeshadow...and to make this look more dramatic for a special occasion, add lightly smudged black or charcoal gray eyeliner or a darker lip color (like fuchsia or red)...but never do this both at once!!

, It's OK if you can't afford designer clothes, though (honestly, who can??)--just go to the stores you usually shop at (Ex; Kohls, Target, Abercrombie, Wet Seal...). Then, go to a thrift store (Goodwill, Salvation Army, to name a couple) and pick out some funky vintage clothes...it will all be really cheap! Mix and match your thrift store finds with your more contemporary clothes for an awesome unique look! Ooh, and don't forget your accessories: Sienna is rarely seen without a beaded necklace, a colorful scarf, or funky metallic boots. For accessories, it's okay to go all vintage since they're just the little bits that complete an outfit...it would be too much to be in head-to-toe vintage clothing!...but for accessories it looks funky and unique. Remember to choose colorful pieces to complement your outfits; Sienna sometimes tends to wear a lot of neutral colors like black, brown, white, gray, etc., and she uses brightly colored accessories as great accent pieces.
 Never one to be fake or obnoxious, Sienna is one those celebrities who earns millions of fans by being kind and real. To come off this way to others, smile and laugh a lot, but make sure to always be very genuine about it. Always be polite and treat others with kindness and respect. That being said, don't be afraid to have a sense of humor! Sienna often makes humorous comments when being interviewed, and it just makes people love her that much more. Plus, cracking a joke gives you a chance to use that laugh of yours! If you follow these tips, you'll be beautiful both inside and out--just like Sienna Miller!

