 While a craft business may have more flexibility, especially if you are doing it in your spare time, you should have a document that itemizes for products, marketing efforts, selling strategies and finances.;
, Starting with a few products and expanding after you see growth in sales is a good way to keep start up costs low. It will also be easier to organize your business.
 In order to sell online and in your community, you will need to get an idea what similar products are being sold for. Price your items according to competition, quality and production costs.
 If you are making large quantities of items, consider looking for wholesale suppliers online or in catalogs instead of going to local craft stores. This will help you to increase your profit margin from a sale.
 You may choose 1 or more of the following options:


Set up your own website. You will want to create a logo, brand and promotional schedule in order to maximize profits from this expense. Pay attention to the shopping cart services, and make sure it keeps good track of sales, returns and refunds.
Sign up for an account on Etsy. This craft marketplace is perfect for people who have less start up capital, but want an attractive site with an excellent secure checkout process.
Go to local farmer's markets and fairs. Choose your fairs carefully based on the other crafts available, the cost of a booth, the timing and the clientele. Going to every market in your area is likely to leave you with disappointing sales.
Ask a popular craft seller to sell your crafts on their website or at their store. This outlet may ask for a portion of the profits. If so, keep track of that percentage on all sales so that you will have accurate bookkeeping.
Sell on eBay and Craigslist. You can post and sell for almost no cost. However, remember that all income from these sales must be reported to the tax authorities as income.
Sell customized versions of your products in bulk to companies, schools and organizations. You will have to develop wholesale contracts and workout the profit margin you would like from selling in bulk with a discount.

