 Deterring foxes is a game of percentages. Each step you take will greatly reduce the number of infiltrators, but there's no magic bullet that stops every one. Regular upkeep and planning will give foxes less reason to approach in the first place, an important first step:Clear all food scraps and enclose compost.
Cover standing water at night to prevent drinking.
Stop using fertilizers made from blood, bone, or fish.
Gather excess fruit and vegetables instead of leaving it on the plant.
Keep shoes and other small objects inside. Foxes like to use these as playthings.;
, Check first to make sure there are no animals already living there. Walling them in to die may be illegal, and could attract scavengers.
 Most commercial repellents are scent-based, which confuses the fox and prevents it marking your land as its own territory. If you can't find a fox repellent, look for one targeted at dogs.You may need to try a few repellents before you find one that works on your foxes. Check the ingredient list to make sure the second one you buy is actually different:Aluminum ammonium sulphate — a scent-based repellent
Methyl nonyl ketone — a different scent
Capsicum (pepper spray) — extra-spicy taste. Typically less effective, as the fox has to eat it.
 Repellent usually can't discourage a fox when it's already next to the hen house or your prize vegetables. Spray it in the following locations instead, or mix with sand and sawdust and sprinkle it:Apply directly to scat, without removing it. Fox leave scat in the open to mark territory, and may return to the same spot if it is cleared. (If children play in the area, apply fox scat disinfectant as well to protect them from diseases.)
Apply to soil above buried food, compost, or deceased pets.
Apply to suspected entry points onto your land, or along the tops of walls and fences.
 A fox that has an unpleasant experience eating something in your yard may not want to visit again. Try leaving out food scraps covered in hot sauce or bittering agents., You may use human urine, or male predator urine from a garden store. This generally works best for deterring prey animals, not predators, but some people have reported success. As with any deterrent, results will vary based on individual foxes and how desirable your land appears.
 Many livestock owners use guard dogs or guinea fowl to scare away predators. These are often effective at chasing off foxes, if you can stand the noise.
 There are many products marketed at the frustrated gardener or farmer. Most haven't been thoroughly studied, and receive a wide range of reviews from users. You might have best results with a product you know has worked for your neighbors. Common examples include:Devices that squirt water when an animal approaches.
Ultrasonic devices that make a high-pitched noise.
Devices that flash light at the fox.

