 Don’t choose baggy jeans that are too extreme, because they may negatively affect your range of motion.


Baggy sweat pants are also stylish in the hip hop scene and are probably more comfortable and street-ready for skating.
To create the hip hop look, baggy isn’t just for pants. Opt for oversized silhouettes for most of your clothing., Look for prints that emphasize urban grittiness and authenticity.Any color is fair game – white, black, and all the colors in the rainbow are embraced for t-shirts.


The key element is making sure the t-shirt is loose-fitting.
Go for t-shirts that offer a pop of bright color to achieve a popular (and classic) street style look., Old school trainers, like the iconic Adidas Superstar, are still the most popular shoe type for urban skateboarders. These classic low-tops feature a rubber "shell-toe" design championed by skateboarders and rappers alike.Hip hop crews popularized the Adidas Superstar trainer in the early '80s New York street scene.
They are still just as popular today as they were then, with no sign of losing their edge., The snapback is another quintessential fashion item for hip hop skaters.The options are nearly limitless on this, but a popular look is to choose a vibrant snapback to add a pop of neon color to an ensemble.


Snapbacks are worn facing forwards and backwards equally, so go with what you like.
Wear a hoodie over your snapback for an authentic and classic look.
 Chain necklaces are often layered, so try wearing more than one.


Do a single chain if you are wearing a huge, blinged out statement piece.
A big, flashy watch (that fits well to the wrist) is another great accessory for this style.
 Hip hop skater fashion highly emphasizes brand names. A few popular options are DVS Shoes and apparel, Supras, Fly Society, KR3W clothing, Famous Stars and Straps, BBC, Nike SB, Nixon watches, RS by Sheckler and New Era fitted hats.A little research will unearth a wealth of other brand name options embraced by this culture that you can choose from.

