 Decide who will is your target audience: where they live, what they like, how they date. Adjust your dating site suggestions accordingly. Specify the niche your dating site may fill in. Think of the need that you could fulfill with your dating service.;
, You can try Moniker.com or GoDaddy.com as a start to see if the name you chose is available. Of course, the fewer letter you have in your domain name, the better. Dot com names are more popular than others too. In dating industry though it matters that you have a name that “makes sense”, that connects with your dating audience.Get a hosting account. You can be fine with shared hosting at the very beginning. Check server requirements for the software before you order hosting though.
 You can choose white label solution where they give you software and user database for free but you do not own anything. Basically, you are acting as an affiliate driving traffic to a dating site and getting per cent from membership sales. It’s a great choice for affiliates. If you plan to start a serious dating site service, you have 2 choices: write a dating site script from scratch or get ready-made software. The first is expensive. We suggest choosing the second for faster launch.If you understand your members, you can suggest the features thy may need at your dating site. Keeping that in mind, check out popular dating software vendors. Researching, we found Dating Pro software. It had most number of features users require at a dating site: searches, profiles, matches etc.The key factor is still simplicity. Dating Pro has a fully functional administration panel where you can manage users, payments, site sections, site design and texts. No special programming knowledge needed. That means that you are saving on developers. You also get a free support and installation which helps a lot while learning on how the software functions.
 Change texts to relate to your members (return to point 1). Change copyrights. Make sure you cover all advantages and uniqueness of your dating site


, Dating Pro for example has a special SEO module which allows to setup special meta tags for every page where a search engine may come. Before filling in the sections make a SEO research: find out who are your competitors, what keywords they use in search/at their sites/in Google Adwords (if any). Get a list of most popular keywords and add add them to your site texts AND to your meta tags (Titles/descriptions/keywords). Please note: don’t use too many keywords at one page at once. It may backfire.
 You can start with Facebook, Orkut, Hi5, YouTube, Pinterest, Twitter. And start posting, inviting people.  Also, it’s important to find your kind of people in the net and join their community starting the talk and promoting Your dating site to them.
 This way you simply add their banner at your dating site and they rotate yours at other dating sites. Everyone profits.
 It’s a great way to attract public attention., Add new features gradually to keep your site fresh. Dating Pro can help you with that: it has a set of additional modules like gifts, video chats and SMS payments to be added quickly any time of your site’s life cycle.And of course, keep promoting. If people are not talking about your dating site, it’s not getting much traffic. Make sure you are mentioning your site in comments in blogs, forums, social networks. And good luck!

