 If your cat has just given birth, she'll take care of the kittens. Provide plenty of food and a safe place so that she can look after her kittens. The mother will also teach the kittens to toilet and socialize. Since they won't be eating solid foods, she'll nurse them in the early weeks. In rare cases, the mother cat can't or won't care for her kittens (because of mastitis, a retained placenta, feeling overwhelmed, or she simply neglects them).Get the mother medical attention to treat physical problems and care for the kittens if she's not looking after them.


While you won't need to feed the newborn kittens, you should keep their space clean. Frequently check the kittens space to see if you need to change any bedding. They can begin using the litter box around 4 weeks old.;
, If you're caring for newborn kittens that have no mother cat around, first make sure that she is truly gone. Before picking up the kittens, keep a large distance and wait several hours for the mother to come back. If she doesn't or the kittens are in danger, carefully wrap them in towels and place them in carriers with good air circulation. Once the kittens are warm, bottle feed them kitten milk replacement formula every 3 hours.You should also do this for any kittens that a mother cat is neglecting, even if she's still around.
You'll also need to help the kittens use the toilet. Use a damp washcloth or piece of gauze and wipe it across their genitals until clean. Dry off the kittens.
 A caring mother cat reduces kitten's stress. If the mother isn't around or is neglecting them, you'll need to nurture the newborns. This is critical during the first few weeks of life, so if you can, try to give the kittens to someone who has a cat that is currently nursing. If you must socialize the kittens, start slowly and earn their trust. Gradually begin holding the kittens, introduce them to other people, and play with them as they get older.


If you're worried about starting out, let the kittens become familiar with you while you feed them. This way, they'll associate the feelings of comfort and trust with you., The kittens will get antibodies from their mother's milk, but they will need vaccines after a few weeks. It's a good idea to vaccinate kittens before you give them away. Not only will it improve your chances of finding a home for them, but you'll also ensure they're getting important medical care. Follow this early schedule for newborn kittens:8 weeks old: FVRCP Vaccine (Feline Viral Rhinotracheitis Calicivirus and Panleukopenia), start heartworm, flea, and tick preventatives
12 weeks old: FVRCP booster, feline leukemia virus (FELV) vaccine
16 weeks old: FVRCP booster, FELV booster, rabies vaccine

, You should go ahead and spay or neuter the kittens before you re-home them. This ensures it gets done and may increase the chances that someone wants to adopt them. If you're giving the kittens to friends or family, you could discuss this with them to see if they'd like to cover the cost.


Be sure to wait until the kittens are weaned or at least 2 months old before spaying or neutering.Many states have low-costs spay/neuter clinics. Check with the vet or use an online database to find one near you., The kittens will benefit from staying with their mother for as long as possible. Their mother will nurse them, teach them to eliminate, and help them learn valuable socializing skills.Laws about how early you can sell kittens vary, so check your state's laws.In general, try to wait until the kittens are weaned, about 6 to 8 weeks.
Even if you're hand-raising the kittens (no mother is around), you should still wait 6 to 8 weeks before giving them away. This way, you ensure they're getting proper medical treatment and socialization.
 Potential adopters will want to the kittens' history. If you have several kittens, you may want to give a photograph of each of them along with a short personality description. Keep track of important information in a file that you can give the adopter. Include this information:


Birth date
Medical history, including vaccinations and preventatives
Surgeries, including spaying or neutering
List skills, including whether the kittens are housetrained

, Ask your friends and family if they're interested in adopting the kittens. It may be easier to place the kittens if you find people you already trust. If no one's showing interest, begin asking coworkers or neighbors. You can also ask the veterinarian to recommend people who are looking to adopt kittens.


Try to ask around in person before advertising. While social media makes it easy to advertise kittens, it may be harder to find a reliable, trustworthy person to take them., If someone who's not a friend or family wants to adopt your kittens, interview the person. Ask to meet in a public place and consider asking for references. The goal of the interview is to determine whether the person can be trusted with the kittens, whether the person can provide for them, and if the person will keep them for the long term. Consider asking these questions:How much are you willing to spend on your pets?
Do you have a veterinarian?
Do you have any other pets? If so, how long have you had them?
Do you have children?
If you rent, are you allowed to have pets?
When they're older, will the cats have access to the outdoors? If so, do you have a fenced yard?

, While you may think it would be easier to simply give the kittens away for free, it's better to ask anywhere from $20 to $60 for them. This prevents untrustworthy people from just taking free kittens and abusing them or selling them to labs. The fee can also weed out people who aren't serious about adopting.You can either use the fee to pay for early veterinary care (shots, spay, or neuter). Or, you can waive the fee once you've found honest and reliable adopters.
 If all else fails and you can't find someone reliable to adopt the kittens, find an organization to take the kittens. A local animal shelter, humane society, or rescue organization may be able to take the kittens. Note that some may charge a small fee or may not be accepting kittens.Before you drop the cats off to an animal shelter, research whether it is a no-kill shelter. Some shelters may euthanize animals if they don't have enough space.

