 Vocalizing is generally not your cat's preferred mode of communication. A cat's "first language" consists of a complex system of scent, facial expression, complex body language, and touch. Cats soon realize that we don't understand the non-verbal signals they send to each other, so they vocalize in an attempt to communicate in our language. By observing which sounds elicit which actions from us, a cat is always learning how to make requests or demands.
 If you watch what your cat is doing when he or she meows, you may be able to distinguish which meows are associated with which requests (or protests). While specific meows can vary from cat to cat, there are certain types of meows that are usually associated with specific cat emotions, such as purring or hissing.


The short meow is used as a standard greeting and general acknowledgment.
Multiple meows indicate excited greetings. You may notice a more enthusiastic greeting with increased meowing if you have been gone for a longer period of time than usual.
A mid-pitched meow may indicate a plea for something like food or water.
A longer, drawn-out "mrrroooow" is a more persistent demand for a need or want.
A low-pitched "MRRRooooowww" indicates a complaint, displeasure, or preparation to fight.
A loud, lower than mid-pitch "Meow" often signals more urgent begging for something such as food.
 While meowing is the sound that we most often associate with cat vocalization, cats make other common sounds as well.Purring, a throaty vibrating sound, invites close contact or attention. While cats can purr for a variety of reasons, purring is most commonly associated with easy contentment.
Hissing is a cat’s clearest sign of aggression or self-defense. It indicates that your cat is very unhappy, feels threatened or frightened, or is fighting or preparing to fight.
 While other types of vocalizations may be rarer than meowing, hissing, and purring, understanding them can help you interpret your cat’s communications more fully.A high-pitch RRRROWW! often indicates anger, pain, or feeling fearful.
A chattering sound can be a sign of excitement, anxiety, or frustration.
A chirrup, a cross between a meow and a purr with rising inflection, is a friendly greeting sound, often used by a mother cat to call to her kittens
A loud yelping or “reeeowwwing” sound may indicate sudden pain, as when you accidentally step on your cat’s tail.

