


This meditation essentially works to break down denial, fear and "squeamishness", while building familiarity with, as well as awareness and understanding of, the body you feed to keep alive. By examining its conditional nature, as well as its fragility and unavoidable exposure to chances of injury, illness, pain and organ failure, and the inevitability of aging, you can learn to accept the body as it is. By becoming disenchanted but at the same time compassionate and at peace with the body, it's not a shock or distressing should it get injured, grow old, feel hungry or become ill. By using the body as a means of study, you can learn to live with the body and its warning signs. You will no longer feel unnerved about it generally.
Many people have found this meditation very helpful for directed relaxation, pain management, increased immune responsiveness and, in more rare cases, to see which parts of the body are injured or out of alignment. You can also focus a compassionate, healing energy onto various parts, or simply allow the part of the body in question some space to relax and repair itself to aid recovery in some cases - instead of fighting it, worrying about it and causing other stress related problems. This is more advanced for people who have practiced for a long time, but it's a very useful tool to develop for those who wish to go further on this subject-method.
 This is another place where mindfulness and concentration comes in and is excellent to develop the mind to focus.
 Fix your awareness on the component part of the body that is most evident to you.
Should a particular part simply become visible, or more noticeable by feeling or some image, focus and develop that awareness, letting it become the sole object of your focus and awareness. Examine it more simply, but in whole, so if a color arises, it is recommended to not pay too much attention on the color but instead to focus on what part of the body the color refers to.
Mastering this does take time and indeed it can take many years before it becomes a powerfully insightful tool. Beginners should not be concerned if nothing happens at all in regards to increased awareness. For some, it might just appear on focus, for others they might need to look at some strands of head hair collected from a brush and put in the hand. You examine those (as per Kasina meditation) until an image arises. For some it will never happen, as this is not the right type of meditation for them.
Regularly measure against your own experiences how or where this meditation has bought you any benefit. It might have been an increase in general concentration, or a deeper understanding of the body to allow you to live more happily and healthy.


The analogy of the Lotus applies here too. The lotus grows in mud and dirty water but rises above it to stand free. Mentally, we can rise above the aspects of the body that we would otherwise find disgusting, stressful or frightening and so stand free from shock or fear.

