 You can get a student violin in a price range of about $100 - $300 dollars. Better violins can range from $400 - $50,000+. You may be able to find a decent one for about $500 - $600. Anything around $100 may not be very good quality.


The reason some violins are more expensive is because of who made them. Once you get to $10,000 the quality of the instrument doesn't change, just the "brand".;
, Have your mind set on where you are going to go, search the internet, looking for places that sell violins at reasonable prices, but don't go too low, or you may be buying a fake. If there's any doubt, refer to the above step when buying or look at the source. In addition, be sure to check the reviews on websites such as Amazon. Be sure to only look at reviews with verified purchases. "How much does a good violin cost?"

, If you like what you see, continue on to Step 4. If not, go back and look for another one. After all, you're spending quite a bit of money on this instrument.
 Maple, spruce, ebony, willow, boxwood, and rosewood are the best woods, and it is recommended that you don't buy any other types.
, Many places are very generous and will allow you to do so for up to two weeks, which is plenty of time for you to decide whether or not it is the right violin for you. Practice different techniques, styles, and pieces on it to ensure that it will respond well to all of these. Also test it out with the bow you own, as the sound a violin makes when played with one bow can definitely vary from the sound it makes when played with another.
 The violins usually have it written on the inside. Many good quality violins are from Germany, or in some cases, Austria.
 It will be tempting to, but the bow is still an important piece of the instrument. Again, look at the reviews! Bows should be about $20- $40 normally, however, higher quality bows may be above $50 or even into the hundreds. Carbon fiber is a manmade material to mimic pernambuco. Pernambuco is a very high quality type of wood; bows made of it are usually at least $100. Brazilwood is another type of wood, it is also good. Ask for the bow hair material, for real horsehair is usually better than plastic/nylon hair.,