 Get your rifle and mount the scope with mounts that are designed to take as much recoil as your rifle will produce.


This is very important because if you are shooting a 30-06 and you have a .22 scope mounted on it, very bad things will happen! For example, your scope will probably fly off your rifle and could injure you or those around you.
Make sure the mounts are tight, and if necessary, use lock-tite on the screws.
;
,
A rifle rest or sandbags for added stability and to reduce error.
Start with at least a hundred rounds of ammunition
A bore sighter. They cost around $20-$50 and help the sighting process go much smoother.
Screwdrivers for adjusting your scope
Targets
A pair of binoculars
Note: if you are going to be using a tripod on your rifle, put this on with your scope.



At the range, set your target at 25 yards/meters and 100 yards/meters.
Secure the rifle in a bipod, on sandbags, or just any other method to hold the rifle steady while you sight it. Make sure no part of the rifle is resting on a hard surface.
If you have a bolt-action rifle, remove the bolt and look down the bore, aligning the bore with the target.
If you have a single-shot rifle, open the action.
Note: auto-loader rifles and pumps cannot be bore sighted this way.
Adjust the rifle stand so that when looking through the breech end, the 100-yard target is centered in your view.
Without moving the rifle, adjust your scope so that the cross-hairs are aligned on the same object.
Your rifle is now bore-sighted to 100 yards (91.4 m).
 When you're done bore sighting, replace the bolt, and set your scope to the highest magnification that gives you a clear image.


Relax, and fire one round at the center of of the 25-yard target.
 Make sure your rifle is unloaded, and look towards your target with binoculars or a spotting scope.


Find the shot grouping and see what you need to do when you adjust.
For example, if your bullet hit in the bottom left corner, you would adjust your scope up and to the right. Follow the scope manufacturer's instructions on sighting.
Repeat this process until your shots are hitting in the center.
 Make sure your barrel has cooled, get into comfortable, relaxed position, and fire 3 shots, slowly and carefully.


Check the shot grouping, and adjust the sight so that when aimed at the center of the bullseye, the bullets hit about 3 inches (7.6 cm) above center. This will give you the most effective maximum range.


