 Some ten year-olds can babysit very well, while other sixteen year-olds aren't ready. This doesn't mean that your nine-year-old can start babysitting, it means that they should have the maturity of an adult before they start.


How to tell if they are mature enough: Do they do their homework responsibly and have good grades? Do they take responsibility for their actions? Do they learn from their mistakes? Can they communicate effectively with peers, children, and adults? Can they follow instructions well and complete them on time? Are they patient and respectful? Can they take constructive criticism? The answer to all of these questions should be a resounding yes. Although it is about maturity, your child should be about thirteen before watching others' children for the sole reason that parents will not be comfortable having anybody younger than that watch their children.
Try to assess their maturity from an impersonal point of view. Would you feel comfortable having them babysit? Do you feel that your child would act honorably without anybody watching?;
, If your child has younger siblings, he or she should treat them well and with respect. If he cannot care for his sibling(s) he shouldn't attempt to care for others' children. Is your child comfortable with kids? Can he or she face a dirty diaper, a scraped knee, or a temper tantrum?


Think back to the days of when you were a new parent. Do you feel that your child has all of the necessary skills to take care of kids of many ages?

, Would they know what to do during a fire, power outage, natural disaster, or if a child was seriously hurt? Make sure that they know all local emergency numbers, and quiz them on up-to-date information regarding natural disasters, fires, and any other emergency situations that may be more common where you live. Would your child know how to deal with an intoxicated parent or report an abusive situation?

, Many of these courses are affiliated with the Red Cross or YMCA. Make sure that your child is comfortable with all of the information that they learn during the babysitting course.


Make sure that they know adult, child and infant CPR and how to give the Heimlich to all of these ages. They should be knowledgeable in first aid and emergency procedures as well.
