 Just do not use WD-40.,,,,

Line up the channel with the screw hole. This is the idle stop screw that will line up with the channel to keep it from pulling out too far and pushing in too far.
Put the screw in and crank it down. Down the barrel carburetor – you want to push it in until it stops and look for a tiny ½ mm gap.
,,, There should be a little mark that the set screw made so that you can line it up in the exact same spot.,, Take the housing and 2 washers – the fuel inlet goes in between them and screw them right into the inlet.

Be very careful when screwing this in as it is a coarse screw thread going into plastic. You can even use your hand just to be safe.
Thread in the high speed needle until it stops, and back it out 4 stops to reset it. That’s it for the carburetor.
 Start with the crankshaft and get the rotating assembly installed. Everything is cleaned so that there is no oil in this engine, but that is not good for running. So when you rebuild, you have to put oil back on everything that moves, starting with the bearings. Then put your crankshaft in., This is the most crucial step – the piston and rod assembly goes in a specific way. If it goes in backwards, it will destroy the motor. So make sure you see the backside is round and the front side has a little cutout and oiling hole. So when it is sitting in the motor, it should be sitting in the front. Slide it in through the top and slide it on. Try not to use tools in this part – hands only – so that you don’t damage anything.,, There is a small notch on the bottom that will line up with a small pin on the top of the motor. It will only fit that one way. Slide it in through the top, line up the piston with the sleeve, and it should push down easily once lined up., This holds the starter shaft. Put some oil on the back, One of the notches on the starter shaft will line up with the connecting rod.

As you put the back plate on, line up the starter shaft with the connecting rod. On the starter shaft, the bottom is smooth and the top has 2 notches.
Make sure the notches are facing up. If you install this upside down, it can again ruin your engine.
Push it in, and spin the starter shaft and it should fall right into place.
Screw in the back plate in a criss-cross pattern, just like you did when taking them out.
, The cooling head fits in only one correct way.
,, The edge of the carburetor should be right on the edge of the motor.,