 In order to contribute to a Roth IRA, you must have earned income. Earned income includes wages, tips, salary, commissions, self-employment income, and taxable alimony. Earned income does not include interest income or income from rental properties, investments, or pension plans. The best way to determine if your income is "earned" is to ask yourself if the income is the direct result of some type of work that you performed. Income may instead be termed "passive" if it accrues to you without your having to work for it, such as interest and rental income.


Passive income does not count in determining qualification for contributing to a Roth IRA., Calculate this now or retrieve your previous calculation. Remember that this is just your reported taxable income with a few items added back in.
 Your filing status states whether you are single, married filing jointly, or married filing separately. Those who are married but filing separately can use the stated limits for single filers if they have not lived with their spouse in the relevant tax year., The income limits state the maximum MAGI you can have to contribute to a Roth IRA. For example, for single filers, the upper annual MAGI limit in 2015 was $131,000, and for 2016 it has been raised to $132,000. For those who are married and filing jointly, the 2015 limit was $193,000 and 2016 is $194,000. For those who are married filing separately, the limit is $10,000 for both years. Any filer reporting a MAGI above these values is not permitted to put money into a Roth IRA at all.These limits change annually, so be sure you using the most up to date information.
You can find the chart on IRS Publication 590.
 For those above the maximum allowed MAGI, there is a workaround from contributing to a Roth IRA called a "backdoor" Roth contribution. This involves placing an after-tax contribution into a traditional IRA and then quickly converting that traditional IRA into a Roth IRA. If done quickly enough, the traditional IRA won't make any gains before being converted. It it does though, these gains are taxable as income.


This process is complex and it's best to employ the services of a certified financial planner if you plan to go this route.