 If you've decided it's time to end your relationship, the first thing to figure out is when to do it. If you want things to end amicably, you'll want to choose a time when ending the relationship will result in as little disruption to the other person's life as possible.


It may be tempting to try to get it over with right away, once you've decided to end a relationship. Instead, try to pick a time--soon--when you can have this difficult conversation that won't cause any more trauma than necessary.If possible, avoid breaking the news on major holidays, right before the person has to go to some important meeting or function, or in conjunction with other major life setbacks like the loss of a job, parent, or pet. Be sensitive to these situations, and be willing to push the schedule back a few days if necessary.;
, Pick a time that you won't be rushed, setting aside a couple of hours for the conversation.


Having a time limit for the conversation in mind is a good idea, in case things get out of hand.Decide in advance how much time you will spend, and if you can, make plans that require you to depart at the end of that time.
By the same token, do make sure you have enough time to have an honest conversation about the topic and answer any reasonable questions the other person may have.
 Choose a good place to have this conversation. The best option is usually a place that is neutral and semi-private.You don't want to choose a place that is completely private, as this increases the possibility of the other person making a scene or giving emotional speeches that might persuade you to change your mind.By the same token, you don't want to do this in front of people you know or somewhere that every word you say will be overheard. This can be embarrassing and humiliating for the other person.
 Do not plan to end the relationship via text, email, a social networking site, or even via phone call if you can help it. This detached way of ending a relationship may be easier for you, but it is disrespectful to the other person.


Ending a relationship via text or email can also increase the possibility of misunderstandings, which could lead the other person to feel that there is still hope when there is not.