 If you got a smaller role in the play, take it just as seriously as you would your preferred major role. Show the director that you have a good work ethic, and they may keep you in mind for future shows.



Make your character shine, even if you are in the chorus.
Show up to all your rehearsals.
Learn your lines and know your blocking.
 Come to rehearsal with a smile on your face, ready to work. Don’t complain if you have to rehearse the same scene twelve times in a row to get it right, and ignore other people’s complaints. Acknowledge how lucky you are to have a part in the production, no matter how small it may be.


If you are feeling frustrated by the rehearsal process, you could tell yourself, “I want to be here. I’m here to learn. I’m lucky to have this part.”
Don’t talk about other performers behind their backs. It is unprofessional. Don’t say things like, “I know I could have done that scene a thousand times better than he did.”
Congratulate the person who got the part you wanted. It shows grace and maturity. You could say, “I think you are going to do a fabulous job as Dolly. You have such an amazing voice!”

, Since you will have more downtime with a smaller part, observe the production coming together and witness the rehearsals. Watch the director blocking the actors or offering insight on how to deliver lines. Use what you learn and apply it to your current and future roles.


For example, the director may consistently ask the actors to use more gestures when saying their lines. Tuck this piece of advice away for the future. If you get a chance to audition for the director again, be sure to utilize more gestures in your audition!
Learn from the other actors. Watch what they do and apply their strengths to your own performance technique.
 If understudies for roles in your production have not been assigned, approach your director and offer to step in if necessary. You never know when you will get an opportunity to step up in a production, so pay attention to other people’s parts and responsibilities. Sometimes people need to back out of productions due to unforeseen circumstances.


You could say, “Mr. Williams, I know you haven’t assigned an understudy for Melanie’s part yet. I’d love to be considered for the opportunity. I’ve been watching the blocking and have a pretty good handle on the lines.”

, Even if you didn’t get your dream role, being in a play can be great fun. You may make new friendships or forge stronger ones as you work together toward a common goal. Enjoy the experience, and celebrate your cast’s accomplishment when it comes time to perform your play.


Enjoy your downtime during rehearsals by getting to know your castmates.
Invite your friends and family to come see you. Have your parents take pictures and take a video of your play.
Have fun at the cast party and celebrate a job well done!

