 Even amongst people of color, there exists a divide. Colorism involves placing a higher value on lighter skin than on darker-hued skin. It occurs within families and communities of people of color (that’s right, Hispanics and Asians deal with this issue, too), causing lighter-skinned individuals to be met with higher favor than darker-skinned individuals, who often are thought to be more authentic representations of a certain race.Colorism is the result of internalized pro-white beauty ideals and dates back to colonialism, inspiring feelings of inferiority and self-hate. Read about it. Think about how it has contributed to your perception of your body, skin, and hair.
 In order to gain a true sense of pride in your blackness, you need to uncover the source of your shame. Do you live in a neighborhood where you are the only black person around? Are people mistreating you at school or at work? Are the role models you see on TV or in magazines all Caucasian and blond? Write down the reasons on a piece of paper.


After writing down some of the reasons, evaluate them. Find the explanation for the occurrences that make you feel bad about yourself. For example, there is a vast under-representation of black people in the media, in magazines, movies, TV shows, and books—virtually everywhere.
Your lack of pride is not something to be ashamed of. It is a normal human reaction to feel invisible and worthless if you cannot find anyone like you in the images surrounding you every day. This is harmful and wrong.
 Use the internet to connect to them. Read blogs about body positivity which represent black people and draw attention to their bodies and their inherent value. Remember that the bigoted people who state their opinions the loudest might attract the most attention, but that doesn't mean their beliefs are reflective of everyone else.


One of the best ways to overcome prejudice is to try to spend more time with people who are different from you. Aim to make friends with someone from a different race. Doing so can help this person change their viewpoints of your race, and it may even sway some of your own beliefs about other races., Don't make it easy for the people who pick on you. If you believe them and have a low esteem of yourself, they are succeeding. Be indignant over being badly treated. Allow yourself to be angry. You don't deserve to be treated badly.


If you are not sure how you can take a stand against racism, research local and national groups online who are raising awareness about these issues.