 Water is the most important supply you need to have.At least one gallon of water per person & per day. That is just for drinking, that doesn't include water for cooking and washing.;
,


It is wise to have at least two weeks of medication on hand. A good amount is at least a month’s worth.
You can get a good first aid kit with most of your basic needs at most pharmacies. Get a larger size one. Also pick up extra items for it like anti-biotic ointment, and antiseptic wipes. Infection will be an issue. If you deal with a minor scratch properly,it will save your life. Most of these first aid kits come with instructions for basic first aid so you need to read that.If it doesn’t, buy a book on Basic First aid. Don’t count on home remedies.
Be sure to have dried and canned foods.
During a storm everyone runs out and buys all the milk, bread and eggs off the shelves. Milk and eggs will go bad in just a day or two without refrigeration. During bad storms,the power is going to go out. Though your fridge and freezer are built to keep things cold, they will thaw a lot sooner than you think.
Dried foods such as pasta,cereal,breakfast bars,and powdered milk are the kinds of things you want to have handy. Remember it isn’t about whether or not you like it, it is all about survival.
Canned foods, such as soups, tuna, vegetables and canned meats. Again, Franks and Beans may not be your favorite food, but it is a great source of nutrients that your body needs to survive.



Great! How much fuel do you have? Do you have all the spare parts and knowledge to repair it when it doesn’t start for you? Maybe, but there are too many things that could render it useless. Prepare for the “Dark Ages”.
Have a way to prepare food because no power,no way of making food like we usually do.
Though it may be difficult,you have to you can eat the canned goods right from the can.
The dried goods are a different story. Most of them need to have hot water to be prepared properly.
Be ready to camp.Whether you like camping or not, you should have some basic camping gear handy. A camp stove is a great investment. They are relatively inexpensive and can be stored long term and used when needed. Remember to have the fuel available. Your BBQ will work well for this as well. Just don’t try to use it indoors! Make sure you have enough fuel for whichever method you choose. A “Mess Kit” is a great thing to have handy. If this event turns out to be more than 2 weeks, it is portable and designed to be used on open camp fires. (Your household pots and pans often have plastic or weak metals that would break down or melt over an open fire)
Be sure to have an Information source and a means to listen to it.
Have a hand crank radio ready to go. In most cases there are enough radio stations that are prepared and able to keep broadcasting in the event of an emergence. They will help you stay informed as to what is going on around you and whether or not you have to plan to go to plan “B”. They will supply you with locations of refuge, supplies, and conditions around you. This is a MUST HAVE. If you have a battery powered radio, you need at least 3 sets of FRESH batteries for it. Fresh means, new every year. Batteries do loos their charge while sitting on the shelf and may not last very long when you do start using them.
Have a way to pass time.
Your tech device is not going to run for very long, and there will more than likely be internet service.Texting and cell phone use will be limited if available at all. Have plenty of old fashioned games on hand to help keep you and your loved ones entertained. Just sitting around waiting will literally drive you crazy. You will start making bad decisions because you are “Tired of waiting”.
Have a Light source, preferably a safe one.
This is where things can get dangerous. One of the most popular light sources are candles. These are probably the most dangerous because of the fire hazard involved. Only use them if you absolutely have to. Use them in candle holders that are enclosed, and keep them away from combustibles. (Curtains, paper, table cloths, furniture.) Flashlights are your best option. They also have “Crank” flashlights usually right next to the crank radios. IF you are going to get battery operated flash lights, then be sure to have plenty of extra batteries on hand for them too. Use them sparingly. Plan your days around daylight. Go to bed when it gets dark and get up when it is light. Another option I use is oil lamps or kerosene lamps. Again they are a fire hazard so you have to be EXTREMELY careful with these. Have plenty of extra fuel on hand for these as well.
Be prepared to move.
Depending on the event, you need to be ready to move. Weather they give an evacuation notice, or this event turns into a long term catastrophic event. You need to be ready to take what you can carry and go.

