 If you’re not the only one living in your house, it’s very important that you let your housemates in on your plans. Ideally, inform them of wanting to put your home up on Airbnb. Barring that, at least tell them ahead of time that due to signing up at Airbnb, you are now expecting guests. This way, when your guests arrive, your family or friends who live with you won’t be caught unprepared or, worse, unwelcoming.;
, A house being a reflection of its owner, keeping it spic and span will leave a great first impression. Make sure that furniture is free of dust, carpets and floors are vacuumed, broken fixtures are fixed, and that anything that looks like trash is junked.
 Take care to move any personal items that you’d really prefer not to be touched or used by your guests to your (restricted) personal area or to a secure location, such as a locked closet or a safe.
 If you agreed to include airport/seaport/train pickups, then by all means be at the terminal when your guests roll in. Pick them up on the agreed-upon date and time. They’ve come a long way and are probably quite weary.
 You may have already discussed this before both parties agreed on the reservation. Nonetheless, explaining your dos and don’ts again in person will allow guests to ask questions and help to avoid misunderstanding.
 Since your guests are paying customers, make sure that their needs are met as promised. Needless to say, toiletries and personal hygiene items should be in adequate supply.


If the reservation includes meals, ask your guests ahead of time if there are particular local dishes they have in mind. While you’re at it, ask them about food allergies, if any. Part of taking care of your guests is making sure you stick to the reservation terms.
 Just give it your best. Not running a hotel doesn’t mean you can’t be a great host. Extending little courtesies to your guests and making them feel at home can be very rewarding for you too.


If your guests act in ways you find rude or overstepping, address these concerns immediately and in private. Always keep your cool, and remember it could very well be nothing more than a cultural thing. Not letting issues fester will make for a great stay both for your guests and for you as a host.

