 This personality system is based on research by the psychologist Carl Jung and is widely used.The Myers-Briggs categorizes personality along four dimensions. Each dimension has two opposite preferences associated with it. Combining your preference from each of the four dimensions will define your personality according to one of 16 possible types.


The four dimensions are: introversion/extraversion (I/E); sensing/intuition (S/N); thinking/feeling (T/F); and judging/perceiving (J/P).
Compare your personal list of traits to your preferences on each of the four dimensions on the Myers-Briggs.
For example, does your list indicate you are more of an ‘I’ or an ‘E’? Do you have more words related to thinking or feeling?
You might, for instance, be a ISFP (introverted, sensing, feeling, perceiving) personality based on the traits on your list.
 With this system of personality classification you define yourself according to nine different personality types.Although there is usually some overlap between the nine personality types within a person, most people are more similar to one type than the other eight.


Evaluate your list of traits to see if they can be described by one of the nine types of personality according to the Enneagram system.
Look for clues that you are mostly a: reformer, helper, achiever, individualist, investigator, loyalist, enthusiast, challenger, or peacemaker.
For example, if you see traits on your list like: mediator, problem-solver, and diplomatic you may be a peacemaker.
Visit http://www.enneagraminstitute.com to learn more about using this personality classification system.
 You can use this system to define your personality along four temperaments or types: the guardian, artisan, idealist, or rational.Similar to the Myers-Briggs and the Big Five, there is a great deal of research related to the Keirsey system.


Use your list of traits to help you determine which of the four personality types, or temperaments, is most like you.
For example, do you have traits on your personal list like imaginative, peaceful, and optimistic that suggest that you are an idealist?
Many people use their Myers-Briggs type along with their Keirsey temperament to define their personality.
You can also take a short form of the Keirsey Sort at http://www.keirsey.com.

