 You can do this when you're walking around your city or taking the bus to work. Look around you. Take note of nearby structures and think about how you would interact with them to get from an imaginary point A to point B.


If there is a large horizontal bar in your path, does it make more sense to vault over it or slide under? Which would be faster for you?
Where do you see potential footholds on the sides of buildings?
If there is a gap between ledges, could you make the jump, or should you climb down one and climb up the other?

, Use Internet resources to locate parkour groups in your area. With local contacts, you'll be able to find the best places to practice and do parkour. If you are a beginner to the sport, you will also be able to find qualified parkour coaches to teach you.
 Parkour has its roots in military training obstacle courses. If you have access to a military-style obstacle course, take advantage of it and practice your parkour skills. If you don't, there are still a few options for you to practice:


Find other types of obstacle courses in your area. With parkour's increase in popularity, more and more facilities specializing in obstacle course training are opening up.
Join a gym with gymnastics equipment. You can practice your parkour moves on bars, ropes, vaults, and balance beams all with the safety of soft mats underneath. Keep in mind you may need to reserve space for use. Some gyms also feature rock walls for you to safely practice climbing.
Public parks are also great places to practice parkour. They usually feature wide open spaces for you to run on and low to the ground structures like tables and railings for you to use as obstacles.
 Once you get comfortable in your abilities, try moving through new areas. Remember that parkour is meant to be done in almost any environment. If you're bored with your current practice spot, look around for a new one. Ask members of your local parkour community where they like to practice or do parkour.


Be careful not to practice on private property without permission from its owner.

