 Doing them on the computer and you could put the face from the exorcist on the invitations and mention that it's going to be a scary party. Remember to include the time, date, place, R.S.V.P. number, who's sending and possibly some pictures. Have fun with them! Instead of just writing 9pm-12am, try 'til the witching hour. To avoid confusion, write the more common version underneath in a plain type or on the back. Consider signing them from Count Michael or Jennifer Long, W.I.T.C.H.. Try aging the paper and writing in a pen and ink for extra effect! Mention that it is a Halloween party, as they may wish to wear a costume. See How to Make Creative Invitations for ideas.;
, Perhaps have a room that is "haunted". Put in a faulty red/black light bulb, splash some red paint around, prop up some cracked, dusty mirrors; be creative! A fog machine might be a great idea. Flickering candlelight or lanterns can add great effect but only if you take proper care. Hanging fake cobwebs over the doorframe is a great idea. Why not put a sign over the front gate saying Welcome to the Haunted House? Determine if you want the room to be very realistic or just fun. If you're going for a properly scary effect avoid the plastic smiley pumpkins and Happy Halloween signs.
 Make edible glasses (instructions can be found on the internet) make red jelly with "eyeballs" (grapes or eyeball toys) in it or brown jelly with gummy worms in it. Have some kind of red drink (red wine, tomato juice, cranberry juice and raspberry cordial are all good) and perhaps label the bottle "Not Real Blood?". If you're having food use creative names for all the dishes. Who said French fries weren't fingers when they have a sliver of almond in one corner?

, If you are dressed in normal clothes during a Halloween party, it will spoil the effect. Make sure it is just right for Halloween though! Some ideas for costumes are: A black cat, a witch or a ghost. (Definitely not one which is a sheet with holes in though!)

, This could be a ghost-story telling session, a treasure hunt in the "haunted" room, Bloody Mary, Candy man etc., This is the most essential part of a party, and if either you or one of your guests is unhappy, the party atmosphere may go down.