 Purchase a dry cleaning solvent, which is a liquid, non water-based cleaning solution that’s used to clean tough stains on a variety of different materials, including carpet. Instead of pouring the solvent directly on the carpet, first pour some on a clean, white cloth., Gently dab at the stain on the carpet with the cloth that you wetted with the dry cleaning solvent. Keep blotting the stain until no more of it is being removed.


If you didn’t successfully remove all the stain using the dry cleaning solvent, you will have to try another method. Before you do so, wet a cloth with water and dab at the stained area to absorb any dry cleaning solvent that may have been soaked into the carpet. Then pat the area dry with a dry cloth.
 Create the same dishwasher solution that was recommended to remove iodine from upholstery in Method 2, then dab the dishwasher solution onto the stain using a white cloth. Keep dabbing until you are no longer lifting any more stain.You don’t need to clean off the dishwashing solution before trying the vinegar solution.
Don’t throw away the leftover dishwasher solution.
 If the dishwashing solution alone didn’t remove all the stain, create a vinegar solution in a small bowl using ⅓ cup (80 ml) of white vinegar and 2/3 cup (160 ml) of water. Then dip a clean white cloth into the solution and dab at the stain the same way as you did with the dishwashing solution., If the stain is still present, create an ammonia solution made of 1 tablespoon (15 ml) ammonia and ½ cup (120 ml) of water. Then dip a clean cloth into the solution and dab at the stain.
 Once more, dip a clean cloth into the dishwashing solution you used before and use it to blot at the stain. This will help to pick up any remaining stain and also lift up the remnants of vinegar and ammonia solution., Once the stain has been removed, wet a clean cloth with cool water, then dab at the area of carpet you were working on. This should fully remove any of the solution remnants and leave your carpet as good as new!