 If you’re willing to shell out the extra money for a ticket in first class or business class, you’re likely to get more comfortable seats than you would in economy class. Before booking a flight, take a look at your budget and decide what travel class will work best for you.


Even if you can’t or don’t want to pay for a first class or business class ticket, you might be able to get a last-minute upgrade for little or no extra cost.;
, There are different advantages and disadvantages to sitting in different areas of the plane. When thinking about where you would like to sit, consider some of the following:A seat closer to the front of the plane offers a quicker exit at the end of the flight.
A seat over the wing provides maximum stability if you happen to hit turbulence.
If you’re concerned about safety, sit in an exit row or toward the rear of the plane. Both of these locations may be associated with higher survival rates in the event of a crash.
A seat near the lavatories may be ideal if you need a lot of bathroom breaks, but these areas also tend to come with higher passenger traffic and the possibility of bad smells.
 In addition to picking a preferred spot on the plane, think about other features you would like your seat to have. Here are a few things to consider:Legroom: If you’re sitting in economy class, aim for a bulkhead seat, aisle seat, or emergency exit row seat. Seats with higher “pitch” (the space between your seat and the seat in front of it) also offer more legroom.
Recline: A reclining seat can make a big difference to your comfort if you’re hoping to sleep during the flight. Some seats, like those in front exit rows on certain planes, can’t recline.Width: If you need more room to spread out, you might want to choose a flight that offers wider seats. You can find out both the width and pitch of seats available on most flights at SeatGuru.com.
Aisle vs. window seats: If you think you’ll need to get out of your seat a lot, or need some extra legroom, an aisle seat is your best bet. If you like looking out the window or want to be able to lean up against the wall to sleep, choose a window seat.
 Once you have an idea of what you’re looking for, go to a website like SeatGuru.com or SeatExpert.com. You can browse these websites by airline, or even enter a specific flight number, to find information about available seats, including:


Seat pitch
Seat width
Recline
Proximity to various parts of the plane, like the lavatories, exit rows, or wings
Seat-specific amenities, like personal TV screens, power ports, or under-the-seat storage
User comments about issues associated with specific seats

