 If your cat is having a hard time finishing its meals, consider giving it smaller meals more often. These small meals will be easier to finish and they will be easier for the cat to digest.If your cat is not eating enough, you may want to consider letting it graze, meaning leaving food out for it all day. This will allow it to eat something whenever it gets the urge.
 A cat that is losing weight needs to be eating more calories every day. This can be accomplished by giving it more food but not all cats will eat more than you are already giving them. If this is the case for your cat, you can switch it on to a food that is more calorie dense, meaning that it contains more nutrients than other food in every bite.Weight loss can be a symptom of a variety of health problems. If your cat is losing weight, you should have it looked at by a veterinarian. If the veterinarian doesn't find any specific health problems, they may be able to suggest a calorie-dense food to feed to your cat to get its weight up.
 Some older cats need a calm and safe space to eat their food. If you have a household full of cats and your older cat is not getting enough calories, try feeding it in a separate space away from the other cats. Giving a senior cat this safe space will allow it to have the time to eat what it needs.


This separate feeding may require some extra effort on your part, especially if your cats are used to having open access to food. You may need to place your older cat in a separate room a few times a day.
 Some cats that are underweight need special encouragement to eat. If this is the case for your cat, try making the food smell appetizing. Add the liquid from a tuna can or heat wet food to increase the aroma.If the weight loss is severe, you may want to consider putting your cat on appetite stimulants. Discuss this option with your veterinarian., If your senior cat is having a hard time staying hydrated or if it is not eating enough, consider giving it wet food instead of dry. Wet food can add to your cat's overall water intake and it is more appetizing to most cats than dry food is.


If your cat already eats wet food, then keep giving it to your cat.