 Because most French women prefer a more natural makeup look, having clear skin is an absolute must. Use only high-quality facial care items, and keep your skin full and supple through the use of skin oils, healthy dietary choices, and getting plenty of rest.To encourage glowing skin, remember to exfoliate once or twice per week, and avoid harsh chemical cleansers.
 French women do not stretch themselves thin, working to please everyone around them. They put themselves first, even with close friends, to make sure their needs are met before moving on to the needs of others. This is true of family relationships, friendships, and even partnerships.Note that putting your needs first is not the same as being selfish. French women are not selfish, but recognize the importance of being strong and healthy first.
 French women do not pressure themselves with a strict, intense workout regimen, nor do they push themselves at work until they are exhausted. French women relax physically and mentally to ensure they are always at their absolute best.This can be a particularly difficult shift, as many countries encourage women to constantly push themselves to achieve greater gains. Practice relaxing for five minute each day, and go from there.
Creating a daily routine is a great way to relax. You can set aside a few moments each morning to read the paper, or have a standing afternoon coffee date with yourself.
 Your body has certain angles, quirks, and tendencies that cannot be altered quickly or easily. Instead of constantly trying to suppress your body’s natural tendencies or eliminate your natural shape, work with what you have.If you have a long, lanky frame, play it up with loose cuts and show your legs.
If you are curvy, make your curves work for you with cinched waists and feminine cuts.
 Instead of driving everywhere, make use of your legs. Whenever possible, walk to your destination. Walking is less expensive than virtually any other form of transportation, will keep your body in good working condition, and will give you an air of independence.Not all cities have public transit systems or are easy to walk around in. Do what you can where you are. Walk to your favorite coffee shop, or take a quick walk around the block.

