 Gingivitis and periodontal disease are irritations and infections of the gum tissue, which cause an inflammatory response and pain. Gingivitis occurs when plaque is not cleaned from your teeth. This causes harmful bacteria, which causes the gums to become red, swollen, and bleed easily. Periodontal disease can cause the gums to pull away from the teeth and form spaces or pockets that become further infected.


Bacterial toxins and your body’s natural responses can break down the connective tissue between the gums and bone, which cause inflammation and pain., The treatment of the inflammation caused by gingivitis or periodontal disease depends upon the severity of the inflammation. The main goal is to control the infection, which triggers the inflammation. Any treatment will require that you keep up good daily care at home, including:


Flossing daily
Brushing twice daily
Reducing alcohol intake and the use of mouth washes
Reducing the amount of sugar you eat, In order to help the infection, your dentist will remove any plaque through a deep cleaning, which helps to reduce the inflammation. After the procedure, you may experience less bleeding and swelling, but you will still have to continue good oral hygiene at home.


If the infection is advanced, your dentist may prescribe antibiotics to help reduce the infection, which will also reduce the inflammation.
If medications and cleaning are not sufficient your physician may recommend surgical procedures to clean the teeth closer to the root and help regenerate bone and connective tissue., Dental cavities are caused by infections that cause permanent damage to the hard surface of the teeth. Frequent snacking, drinking sugary drinks, not brushing your teeth, and the natural bacteria in your mouth increase your risk of cavities. Cavities and tooth decay are one of the world’s most common health problems and they affect people of all ages., The inflammation and discomfort caused by cavities cannot be healed until you fill the cavity. To treat cavities, your dentist will likely give you fillings. Fillings are made from tooth-colored composite resins, porcelain, or silver amalgam.


Silver amalgam fillings contain mercury, but they are considered safe by the FDA. However, if you have an allergy to any of the components of amalgam fillings (silver, tin, copper, or mercury), then you may develop oral lesions as a result. Tell your dentist about any allergies you have.If your tooth decay is advanced, you may need a crown. These are custom fitted fake caps that cover the tops of the teeth. A root canal may also be needed to repair or save a damaged or infected tooth, instead of removing it.
If the tooth is too damaged, pulling the tooth may be necessary. If you have to have it pulled, you may need a bridge or replacement tooth to keep your other teeth from shifting., Braces are used by orthodontists to straighten or correct teeth alignment. Braces have so many parts and often aggravate the mouth, and the brackets and braces can trigger the development of a canker sore in your mouth. To treat, rinse your mouth with warm salt water several times a day to reduce the inflammation and speed healing. Also try:


Eating soft foods to reduce the irritation to the tissue
Avoiding spicy foods, alcohol, mouthwashes, and sharp foods, like potato chips and crackers
Making a paste of baking soda and water and placing the paste over the canker sore.