 Protective, waterproof undergarments can limit the frequency of wetting the bedding and mattress. However, some argue that this may interfere with the child’s motivation to be dry. On the other hand, changing soaked bedding and pajamas once or more a night quickly becomes very tedious. For this reason, protective undergarments might be seen as a necessary part of treatment.Here's a solution to consider that embraces both strategies:


Purchase both washable, absorbent cloth underwear and vinyl pants. Cloth underwear is worn under the vinyl pants. This allows the child to be able to feel wet, while limiting or preventing urine from soaking everything else.
Keep in mind that different strategies may work for different kids or one might work better at particular times (such as when traveling or visiting others).;
, To protect expensive mattresses from stains and odors, which can be particularly difficult to remove, try a waterproof mattress cover. These covers protect the mattress from urine and can easily be cleaned and deodorized. What's more, they're relatively inexpensive—especially vinyl mattress covers.Mattress covers come in several sizes. Fitted covers fit the same way a fitted mattress sheet fits, with elastic to hold the cover onto the mattress from underneath. Zippered covers encase the entire mattress and zip closed for a secure fit that won't come loose from tossing and turning in the night. Deep mattress covers are sized to fit mattresses that are especially thick, such as pillow-top mattresses.
Protective bedding comes in several forms, all effective in protecting the mattress and/or bedding. With many products available, you'll be able to find one that easily fits your budget and needs.
 These can be used over or under the fitted sheets on your child's mattress—they are the same thing just used in different ways. These products are also known as “rubber sheets.” A waterproof layer is situated under an absorbent material to protect bedding as the absorbent material is soaked with any urine.The main advantage to overlays is that they can be removed and replaced by a dry one very easily. Since they're on top, it's a relatively easy process.
Some products are washable and reusable. However, disposable overlay pads can be particularly convenient when traveling.
 When you believe that your child is ready and motivated to stop wetting the bed, a bedwetting alarm may offer the most effective solution. The basis for the alarm is to arouse the child immediately upon wetting, prompting him or her to rise and finish in the toilet. When this happens repeatedly, the child is conditioned to awake when his or her bladder is full—before any bedwetting occurs.The pad alarm is positioned on the bed beneath the child; this type of alarm is not attached to your child's undergarments. The pad alarm may work very well if your child remains in one place while asleep, otherwise this type of alarm may not be effective.
Some alarms require 2 steps to shut off, making it more difficult to turn it off without arousing.
 Wearable alarms may be wireless, attached to the underwear, or even built in the underwear. Many of the alarm units are attached to the bed shirt to make it harder to ignore. That being said, some kids find the wearable systems to be uncomfortable, in which case, there may be poor cooperation on your child's part. Ultimately, wearable alarms have evolved to solve the problem of bedwetters missing the pad-style alarms.In choosing between pad and wearable alarms, take into account your child’s temperament, motivation, distance from your bedroom, and ease of arousal. The same principle applies for mattress products as well.
 All of these devices work by detecting moisture. When this occurs, an alarm or warning vibration is triggered. When deciding what to purchase, remember that a vibrating signal will not alert the parents, although alarm and vibration together may be useful.The volume of some alarms is adjustable. This may be useful for particularly sound sleepers or to provide a sufficiently loud signal that you can hear. Some of the alarm units can sit by the bedside, making them more easily heard.
Also, some products offer, at additional cost, a remote unit that can be located by the parents' bedside if they need to be awakened as well.
 A parent plays an important role in alarm training.If the child does not quickly arouse and go to the bathroom, the parent must promptly awaken the child. Eventually, most kids with uncomplicated bedwetting will start responding on their own.


Many children who wet the bed are described as sound sleepers, and indeed many are. This often raises concerns from parents that their child will not awaken when the alarm is triggered. In fact, at the beginning of alarm treatment, this is the rule, not the exception.
It is quite interesting that a significant portion of children who stop wetting the bed after using the alarm do so by sleeping through the night dry rather than needing to awaken and go to the bathroom.
 Most of the causes of daytime wetting have one thing in common: timing. The strategy of timed voiding is to get children with urinary urgency and incontinence to empty their bladders on a strict schedule that gets them to the bathroom before they have the urge to go. This also helps them to understand the feeling of a full bladder before wetness occurs.In addition, there are daytime alarms that attach to the underwear during the day to sense wetness and alarm similar to a nighttime alarm.


To optimize bladder training, a regular alert is very useful. At home, this can occur using an alarm clock or smart phone that can be set to multiple times. In school and while at play, consider an alarm watch that can be set to alert as often as is recommended by your doctor. Aim for 2 hour intervals if your child can manage this without the urge to urinate.
You will need to alert your child's teacher to the plan so that your child is allowed to use the bathroom when the alarm goes off.
Some children feel embarrassed when the alarm goes off frequently during the school day followed immediately by going to the bathroom. This may be addressed by using an alert watch that has the option to vibrate rather than give an audible signal.
 Clothing, bedding, and mattresses are very vulnerable to urine stains and odor. Dried urine stains can be particularly difficult to remove so the sooner the items are cleaned, the more success you should expect. And then, even with washing, the odor may return. One of the most popular home remedies to win this battle is using vinegar as a cleaner.To clean a mattress, blot out the stain as much as possible. Then slowly saturate the stain with a mixture that is 50/50 vinegar and water. Let it dry, and then flip your mattress over and do the same to the other side.To clean your laundry, add 1/4 cup of apple cider vinegar to your regular laundry detergent and wash your clothes as usual., For heavily soaked or stained fabrics, or those with persistent urine odor, use an enzyme-containing product. If heavily stained or strongly smelling, several applications may be necessary.A large amount of fresh or dried urine can be difficult to remove from a mattress. After blotting as much wet urine from the mattress as you can, apply an antibacterial urine enzyme solution. It is important to add a sufficient amount of the solution to completely saturate the involved area so that the enzymes and cleaners can penetrate the urine completely.
 There also are products that combine detergents, stain removers, and enzymes as a single solution. These include OdorZyme, DP (de-pee) Stain & Odor Remover, Kids ‘N Pets Stain and Odor Remover, SCOE10x Odor Eliminator, and Urine-Erase Stain and Odor Remover.Using deodorizers and perfumed fabric softeners usually are only temporary, and the odor will frequently return. There are numerous detergent products that also contain enzymes for removing pet and human urine smell, breaking down the proteins in the urine and making removal easier.

