 You can open this by clicking the musical note button in the top-left corner of iTunes 12.


If you're using an iOS device, open the iTunes Store app.;
, This will load the iTunes Music Store.
 You may have to scroll down to see it.


If you are using the iOS iTunes Store app, scroll to the very bottom of the main Store page and tap "Free on iTunes" in the "Music Quick Links" section.
 You can click the "See All" link next to each category to see all the available titles.


Apple rotates the selection of free content weekly.
 Note that you may first have to open the album or TV season to find the free item, as usually only one song from an album or episode from a season is free.
 If you don't have one, you can tap or click "Create Apple ID" to create one for free without a credit card.
 Once you tap "Get" and sign in with an Apple ID, the item will begin downloading to whatever device you're currently using.
 If you're using the computer, click the "..." button in the upper-right corner, select "Apps", and then click the "App Store" tab.
 This will load a list of the most popular apps on the store.


If you're using the iTunes program on your computer, click the "Top Free Apps" link on the right side of the window. You may have to scroll down to find it.
 These are all of the most popular free apps available.


If an app offers the ability to purchase this for real money, it will say "In-App Purchases" underneath the Get button.
 The "Top Free" chart is the only place that consolidates free apps on the App Store, but there are thousands of free apps available in every category of the store.
, If you don't have one, you can tap or click "Create Apple ID" to create one for free without a credit card.
 Once you tap "Get" and sign in with an Apple ID, the item will begin downloading to whatever device you're currently using.
 You can open this by clicking the film strip button in the upper-left corner of the iTunes 12 window.
 You may need to scroll down to see it.
 The front page will list all of the featured trailers.


You can click the "Calendar" button to see trailers organized by release date.
The "Top 25" section will show the top 25 most-watched trailers. It will also show trailers from box office leaders, as well as top-reviewed movies from Rotten Tomatoes and iTunes.
The "In Theaters" section will use your location to show you movies you can see at your local theater.
The "Browse" section will allow you to look through all the trailers, sorted by genre and studio.
 Depending on the title you select, there may be multiple trailers and clips to pick from.
, You can usually pick between 720p and 1080p. Both are high-definition, but 1080p will be the best quality (and also the larger file).
 You can monitor the progress at the top of the iTunes window.
 Your new trailer will be available in your My Movies library.

