 Planning for your legal career can begin in high school. Before you attend law school, you must have a four-year degree from an accredited college or university. It isn't required that you attend school in the state where you want to go to law school, but it can sometimes streamline the admissions process.


Financial planning can start now. Law school, even at a public institution, is very expensive. Try to minimize your debt going to college. Look to scholarships and consider state schools. The less debt you accrue as an undergraduate, the more flexibility you will have in law school.;
, There is no required undergraduate course of study to be admitted to law school.A rigorous well-rounded liberal arts degree with classes that stress research, writing, and critical thinking skills will ready you for success in your legal studies. It is a myth that there is a "magic" pre-law degree that will open the doors of law schools.Your college grade point average and the quality of your program is very important in law school admissions. Take substantive classes in arts, literature, history, and philosophy that you enjoy and where you will excel. Don't be forced into a "pre-law" track.A good grade in a writing class from a respected program will likely gain more notice than the same grade in an undergraduate business law or criminal justice class. A top-tier law school will expect a GPA of at least 3.7.The one exception to this is if you are considering a career in patent law. To become an associate at a law firm specializing in patents and other intellectual property, you must have an undergraduate degree in hard science such as engineering, nursing, physics, or molecular biology., While test scores and GPA are very important, selective law schools will also look at your extracurricular activities. Sports, community service, work experience, and involvement in substantive campus activities will help make your application shine.
 The LSAT is required for admission to all law schools in the United States, as well as many in Canada and internationally.The LSAT is given twice a year and should be taken as early as your junior year in college. Knowing your LSAT score can give you an idea of which law schools will be a good fit for your credentials. You can repeat the test, but know that schools will average likely average your scores.The LSAT does not test you on legal topics. The test covers reading comprehension,analytical reasoning,and logical reasoning.You can use commercially prepared guides and classes to prepare for the LSAT or take advantage of the free materials, sample tests, and videos on the LSAT website., Once you receive your LSAT results and have an idea of your GPA, you are ready to start seriously considering which law school you want to attend. If your goal is to join a law firm, there are several criteria you should consider, including location, reputation, programs, and recruitment programs.


You can attend any ABA-accredited law school and be eligible to take the bar exam in any state.However, larger law firms tend to be located in urban areas and often pull their summer interns from the law schools in the area. Attending a law school in a larger city will likely give you more opportunities to join a law firm as an associate.
If you know what area of law you would like to specialize in, check out specialized and certificate programs. For example, Tulane Law School is home to the nationally recognized Maritime law program.Students in these well-regarded programs may have better employment opportunities.
Narrow down your list of potential schools to match your budget. Each school has an application fee ranging from $20 to $50.
All schools will publish the GPA and LSAT scores of previous entrants. Don't be afraid to reach, especially if you have a well-rounded background. However, your chances of being admitted are the best when you match your credentials to the school's statistics.
 In your first, or 1L year, your schedule will be set by the law school and include the core courses of constitutional law, criminal law, contracts, torts, civil procedure, and legal research. Concentrate on getting the best grades that you can. Most law schools forbid employment in your first year because of the grueling schedule.


First year grades set the tone for your law school career. Invitations to join the law journal will be based on your first year grades. Being on the law journal is something that law firms look for when selecting associates., The time to start thinking about a summer internship is after you receive your first semester grades.Most large law firms do not hire 1L interns. However, you can still gain valuable experience by working for a smaller firm, a non-profit organization, or a law school clinic. Look for opportunities for client contact, even if you are working as a receptionist.
 After you finish your core classes, you can choose electives that support your interests. Look for classes that enhance your skills and give you an opportunity to increase your GPA. You may hear that you need this or that class for the bar exam. A mediocre grade in a class that does not interest you may hurt your employment opportunities more than it will help your performance on the bar exam.
 You law school will have information on registering for the bar and may even sponsor bar preparation classes. The bar examination is a two to three-day combination of multiple choice and essay questions intended to test your knowledge of legal fundamentals., Your law school will sponsor recruitment events for second and third year students. You can meet with recruiters for law firms and receive information on how to apply for employment and internships. Some employers will conduct on-campus interviews.


Your law school career center will likely have resources to help you polish your resume to present yourself in your best light. Ask several people to proofread your resume and cover letter for content and typographical errors.
 Do not limit yourself to on-campus events. The law library and career office will have guides to local and regional law firms to supplement your online research. If your goal is to work for a large firm, a summer internship is crucial. Many law firm associates are hired out of the intern pool.


Follow application instructions to the letter. Some firms will want a paper resume. Others will want you to apply via an online system. Flouting the rules will not make you look like a maverick. It will make you look like a troublemaker that can't follow directions.
 Your grades and academic record will only carry you so far. Recruiters are also looking for candidates that will fit in and enhance the workplace. The most brilliant scholar has little value if he can't interact with co-workers, court staff, and clients. As a result, in all professions, recruiters are emphasizing what are called soft skills.Studies of various professions, including law, identified the skills that can seal the deal. Communication, teamwork, adaptability, critical thinking, and problem solving are what employers want and need.Some law firms, confronted by applicant pools with similar stellar grades and achievements, are setting up group interviews with mock projects to observe who exhibits the best communication and teamwork.Campus organizations, volunteer work, and participating in law school clinics are all excellent places to work on your communication skills. Someone who is skilled in interviewing often difficult clients is going to be valuable to potential employers.
 Law firms are looking for associates that will be an asset to the firm. In exchange for long hours, you can expect to be well paid and work in a fast-paced professional environment. As a result, competition for these jobs is fierce. You can assume that every candidate has a strong academic record. However, you can set yourself apart by honing your interview skills.Research the firm and be prepared to answer questions about their area of practice and their biggest cases.
Learn something about the partners and the history of the firm. This information is usually on the website, but do an online search of the senior partners so you can work the information into your answers. For example, "I've wanted to work for this firm ever since I read about Mr. Smith's verdict in the Jones vs. Megacorp case."
Don't be shy about your accomplishments and how these skills can be useful to your potential employer. Stress situations that gave you experience and contact with clients.
Questions like, "Where do you see yourself in five years?" can be a minefield. Be confident, but not flippant. Egotistical answers like "In your chair," can mark you as someone arrogant that nobody wants to work with. Couch your answers in your future value, such as "I'm not sure, but I do know that I'll be a valuable asset to the firm."
Don't lie. If you don't know the answer, an honest "I don't know" is better than trying to make something up.
Be prepared for questions on work-life balance. Associates are routinely expected to work 60 to 80 hours or more per week, regardless of your family situation. You will need to stress your willingness to take on these hours and support the team effort.
Emphasize soft skills every chance you get. If asked about how you would handle a difficult situation, state that you would communicate, work with your team, be flexible, and work toward meeting the client's goals.
 Informational interviews are a great way to expand your professional network and to discover jobs that aren't open to the public. If you can talk to a partner at a law firm before they post a job opening, you may make their job easier when it comes time to hire. To prepare for and conduct a successful informational interview:


Make a list of people to contact. These contacts may be people you already know, but you may also find new contacts by talking to your friends and family or by looking at employer websites online. If you are having trouble finding people to contact, call your law school and ask for the names of alumni in your area.
Prepare to call or email the people you found. Before you make contact and ask for an informational interview, prepare a short presentation about yourself and your reasons for calling or emailing. Be prepared to tell them a bit about yourself and ask them if they would be willing to sit down with you for 30 minutes. Make sure you tell them you are not looking for a job and you are not expecting a job interview.
Put together a set of questions. Before the informational interview itself, write down a number of questions you would like to ask the other person. Plan open-ended questions that will get the person talking about their job and their career path. Also, ask for any contacts they may have that would be willing to talk with you. Be prepared to conduct the interview and ask the questions. While the other person may end up asking you questions, you should not count on it.
Attend the informational interview. On the day of the interview, dress appropriately, as if it were a job interview, and arrive early. Give them a brief introduction of yourself and start directing the interview. Ask your questions and feel free to follow-up on anything the other person says. Make sure you respect the other person, listen intently, and take notes if you need to. Always make sure to ask for other contacts for additional information and different perspectives.
Follow up after the interview. A day or two after your interview, follow up and thank the person for their time and insight. Stay in touch with this person throughout your career search as you do not want them to forget about you., Many traditional law firm hiring practices still include an interview over lunch. This is intended to be a casual meeting with hiring partners, but is also a test to see how you handle yourself in public under stress.The time to learn how to eat pasta gracefully is before your interview, not during., Elite law firms will examine your blogs and social media presence. Take down the party photos and political rants. If you keep a blog, make sure the design is clean and professional with contact information. Think about the image of the law firms you are pursuing and match your online persona to that image.


Look to your email addresses and online usernames. You can keep your personal email addresses, but create a professional address with a web-based provider like Gmail. Your email address for job applications and professional communication should be @.com. Save "gigglemonkey@yahoo.com" for your friends.
 Many online job application programs will ask for your Linkedin profile.Use it to create an online resume and summary of your job and volunteer experience that is more detailed than your condensed and concise paper resume.
 Participate in alumni events and investigate of your area has a young professionals association. Your network of friends and colleagues can keep you up to date on job openings at local law firms.

