 The right posture is imperative to doing squats and still keeping knee pain at bay. Here's what you should keep in mind:


Keep the shoulder blades pulled down and back throughout the exercise. Whether you're standing or squatting, keep this position.
Make a double chin to prevent misalignment of the cervical spine. If it feels a little funny but not uncomfortable, you're doing it right.
The eyes should look straight ahead at all times to maintain balance and coordination.
The abdominal muscles should be flexed and braced inward.
The butt muscles should be squeezed together.;
, Pretend that you are closing a door behind you with your butt. Once you have stopped descending, bend the knees until you feel muscle resistance. Do not go past this point or squat to the point of pain.


A common mistake for beginners is that they bend only the knees. This is a dangerous habit to form since it allows the knees to go beyond the toes as you squat. Extra unnecessary force will then be loaded on the knees, exacerbating your pain.
 Proper breathing makes exercising easier on your muscles and keeps the oxygen flowing. It also prevents your blood pressure from suddenly spiking. When you're getting into your squat, make sure you're inhaling to prepare your body. When you're releasing from the squat, release your breath, too, relaxing your body.


You can count out loud as you stand straight as an alternative to help keep you mindful of your breathing.
 Forcing multiple repetitions, squatting to the point of pain, or pounding the body with hundreds of improper-form squats will most likely put you back on the injury shelf. Therefore, no gain is made and you're only prolonging true fitness. It is always better to train smart than hard.
 Good form is the key to protecting your body from injury. Some examples of bad squat habits an average Joe does are:The knees go past the toes as they descend. Doing so puts additional stress on the joints which is terrible for the knees. The squat exercise should be done with concerted effort from the hips, knees, and ankles. Simultaneous action of the three joints will prevent this bad habit from happening.

The back rounds while doing the squat. The natural arch of the lower back disappears midway through the squat. This means that you are pushing beyond the mobility of the lower back. Going beyond the lower back’s flexibility may result in a slipped disc.

The shoulders slouch during the exercise. The shoulder blades should be pulled backward and downward through the exercise. This allows the resistance to be equally loaded to the knees and not on the spine.
 The neglected half of training is rest and recovery. Allow one full day of rest before embarking on squats exercises again.


Rest stimulates muscle growth and keeps the muscles fresh for another training session, limiting the risk of injury. You're not slacking – you're thinking long-term.
 Always consult a physician first when experiencing knee pain prior to doing any form of exercise. You should always be medically cleared to embark on exercises. Your doctor will know which exercises are right for you.


Pain is a warning sign that the knee is not prepared for physical activity. Should pain commence at any point during the exercise, stop immediately and consult your doctor.
 Partial wall squats are perfect for those suffering from knee pain. It takes a partial load off the knee joints while training the hip, knee, and leg muscles. Here's how to do it:


Stand in front of a wall. The wall should be about 2 feet (0.6 m) behind you.
Lean back against the wall. The back of your head, shoulder blades, and butt must be in contact with the wall at all times.
Brace the abdomen while keeping the shoulder blades back and down.
Stop when the thighs are halfway from being parallel to the floor. This works the inner thigh muscles while preventing excessive load to the knees. Strong inner thigh muscles provide stability to the knee joint.
Return to starting position. Complete 3 sets of 10 repetitions with one minute rest in between.
 To challenge the body further, place a stability ball in between your back and the wall. To challenge your body best, squeeze a medicine ball or basketball or soccer ball in between your knees while performing the exercise.


Using additional aids varies your workout and puts different muscles to more work. This way you're working every part of your body in multiple ways, keeping them fresh, warmed up, and healthy.
 Bodyweight half squats provide fundamental strength and coordination training to the lower body. Here's how to do this variation:


Stand tall with feet hip-width apart.
Keep the shoulder blades down and back.
Make a double chin while looking straight.
Brace the abdomen and squeeze the glutes.
Squat by pushing the hips back and out before bending the knees.
Stop when the thighs are halfway from being parallel to the floor.
Return to starting position. Complete 3 sets of 10 repetitions with one minute rest in between.
For an additional challenge, place your hands behind your head for added resistance. For an even harder challenge, raise your hands up while keeping your shoulder blades down and back.
 Chair half squats ensure that each repetition is performed through the preferred range of motion without inducing knee pain. For this exercise, do the following motions:


Stand about 2 feet (0.6 m) away from a sturdy chair or box. The chair or box’s height should be at par with the mid thigh. A mid-thigh height allows a good range for training inner thigh muscles without excessive burden to the knee joint.
Stand tall with feet hip-width apart.
Squat by pushing the hips backward until the butt touches the edge of the chair or box.
Do not sit on the chair. Immediately return to starting position. Complete 3 sets of 10 repetitions with one minute rest in between.
To make this exercise harder, raise your hands in front of you at shoulder level. To make it even more challenging, close your eyes with your hands raised in front of you.
 This is done by holding a dumbbell or any other weight with your arms (like a water bottle if you don’t have a dumbbell). It's more of a full-body exercise than the normal squat. Here's how to do this one:Hold the weight close to your chest with both hands.
Stand in your squat position with your toes slightly pointed out.
Start pushing your hips downward while keeping your back straight, till your hips are parallel with your knees.
Push upwards again,returning to your original position. You can repeat this several times.
 This is quite similar to the isometric squat but with one major difference: your toes.


Stand with your back straight and feet a bit more than shoulder width apart.
Make your toes point out in a 45-degree angle. This is why this exercise is deemed a "sumo" squat. It puts a slight variation in what muscles are worked when compared to an isometric squat.
Squat by first pushing your hips down till your legs form a 90-degree angle, then return to your original position. Repeat this several times.
 This is especially useful if you can’t hold your knees outward. If you have a resistance band, you're ready. Here's how:


Put a resistance band around your thighs to give you something to push against to keep your knees out.
After placing the band, squat normally by pushing your hips down. You will feel the band resisting your movement and you will need to push to counteract that resistance.
Return back to your standing position. This can be repeated several times.
 This exercise (and the ones listed below) is a bit harder than the previous ones mentioned. If you've done those with zero knee pain, more difficult squats may be suitable for you. Here's how it done:


Stand on a medium resistance band, keeping your feet shoulder-width apart.
Hold the resistance band with your hands on your hips or on your shoulders. If you are going to put your hands on your shoulders, make sure to keep them in line with your shoulders and not widely opened.
Push your hips down till your thighs are parallel to the floor. You will feel that you are counteracting the resistance of the band.
Return up to your standing position and then do a leg raise to the side of your body, then return your foot to the floor.
You can repeat ten times for one leg, then switch to the other leg and repeat that leg ten times in addition.
 This is considered one of the most challenging exercises, as it tests your legs to adapt and accommodate the weight of your body alone and also tests your core and muscle stability. Here's how to do it:Stand on one leg with your back straight. Keep your eyes forward and your shoulders back.
Do the squat slowly, pushing your hips down in line with your knees without letting the raised leg touch the floor.
Return back to your original position while keeping your leg up. You can repeat this exercise as much as you can, then switch to the other leg and repeat.
 This is another challenging exercise – you should perform the previous exercises first before jumping into this one to make sure your knees can handle it. Here's how to do this type of squat:Place a chair behind you. You can start with a small bench that is not elevated too much from the floor to start with the easier version of this exercise. Keep in mind that the higher the bench you use, the more difficult the exercise will be.
Place your foot on the chair with your toes flat and facing the chair.
Stand with your back straight and steady, then start pushing your hips down until they are in line with your knees. Make sure that the toes of your straight leg are pointed forward.
Return to your standing position and repeat. You can repeat this exercise as many times as you can as long as it doesn’t bring you any sort of pain. Then switch your legs and repeat again.

If you feel any sort of tension around the back of your thighs or the quadriceps of your lifted leg on the chair, gently lean yourself forward while going down in your squat. Then straighten your trunk again while raising your hips up to return back to your original position.



