 Shuffling randomizes the deck in order to introduce chance to the game. Not shuffling the cards could allow some players to predict the cards that will come up later, which would give these players an unfair advantage. There are different ways to shuffle, but a poker shuffle will typically consist of two riffles, a box, another riffle, and a cut.A riffle refers to splitting the cards in half and mixing them together by placing the corners of the cards in each half against each other and letting the cards go so they intermix.A box means taking the top quarter of the deck and placing it on the table, then taking the next quarter of the deck and placing it on top of the first quarter, then repeating this with the rest of the cards.A cut refers to placing the deck on the table and having a player cut the deck in half. The bottom portion of the deck moves to the top.Look up deck shuffling tutorials on YouTube if you would like to learn different shuffling styles. Some styles, like the Hindu shuffle or the Table Riffle shuffle, are known for being more elegant than others.;
, There are two main styles of dealing: American and European. You can switch up your style according to your mood or to who the players are:American-style dealing involves holding the deck in one hand, pinching the front right corner of the card with the thumb and index finger, and flicking the wrist to throw the card to the player.
European-style dealing involves touching just the top of the card and sliding the card to the felt, then pushing the card, often with a spin, towards the player.
 If you’re playing a community card game like Texas Hold’em, you should burn - in other words discard - the card at the top of the deck. You should also turn the fourth of five cards dealt to the community. The players can then use this card to constitute their final hand., It is the responsibility of the dealer to verify how much players are betting and raising as well as to keep track of side pots. You can use an online side pot calculator on a site like PokerListings to facilitate the process. Read the hands of the players and push the pot towards the winner at the end of the game.