 Choose a mild unscented cleaning agent with a label that says "hypoallergenic." Wash for 30 to 60 seconds very gently, being careful not to stress or strain the skin around your eyes. Wash twice a day - once in the morning, and once before bed - and add an additional wash at the time you remove your make-up.


Wash with warm water rather than hot water, as this is less irritating and stressful on the skin around your eyes.
Dab your skin dry very gently with a towel when you are done washing. This is very important as drying too vigorously may trigger more dryness. A gentle touch may help.;
, Certain environmental factors may be contributing to the dryness around your eyes. Some potential factors may include:


Exposure to harsh chemicals found in face cleansers (particularly heavily-scented ones, which are often more irritating to the skin), make-up remover, or make-up itself. Harsh weather such as wind, humidity, or heat. Exposure to dust or dusty environments
Stresses to the skin around the eyes, such as excessive rubbing.
Exposure to chlorine from swimming pools. Prolonged bathing or swimming in chlorinated water
Driving long distances

, Drinking lots of water helps to optimize the natural moisture in your skin, thereby decreasing dryness around your eyes.


It is recommended to drink at least 8 cups of water a day, and more with exercise or hot weather.
Carry a water bottle with you throughout the day to make it as easy as possible to stay well-hydrated at all times.
 If the dryness is accompanied by redness or swelling, you should see a doctor. They can diagnose any underlying conditions that may be causing the dryness.


Tell your physician if you have any other medical conditions which may cause or contribute to dry skin, such as "blepharitis" (a condition of the eyelids), "perioral dermatitis" (a type of skin rash that can arise from poor skin hygiene), or eczema (which is not associated with the eyes but does cause dry skin). It is also important to consider any possible correlations between starting a new medication and developing drier skin. Sometimes it can be a side effect of medication.

