 The URL is the address of the web page you are on (https://www.wikihow.com, for example). This saves the page for you so that you can quickly find it later, and brings up a small box of options. You can also press Ctrl/Cmd and “D” keys simultaneously to bookmark a page.Click the trash can to discard the link.
Click the bolded text to change the title.
Click “Add to Folder” to bring up a list of all of your bookmark folders.
 The bookmark bar is a collection of links that are right underneath your search bar, allowing you to find them quickly when you need them. You can quickly add a link to the bookmark bar by clicking on the small icon directly to the left of “http” and dragging it to the bar underneath your URL. If you do not see any bookmark bar:


Click on the three dark bars in the upper-right corner of Chrome.
Click on “Bookmarks”
Click on “Show bookmarks bar.”
Alternatively, press the Ctrl/Cmd, Shift, and “B” keys simultaneously to make the bookmarks bar appear., The key to organized bookmarks is through folders, as they eliminate clutter and help you find the correct bookmark quickly. To make a bookmark folder, right-click on the bookmarks bar and select “Add Folder...”This will bring you to a small window where you can name the folder and choose where it goes. Some ideas for folders include:


Travel
Work
Blogs to Follow
Kids
Games
Finances
Special Projects

, This is a good idea if you have tons of folders. For example, you might have a folder labeled “Work.” But to make this more effective, you might add smaller folders like "Research," "Projects," and "Finances" that allow you to organize your bookmarks more efficiently. To make a subfolder, click on “Add Folder...” and choose the folder you want to add your new folder under.


To add a bookmark to a subfolder, find it in the “Add Bookmark” window or click and drag it to the right folder. Hover over the first folder until it opens up, then drop your bookmark in the right sub-folder.
 Apps for Chrome, known as “extensions,” are added features that allow you to customize Chrome. To download them, go to the Chrome Web Store and search for “Bookmark Organizer" in the top left corner.Make sure you click the box labeled “Extensions” under your search.
Some popular programs to organize bookmarks, delete duplicate links, and create folders are SuperSorter, Sprucemarks, and Chrome’s own Bookmark Manager.

