 When your hair is fried, it’s usually the ends that show the most damage. A visit to your hair stylist for a cut can instantly make your locks look better. That doesn’t mean you have to go for a super short cut, though. Getting regular trims can help your fried hair look healthier.Try to get your hair trimmed every 6 to 8 weeks.
Usually, a ½ inch (1.25 cm) trim is all you need to make your locks look fresher.;
, Fried hair is dehydrated so it requires serious moisture. A hair mask contains more moisturizing ingredients than regular conditioners so it can hydrate your hair more effectively. Use the mask after you’ve washed and towel dried your hair, and leave it on for 20 to 30 minutes before rinsing it out with cool water.Look for a hair mask with ingredients that can help damaged hair, such as jojoba oil, argan oil, wheat proteins, and keratin.
Wrapping a warm towel around your head while you have the mask on can help it penetrate your cuticle more easily and allow it to repair your hair more effectively.
If you hair is extremely fried and damaged, you may want to leave the mask on overnight. Wear a shower cap or plastic wrap over the mask so it doesn’t stain your pillowcases or sheets.
It’s usually recommended that you use a mask once a week. If your hair is very damaged, though, you may want to use it twice a week.
 Fried hair can benefit greatly from the use of a hair oil because it helps moisturize your hair in a way that’s similar to its natural oils. Apply four to five drops of oil to your palm and rub it between your hands. Work it through the length of your hair from the ears down while it’s still wet and then style as usual.A variety of oils work well for the hair, such as argan, coconut, jojoba, macadamia, and almond. You can also find serums that contain a blend of two or more oils.
The length, thickness, and amount of damage to your hair will determine how much oil you need. Start with one to two drops and add more if necessary.
You can also apply an oil to the ends of dry, fried hair. Only use one or two drops, though, or your hair may wind up looking greasy.
For severely fried hair, you may want to use a hot oil treatment. Heat the container of oil in a pot of hot water, and saturate all of your hair with it. Place a plastic shower cap or plastic wrap over your head, and allow the oil to sit on your locks for at least 30 minutes. Follow up by shampooing and conditioning your hair normally., When your hair is damaged, washing it too often can strip even more moisture from your locks and make them look worse. Instead of washing everyday, try to shampoo every 2 or 3 days to keep your hair hydrated.Concentrate the shampoo at your scalp when you wash and only work the lather down to the ends to avoid removing too much moisture.
Be sure to choose a moisturizing shampoo with ingredients such as olive or argan oil, or glycerin, sorbitol, or shea butter. Avoid shampoos that contain mineral oil and petrolatum, which can actually form a film that keeps moisture out of your hair., For a fried, damaged hair, a thin, watery conditioner usually isn’t enough to hydrate it. Instead, follow up your shampooing with a deep conditioner for intense hydration. Apply it to your hair and allow it to sit for approximately 10 minutes before washing it out with cool water.Look for a thick formula that comes in a tube or tub with moisturizing ingredients such as butters, oils, ceramides, and glycerin, as well as strengthening ingredients, such as keratin, amino acids, and hydrolyzed proteins.When you apply the deep conditioner, be sure to concentrate on the ends of your hair.
Using a deep conditioner once a week may be sufficient, but if your hair is very dry, you may want to bump it up to twice a week.
 Even if you use a deep conditioner when you wash your hair, your fried tresses may still need more hydration. A leave-in conditioner provides moisture throughout the day because you don’t rinse it out. Apply the leave-in while your hair is still damp and comb it through to ensure that all of the strands are well coated.For severely fried hair, it’s best to use a cream or lotion leave-in formula.
 While heat styling can make your hair look fabulous, it also strips the moisture from your locks. That’s why it’s an especially bad idea when your hair is fried. Try to limit your use of curling irons, flat irons, and even blow dryers as much as possible. Let your hair air dry when you wash it, and play up your hair’s natural texture rather than curling or straightening it.When you do heat style your hair, always use a heat protectant first to limit the damage to your locks. Serum, cream or lotion heat protectant formulas are best for fried, damaged hair.
 When your hair is fried, it’s often the result of bleaching or other coloring treatments. To keep your hair from getting damaged any further, make sure not to color your hair more than every eight weeks.If your roots are starting to show and it hasn’t been eight weeks since your last color treatment, use a root concealing product, such as a spray or powder, instead of dying your hair.
 It’s not just coloring and heat styling that can damage your hair. Sun, salt water, chlorine, and other environmental factors can be a problem for fried hair too. Wear a hat to cover your hair if you’re going to be spending time out in the sun. If you’re going swimming in the ocean or a pool, wet your hair with clean water to prevent it from absorbing the salt water or chlorine, and rinse your locks as soon as you’re done swimming.Some leave-in conditioners and other styling products contain ingredients that contain UV-ray protectants that keep your hair safe from the sun too.
Before you go swimming, it’s also a good idea to apply a leave-in conditioner to your hair to keep it from absorbing damaging chemicals and minerals that might be in the water.

