 Consider your decision to elope and make sure that you are doing it for the right reasons. There are plenty of people who elope in Las Vegas in the heat of the moment, but you might regret your decision if you don't consider it carefully. Keep in mind that your family and friends might be hurt by your elopement if they were expecting a wedding., You might feel ready at the age of 17, but Nevada law requires that each person be at least 18 years old to get married. There some special circumstances that allow minors to get married. In most cases, however, you need to be 18.You can marry at the age of 16 in Nevada with a parent’s consent.
 You will need to get a Las Vegas Marriage License. Obtaining a marriage license is particularly easy in Nevada. You and your partner must bring proof of identity with you. You can download and print the marriage license application from the Clark County Marriage Bureau's website, but you must bring it to their office in person.The office is open from 8AM to midnight daily, including weekends and holidays. Keep in mind that you may have to wait an hour or more on busy holidays.
The proof of identity can be a passport, driver’s license, or social security card.
 Many chapels in Las Vegas will have someone there that is authorized to officiate the wedding. If you’re eloping in a chapel, a clergyperson or court clerk is allowed to officiate the wedding. Keep in mind that on holidays, like Valentine’s Day, many people will be eloping and you may have to find someone in the private sector to do the job., Residents of a country other than the U.S. can get married in Las Vegas, and the procedures and fees would be the same. Marriages performed in Nevada are recognized worldwide, but your home country may require a special document called an apostille to finalize your marriage. Apostilles are issued by the Nevada Secretary of State., The Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority's website lists 49 licensed wedding chapels. You look up “weddings” in the Las Vegas phone book or do your own online search. While you can always find someplace to get married at a moment's notice, you should reserve a date and time if you have want to elope at a specific site, since that Garden Gazebo Chapel you want may be booked way in advance.Some chapels are more traditional and others are more fun. For example, at some chapels, you can be married by an Elvis or Marilyn Monroe impersonator.
 Eloping in Las Vegas is usually all about the chapels, but going to the courthouse is also an option. If the courthouse is busy, you can try city hall. The marriage will still be legal., Maybe there’s a pretty spot in Las Vegas where you and your partner could imagine saying “I do.” Hiring or asking someone to officiate the wedding is another option outside of a chapel or courthouse. Some wedding venues around the city may have an elopement package.Many wedding venues in Las Vegas will have an elopement package that comes with a wedding planner, limo transportation, flowers, hotel accommodation, etc. Call a venue to see if an elopement package is available.
 Eloping doesn’t usually involve planning, but some planning can happen if you want to involve friends and family. Choose a date and location within Vegas for the nuptials. You don’t have to send out invitations. You and your partner can simply give your friends and family a call and ask if they can be there., Unless you live in Las Vegas, traveling will be necessary. Think about these plans ahead of time if possible. Decide if you will go by car, plane, or bus. This is a special day, so treat yourselves if possible! If you have the means to treat yourselves, purchase first class tickets and enjoy a glass of champagne or other beverage during the flight., The ceremonies are typically pretty short when you elope, so long vows won’t be necessary. Still, you should discuss what vows you’d like with your partner. You can go with traditional vows or write them on your own., First, check to see if the venue has a dress code. If not, dress however you’d like. This is your and your partner’s day, so don’t let tradition get in the way if that’s not what you want. You can dress “traditionally” for your wedding or choose a theme. For example, you can dress as superheroes or dress in a Western theme.You can go as casual as a pair of pants and a T-shirt or choose to wear a wedding dress or tuxedo.
 You should also think about how you would like your hair and makeup to be. Would you like a simple updo, a curly style, or sleek and straight hair? For shorter and more masculine styles, consider if you’d like your hair combed back or styled with gel for volume., If you wear makeup, consider if you’d want natural makeup, like nude lipstick and light blush. Or, consider more dramatic makeup, like false eyelashes and red lipstick. You can also go as you are without planning., You don’t absolutely have to exchange rings, but it is something you should consider before the ceremony. Talk about it with your partner and make a decision together. If you decide to exchange rings, obtain them before eloping., The ceremony may be a spur of the moment decision, but that doesn’t mean you won’t want the memories to last a lifetime. Many chapels will have a wedding photographer available that can be rented by the hour. If a family or friend is present, ask them to take photos if a photographer isn’t an option.