 The muscles in your core stretch from the area around your rib cage to around mid-thigh. These muscles work together to help you stand tall and regulate your posture. You should do exercises that strengthen these muscles in order to improve your posture and overall health.


Try exercises that work all of the muscles in this group. For example, lie flat on the ground with your legs bent above you, as if your feet were flat against the wall. Engage your abs and extend one leg down almost to the floor, straightening it as you go. Hold for a second just above the floor before you bring it back up. Repeat on the other leg. Do 20 sets of this exercise., A lack of flexibility causes muscle imbalance and poor body alignment. You should increase stretches that help with the flexibility of your back, arms, and core. You should also incorporate this into your daily routine at work, where you stretch periodically throughout the day to increase your muscle flexibility even while stationary.


Try easy neck and back flexibility stretches. Stand or sit straight up. Pull your head back and center it over your spine. Pull your shoulders back and down and bend your arms, moving them down as if you are trying to put your elbows in your back pockets. Push your palms outward and hold for at least 6 seconds.
Repeat a few times during the day to increase flexibility., To keep up your posture, you need to exercise the muscles in your back. To do the superman stretch, lie face down on the floor and extend both your arms over your head. Turn your thumbs toward the ceiling. Squeeze your glutes, contract your core, and lift your arms, head, and legs about 4 inches off the ground. Hold this position for 2 seconds, then lower your limbs back down to the floor.


You should repeat this move 15 times to help strengthen your shoulders and activate the muscles that strengthen your spine., One great way to improve your posture is to increase the strength in your back. To do the T exercise, lie face down on the floor and extend your arms to the side, make a large T with your body. Turn your thumbs to the ceiling as you contract your abs and glutes. Pull your shoulder blades together and lift your arms toward the ceiling as far as you can comfortably go. Hold this position for 2 seconds, and then lower your arms. Repeat 15 times.


To do the W exercise, lie face down with your upper arms straight across at the shoulder. Bend your arms so that your forearms are parallel to your neck, turning your thumbs toward the ceiling and making a W. Contract your abs and glutes, pulling your shoulder blades together and lift your arms toward the ceilings. Hold this position for 2 seconds. Repeat 15 times.
These exercises work the muscles that connect your shoulder blades to your spine, strengthening your spine alignment and improving your posture., Your chest muscles can aid in your posture. To stretch them out, find a corner and face it. Bring your bent arms up, placing your forearms on the wall with your palms placed slightly below shoulder height. Slowly squeeze your shoulder blades together, leaning into the corner.


Hold this stretch for 3 seconds. Repeat 12 times., The looseness and strength of your chest plays a role in how much you slouch. To build flexibility and strength in these muscles, stand in a doorway and hold your arm at your side at a 90 degree angle. Hold your elbow even with your shoulder and place your arm on the door jamb. Slowly lean forward, pushing out from the doorway and pulling your arm back against the jamb. Hold for 30 seconds and release.


Repeat with the opposite arm. You can also repeat this exercise multiple times a day.
To stretch your upper and lower chest muscles, repeat this exercise with your arm lower on the door jamb and higher as well., Although this exercise might sounds dangerous, it does not cause shoulder dislocations. It helps make your shoulders more flexible, which will help you keep your chest up and back straight. To perform this exercise, you need a broomstick or PVC pipe that is about 5 feet long. Hold the stick in front of you with both hands, resting against your thighs. Slowly lift the stick off of your thighs, lifting your arms over your head, down around your body, until it rests on the back of your legs. Next, slowly bring your arms back around.


Do 3 sets of 10 reps, where one rep is a complete rotation of your arms.
You should start wide and bring your arms closer together if it feels like you can. The closer your hands are to each other on the stick, the deeper the stretch.
Make sure you do this slowly. You do not want to injure yourself by doing it too quickly., The thoracic spine is middle section of your spine. You need to keep it loose so it doesn't become hunched and immobile. For this exercise, you need a foam roller. Place the foam roller under your upper back with your feet and bottom on the floor. Place your hands behind your head and your elbows as close to your ears as possible. Let your head drop back, curling your back around the foam roller. Hold for a 15 seconds and come back up.


You can stretch out your whole back as well. When you are leaned back, use your feet to roll yourself up and down the foam roller. If you feel a particularly tense spot, stop and pull your head up, leaning back into the roller., A talented chiropractor can restore balance to your body by manipulating your spine and finding areas out of alignment. If your posture problem persists despite the exercises above, seek out a licensed professional in your area to improve your range of motion and reduce any pain that your slouching is causing. Most chiropractors will do a comprehensive intake examination to tailor your therapy to your body and particular discomfort.