 If you are an excellent baker, or your neighborhood is often clamoring for your tamale recipe, sell your baked or cooked goods for some extra cash. You can let your services be exclusive to your neighbors, or you can visit your local farmer’s market with your wares.Be aware of your state’s laws regarding food sales. Some states are quite lax, and don’t require you to have any kind of inspection or license, while others are extremely strict and require an inspection, proper labeling, and clear records of where the food is being sourced from and sold.
Make sure you practice clean, safe cooking. You don’t want to get your customers sick or put them in danger.
 Countless websites exist to help you get rid of your old clothes and unwanted items. Although you should not list every little sock or knick-knack you have, if you’ve made an investment into a piece of clothing, or an item you no longer want, get some money back!While eBay might still be the most popular means of selling old items, many new sites have popped up to give eBay some competition. These sites include Etsy, Poshmark, Thred Up, and Craigslist.
Pay close attention to the rules of the site you are using. Etsy, for instance, requires goods to be handmade or vintage. Thred Up requires clothing to be in good condition. Do your research on the sites you use before posting.
When using Craigslist or Facebook, be careful of divulging your information. Users have been advised to conduct transactions in public places, including the parking lot of your local police station.
 Blogs have the potential to make you a handful of change each month, though most take some time to start gaining traction. Start a blog about your favorite hobby, or giving tutorials on something you’re skilled at, and watch the money start coming in.Although some blogs make thousands in a matter of months, more make only a few dollars in a given month. Starting a blog can be a great way to write about something you love, while making a small amount of money on the side.
Monetizing a blog can be easy, using a program like AdSense from Google, or through affiliate links to sites such as Amazon.
 This is quite similar to selling online, except you're doing it in your front yard or garage. Set aside a morning to gather items, decide on prices, and pop a quick ad on your local Craigslist or city site. Using tables, create an attractive array of tables and furniture, placing a price sheet in a prominent place.Don’t be afraid to stand your ground when having a yard sale. Some people might expect to pay cents on the dollar for items, but you are allowed (and encouraged) to decline outrageous offers.
Avoid having a yard sale unless you have a significant amount of items to sell. A single table filled with books and trinkets is unlikely to make any money.

