 If you have several hamsters in one cage, put the sick hamster in a separate cage. This will give the sick hamster some peace and will prevent the healthy hamsters from getting sick.Keep the sick hamster in a separate cage until it has fully recovered.
 During treatment, your sick hamster should be as comfortable as possible. Make its cage comfortable by keeping it at a constant, warm temperature.Hamsters are most comfortable when the temperature is 65‒75 degrees Fahrenheit (18‒24 degrees Celsius).Normal room temperature falls within this temperature range, so place your hamster’s cage in an area with a constant room temperature.


If your hamster is having trouble breathing, place an open jar of Vick’s vapor rub near the cage where your hamster could smell it, but not have access to it.Vick’s vapor rub is available at your local pharmacy. It helps relieve congestion.
Place soft and comfortable bedding, such as plain, unscented toilet paper, in the cage. Tear the toilet paper into strips so your hamster can make a warm nest to curl up in.Place the cage in an area that is draft free and out of direct sunlight.Make sure this area is quiet.
 With a respiratory illness, your hamster will not feel like eating much, if at all. To encourage your hamster to eat, feed it soft, moistened food. If you feed your hamster pellets, soften the pellets with a little bit of water before feeding them to your hamster.


You could also offer your hamster small amounts of scrambled eggs or baby food (fruits or vegetables). Because the baby food has a liquid consistency, feed it using an eyedropper.If your hamster cannot eat on its own, feed your hamster by hand.
 Staying hydrated will help your hamster feel better during treatment. Move your hamster’s water bottle closer to where your hamster sleeps. If your hamster feels too weak to drink on its own, give it a few drops of water at a time using an eyedropper.You could also mix lukewarm water with milk and a little bit of honey.Talk with your vet before mixing anything into your hamster’s water.

