 A microchip can be inserted under your dog's skin. It is painless and holds data that can identify your dog and it's owner. Along with this, you should provide your dog with an identification tag for its collar. It is possible that a stranger could find your dog and not know how to contact you, so they keep the dog. However, you should not put the dog's name on the tag, as a stranger could learn it's name and call the dog to them.;
, This means taking clear shots of the head, the sides and back of the dog. Take close-ups of any patterns or unusual features that might help to identify the dog in the event it goes missing. Keep these images in a specially marked folder on your computer just in case they're needed quickly; this saves you from having to search through all the standard candid shots of your pet, when you'll likely be panicked.
 Make sure your fencing/ yard does not have any holes the dog can get through/ squeeze through. If they are a digger, take the necessary precautions to ensure they will not dig under the fence.
 You shouldn't leave your dog outside when you are not home, unless he is in a secure kennel. Not only could he be stolen, but he could escape.
 If there is a possibility someone could lean over the fence and pinch him, it might be a better idea to only let him play alone in the backyard. However, even then the dog may not be safe and you should ensure that it is very difficult for an outsider to get into your backyard, by using fencing, padlocks, etc.


If your yard (and hence your dog) is visible from the street, then the dog may be a target of theft.
 If your dog is barking a lot for no known reason, check it out. It could be that there is a stranger trying to dog nap your dog.
 While going for a walk, you should always keep your pet on a leash. Even a well trained dog could run after an animal. Not only could he be stolen, but hit by a car, injured, etc. You should always make sure you can see your dog.
 If a stranger seems oddly interested in your dog, you should not brag to them about it being a purebred, well trained dog, show dog, etc. Do not allow a stranger to carry your dog, or walk your dog where you can't see it. It is okay to let a stranger pet your dog, but if the person acts suspicious or want to try carrying or walking your dog, kindly decline and say you have to go.
 Even if you'll just be gone for a few minutes, you should not leave your dog tied outside a building, especially on a busier street. It is easy for a stranger to take the dog and drive away.
 Do not leave your dog alone in a convertible or the back of a truck, he could easily escape or be stolen.


Never leave a dog alone in a hot car, or on a hot day. The heat will kill the dog quickly (hyperthermia). Equally, never leave a dog alone in freezing temperatures either, as the dog can freeze to death in a car (hypothermia).
 Sure, you love your dog but telling unknown people how valuable your dog is in monetary terms is dangerous. By all means say you love going on walks with the little critter but don't give away personally identifying information, make deep emotional attachment statements or share the financial value of the dog with people you don't know. Each of these makes both you and your dog vulnerable to an unscrupulous person.

