 People with hypochondriasis tend to have extreme reactions to symptoms that most people would ignore. They may run to the doctor or obsessively worry over a sneeze or a small cut, for example.In some cases, the "symptom" may just be a regular bodily function.;
, In addition to fearing that they may already have a disease, people with hypochondriasis also tend to ruminate about the possibility of becoming sick. They may be convinced that they will become sick, even if they have no symptoms.This may be especially pronounced if the individual has a family history of a disease or if he believes he was exposed to an infection.
 Hypochondriacs are typically very vocal about their medical complaints. They may share their symptoms with many different people, with the hopes of finding someone who will validate their concerns.If one person dismisses the hypochondriac's worries, she is likely to move on to another person.
 People with hypochondriasis may avoid activities that they believe will expose them to illness, or that they believe they are unable to participate in because of illness. For example, an individual may avoid traveling to foreign countries for fear of contracting a disease, or may be convinced that he is unable to work due to poor health.Some individuals may even act as though they are invalids, even though they are physically healthy.
 Extremely frequent or extremely infrequent doctor's appointments may both be signs of hypochondriasis. This is due to the fact that people respond to their obsessive thoughts differently, so some seek medical attention, while others avoid it.Some patients will go to the doctor excessively, and may frequently switch doctors because they want a diagnosis for their condition.
Other patients may avoid medical care because they are afraid of finding out what is wrong with them.
 Not everyone who has ever had an irrational fear about their health has hypochondriasis. In order for a person to be diagnosed with hypochondriasis, she must have been preoccupied about her health for at least six months, and she must have been reassured by doctors that nothing was wrong.If you or someone you know displays several of the symptoms of hypochondriasis, it's best to see a doctor and/or psychiatrist.
 While most patients report their symptoms to their doctors hoping for a diagnosis, people who have hypochondriasis tend to jump to conclusions about what is causing their symptoms. For example, instead of telling their doctor that they have a cough, they might insist that they have pneumonia.If one condition is ruled out, the patient may immediately become convinced that another condition is causing the symptoms.
 Patients with hypochondriasis tend to be convinced that they are sick to the point that they are incapable of believing doctors who tell them otherwise. They may argue with their doctors about their diagnosis or stop seeing doctors who fail to diagnosis them.Patients may demand more tests if everything comes back negative.
 Many people who have hypochondriasis go from one doctor to the next because none of them are willing to diagnose or treat their condition. These patients may have extensive medical records and may have convinced multiple doctors to perform the same tests.People with hypochondriasis may also complain to their current doctors about their former doctor's refusal to treat them.
 Because patients with hypochondriasis are so convinced that they are ill, they may be strangely willing to undergo invasive tests, or may even insist to be treated when there is no evidence of an illness. Although they may agree to them or even request them, patients with hypochondriasis are often very nervous about undergoing these procedures.
 Briquet's Syndrome is extremely similar to hypochondriasis. While people with both disorders tend to complain about symptoms that have no medical cause, people with Briquet's syndrome tend to be more dramatic when describing their symptoms. They also tend to focus more on the symptoms themselves, rather than a possible underlying cause of those symptoms.If the person seem preoccupied with finding the cause of the symptoms, it is most likely not Briquet's Syndrome.
 Factitious illness is also very similar to hypochondriasis. With both conditions, patients appear to be convinced that they are afflicted with medical conditions, despite evidence to the contrary. The main difference is that with factitious illness, patients want to receive medical treatment more than they want to be diagnosed. They tend not to have any fear or reservations regarding potentially dangerous tests or procedures.While patients with hypochondriasis may request medical tests and treatment, they typically do so because they feel that it is necessary, not because they want to be treated.
 People with hypochondriasis and body dysmorphic disorder may both overreact to certain symptoms, but their concerns are very different. In the case of an outwardly visible symptom, such as a blemish, a patient with hypochondriasis would be concerned about an underlying medical condition that could be causing it, while a patient with body dysmorphic disorder would be more concerned about the physical appearance of the blemish.People with body dysmorphic disorder typically do not become preoccupied with symptoms that do not affect their physical appearance.
 Some patients with depression may appear to be hypochondriacs because they are in denial about their emotional symptoms and are seeking validation of their complaints by getting diagnosed with a physical disease. A psychiatric evaluation is needed to rule out the possibility of depression.Just because a person has depression, this does not automatically he they does not also have hypochondriasis, as many people suffer from both.
 Other mental disorders may also resemble hypochondriasis. If the patient's complaints seem irrational or strange, there is a possibility that she may be suffering from a delusional disorder, such as schizophrenia.Although patients with hypochondriasis tend to overestimate the severity of symptoms and the likelihood of having a disease, they are usually very rational when describing symptoms and the diseases that they believe could be causing them.
 It is also possible that a person who complains of symptoms that have no identifiable cause may not have any disease or disorder at all. The patient may be malingering if there is some kind of personal or financial benefit.Unlike malingerers, hypochondriacs do not lie about their symptoms; they genuinely believe that they are ill.

