 Most patients have to wear a cast for 4 to 6 weeks depending on the extent of your injury and how fast you heal. While you have the cast on, your doctor will provide you with instructions to promote healing and will provide you with a sling. The basic instructions are also listed in this section.
 Keep your wrist elevated and make sure to rest it for at least a week after you get the cast. Keeping your wrist elevated means making sure that it is kept up above your heart. Resting your wrist means avoiding strenuous exercises or activities in which you use your wrist.You can do this by sitting in a chair and propping your wrist up with pillows. Reclining chairs work the best, but any chair or sofa will do.
 Water will damage the cast and can get in between your cast and arm, promoting conditions that can lead to an infection, especially if you had surgery and have an incision. If you take a shower or bath, place a plastic bag securely over the cast and tape the ends of the bag so that no water can get into the cast. Ideally you should avoid having water fall on the cast during bathing.


Some doctors advise placing a towel over the plastic bag as an extra precaution.
You may want to ask a family member or friend to help you bathe or shower.
 You should try to keep your wrist from moving as much as possible. This means that you should avoid the activities that involve the use of your wrist. You should also avoid situations where someone could bump into your injured wrist.


As an added protection, always wear your sling when you go out in public because it will keep it from moving when you walk and will alert others to the fact that you have an injury and they should make an effort not to bump into you.
 After a couple of days, your cast-covered arm might become itchy. The itching is usually from hair growth under the cast, minor irritation that the cast causes your skin, or from dead skin cells that are normally shed but can’t because there is a cast trapping them.
 The orthopedist will follow the area where the pins are placed carefully for signs of infection. Signs of infection include redness or swelling at pin/wire sites, drainage from the insertion site, fever, and warmth of the skin in the area.
 Your doctor will most likely ask you to come in throughout your recovery time. He or she may take x-rays to make sure that your wrist is healing properly. If it is, your doctor will most likely give you a smaller cast (meaning that he or she will cut off the ends of your cast) making it easier for your to bathe and scratch those itches you’ve been dreaming of relieving.
 Once you are free of your cast, you will be asked to go see a physical therapist who will help you perform exercises to regain the strength in your wrist and surrounding muscles, and to regain normal function of your wrist. Physical therapy usually lasts a month, with three to four sessions each week.The therapist will also give you exercises that you can perform at home on your own. The more you practice the exercises as directed by your therapist, the faster you will regain function of your wrist.

