 If you are sexually active, then make sure that you are practicing safe sex by using a condom every time you have sex.Also, keep in mind that having multiple partners increases the risk of disrupting your vaginal pH and developing bacterial infections.If possible, try to stick to just one sexual partner.;
, Whenever you shower or bathe, wash the outside of the vagina (including your labia) with warm water and a mild, unscented soap.Do not put soap or water into your vaginal canal. Only wash the parts of your vagina that are on the outside of your body.
 Douches and vaginal deodorants disrupt the pH balance of your vagina and increase your risk of infection, so it is best to avoid using these products.Steer clear of bubble baths, bath oils, talc, and powder as well. The chemical in these products can irritate your vagina and throw off vaginal pH.
Keep in mind that douching has been associated with all kinds of negative effects including bacterial vaginosis, pelvic inflammatory disease, cervical cancer, and infertility., Avoid scented or perfumed sanitary products such as tampons and sanitary pads. The perfumes in these products can disrupt your vaginal pH. Instead, use unscented sanitary products only.Even unscented tampons may disrupt vaginal pH for some women, so you may want to stick to sanitary pads instead. If you do use tampons, make sure that you change them every four to six hours.
 White cotton underwear is less likely to disrupt your vaginal pH than other types of underwear.Make sure that your underwear is not too tight and that they are clean and dry.


Change your underwear twice daily, such as in the morning and in the evening. You should also change your underwear if they become soiled or moist, such as from sweating.
Wash underwear with unscented products only.
 Because the vagina is so near to the anus, there is always a risk of bacterial contamination. To minimize this risk, make sure that you always to wipe from the front to the back.It is also a good idea to use white, unscented toilet paper only to avoid irritation from perfumes and dyes.

