 They come in different forms and features.;
, They are made with the absorbent cloth inside next to your babies skin, and a PUL cover attached to the outside.
 These are rectangular in shape and divide by length into 3 sections.


Follow the divisions that show you how to fold, and use a Diaper safety pin, or a snappi (stretchy plastic T shaped thing with teeth) to hold the diaper together, or place a diaper cover that snaps over it.
 This type of diaper has a waterproof exterior and a pocket where you put the insert.


Shop for extra inserts (also called soakers) that will fit any diaper size. These provide the baby with extra protection for nap and nighttime.
 Perfect for nighttime because the front, back, and side tabs hold pee where any other type of diaper does not. They usually fasten with snaps or Velcro, and are easy to take on and off. Fitted diapers need a cover.


Place a diaper cover over a fitted cloth diaper, flat or prefold diaper to keep them from leaking.
Wool diaper covers are great for nighttime use also instead of a PUL cover. Just be sure to read about washing and applying lanolin to waterproof them.
, Many brands offer a "one-size" diaper that will fit after the newborn stage until potty training. One-size diapers save much more money than buying cloth diapers in many different sizes.
 If you want to wash every 2 or 3 days, buy enough cloth diapers to keep your clean supply well stocked. Never leave dirty diapers unwashed for more than 3 days.
 Such as diaper covers, extra inserts, Diaper liners (reusable, or disposable make cleaning poo much easier!) Snappies or pins, cloth diaper safe rash cream, a pail or bucket with a lid to store the dirty diapers.
 Some parents also use them for burp cloths, bibs and changing pads.
,


Rinse the wet diaper before placing it in the pail if you prefer. While this is not necessary, some parents prefer to rinse it out before placing it a pail to eliminate the odor of urine.
 If you want, you can use a wet or dry wipe to clean the diaper area.



Shake solids into the toilet and flush. Rinse the diaper and place it in the diaper pail for washing. If your baby is having only breast milk, there is no need to rinse or dump because breast milk will be broken down in the wash waster.
Scrape unformed poop into the toilet with a spatula or other tool that is set aside for this specific purpose. Rinse the diaper to remove as much poop as you can, and place the diaper in the pail for washing.
, Then add a small amount of laundry soap to a hot wash (too much soap will cause build up, and your diaper will leak.) It helps to do an extra rinse to make sure there is no extra soap left in your diapers.
 Anything else can be dried in the dryer.
