 Almost all U.S. defense contractor positions require applicants to be United States citizens. If you are not a native citizen, you can go through the naturalization process to obtain your citizenship, which involves taking an extensive test on English and Civics., You cannot actually obtain a security clearance until you are employed in a government job, or have been sponsored by a company or agency who wishes to hire you. However, you should try to determine if you are eligible for clearance before you begin. If you have previously had a security clearance in the past, this is a good indicator that you will be able to obtain one again. The following are some of the factors that generally prevent a person from obtaining a security clearance:


Past criminal convictions that lead to jail time of 1 year or more.
Current use of illegal or controlled substances.
A determination of mental incompetence by a DoD-approved mental health professional.
A dishonorable discharge from the Armed Forces.
Unwillingness to surrender a foreign passport.
Severe, repeated financial problems.
Intentional false statements made in the application process.
Repeated alcohol abuse.
A pattern of criminal or conduct or rule violation.
 Defense contractor jobs are available throughout the world, however, to have the best shot at obtaining the kind of position your are interested in, you should be willing to relocate.
 The best way to learn the ins and outs of becoming a U.S. defense contractor is to talk with people who already have the kind of position you are hoping to land. These individuals can give you insider tips on how to locate jobs, red flags to look for on job listings, and perhaps most importantly, position-specific instructions on how to format your resume and complete your application in a way that gets you hired.
 The Department of Defense maintains a job listing site for civilian employment opportunities with the DoD and all military branches. You can either go to the DoD’s website and click “Employment,” or use the main www.usajobs.gov portal and use the keyword “defense” to look for these jobs. Private companies looking to hire individuals into defense contractor positions usually advertise on major job search websites, like monster.com and indeed.com. Enter “defense contractor” into the search line to locate these positions.
 Government jobs usually involve a notoriously detailed application process. Read the application thoroughly before beginning, and make sure to fill it out completely before submitting it. And be honest in your application; obtaining a defense contractor position will eventually require a thorough background check, and any errors or omissions in your application are likely to be exposed., The hiring process for government jobs moves much more slowly than it does in the private sector. You can expect it to take anywhere from several weeks to a few months to find out if your application made the first cut, and even longer to get all the way through the application and evaluation process. Remember that the payoff in job security, benefits, and salary if you get the job will eventually be worth the wait., If you become a finalist or are offered a position, you will need to complete a rigorous investigation process to obtain security clearance. You must comply with this process fully, answer all questions truthfully and completely, and provide all information that is requested quickly and accurately. It is unfortunate to get through a months-long application process only to lose out at the end over a mistake or omission, but it does happen.