 There can be many reasons for a person to be overweight, from inactivity to health concerns. Before you assume that your partner is just inactive, talk to him about his daily routine.Ask a question as a way to get a conversation started. Be sure to listen and respond rather than asking a series of questions because this may come across as interrogating. Ask things like:


”How many hours of sleep do you get a night? Do you feel tired when you wake up?”
”Do you get up and walk around during the day?"
”How active would you say you are? Do you work out? If so, what sort of activity do you do?”;
, It is easy to underestimate how many calories we actually eat each day.Encourage your partner to keep a food log to report what she is actually eating per day. This can be a personal wake up call and/or quantitative reasoning for weight gain. You can encourage your partner to do this by showing her your own food log and telling her that even athletes keep food logs.


There are many free applications available to help you keep a food log. Some even allow you to scan barcodes of food that will automatically enter information for you.
 Pay attention to the types of foods your partner brings home and try to provide some healthy options. Check out what sorts of foods he has in his pantry and refrigerator. It can be difficult to resist tempting junk food, no matter how good the intention.Look for:


Cookies/Biscuits.
Chips.
Sweets.
Alcohol.
Soft drinks.
 It might be easier for your partner to follow a program or make healthier choices if he sees you doing the same.Be consistent in your own health routine and diet. Try and model healthy behavior by:


Preparing healthy foods (and perhaps sharing recipes with your partner).
Eating a healthy diet.
Keeping an exercise routine.
Sharing personal goals/worries with your partner.
 Above all, your are in a partnership. You need to be encouraging to the needs and goals of your partner. Try to:


Be a cheerleader, not a taskmaster. You should encourage your partner to be healthy and happy. Telling what they have to do or should do can breed resentment and unhappiness.Develop incentives. Reward your partner if they stick with a program or change bad habits into good. Do not focus on food, as this might backfire, but consider a nice date or a small present.
Care about them as a person, not a number. Remind them why you are with them and why you love them.

