 There are many hazards to deaf dogs outdoors. However, there are also some hazards to them inside their own homes. Above all, keep all items that your dog may be attracted to but that are not good for it out of reach. This includes cleaning chemicals and foods that are toxic to dogs, among other things.


You may not be able to get a deaf dog to stop bad behavior as quickly as you can get a hearing dog to stop. This means that if you see your deaf dog eating something it shouldn't, for example, you may need to physically remove the item from your dog instead of being able to give it a verbal command to let the item go.
 Deaf dogs can become snappy and defensive if they are startled and are not trained to be used to unexpected touch. Because of this, you need to interact with them differently than you would with a hearing dog. You will need to use vibration, movement, and light to communicate with the dog.For example, in order to wake your dog up, try standing nearby and allowing the dog to smell you before you touch it. If that doesn't work, you should make vibrations on the floor near it. Never touch it unexpectedly in a sensitive area.
Create your own sign language system and teach it to your dog. Even if you only have a sign for sit, stay, and lay down, it will make communication and interaction easier with your dog.
Also work on desensitizing the dog to unexpected touch. Train it, as you would train a dog to sit, to have a positive response to gentle touch. Do very light touch on the shoulders or back and when the dog responds positively, give it a treat. With repeated exposure to positive outcomes from unexpected light touch, the dog should adjust to it.
 Keeping your dog safe requires that you are able to get its attention. You even need to learn how to get the dog's attention when it doesn't know you are nearby or when it is sleeping. This can be done in a variety of ways with a deaf dog:The easiest way to get a deaf dog's attention is to wait until it looks at you and then signal for it to come to you.
Make vibrations on the floor that the dog can feel. This is easily done by stomping on the floor.
If you are in a dark space, you can use light to get your dog's attention.
 Part of keeping a deaf dog safe is the ability to get its attention. If you have not been able to train the dog sufficiently to check in with you and you have not been able to get the dog's attention in other ways, then a vibrating collar may be called for.A vibrating collar usually has two different functions. One is that it will make an auditory sound. This will allow you to find your dog. The other is a vibration, which is designed to get your dog's attention.
A vibrating collar is not a substitute for thorough training. In fact, your dog will need basic training for a dog to understand that a vibrating collar signals that it should come to you.
The feeling created by a vibrating collar is not painful but not particularly pleasant. It is not as strong as a shock collar but it does sometimes irritate dogs. Because of this, it is better to train your dog in other ways so that you can get its attention instead of using this collar. There are also collars that release a spritz of citronella, which many dogs find unpleasant, as a painless training aid. This may be an option to consider, as well.

