 Whether a school provides equitable athletic opportunities for male and female students is evaluated across the board, not on a sport-by-sport basis. In other words, schools don't necessarily have to provide a girl's team for every boy's team.When the OCR is assessing Title IX compliance, it compares the school's men's athletic program as a whole to the women's athletic program as a whole.
Title IX does not require schools to offer the same sports to both male and female student-athletes. In other words, just because you have a men's basketball team does not mean you must also have a women's basketball team.
However, both men and women must be offered an equal opportunity to participate. In practice, this may mean that if you don't have a women's basketball team, you have to provide women with the opportunity to try out for and play on the men's team.
Generally, the selection of sports and levels of competition should accommodate and reflect the interests and abilities of male and female student-athletes.
Male and female student-athletes must have the opportunity to play opponents of similar quality and skill. For example, it would be a violation of Title IX to have the men's athletic program playing NCAA Division I, while the teams in the women's athletic program all played in Division II.
Title IX does not require institutions to have sex-segregated sports, meaning male and female teams for each sport.;
, Title IX does not require exact equality. Rather, the percentage of female student athletes must be the same as the percentage of the school's total student population that is female.The first step to analyze Title IX compliance is to compare the percentage of female student-athletes to the student body enrollment. Title IX doesn't require 50/50 equal opportunities. Rather, it takes into consideration the makeup of the student body as a whole.
Generally, a school can show effective compliance with Title IX if the percentage of student athletes of each gender mirrors that gender's proportion of total student enrollment within five percentage points.
For example, if your school's student body is 49 percent women, it is enough that 45 percent of the school's athletic opportunities are for women.
This is evaluated in terms of available slots, not necessarily students actively participating in the program. For example, if there are 30 available slots on the women's soccer team, all 30 of those slots would count toward the percentage of athletic opportunities available for women, even if there were actually only 26 women on the active roster.
 The law recognizes that change can't happen over night. If female students are under-represented among student-athletes, your program still may be compliant with Title IX if the school has and is making continual efforts to expand athletic opportunities for women to meet the standard of equitable opportunity.The school must meet both prongs of this test to demonstrate Title IX compliance. It must show both a record of adding or upgrading teams as well as the implementation of a policy for program expansion.
The school's policy for expansion must include an official procedure for requesting additional sports which is effectively communicated to students.
Adding a team every few years in response to student interest and demand may satisfy this test for compliance.
Although legally schools are able to satisfy Title IX regulations by proving a history and continuing practice of expansion, as of 2015 no school has successfully defeated a gender discrimination claim by fulfilling this test.
 Even if the school's female athletes aren't proportional to the female percentage of the student body and there is no program in place to expand opportunities for female student-athletes, your school is still compliant with Title IX if it can prove that female student's interests and skills are fully and effectively accommodated by the current program.Typically courts evaluate this in terms of assessing whether there are women at your school who have interest and ability to compete in a certain sport but are unable to do so because the sport isn't offered.
The unmet interest must be among enough women to sustain a varsity athletic program in the sport at the school's current level of competition.
For example, if an NCAA Division I school doesn't have a women's soccer team, it would be a Title IX violation if there were at least 30 women enrolled in the school who were interested and capable of playing Division I soccer.
 In assessing whether a school offers equitable financial aid necessary for compliance with Title IX, the OCR looks at the total scholarship dollars, not the number of individual scholarships available.Scholarship availability is the only factor of Title IX compliance that requires equal dollars be spent for male and female student-athletes, proportional to their participation.
Compliance is evaluated by taking the total dollars available for male and female athletic scholarships, dividing it by the numbers of male or female athletes, and comparing the results.
This factor requires "substantial compliance," which the OCR defines as a disparity in the scholarship budget for athletes of either gender that exceeds 1 percent of the entire scholarship budget.
Athletic financial aid includes not only scholarship grants, but also loans, work-study, and other aid made available to student-athletes specifically for their participation in the school athletic program.
 Unlike some other Title IX provisions, the OCR is less forgiving when schools make lesser amounts of financial aid available to one gender than the other.Keep in mind that although the analysis focuses on financial aid as a whole, meaning that a school could in theory offer more full scholarships to men than to women as long as the overall financial aid offered was of the same dollar amount, more recent policy interpretations favor reviewing scholarship amounts only, rather than including other financial assistance. #*The OCR no longer takes into account the difference between the value of in-state and out-of-state scholarships for the purpose of assessing Title IX compliance, because it found that schools tended to require larger proportions of female teams to be in-state residents to keep female athletic scholarship amounts lower.
 Title IX does allow schools to prove compliance if a significant disparity is due to a non-discriminatory reason.An uneven distribution of in-state and out-of-state scholarships is permissible here, provided it isn't attached to a policy of uneven recruitment.
There also may be a legitimate discrepancy if a school is in the process of phasing in a new team. The OCR recognizes that schools may want to stagger scholarships so the entire financial aid budget isn't committed in the first year and the team has room to recruit and grow.
However, if the discrepancy continues beyond four years, the school typically will be found to be in violation of Title IX.
 While male and female student-athletes must be provided equipment of similar quality, the requirement takes into consideration the differences in equipment required for each sport.Generally, male and female student-athletes must have the same quality of uniforms, equipment, and supplies. However, legitimate differences in requirements for different sports are taken into consideration.
Uniforms and equipment provided must either be actually equal or equal in effect.
For example, a football team has a significant number of male student-athletes, each of whom must have helmets, pads, and other safety equipment. Since there may not be a female sport with similar requirements, a school with a football team necessarily will spend more money on equipment for male student-athletes than for females.
However, if there are male and female teams, they must both receive uniforms and equipment of equal quality. In other words, if you replace men's soccer uniforms every year, it would be a Title IX violation to only replace women's soccer uniforms every five years.
Title IX does not require that spending be equal, and the OCR does not compare dollar amounts spent on men's and women's teams. The key inquiry is what the money buys, not how much money is spent.
 Title IX requires male and female student-athletes to have equitable facilities and services, and to have equitable access to those services.Practice and competition facilities generally must be of equitable size and quality for both male and female student-athletes.
Men and women also must be given equal access to weight rooms and training rooms, and male and female locker rooms must be of similar size and quality. In other words, if the men's locker room was a state-of-the-art 2,000 square-foot facility while the women's locker room was the size of a broom closet and hadn't been updated in 30 years, that would constitute a violation of Title IX.
Access to facilities also applies to the scheduling of practices and games. Both men's and women's teams must have the ability to use facilities during prime time, as this affects spectator attendance and enjoyment.
Title IX also requires equivalent travel benefits, awards and awards banquets, and promotion – including publicity of games and star players as well as the presence of the band and cheerleaders at games.
 Both male and female student-athletes must have coaches, trainers, and tutors with equivalent experience and qualifications, and equal opportunity to take advantage of those staff members.Student-athletes of different genders must be treated equally in terms of rules and standards of conduct, and discipline or sanctions for violations of rules must be equal across the board.
Generally, the coaches of women's teams must be of equal quality and experience to the coaches of men's teams. For example, it would potentially be a Title IX violation to have a men's basketball coach with two national championships and 20 years' experience, but have a women's basketball coach who had no previous experience coaching basketball.
 Not only must male and female student-athletes have equitable access to coaching and tutoring, but all coaches and tutors must be paid equitable compensation relative to their positions, regardless of whether they work with male or female student-athletes.Discrimination against coaches and tutors also can be considered discrimination against the teams they serve under Title IX.
Title IX protects coaches and other athletic staff from retaliation for protesting violations or for attempts to rectify inequalities between male and female student athletes.
The OCR does not identify any subgroups of sports, such as separating major sports from minor sports for the purposes of evaluating equitable compensation, or the equality of benefits provided to male and female student-athletes.
 The OCR recognizes certain explanations, such as high injury rates or high equipment costs in particular sports, as permissible non-discriminatory reasons male-dominated sports such as football receive a greater proportion of benefits and services than sports in which female student-athletes participate.Keep in mind that the OCR doesn't take non-discriminatory reasons at face value. For example, if a school asserts that male student-athletes have more trainers because football has a high rate of injury, the ratio of trainers to student-athletes in the school's football program should be compared to the same ratio in a high-injury women's sport, such as women's gymnastics.
If a school claims certain sports get more resources than others because they produce revenue or draw larger crowds, the OCR may look at the school's advertising and promotion of comparable women's sports, as well as the times the games or matches are scheduled, to determine if the smaller draw is due to reduced promotion of those events.

