 While scooping will do on a day-to-day basis, you'll need to completely empty the litter and scrub the box at least once every week. Some cat owners may have to clean the litter box two or more times each week if there are multiple cats using the same litter box.Keep a waste basket or trash bag close by, and dump everything out of the litter box before cleaning it., Once the litter is removed, you'll need to scrub the litter box, either in a sink or with a hose outside. Some experts recommend scrubbing the box at least once every week, while other experts recommend scrubbing at least once each month.How often you wash your cat's litter box will depend on how many cats use the box and what kind of litter you use.


Use warm water and a mild detergent, like dish soap, that won't leave any harsh chemical smells or residue behind.You can make an effective cleaning agent by scrubbing baking soda and a little warm water on all inside surfaces of the litter box.Make sure that you rinse away all of the soap. Your cat may not use the box if it smells like soap or detergent.Note that any cleaning agents that smell like ammonia or citrus will repel cats. Using a cleaning agent with these smells may result in your cat being reluctant to use the litter box after you've cleaned it., It's important to ensure that the box is completely dry before you add new litter, as the litter will stick to the wet sides and bottom of the box. If you use clumping litter and fail to dry the box, it might even render the whole box full of litter unusable. You can let the box air dry, or use paper towels or napkins to wipe the box dry., Some experts recommend sprinkling a thin layer of baking soda on the bottom of the box, before pouring on the clean litter. This can help absorb smells, and may help absorb some of the urine, if you don't use clumping litter., Cats generally prefer clumping litter over non-clumping litter. Most cats find that it's more comfortable to walk on clumping litter because it's made of finer-grained material, and it's generally easier for your cat to bury his waste in. Plus, clumping litter will make it much easier for you to keep the litter box clean.However, some cats do prefer traditional, non-clumping clay litter. Take note of what your cat seems to prefer, and try to cater to his choice in litter.Do not use a clumping litter if you have a kitten. The curious kitten may investigate the litter with their mouth and accidentally swallow some. Clumping litter can cause a dangerous bowel obstruction in your kitten's intestines, requiring emergency care.
The Humane Society cautions against using litter with perfume or deodorizer added to it, as this may irritate your cat or trigger an allergic reaction. If odor is a concern, adding baking soda to the litter box is a safe, odor-absorbing alternative to scented litter., Once the box is completely dry, you'll need to refill the litter. However, you'll want to be sure to add the correct amount of litter. Too much litter will make a mess when your cat steps in and out of the box, and some cats (especially long-haired cats) are actually reluctant to use a box that is too full of litter.But using too little litter can make your cat feel like he won't be able to bury his waste, which can lead to out-of-box elimination. Insufficient litter can also lead to odor problems in your home.Most cats only need about two inches (about five centimeters) of litter.Don't pour more than four inches (about 10 centimeters) of litter, or your cat may not use the box.Whatever depth you choose to use, be consistent. Your cat may become stressed or confused if he suddenly has a lot more or less litter than he's used to.