 If you believe your nature is more about your purpose in life, you may find it helpful to use your spirituality or consult your higher power. Your higher power can refer to anything you believe in that is greater than yourself. It can be God, nature, family, a concept like love, or a nameless Higher Power.Your higher power may help guide you toward your true nature, your purpose, and motivate you to improve how you treat yourself and others. Try the following tips to help you become more spiritual:Find a form of spirituality that you are drawn to.
Develop regular practice of that form of spirituality such as attending services or meditating.
Utilize your spirituality during difficult times to help you cope.
 Let go of self doubt or hate.You are possibly looking to change your nature due to disliking or doubting yourself for the way you are. Before you are able to improve or change your nature for the better, you have to try to let go of the negative emotions you are feeling towards yourself.Show yourself some compassion instead.


Smile in the mirror at yourself. Talk to yourself the way you would to someone you love.Run through a list of things you're good at.
Confront negative thinking patterns. Try reframing any negative thoughts. Instead of thinking, "I can never do that — I'm sure I'll fail," try saying to yourself, "I'm scared I'll fail but I'm going to try, because I don't know the future."
Congratulate yourself and be proud about making a positive change.
 Depending on your definition of nature, what you want might not be changing your nature at all. Instead, consider doing something that goes against your nature for a chance at at a better life!Try changing the way you think about situations and your reaction to them.


If public displays of affection make you uncomfortable but you want to be a more affectionate person with your partner, consider going against your nature for the sake of your relationship.
If you experience social anxiety, but desire to be a more outgoing or social person, consider making the decision to go out and do something social.

