 If you need help with this, visit our article on signing up for Twitter.Then just use the text box in the top middle section of the screen to write your question, add @JustinBieber, and hit send.
Twitter is one of the best ways to contact Justin directly since he actually monitors and updates his Twitter account personally.
 Justin Bieber also has an Instagram account. You can like and comment on the pictures he's posted there as long as you have an Instagram account of your own.


If you don't have an Instagram account, sign up for Instagram first. If you need help, visit our article on signing up for Instagram.Go to Justin Bieber's Instagram: http://instagram.com/justinbieber.
Leave a comment with your question or statement on one of his recent photos.
Instagram is also one of the most effective ways to contact Justin directly since he actually monitors and updates his account personally.
 While you cannot be friends with Justin Bieber on a personal Facebook page, you can “Like” his artist page on Facebook. After doing so, you can write on his Facebook timeline and comment on his posts.


Note that you cannot send him a private message through his Facebook.
Visit his Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/JustinBieber.
Do not expect a response from Justin if you send him a comment via Facebook. He might see the comment, but he probably won't reply to it.
 You can leave a comment for Justin Bieber via YouTube by going to any of the videos posted to his page and leaving a comment with your YouTube or Google username.


First you'll need a YouTube account if you don't have one already. If you need help, visit our article on signing up for Youtube.Check out Justin Bieber's YouTube page at: http://www.youtube.com/user/JustinBieberVEVO.
Leave a comment on one of Justin Bieber's videos with a question or whatever it is you wish to say to him.
Do not expect a response from Justin if you send him a comment via YouTube. He might see the comment, but he probably won't reply to it.
 If you have a Myspace account, you can become a fan of Justin Bieber's page and send him messages through the website.


First, make a Myspace account if you don't have one already. If you need help, visit our article on signing up for MySpace.Find his Myspace at: https://myspace.com/justinbieber.
Mouse over his avatar picture in the upper left corner.
Mouse over the icon with two circles overlapping each other.
Click "Send message". Then write and send your message.
Do not expect a response from Justin if you send him a message via Myspace. He might see the comment, but he probably won't reply to it.

