 If there's a certain company that you really love, you may wish to buy their beans. Otherwise, you might want to experiment with different brands of beans. Different companies might have different size beans, beans from different parts of the world or beans in different sauces which create certain flavors. If you're on a tight budget, most supermarkets do their own brands of beans which are quite cheap.;
, Now that you've decided exactly what kinds of beans you want, go to your local supermarket and purchase these beans. If they do not have them particular types of beans in store, you might have to compromise for a different brand which could be cheaper or more expensive. Before you go out shopping for beans, check in your cupboards to see if you have any left over cans that you didn't know about.
 Using a can opener - and being extra careful not to cut yourself! - open the can of beans. They will usually be in a metal tin so you won't be able to open them any other way. However, there is a ring pin on the top of some cans similar to the ones that are on drink cans. If your tin of beans has this kind of mechanism, open it the same way that you'd open a drink.
 After you've opened the tin of beans, find yourself a small frying pan. It doesn't have to be big because it will only be holding some beans. If you're cooking more than one tin of beans, get a bigger frying pan. Simply pour the beans into it and lightly tap the bottom of the tin to get any remaining beans out of it. If there's a bean stuck at the bottom, scrape it out with a spoon.
 Every can of beans is different so every can of beans has to be cooked slightly differently. Read the label on the tin for exact cooking directions. As a general rule, cook the beans for about five to ten minutes on a high heat, constantly stirring them so they don't get stuck. When they get very hot and start to bubble, that's when they're cooked. Don't overcook them though as they could all dry up and taste nasty.
 Beans could be a little boring on their own. To make them a little more interesting, cook something on the side. Beans go great on toast, so put some bread in the toaster. Other things that go well with toast include eggs, sausages and bacon. If you're a really good cook, you can even cook everything and make yourself a great breakfast. If you're not good with multitasking, ask a friend or sibling to help you out.
 When you're sure that your beans are one hundred percent cooked, pour them into a bowl. Grab a spoon, sit down and tuck in. As an alternative, you could pour them onto a large plate and put your bacon, eggs, sausages and/or toast next to them. If you're having more than just beans, using a knife and fork instead of a spoon might be a better idea.

