 Don't let anyone who picks up your letter be confused about what they're reading. The very first things that someone should read should let them know what this letter is, and how they should read it.


A good example would be: "I'm writing to apply for the Chimney Sweep position advertised in Rolling Stone. I think my experience in the heating industry makes me uniquely qualified for this position. Please find my application materials and a brief description of my qualifications below."
Don't write your name until the signature. It'll be in the header and in the sign-off, so there's no reason to put it in the body of the letter itself.;
, What's unique about you? What do you bring to the table? What will you be able to do for this company, better than any other applicant? A good application letter will stand out form the pack.


Be specific. Who are you? Where do you come from? What's your story? These details are important. HR screeners read hundreds of these.
Describe your ambitions. Where do you want to go? How will this opportunity help you get there?
What skills and experiences make you the right fit? Be as specific as possible and avoid vague language. It's better to describe a time you solved a specific problem at your last job than to just write, "I'm a good problem solver at work."

, When you're applying for employment, it's important to keep the tone focused on the skills and experiences that make you qualified for employment at the business. It should be less the story of your life and more the reason that you'll be a good employee for the business. Use specific examples to make yourself stand out.


Tailor it to the business. If you're applying to work at a record store, you need to talk about music. If you're applying to work at a tech company that writes, "Tell us something totally rad about yourself!" it's probably ok to be a little more informal.
 What's at stake in this decision? What will you bring to the table? How will the business or school benefit from having you around? Imagine yourself going to work there, and describe specifically what you can do to help.


Don't over-promise. Telling someone that you can guarantee that you'll be able to turn around their sales figures in six months or less is a good way to get fired in six months.
 If you want to stand out from the other applicants, do a little research into the history of the business to which you're applying. What do they do? What is their basic business philosophy? What direction is the business moving in?


Any kind of job requires this type of research. If you apply to a restaurant, you need to be familiar with the menu and the kind of customers the restaurant attracts. Consider eating there a few times before you apply.
Don't show you're familiar by criticizing a business and telling them what you can do better. Not the time to offer a harsh criticism of a business plan that you don't really know anything about.

