 Many specialize in disorders such as Parkinson’s. A movement specialist can make recommendations and assess how your care is progressing.If there is no movement specialist who has experience with Parkinson's near you, you might ask your neurologist for a recommendation. If necessary, you might want to consider traveling occasionally to visit a good movement specialist, even if they are not nearby. This will enable them to notice changes as the disease progresses.
 If you find that others are often having difficulty understanding you, a speech and language specialist may help you to improve your voice.As about the Lee Silverman Voice Treatment (LSVT LOUD). It has been clinically demonstrated to help with Parkinson’s-related speech difficulties.
If you have trouble swallowing, the speech and language specialist can help you with this as well.
 A physical therapist will help you improve your balance, regain your range of motion, improve your flexibility, and keep your strength. The therapist can help devise exercises that are tailored to your needs.


This can be particularly helpful for people who are vulnerable to falling or who freeze and have difficulty moving., Occupational therapists specialize in helping people devise solutions to the problems that occur at home or at work. They can also recommend specialized devices that may make certain tasks easier and safer. This can help you retain your freedom and independence.Occupational therapist may be able to help with things like putting hand rails in the shower stall to make showering safer, getting you a special straw to make it easier to swallow liquids, installing a special swivel seat in your car if you have trouble getting in and out, or installing ramps in your house.
 This may be particularly helpful if you have difficulty getting enough nutrition or problems swallowing. Sometimes people with Parkinson's may not eat enough because they are worried about choking.A nutritionist can help you devise a meal plan that will be easier for you to eat, still be tasty, and will provide you with the nutrients that you need.
 You may find it helpful to go yourself, with your partner, or with your family. This can help you and loved ones to cope with the diagnosis and manage stress. The counselor can also help you find other federal, state, or local resources.You can locate a licensed professional by contacting the American Psychological Association, National Association of Social Workers, or the Association of Marriage and Family Therapists.
 Depression and anxiety are very common with Parkinson’s. A psychiatrist or psychologist can treat these conditions.If you are prescribed other medications for depression or anxiety, be sure to inform your other doctors so that they all know what medications you are on, how much, and when you take them. This is important for making sure you get the coordinated, thorough care.

