 This will allow you to save time in the morning by being able to get dressed quickly instead of looking for an outfit to wear. Plus you don't have to stress out about what to wear.


If you didn't have time to get clothes the night before, but you woke up very early, use this extra time to choose your outfit. If you're in a rush, opt for what you know always looks good on you or your school uniform.
Don't worry about the perfect outfit; just choose what you're comfortable wearing.;
,


If homework is incomplete, work on it during the evening, before school, during study hall, or even during lunch, if it is due that day.
If you find yourself with incomplete homework day after day, re-evaluate your plan for doing your homework.
 Falling asleep late can cause you to be late, and not have enough time to get ready the following morning.


Make sure you don't use a phone or tablet an hour before sleeping as the light from them will keep you awake.
Have your alarm set if you use one, you don't want to wake up realizing school has already started!

, Ideally, wake up an hour to an hour and a half before you leave for school. The earlier you get up, the more time you will have to get ready for school.


If needed, start going to bed earlier. It is impossible to perform to your fullest potential if you are only half awake during class.
, If you have morning showers, have one first thing, so that you can get dressed. If you only shower at night, skip this step.


Wash your whole body every day. People will be happy to hang around with you if you have a pleasant smell, but they will most-likely stay away from you if you don't.

Wash your hair at least every other day or every two days. If your hair gets tangled easily, or you like your hair looking shiny, condition your hair every single time it gets wet. Never use a brush after taking a shower (unless your brush is made for wet hair); use only a comb on wet hair.



Remember that there are still ways to express your individual style if you have a uniform.
Dress for the season- don't wear shorts and a tank top in the winter!

, This will keep you smelling fresh throughout the day.
 After your face is cleansed, apply moisturizer that is suitable for your skin type.
 Don't forget to do this; brushing your teeth gives you fresh breath, as well as that important resilience against cavities.


Remember to brush the roof of your mouth and your tongue.
Floss your teeth at least once a day. If you are rushed in the morning, hold off on the flossing until the night, so you will have the time to do a good job.
Chew whitening gum if you absolutely cannot brush your teeth, but try to do this as little as possible.
 Take your time (but remember that time frittered on doing makeup is time not spent sleeping, eating healthy breakfast, doing homework or relaxing; makeup isn't essential for school life).


If you are curling your eyelashes, do so before putting on mascara.
If you want your eyelashes to appear thick without eyeliner, focus the mascara at the base of your lashes so that it looks like you spent more time with eyeshadow and eyeliner.
Go for the natural look. This includes only wearing lip gloss or balm and a big smile.
School isn't a fashion show, so don't go too heavy. Test out new makeup before you wear it to school and make sure your parents and your school allow you to wear makeup.



Before you do anything, comb or brush your hair out.
Try not to use curling irons or flat irons every day because too much direct heat can ruin hair.
 Paint your nails if you are allowed to at your school. Make sure to use edge control and do your edges to look good for your hair.



Orange juice and even grape juice are chock full of vitamin C.
Never skip breakfast, or else you will feel tired throughout the day.



Always pack more than you think you will eat, so you have options.
 Don't forget to do this before you leave; brushing your teeth gives you fresh breath, as well as that important resilience against cavities.


Remember to brush the roof of your mouth and your tongue.
Floss your teeth at least once a day. If you are rushed in the morning, hold off on the flossing until the night, so you will have the time to do a good job.
Chew whitening gum if you absolutely cannot brush your teeth, but try to do this as little as possible.
 You don't want to arrive at school in your pajama bottoms!

,


Have you got your transportation money?
Have you got a raincoat and/or warm top?
Have you got your packed lunch or lunch money?
Have you got your book bag?
Have you got your homework?

,


Don't fuss over what others think of you; do your best to be a confident, well groomed and pleasantly presented person and be kind and thoughtful to others and your good reputation will precede you.

