


Get a hair cut. Make sure your hair is from one-inch above your chest to one-inch below, and get it layered so it falls short in front, and then longer in back in a V-shape so it flows naturally. Follow these tips to achieve the ultimate hair style:
Straighten your hair. For curly-to-wavy hair, get a straightening perm (where they use the wavy-perm stuff, but they straighten it) if the hair straighteners aren't strong enough. Even if you do have straight hair, straighten it with a straightening iron, which you can find guides on WikiHow for.
If your hair is too short to do this then just get the simple shorter at the back, longer at the front look.
Highlight your hair. This works best for light brown to dirty blonde hair - if you have dark hair, you'll have to bleach the hair you want to highlight before you put the color in (leave it a couple days between bleaching and dyeing!). Either get blonde highlights from the root to a little above the middle of the hair, or get a color (like pink, purple, or even red) along the bottom.
Don't be afraid to experiment! Try new things with your hair. Put in plastic bows (they look oh-so cute!) or tie your hair in pigtails that rest on your shoulders. If you have a small section of hair dyed, take that piece and put a clip in it!;
, Make sure you follow these wardrobe steps:


Check out Zumiez, Journeys, Tilly's, Vans, Punky Fish, or any skate-shops. Most of them have websites. They will probably have ideas for outfits you can try!
Any pink frilly stuff you might have from your pre-punk days can still work pretty well, if you put an edge on it. Think Gothic Lolita, think Courtney Love and Kat Bjelland!
For tops, buy babydoll-tees with any patterns of "skate stuff", like hearts in bright colors, electric bolts, etc. Or try layering tank tops in bright colors. 'Tie up' your shirt around your waist (not showing your stomach, just around your waist so that only a little bit shows) and fold the knot under. You can also wear 'arm warmers' in bright colors, just don't over-do it!
For bottoms, try ripped skinny jeans, mini shorts or skirts, really anything that's a dark-wash, ripped/faded, or skinny. Under shorts and skirts, you can wear bright leggings in stripped colors. Try a black and another color combo, which minimizes the size of your legs.
For accessories, wear big necklaces, chokers, cuffs, bright big beaded bracelets, anklets, eye-grabbing earrings, and if you're daring...Ties!.
 Not a lot of caked-on garbage, just these few simple things to complete your look:


A skin-tone evener, or a concealer, for evening out your skin tone.
Black eyeliner. Don't make it thick and racoon-like, just a thin line, and a swirl or flip at the end.
Shimmery eyeshadow that blends with the eyeliner, and make sure you blend them. Try a sheer eyeshadow if you don't want it too thick. Another thing to try, is put on silvery colored eyeshadow with a wet brush, (literally cake it on, but don't make it very dark, just obviously visible) from your lash line to halfway up to your brow. Then take a dark metallic silvery shade and lightly overlap it on the outer corners of your eyeball lids, for a (lighter and neater) Nancy Spungen makeup look. Add mascara, eyeliner on your top and bottom waterline (Note TOP waterline, under your lashes, because it will add an illusion of fuller lashes, even if you have remarkably full lashes) and maybe, JUST maybe, put the eyeliner under your lashes starting 3/4 from the outer corner of your lashes and wing it out as far as you want. Punk is about being different, don't even mind the word 'Poser'.
Lip shine, in a pale pink color. What you're looking for isn't color, but shine.
 A dark, heart patterned JanSport one will be perfect. Or try a messenger bag, although they are murder on the shoulders if you have a lot of homework or textbooks, however you can get thick strapped messenger bags although these are harder to find. Decorate you bag strap with badges of bands, stars or skulls, another alternative is make your own badge. By gluing some ribbons and a beer bottle cap on top these can give an awesome punk touch to your outfit.




Be cool. Act wild and spazzy when it works for you, but learn how to say the right things and not make a fool of yourself. Be yourself, and you will soon be seen as someone who is popular!
Adapt a I'm-Myself-And-You-Can't-Change-That attitude. Forget about wanting to please the 'popular' crowd, just be yourself!

, Still be the real you, and don't give up on anything just to be like this. Punk is meant to be unique too, adapt this to make your own style!!

