 If you are concerned about a woman you know, be she a friend, co worker, or acquaintance, and you do not know how you can help her without putting her in further danger, contact an agency that can help you. These agencies include:


The National Domestic Violence Hotline. Call 800-799-SAFE (7233).
Office on Violence Against Women, DOJ.
Rape, Abuse, and Incest National Network.
 Try to make sure that you can be alone with the woman and away from anyone who you suspect may be abusing her.


Setting up a private talk may help your friend to open up about her situation.
 Bring up times when you have been afraid for your friend, or have noticed your friend acting oddly. Try to help her to see that she does not need to be in this situation, and that there are ways she can get out of it.


Make it clear that you are here to support her in any way you can.
 Try to remember that it might be very difficult for your friend to open up about her experiences. Listen to everything she has to say and make it clear that you are on her side.


Consider offering specific support, be it driving her to places, helping her with her children, or simply just offering a shoulder to cry on.
 While you may have a lot of anger towards the abuser, try not to make your friend feel guilty or shameful by saying something like “Why haven’t you left him already?”. Instead, use your own worries to make her understand that she has options.


Say something like “I get really scared when I think about you being alone with him. I want to help you find a solution in anyway that I can.”

, Try to encourage your friend to seek the help of a professional. This could include talking to a domestic violence agency, or even contacting the police.


While you may want to contact these institutions for her, she needs to be the one to seek help.
 Help your friend to come up with a plan that will keep her, and her family if she has one, safe. Talk about:


Ways that she can get away from her abuser, along with her children and, if possible, her pets.
Places she could go that her abuser will not look for her, such as a shelter for abused women, or the house of a friend where the abuser will not find her.
Discuss the means of getting a court order of protection, which will force the abuser to stay away from the woman.
 Sadly, people in abusive relationships often choose to stay with the abuser for many different reasons. Your friend may decide to leave the abuser, but then may return to the person again. If she does this, continue to offer her any support that you can and try to encourage her to spend time away from the abuser.If your friend decides to leave the abuser for good, try to support your friend emotionally during this very difficult time. Offer to help her get support from services that work with abused women.

