 If the bully is online or only throwing around insults in person, then you can simply walk away from the situation. Physically removing yourself from the bully will shut them down because you are no longer there to be the butt of their jokes and taunts. Eventually they will move on from harassing you because you’ve removed yourself from their presence.
 This is especially important if your bully is older and bigger than you and walking away from the situation didn’t work. If they shove or push you, do your best to calmly walk away from the altercation. However, if they won’t let you walk away, do your best to Defend Yourself until you can get away from them.Put your arms up in front of your chest and face to deflect any incoming slaps or punches. Do your best to dodge any punches or kicks. As soon as you spot a friend or adult, shout to them that you need help. Bullies will usually stop physical altercations immediately when adults are around because the consequences for fighting are severe.
Never throw the first punch or slap at your bully. If you do, you will probably get in just as much trouble as the bully.
If the bully is physically hurting you, you cannot wait for them to become bored and leave you alone. Tell an adult immediately.
 If the bully is outnumbered by you and your friends, they will often be deterred from bullying you. Bullies also tend to stop harassing others when adults are around, so try to stay near a trusted adult at school. Avoid private settings where the bully could corner you and hurt you., If you know where your bully will be at a particular time, such as during their trip to and from school, avoid taking the same route. If possible, take the bus so there will be an adult around or ride with a friend or parent to school to minimize possible interaction time with the bully.Avoiding your bully doesn’t mean that they won or that you’re scared of them. It just means that you are looking out for your own safety and well-being., There are different ways to Handle Cyber Bullying. If you have tried ignoring your bully and assertively asking them to stop harassing you, then you will need to block them on social media and email. Once they are blocked, be sure to adjust your privacy setting across all your social media accounts so that only your friends and family can see you and contact you.Some bullies might go so far as to create alternate accounts to regain access to you. Be skeptical of friend requests from people you don’t know. Only accept new followers and friend requests from people you know personally.If the bully has your phone number, you might need to get a new number to make sure that they are completely cut off from you.
Some newer phones have call block features which help you Block a Number from Texting You or calling you. Simply list the number as the one you want blocked, and you will have no further contact with that phone number.

