 A quick Google search will get you started, but you’ll need to more in-depth research than that. Depending on where you live, you may have several different options to compare or you may be making a trek to a technician, so it’s important to do your homework.Check their licenses and certificates. These should be listed on their website, but you can also call and explicitly ask.;
, The best way to guess what your own results would be like is to see the results of previous customers. Look at the technician’s portfolio online, paying special attention to those “before” eyebrow pictures that look most like yours.Check out reviews on their Yelp page, and Google their name to see if you can find any other customers.
Don’t forget, technicians create brows per their client’s preferences. If you don’t like a certain shape or style you see on in their portfolio, that may have simply been the customer’s choice.
 Microblading is not a cheap investment, and depending on where you are located, it can vary from $300 to $1,000. While comparing prices can be helpful and realistic, remember that microblading is a process that can drastically change your face. If you prefer the work of one technician but it’s a bit pricier, decide if you’re worth it.
 When you think you’ve chosen your technician, call and schedule a consultation. This is a short appointment where your technician can look at your natural brows, talk to you more in-depth about the technique, and start determining the best color and shape for your face. Many times, they’ll even use a pencil to create “preliminary” brows.
 If you have a tan on your face during your appointment, the pigment can heal darker than you desire. A tan can also affect how the lines heal.For a couple weeks before your appointment, wear hats and wear sunscreen!

, If you get chemical peels, do not get any within 60 days of your microblading appointment. Also, keep in mind that doing chemical peels after your microblading will cause the pigment to fade faster. Do not get Botox within three weeks of your microblading. Thirty days prior to your procedure, discontinue use of any products with Retinol or Retin-A., Your technician will work with you to create a shape, so don’t worry about getting them shaped prior to your appointment. If you get your eyebrows waxed, make sure you don’t do it within 72 hours of your appointment. In general, going to your appointment au natural is preferable., Both of these can increase bleeding and swelling during the application. To achieve the best results, your skin should be as insensitive to the procedure as possible. The more bleeding and oozing that occurs, the less pigment actually stays in the skin. Excess bleeding and swelling can also make the technician’s job much more difficult., If you have a celebrity “brow goal,” bring a picture (or five). It’s particularly helpful if these celebrities have a similar hair color to you. You may not be able to articulate exactly what you’re looking for, but these pictures can help your technician understand the style of eyebrow you like.
 Before your technician even applies the numbing cream, they’ll work with you to sketch out the eyebrow shape. Take your time to make sure they create the exact shape you like. Observe the inner corners, the tail, the width, the arch, and so on. If you dislike anything, tell them. Don’t worry about taking your sweet time ¬¬– you want these to be perfect, and you’re paying for it.This step is the most important of the entire procedure, so it’s important to be explicit and firm with what you want.
 After you’ve gotten your microblading, make sure to check it out in a mirror and decide if there is anything else you want done. Check for any gaps or any areas where you want a few more strokes. Make sure that you are happy with the shape when you leave the salon.
 Depending on your skin type and how your skin reacted to the procedure, you will get specific instructions from your technician. The aftercare is critically important in how your brows heal and the results you end up with. Some people are told to keep their brows dry, while others are told to put healing ointment on them. Whatever instructions you receive, follow them!, This can be hard if you’re used to filling in your brows meticulously every day, but leave them untouched for at least ten days after the procedure. You may have some discoloration, scabbing, and gaps, but you need to let that heal without any product on top of it. If your brows aren’t flawless as they’re healing, don’t worry – follow your aftercare instructions, and they will be once they’re healed., These can all affect the color and intensity of your finished result. You want the pigment to take to your skin as best as it can. It’s best to plan your microblading appointment strategically, so you’re able to follow these aftercare instructions without much sacrifice.For example, don’t schedule your appointment before a marathon or a tropical vacation.
 Microblading technicians will tell you that you do not achieve perfect eyebrows in one appointment. It is a two-part process. After the first application has healed, you will go back for a touch-up appointment. Now, the technician can observe how your skin took the pigment and how the results healed. Then, you can fix anything you’re unhappy with, darken the color, tweak the shape, and so on.