 If you do not have consistent access to the internet, or would rather send in a paper application, you can do that. Paper applications can be found at various locations around the state, including at your local board of elections, the state board of elections, your local MVA location, any college campus, and at Offices of Aging.You can also download an application online and print it., Your entire application must be filled out using black ink.Make sure you have a black pen handy before you start. You can also fill the application out on your computer and print it in black ink.
 As an initial inquiry, the registration application will ask you to verify that you are at least 16 years old and a citizen of the United States. If you cannot verify this information, you will not be able to register., Section 2 asks you to check any box that applies to the type of application you are filing. For example, if you are filling out a new registration, you will check that box. If you are changing your address, you will check that box., Your personal information needs to be included throughout the application in Sections 3 through 8. In those sections you will need to include your name, gender, date of birth, driver's license number, social security number, residence address, and mailing address., If you want to claim a party affiliation, you will do so in Section 9. You can only check one box. If you do not want to be affiliated with a specific party, you can check the box titled "unaffiliated"., Section 10 will ask you to provide, at a minimum, your phone number. You can also include your email address if you would like., As a registered voter, you can receive help voting if you need it. If you have trouble seeing, or if you have any other disability that might impair your ability to vote, check the box titled "Check here if you need help voting". Additionally, if you would like to be an election judge, you can check the appropriate box to help., Once all of the application information is included, you will need to sign and date the form.Your signature must be original, which means it cannot be typed, stamped, or made in any other way besides personally writing it., Below your signature you can include information about previous voter registration application. For example, if your name has changed or address has changed, you would include that information in Sections A and B., When you are done with your application, you need to put it in an envelope and address it properly. Completed applications can be sent to the State Board of Elections or your county's Board of Elections. You can find the proper address by visiting the State Board of Elections website., Once you have properly addressed your application, you can put a stamp on the envelope and send it in. Applications will not be accepted if you try to fax them or email them.