 If the sauce or condiment is very salty, it might be a good idea to use less of the seasoning in the packet. This will help keep the ramen from turning out too salty. Listed below are some tasty options that you could try:Fish sauce
Japanese curry powder
Ponzu
Miso paste
Thai curry paste

, This is a great option if fish sauce and curry powder or paste aren't your thing. Here are some ideas to get you started:Citrus juices, such as a squeeze of lemon or lime. Add these just before serving.
Oils such as: animal fat, chili oil, or sesame oil.
Spices such as: chili flakes, coriander seeds, or white pepper. You will need to remove the seeds prior to serving, however.
 You can add delicate and quick cooking vegetables just before serving the ramen. You can also add sturdier, long cooking vegetables to the noodles as you cook them. Here are some more tasty options:For quick cooking vegetables, try: baby spinach, bean sprouts, scallions, or watercress.
For long cooking vegetables, try: broccoli, snap peas, snow peas, or shredded carrots.
No fresh vegetables? Try frozen ones instead! Be sure to thaw them under running hot water for about 30 seconds first.
 Ramen is full of sodium, starch, and fat, which isn't very healthy. You can make your meal a little more nutritious with an egg, which is packed with protein. Soft boiled and hard boiled eggs sliced in half are the most popular, but you can use other types as well. Here are some options for you to try:Hard boil an egg in cold water. Peel it, slice it in half, then add it on top of the ramen, just before serving.
Soft boil an egg after the water has already started to boil. Cook it for 3 to 7 minutes, then peel it, slice it in half, then add it to the ramen just before serving.
Try an egg-drop instead. After the noodles and broth have cooked, give them a stir. Pour a lightly-beaten egg into the pot while the broth and noodles are still moving.
Poach an egg right on top of the noodles. Let the egg boil for 30 seconds. Turn off the stove, cover the pot with a lid, and wait 30 more seconds.Add a fried egg on top. You will need to fry the egg and cook the ramen separately. Slide the fried egg right on top of the ramen before you serve it.
 Thinly sliced meats are the most popular, but you can also use chicken breast, flank steak, or pork tenderloin. Cook them in the broth while the noodles are simmering in their own pot. Take the meat out of the broth, add the noodles, then drop the meat back on top.Keep the meat to a minimum. You want to focus on the ramen noodles and broth itself.Thinly sliced pork belly or shoulder are the most popular and authentic., For most of these, you will need to go to a supermarket specializing in Asian produce. You might also be able to find some of these in the Asian foods section of your local supermarket. Here are some tasty options for you to try:Fish cakes
Sliced daikon, lotus root, or shitake mushrooms
Shredded nori
Menma-fermented bamboo shoots.
