 Feed a length of all-purpose thread through the eye of a sewing needle. Double up the thread, then knot the end using a standard overhand knot.


The length of the thread will vary based on individual preference. Keep in mind that the finished length of your bead chain on the hair clip will be half the total length of the stand itself.
Double up the thread, keeping it bent over the eye of the needle, and knot both ends together at the opposite end. Trim away any excess thread beyond the knot.
 Thread seed beads onto the strand by sliding them over the needle and down the length of the thread.


You'll need to choose seed beads that have a wide enough opening to fit over the sewing needle. The opening must be too small to fit over the knot at the end of your thread, however.
Use any color or mix of colors you'd like for this project. You can create patterns or thread the beads randomly.
Continue threading beads until nearly the entire length of thread has been covered. Make sure that you leave enough thread at the top of the strand to knot off, though.
 Tie a standard overhand knot above the top bead of your strand. Position the knot as close to the top bead as possible, and make sure this knot is large enough to block the beads from falling off.


Trim away any excess thread beyond this top knot.
Note that both ends should be knotted at the completion of this step.
 Open the clip and slide the beaded strand inside. The center of the bead chain should should be aligned with the fold of the open hair clip.


Snap clips work best for this project since you can fit the strand of beads directly around the bottom snap prong of the clip. Make sure that the ends of the strand extend outward through the front opening of the clip.
If desired, you can knot or glue the stand of beads together at the base of the hair clip. Doing so shouldn't be necessary in most cases, however, and the beads should remain firmly in place even without the use of adhesive.
 The hair clip should be done and ready to wear. Fit it into your hair so that the ends of the beaded strand hang down.

