 Before you can get any kind of credit card, you will need to have a job and be earning money. Without an income of some kind, no credit agency or bank will be willing to award you even a first-time credit card. You cannot report income that you get as gifts or loans from parents or other family members., Several credit card companies offer special cards to students. If you are a student with limited or no credit history, you may want to consider one of these offers. Contact your own bank, if you have one, or search online for “student visa card” or “student mastercard” to find offers. Be careful to research these offers carefully, so you understand what you are getting.Credit cards are not offered directly from the name Visa or Mastercard. The credit account is offered by a bank or credit company, that in turn works with Visa or Mastercard. Each bank or credit company can offer its own interest rates, rewards program and other services as part of the credit card offer.
When you are researching offers for student credit cards, be careful to check repayment requirements and interest rates. Some companies may make getting a card easier but then add fees or higher interest, so the card ends up costing you more.
 Retail stores (Sears, Staples, Target, and many others) offer credit cards to their customers. Because the stores want your business, they are going to be more generous in granting approval, even if you have little or no credit history built up. Select a store where you are likely to shop regularly. Review their website online for information about their credit card programs. In many cases, you may even be able to apply directly through the website. Alternatively, you may want to visit the store’s customer service desk to apply for a credit card.Research any store credit offers carefully. As with student cards, store cards may allow you easier access to get credit, but then the requirements can be strict to keep up with your payments.
Find out about the interest rates that apply to balances that you carry. Store card interest rates are often higher than for other credit cards. If you have a card with a high interest rate, the best recommendation is to pay off your balance monthly.

