 Melt the cup of milk chocolate and pour it into the silicone cupcake mold. Be sure to use a mold meant for small cupcakes, as a regular-sized cupcake mold is too large. Save a small amount of the chocolate for use in a later step.If chocolate collects in the bottom of the cups, pour it out so that there’s only a thin layer of chocolate on the bottom and side of each individual mold.
Place the mold in the refrigerator until the chocolate re-hardens. Pop each chocolate cup carefully. These will serve as the bases for your marshmallow flowers.
 Dust a flower-shaped cookie cutter with cornstarch and use it to remove “flowers” from the sheet of marshmallow. Place them on surface dusted with cornstarch without allowing them to touch one another if you’re cutting out more than one at a time., Meticulously fold the petals of your flowers inwards towards themselves, so that it looks like a hand with all of the fingertips touching. You may wish to elongate individual petals of your marshmallow flowers to allow for easier folding. To do so, use a knife to deepen the valleys between the petals., Once your flower buds are sculpted, dip the bottom of each bud into a bit of melted chocolate. Then press the bud into it’s own hardened chocolate base. Finally, allow the individual buds to cool and seal the marshmallow flower to the base., You may wish to increase the appeal to your flowers by inserting something in the middle of the flower. Whatever you hide here will be revealed when the flower blooms. A particularly apt option would be a tiny truffle - though the specific is entirely up to you.Be creative. For instance, you could shatter a candy cane and dust the interior of the flower, or burrow a gummy bear within the petals arms.
Another option is adding a drop of food coloring to the center of the marshmallow flower before folding it up. Alternatively, you can brush a mixture of water and food coloring to whatever portion of the marshmallow you want.
 This recipe calls for vanilla extract as the only flavoring additives, but feel free to add other flavors as well. For instance, you could add a drop of all natural lavender essential oil when you add the vanilla. This will not only imbue the flowers with a subtle lavender flavor, they will also give off a thematically appropriate aroma.Similarly, you can make the chocolate based with either dark chocolate or white chocolate if you prefer.

