 This will allow you to determine who your competitors are. Keyword searches can be performed in any Internet search engine or in major social networking applications.


Go to an Internet search engine such as Google or Bing and enter keywords related to the product you are researching. For example, if you are conducting market research to gain strategies for selling refurbished computers, enter keywords that consumers would use, such as "best deals on refurbished computers" to review the results that appear in the search engine.
Use social networking applications such as Twitter or Facebook to see what users are discussing in regards to specific keywords. For example, if you want to review what users are saying in regards to online coupons, go to the search field in Twitter and enter a phrase such as "best online coupons" and review the search results.;
, This will allow you to determine how your competitors are marketing themselves and who is mentioning your competitors on their own websites or blogs.


Type the name of a competitor into any search engine and examine the search results. If a particular website or blog is posting content about your competitor, the link to their content will be displayed in the search results.
 Consumers and other participants can provide you with free feedback through an online survey.


A variety of websites exist that allow you to create surveys. Type a keyword phrase into any search engine such as "develop an online survey" to review a list of websites that offer this service.
Place close-ended questions into the survey or questionnaire and limit the amount of questions to no more than 25, which will allow participants to complete the survey in 7 minutes or less.
 A variety of tools exist on the Internet that allow you to track market research metrics; such as Google Analytics and the Google Adwords Keyword Tool.


Use the Google Adwords Keyword Tool to measure keyword usage on your website, and use Google Analytics to review website metrics such as visits, page views, and more.
 Depending on the market in which you reside, you may be able to find consumer feedback and marketing data about your company on government websites or in online trade journals.


Visit websites such as that of your local Chamber of Commerce, your country's Department of Labor Statistics Bureau, the websites for organizations such as the National Business Association, and more.
Go to the "Fast up Front" website featured in the Sources section of this article, then click on the link within the body of that article entitled "post on free government resources," which will redirect you to a complete list of websites with free market research resources.

