 With ADHD, there is a fine line separating a rigid schedule from chaos. This can often mean that it is difficult to make time for family members in a spontaneous way. Such a lack of flexibility can cause non-ADHD family members to feel like they are not important or that you are more worried about your plans for the day then their feelings. You can often build time into your schedule for this kind of flexibility by allotting more time than you will actually need for each task., If you tend to stand a little too closely or talk a little too loudly for everyone else’s comfort, you will need be be conscious of these social boundaries. Keep these boundaries in mind by being aware of how close you are to someone and how loud or active you are compared to everyone else in the room. It can also help to communicate your needs to others.For example, if it is hard to sit down for an entire conversation, you could mention to your friends or family members that you are paying attention to them but are too restless to sit for an hour or two at a time., You might find that you often get so consumed in what you are doing that you avoid or forget to be social. It is important to surround yourself with people who appreciate you. It is also important to show people that you appreciate them by making time for them., This is especially important when things upset you. You might react more intensely than most others, and this can be hurtful and confusing to partners and family members that do not have ADHD (and those who do, too). Before you react, you should consider the impact of what you plan to say or do. If necessary, leave the room and collect your thoughts before responding to an emotional situation., This is very important to avoid developing a “child-parent” relationship between a spouse with ADHD and one without. You probably often overlook boring chores like putting away the dishes and have to be reminded (or parented) by your significant other without ADHD. Make a checklist for each day’s chores and make sure that you are taking the initiative to do them without being reminded too many times.The parent-child dynamic is very damaging to most relationships and is one of the primary reasons that people with ADHD tend to have relationship problems.
 Since the ADHD brain struggles to reward itself internally, you may feel the need to seek external thrills. It is okay to satisfy your needs for stimulation ― carefully. For example, booking a skydiving trip might be a great thrill. Flirting with your spouse’s best friend, well, that’s not such a good idea.It is also good practice to be open with your partner or spouse about your needs so that you can work out ways that you are both fulfilled in the relationship.