 Sift together the rice flour, starch, and salt into a large mixing bowl. Gently toss the ingredients together using a wooden spoon.After combining the ingredients, consider sifting them again to remove any lumps that may have formed during the mixing process.
 Place the eggs, vegetable oil, and water into a separate medium mixing bowl. Whisk until evenly combined.


While not strictly necessary, it's a good idea to lightly beat the eggs (enough to combine the whites and yolks) before adding the oil and water. Doing so makes it easier to evenly distribute the whites and yolks.
 Form a well with the dry mixture, then pour the liquid mixture into that well. Gradually combine the two mixtures with a wooden spoon until evenly mixed.


After mixing the two sets, continue beating them with a whisk until nearly all of the lumps are gone. The batter must be as smooth as possible.
 Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and place it in your refrigerator for approximately one hour.


Chilling the batter will thicken it slightly, but it should still be a liquid batter instead of a solid dough.
 Spray a medium nonstick frying pan with nonstick cooking spray. Set the pan onto the stove over medium heat.


If necessary, you could add a little oil to the pan instead of using cooking spray. Only add 1 tsp (5 ml) or so, however; adding too much oil can give the wrappers an undesirable greasy texture and taste.
Allow the pan to heat up for 30 to 60 seconds before continuing.
 Scoop up approximately 1/4 cup (60 ml) of the chilled batter, then carefully ladle it into the center of the pan.


Since the batter is thick, it may not spread out far on its own. Use the back of the ladle to swirl the batter around, forming a very thin film over the bottom of the pan.
 Cook the film for a couple of minutes. As soon as it sets and forms a solid wrapper, carefully lift it off from the bottom of the pan using a spatula or fork.


You should not attempt to flip the wrapper over while cooking it. Note that neither side of the wrapper should brown, either.
 Ladle the rest of the batter into the hot pan, working with 1/4 cup (60 ml) or so each time.


Consider keeping the batter in the refrigerator in between batches, especially if it starts getting thin while pouring it.
You can stack the finished wrappers, but keep sheets of wax paper or parchment paper in between each one to prevent them from sticking.
 These wrappers are best when used immediately, but you can also save them in the refrigerator for one or two days.


Keep each wrapper separated by plastic wrap or wax paper. Cover the entire batch with plastic wrap before storing the wrappers.

