 You will need proper documentation to submit to the North Carolina Office of Vital Records to ensure that there aren’t any delays in obtaining the birth certificate.


You need to have a completed application form to get a copy of a North Carolina birth certificate.If you are applying for a copy of your own birth certificate, you need to provide a copy of your official photo ID. For example, you can provide your driver’s license, U.S. military ID, passport, or a student ID with a copy of your transcript.If you are applying for a copy of a birth certificate for another person, including for your child, you need identification and any other legal documentation, such as a court order.If you are an adopted person, the following persons can request a copy of your birth certificate: you, your adoptive parents, your children, your spouse, and your adoptive siblings (with proof of relationship). Birth certificates that show the adoptee's original name and the birth mother's name are sealed and not available., In addition to your documentation, you need to submit an application for a birth certificate copy.The application is available online at http://vitalrecords.nc.gov/documents/Appl_BirthCert_GN_fill-in_20150504.pdf

You need the following information for the application: name on the birth certificate, both parents’ full names, date of birth, place of birth in North Carolina, and the requestor's relationship to the person named on the document.Make sure to check off “expedited processing” and “expedited shipping” on the application form if you want faster service.If you have any specific questions on the application, call the Office of NC Vital Records at 919-733-3000 between 8:00am and 5:00pm.You also need to send a copy of your valid photo ID., There are fees to get a birth certificate copy or copies in North Carolina. You can pay this by certified or business check or money order and send it along with your application.The base fee for getting a birth certificate copy is $24.Every additional copy is $15.Expedited service costs $15 and you can have it mailed to you by regular mail.You can also choose expedited service and expedited postage for the $15 expedited service fee and an additional $35 for the faster postage.Make the business or certified check or money order out to “North Carolina Vital Records.”The Office of Vital Records does not accept personal checks., Once you’ve collected all of your required documentation and the payment, send your application to the North Carolina Vital Records office.


If you are using US mail, send your application to: North Carolina Vital Records, 1903 Mail Service Center, Raleigh, NC 27699-1903.Consider sending the application materials by registered mail so that you can ensure that it arrives at the Vital Records office.
If you are using UPS or FedEx, send your application to: N.C. Vital Records, 225 North McDowell Street, Raleigh, N.C. 27603-1382.If you want expedited service, make sure to write “EXPEDITE” on the outside of the envelope.
 It can take a few days to a few weeks to get the copy of the birth certificate for which you applied by mail. If you have any questions about your application, follow up with of the NC Vital Records office at the phone number listed above.

