 Once you know all the basics (rolls, walkovers, cartwheels, round-offs), try taking private lessons so you can learn harder tricks faster. Before you even start taking a gymnastics or tumbling class, you need to know a cartwheel, round off, back and front walkover, forward and backward roll, and a pike roll. In your gymnastics class, learn handsprings, tucks, aerials, and other difficult tricks.;
, It is better to take a gymnastics class, as this builds strength for cheerleading, flexibility, and tumbling skills. But, you can just take a tumbling class if you aren't into gymnastics.
 If you are on your school's cheer team, aim to become the cheerleader captain. You need to be a wonderful cheerleader, the best in your team, even if you aren't the captain.
 If there are none around, wait until you're older and join a college division team (level 6 all-star cheer). All you need to do is be part of a cheerleading squad in middle and high school and join an All Star team if you can.
 You need to have an extremely hyper-extended toe touch, a high pike, a strong herkie, around the world, tuck, double hook, hurdler, and spread eagle. You need to be on top of all of your jumps so they are strong, hyper-extended, and high. To make them strong, build leg muscle with squat jumps, squats, and straddle leg lifts. This also makes them higher. To hyper-extend them, you need an excellent over-split, have your head flat on your knees when in a pike, and just be extremely flexible. Don't forget a strong core! Practice your kicks too. You need to have perfect kicks with straight legs and pointed toes. Your motions should be stronger than anything, snappy, straight, and strong.
 In order to be a pro cheerleader, you need to do classes, no matter what. You need to be in a jazz, hip hop, and modern dance class, a gymnastics class, a cheerleading squad, and do track. The dancing will improve your flexibility, motions, cheer, and dance technique. The gymnastics class will improve your jumps, flexibility, and tumbling technique, and track will improve your endurance and strength. Of course a professional cheerleader needs to be on a cheerleading squad. You need to be on your school cheer team and possibly an All Star team. If your school does competitive cheer, you are fine. Do these classes during the school year and do cheer, dance, and/or gymnastics camp during the summer. If you have stingy parents who refuse to sign you up for all these classes, you may just want to be on your school cheerleading squad and teach yourself easy gymnastics moves (cartwheels, walkovers, round offs, handstands, etc.) and hopefully learn tougher moves on your cheer squad. If you do a perfect walkover by yourself, you may be able to teach yourself a handspring, but only with a spotter.
 You need to do strength training 3 days a week, cardio 3 days a week, and stretching 3 times a day. For strength training, do one day arms, one day abs, and one day legs. For cardio, do one day dancing, one day running, and one day walking. Do stretches to aid your splits, tumbling, arms, back, and stomach. On the one day you don't have anything already occupied, do non stop cheering. Remember, this is in addition to your classes and cheer practices.
 Cheerleaders are not only fit, they are gorgeous too. In order to be a professional cheerleader, you need a pretty face, a curvy body, and a tan, without counting other things. To make your face gorgeous, you should get into a skin care routine of washing, exfoliating, toning, applying an anti aging serum, and moisturizing twice a day everyday. For your body, do exercises for a bigger bottom like squats, lunges, wall sits, calve raises, leg raises, and kickbacks. For a small waist, do exercises like the hundred, crunches, sit ups, oblique crunches, bicycle crunches, and horizontal side supports. For perkier breasts, do push ups, tricep push ups, dive bombers, and side push ups. Also, massage your breasts daily. For your tan body, tan once a week in the sun and use a self-tanner daily. Other things to work on include white teeth, perfect hair, and neat makeup. So, go to your dentist and do everything they say. Whiten your teeth with baking soda, using a baking soda and water mixture to brush your teeth once a month. Start this at twelve. For perfect hair, use a good quality shampoo made for your hair type along with a matching conditioner. Also, use a heat protectant spray when styling and a deep moisturizing treatment once a week. For your makeup, wear lots of mascara on your natural lashes unless you wear fake lashes, in which you should wear only a little. Wear a pink lip gloss or lipstick, never fuchsia. Use a slightly shimmery eyeshadow, but not too shimmery. Glam it up but don't wear blue eyeshadow, red lipstick, or glitter. A nice pink, gold or brown eyeshadow is great, so is pink lipstick. Wear light foundation, powder, and concealer. Use a light blush too.
 Make sure you are a great leader, a happy person, bubbly, peppy, outgoing, and helpful!

