 Mindfulness is a practice that can positively influence both your physical and mental health. Learning this practice can help you enjoy greater awareness of yourself, and as a result, limit the undesirable behaviors you develop. Mindfulness helps you better react to stress, improves sleep quality, decreases worry and anxiety, and promotes life engagement.There are a variety of helpful mindfulness techniques.


Basic mindfulness meditation is used to promote relaxation and calm. Sit comfortably and quietly in a room with no distractions. Breathe deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth, keeping your focus on your breath. Allow your thoughts to enter and depart from your mind freely with no judgment. There is no need to criticize yourself for letting your mind wander—just notice that you have become distracted and promptly return the focus to your breath.
Urge surfing is a great technique for those with addictions or other unwanted behaviors. You simply sit quietly while deep breathing as cravings manifest. You will notice the physical sensations happening in your body due to the craving. Rather than wishing that the craving go away, tell yourself inwardly that--like the tides of an ocean--it will naturally fade in a few moments.
 No, your friends, coworkers, and family members don't have to go on this journey with you, but you do need to determine whether they are helping or hurting your progress.


Sometimes, our friends are so used to us acting a certain way that they rebel against us if we change. If you have anyone in your social circle that is unhappy about you making positive changes, or is trying to sabotage your growth, you need to take action.
For example, you are trying to lose weight but have a friend who is always bringing you cupcakes. You will need to confront the person to ensure that you do not get off track with the sweet treats. You might pull your friend aside and say “Hey, Alice, I know you mean well by bringing cupcakes, but I’m trying to cut back on baked goods. How about next time we get together and make fruit and yogurt parfaits?”

, Having someone with you on your journey can be an invaluable asset, as this person can hold you accountable for reaching your goals.


An accountability partner is someone who you will have to keep updated on your progress. This person may offer you advice, support, or just try to motivate you when the going gets tough.Your accountability partner can be anyone or several people. Your partner or spouse, a sibling, a close friend, or coworker can all help you during this life change. You can even find an accountability partner through an online forum or chat room who is going through a similar journey as you, or who has already made a significant change.
 Whether it's a new exercise program or a complete overhaul of your relationships with the people that you know, once you have your plan, don't give up on it. Work hard to ensure that you reach your overall goals. Changing any part of your life can be a grueling process, celebrate every small win and keep pushing towards the finish line.

