 Submit it to various search engines and directories. In addition to major search engines such as Google, Yahoo, Ask, Bing and MSN, it's worth submitting to lesser known web directories. If your website is listed in as many places as possible, it can boost your rankings in major search engines as well.;
,,, Contact the owners of other websites with your proposal to exchange links. You will add their link to your links page, and they will link to your website in return.
 Visit the online discussion forums where people in your target market like to gather. Post useful responses to people's questions, and include a link to your website at the end of your post next to your name. Although you ultimately want to get your sig file with the link to your site seen as often as possible, don't overdo it with your posts, otherwise other forumites won't respect you, and therefore won't visit your site.
 Visit other people's blogs on the topic related to your website. Most blogs allow you to add comments about the issues being discussed. Add insightful comments about the blog topics, and leave your website link. Your comment and your link will permanently remain on the blog website.
 Set your e-mail program to automatically add your signature to every e-mail that you send.
 There are many types of traffic exchanges but the idea is the same - you team up with other webmasters, and they send you traffic in exchange for you sending them traffic. Search the web for "traffic exchange" to find those services.
 It can be a report with useful information that you allow people to give away. It can also be some kind of cool and unusual web-page that people will want to e-mail to all their friends. Of course, the pass-around item will include your advertisement and your link, spreading the word about your website. This is a "viral" strategy.
 Submit your articles to article directories, and allow people to publish your article in their newsletters and websites. Your articles will spread around the web like wildfire. People will read them and visit your website. The best part is that people who read your articles will regard you as an expert, and they will be much more likely to buy from you when they go to your website. How's that for a free publicity?

, The point of keywords is that they are the terms most people looking for your article by topic will search by. Check those with free Google terms and use the most popular relevant one in your title - a descriptive title to let them know right away what it is if it's a word with multiple meanings. Drawing blood for a phlebotomist is not the same thing as a comics artist drawing blood in a fight scene. Be very literal and then use the exact keywords several times in the article where they are relevant, as well as synonyms. Don't overdo it, or you look like you're trying to spam Google. Just use the keywords naturally when describing the topic.


If it is a confusing keyword phrase like Drawing Blood, link to the other meaning and mention that in the first paragraph. "This article is about drawing blood in graphic novels. Phlebotomy is drawing blood for medical tests or donations - here's the other page on "Drawing Blood." Then link to the phlebotomy page in that. By redirecting confused people you leave them a good impression and they might stop to read your article if they also like doing comics art!

, When people read each issue they'll be reminded to revisit your web site. Submit it to all the free e-zine directories on the internet.A newsletter!

, It could be an online message board, e-mail discussion list or chat room. When people get involved in your community, they will regularly return to communicate with others.
 There are many of these on the net. Some of the more popular ones are craigslist, inetgiant, freeadvertisingforum, and gumtree.
 These are lists of subscribers who have opted-in to send and receive emails to each other. You can instantly reach potentially thousands of people by sending out emails, and you don't have to worry about receiving spam complaints either because everyone on the list has opted-in to receive emails.
,, Your friend's friends will see when they join the fan page or comment on your status.
,, All this socializing, forum commenting and question answering ought to be on your website's main topic. The more your activity and site content match in topic, the more likely the right people find it. The more targeted your affiliate links are to the topic, the better you'll do with them too. People don't mind advertising that's on topic, it starts to look like a convenience directory rather than irritating commercials.

