 Timing is important in life, especially when you want to talk to your spouse about something they may not want to do. Try to find a time when neither of you are stressed out, when you’re both relaxed and calm, and in good moods. Waiting until the weekend when you are both decompressed from work is an ideal time.


The best time to approach the subject is when it is just the two of you. Attempting to convince your spouse to do something in a group setting or when others are around may seem like you are trying to put them on the spot and make them be agreeable so they won't embarrass themselves in front of others. Your spouse will likely become defensive and may even feel betrayed. Instead, begin the conversation when you’re having a nice dinner or when you are relaxing on the couch.You might say something like, "Can we get dinner tonight? There's something I'd like to discuss with you."
If your spouse is a football fanatic and there's a big game on that night, then it might be a good idea to talk the next day. Choose a time when neither of you will be distracted and can focus.;
, Determine why moving to the area would be a good idea for your spouse. Try to find selling points that would work in your spouse’s favor. Having this information handy when you bring up the subject could help you to convince them of the move.Perhaps your spouse doesn’t like the weather where you currently live, and your ideal location has temperatures you believe they would like. Or maybe the jobs are better in that area.
 You can go into a conversation feeling prepared, but if you receive opposition from your spouse, you might forget all of your mental prep work. To prevent this, write down your reasons for wanting to move. Your notes can serve as a check list of subjects you want to cover during the conversation.


It may be helpful to write down your spouse’s responses to each of your topics. Doing so allows you to come back to the list and think about possible solutions for your spouse’s apprehensions, should you have another conversation about moving.