 If you begin to date, know that you have to keep work first no matter what. Regardless of if you’ve had an argument the night before, keep that out of the workplace. Keep a schedule and a to do list and continue to complete all assignments well and on time.Keep your conversations at work completely business related.
 If you have only been on a date or two with this person, there is little need to inform your coworkers or your boss about it. But if you have began to see them more regularly, then you should tell your supervisor before someone else does., The person you are dating might be someone who you have to work with very closely. When in meetings with them, keep the door or blinds open. You do not want others to assume that you are being inappropriate in your office., Avoid spending unnecessary time alone together while at work. Go to lunch together occasionally, but not everyday. Continue to maintain your friendships with your other coworkers., Though you may want to hug or kiss your partner at work, know that doing so could do some damage to your professional reputation. It is okay for others to know that you are dating, but keep things at the workplace strictly professional., Don’t discuss squabbles sex, or any other major details about your relationship with your coworkers. You do not want others knowing too much about your romantic relationship and you don’t want them knowing things about your partner that they wouldn’t want you to tell., Don’t ask them to put a good word in with your supervisor. Instead, rely on your merit and work hard to achieve what you want. You will feel better about yourself and your partner will be proud of you.
 If you want to send your partner cute messages throughout the day, do so through your cell phone. Any correspondence sent through email may be monitored and could be potentially be used in a sexual harassment lawsuit should your relationship go sour. Use only your personal devices for personal messages., If you break up, do not date another coworker, especially if your ex is still working with you. You will likely get a bad reputation for only dating coworkers and will continue to make your work life even more messy.