 The best way to clean a leafy green like rabe is to give it a cold water bath. Fill a large bowl with cool water. You can also use a clean sink if you prefer. Dump the rabe in, separating the leaves as you go so dirt can shake loose.Alternatively, you can wash the greens under cold, running water. However, submerging them is a safer bet for getting out all the dirt and grit.;
, Once you have the greens submerged, you need to agitate them, much like a washing machine does. Move them around in the water so that the dirt comes away form the leaves and into the water.Wash all the crevices in the rabe, including in and around the small buds.
 Once the you've agitated the rabe for a few minutes, walk away and let them soak. The greens should float to the top, while the dirt should sift to the bottom. Five to ten minutes is sufficient time for them to soak., If the greens are extra dirty, they may need another rinse. Scoop them out, and refill the water. In fact, the rule of thumb used to be three rinses.Modern day produce is generally not as dirty as in the past, but you may still need to rinse it more than once if you got it from the farmer's market., Unless you're blanching or boiling the broccoli rabe, dry it before cooking. You can place the greens in a salad spinner to dry them off. Do it in batches if you need to. An overfilled salad spinner won't get the greens dry.You can also lay them on a paper towel for drying and pat the top with more paper towels., As with many vegetables, the cut ends of the broccoli rabe may have turned brown in the time the vegetable was in the store. Cut off about an inch of each stem before you start cooking., If you notice any parts of the broccoli rabe look bad, don't be afraid to cut that part out. Look for brown or discolored areas, for instance. It's better to throw out areas that you're unsure about, as they can harbor bacteria., Pour water into a pot. Use one tablespoon of salt for a gallon of water. Place it on the stove over high heat, and bring the water to a boil. Also, have a bowl of ice water ready for after you cook the broccoli rabe.Many recipes call for the rabe to be blanched before other methods of cooking. The main purpose is to cut some of the bitterness., Drop the broccoli rabe in the boiling water, leaving it in the water for about three minutes. Scoop it out, and plunge it in ice water to stop the cooking, swishing it around a bit. Drain it well before you continue cooking it., If you don't use all of the broccoli rabe in the recipe, you can store the rest of it in the refrigerator. Keep it in a plastic bag. It will stay good for about five days, though it may last a day or two longer.Place a paper towel in the bag to help absorb moisture.