 Look around your room and pick out everything that embarrasses you about it. Do you cringe when your friends see your framed unicorn picture? What about your Barbie collection? Pick out all these things and put them into a big pile.;
, Go through everything in your room, including your pile of embarrassing stuff. Either decide to keep it, trash it, recycle it, donate it, or give it to someone. Have a box for each category. Once you've picked an item up, don't put it down again until you've decided what box to put it in. This will rid you of embarrassing stuffies or toys as well as give you a lot more space for your new room.
 Are you tired of waking up to pastel pink? Do you find your lavender bedroom childish? Re-paint it! If you like the colour pink, update it by repainting your room with a hot pink colour. If you'd rather have blue, green, orange, etc., paint your room those colours instead. There are various ways to repaint your room.


If you absolutely hate your current wall colour and want it gone, paint a new colour over it completely.
You could paint one or two walls with your new colour and paint the other two or three walls a different colour (or keep them your old paint colour)
Paint up about 1 meter/4 feet with your new colour. Keep the rest your old colour or paint over it with a different colour.
 Your old furniture would most likely still work in a teenage girl's room, but it might need a makeover. Paint your furniture (white is a good suggestion) and remove the Barbie stickers from it. Replace the plastic primary-coloured knobs on your dresser with some glass ones. Little things make a big difference.
 Get a new comforter, pillowcase, sheets, and toss pillows that match or complement your wall colour. It's important to have everything coincide. You could buy solid-colour bedding or patterned bedding; it's up to you!

, Cool rugs always add a mature element to any teen girl's room. Get some fuzzy ones or ones in a cool shape.
 Stores such as IKEA have really cool lamps and lampshades to update your room with. You should have at least one floor lamp or ceiling lamp and one desk lamp so that you have enough light to do your homework with.
 When your friends come over, it's nice for them to have a place to sit other than on top of your bed. Buy a beanbag chair or a moon chair for your room - these are really cool and will make a statement!

, Now that you've gotten rid of your Pegasus posters, your walls are probably looking a little bare. Make your own pictures by buying some cheap canvas and painting it. You could also use splatter paint for a cool effect. Buy some big canvas pictures you like and hang them up. Hang up posters of your favourite celebrity if you want. Put up a mirror as well - this way you can do your makeup in your room! Also, put up some wooden letters that spell words like "Peace", "Love", or your name. Add some pictures of you and your friends too!

