 Maximize your time and workout efficiency. Concentrate on exercises that target the most amount of muscles at once. Burn as much fat as possible in the shortest amount of time while sculpting multiple areas of your body simultaneously.Popular compound exercises include chin-ups, deadlifts, dips; pull-ups, and squats.
 Burn more calories and build more muscle by favoring weight-lifting over cardio exercises like jogging or bicycling. Opt for free weights instead of machines. Lift dumbbells and barbells to strengthen both the primary area (such as your biceps when doing curls) as well as stabilizing muscles located elsewhere in your body (like your core and legs).Start with a weight that you can actively control not only during the lift itself, but while lowering it as well. Work your muscles during both components to each lift, rather than allowing gravity to do half of the work for you.
 Continue to do cardio workouts for overall health if desired. However, to utilize it for the sake of sculpting your body, design shorter workouts. Exercise with maximum effort during these. Allow plenty of rest in between each rep so your body can recuperate fully, ensuring that you can tackle the next one with 100% effort. This way you will burn more fat than you normally would with slower, more sustained workouts.For example, instead of going on long, evenly-paced jogs each day, run sprint workouts at top speed on the track.
 Make H20 your beverage of choice. Avoid sugary drinks, including juices. Eliminate the spikes of energy and inevitable crashes that come from sugar highs. Stick to water to maintain more control over your energy output for more effective workouts.For more flavor, infuse water with berries or slices of lemon or lime.
 Forget whatever the latest craze in dieting is. Control your calorie intake by sticking to the proven components of a healthy diet: grains, vegetables, and lean meats (or other protein sources, like beans, if you don’t eat meat). Make regular routines of grocery shopping and cooking for the days ahead to preempt the risk of succumbing junk food when the fridge is empty.Allow three hours between your last meal and bedtime. Your metabolism will slow down with sleep. Give your body a chance to break that food down before you turn in.
 Make a nightly practice of allowing yourself eight to nine hours of sleep. Maintain healthy levels of testosterone and other hormones so your workouts don’t suffer. Ensure a stronger metabolism so your body continues to process sugar effectively. Allow your muscles, tendons, and joints time to recuperate to avoid injury during workouts.