 Confronting people about money related issues can be difficult. Preparing yourself in advance will result in the best outcome.Know what you’ll say in advance. This prevents you from going on and on, straying off topic or saying things you don’t mean.
 You're not calling out your friend just to make them feel bad. The best way to get a solution, is to suggest one yourself.You can try, “We’ll take turns choosing where we go. You can choose the next outing.”
Reassure them that you don’t have to spend money to have fun together.
 Go through the conversation in your head. Include how you think they’ll respond. Picture the positive outcome that you hope to get from the confrontation.If thinking about confronting this person brings up negative emotions, you may not be ready to confront them yet.
 Confrontations, no matter how tactful, don’t always end well. Prepare for a stubborn friend to get angry or remain in denial. Know how you’ll respond if the confrontation takes a bad turn., Emotional confrontations rarely go well. If you allow yourself to get upset and start lecturing the person, they are likely to respond emotionally simply because of your approach., When stating your complaint, don’t include your opinions or judgements. It comes off as condescending.
 You don’t want this person to feel like you are insulting their character. Stay focused on the unwanted behavior, not the person., A helpful technique often used in therapy is “When you , I feel ” statements.This approach allows the person to see the direct effects of their behavior. It also shows that you are coming from a genuine place of hurt, not simply complaining about them.


For example, “When you never offer to pay for the check, I feel like you don’t value our friendship.”
Or, “When you ‘forget your wallet’ every time we hang out, I feel like I’m being taken advantage of.”

, If you’ve approached the problem with maturity and tact and still get bad results, then consider whether this person is a positive addition to your life.If you still consider this person a valuable part of your life, then you must learn how to cope with this problem in your life long term.
If this person brings nothing but negativity and hardship to your life, then end communication with them. You can rest assured that you did your part in trying to resolve the problem.

