 Students don’t need you to be something you’re not. You don’t have to be known as the funny teacher or the cool teacher to be liked – just be yourself. This means that you have to allow students to get to know you.Don’t be afraid to open yourself up while you teach – it’s okay to express personal opinions, make jokes, make light of pet peeves, and even comment on your personal life. The more personable you are, the more students will see you and like you for who you are. , Teaching can be daunting, especially in front of a new or very large group of students. It’s natural to be nervous about presenting the material or making a good impression, but don’t let that make you uptight. If you’re on edge, your students will be, too.


If you have trouble relaxing in front of a large group, try starting your class off with a group breathing or stretching exercise. This not only boosts group morale, but it will also help everyone relax and become more comfortable together.
 You’re a teacher for a reason – it’s because you have a passion for it! Be sure to let your students see you smile and enjoy yourself as their teacher and the material you want them to learn. Learning should be fun, so set the tone by showing off your passion for being there.
 No one wants to listen to hours and hours of lectures day after day. Keep learning fun and dynamic by getting creative with your personal style and incorporating different ways of teaching to break-up the monotony. Organize group activities, play relevant videos and podcasts, do experiments, and encourage class discussions, even when you have lots of material to cover.


If you’re worried about students missing important information, you can create study guides or distribute notes with additional information that students can read on their own.
 Everyone makes them. Just because you are the teacher, it doesn’t mean your students expect you to be perfect. Owning your errors will show your students that accountability goes both ways in your classroom. If students feel like there's a double standard, it could cause resentment.

