 If you are compelled by ornate designs with florid script and bright colors, focus on that. If you love that style, focus on developing that design sense. If your passion is for the clean, well-balanced line, with simple color schemes and powerful graphics, make it your own.
 They can be really helpful and will speed up the process of your education.
 Hunt down and devour the designs featured in newspapers, magazines, the Internet, and anywhere else you spot graphic design (hint: it will be everywhere you look).


Don't limit yourself to what is traditionally considered "graphic design," but expand into other areas as well, such as industrial designers like Joey Roth or Makota Makita & Hiroshi Tsuzaki; or architects such as Santiago Calatrava or Frank Gehry. Draw inspiration to foster your own creativity.
Don't just look in the likely places. Check out wine stores, for example: label design is a key part of the industry. Also check out fashion websites, book stores, music labels, even product design packaging.
 People who get into typography are a whole other breed. They agonize over book print, street signs, and movie credits. They have serious opinions about serifs. They mock your Comic Sans. A good graphic designer should understand the importance of typeface, leading, kerning, and everything else that goes with creating effective text.
 You want people, when they see your designs, to recognize and know that it is your work. The more they know, the quicker things will work for you.
 Whether it’s a t-shirt, a pamphlet, a food label, a postcard, or a poster, collect anything and everything that excites and inspires you. Study them, note what you like and don’t like, and tuck them away so that you can use them as references whenever you feel stuck on a project.
 Even if you hate something, swallow that lump in your throat and save it. When you feel strong enough, look back over your old work with a fresh eye. What worked? What didn’t? How much has your style grown? You might even be inspired to redo some of your older projects and turn them into masterpieces.
 See a terrible design somewhere? Take a photo or save a copy and rework it for fun. See a fantastic design? Even better! Challenge yourself to add something that the original artist missed. Just as the aspiring music student studies the masters, and learns what they did, by working within other people’s designs will you be able to truly understand what does or doesn’t make it tick and why.
 In addition to needing one if you ever want to get real work, putting together a portfolio challenges you to make critical judgments of your own work. Which pieces are your best and why? Which ones don’t make the cut? Is there a theme – and if so, can you play it up in the portfolio? If you want to work digitally, showcase your portfolio on a website.

