 One bed sheet will give you two curtain panels. Twin-size bed sheets are ideal, but if you want fuller curtains, go for full-size. Make sure that you get flat sheets and not fitted sheets.Twin-size bed sheets measure 66 by 96 inches (167.64 by 243.84 centimeters).
Full-size bed sheets measure 81 by 96 inches (205.74 by 243.84 centimeters).
 Washing and drying the bed sheet will remove any shrinking, while ironing it out will give you a smooth base to work on.
 The easiest way to do this would by to spread the bed sheet out on the floor, then fold it in half lengthwise. Place some heavy books on the loose corners to weigh them down and keep then in place. Next, cut the curtain along the fold, from top to bottom., Take your first panel, and turn it so that the wrong side of the fabric is facing you. Next, fold the long, raw edge over by ¼ inch (0.64 centimeter) and press it flat with an iron. Fold the edge over again by another ¼ inch and press it flat again. If you need to, use sewing pins to keep the fabric in place., Backstitch a few times at the start and end of your sewing to prevent the thread from unraveling. Be sure to use a thread color that matches your bed sheet, and the remove the sewing pins as you go.If you don't know how to sew, you can use iron-on hem tape. Tuck the hem tape, paper-side-up under the hem, and iron it down. Pull the paper backing off, then iron the hem down on top of it.
 Hang your curtain first, then measure where you want it to end. Add 4 inches (10.16 centimeters), and make a mark and both sides., An easy way to do this would be to fold the bottom of the curtain up, using the marks you made as a guide; they should be resting right on the fold. Cut the curtain straight across, right along the fold.


Make sure that you are cutting off the bottom of the bed sheet. The bottom hem is usually narrower than the top hem.
 Turn the curtain so that the wrong side of the fabric is facing you, then fold the bottom edge up by 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) and press it flat with an iron. Fold the bottom edge by another 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) and press it with an iron once more. If you need to, use sewing pins to keep the hem in place., Sew as close to the inside folded edge as you can, and remove the sewing pins as you go. Use a thread color that matches your fabric, and backstitch a few times at the start and end of your sewing.
 Purchase some curtain rings, and clip them to the top hem of your curtain; be sure to space them evenly. Slide the curtain rings onto your curtain rod, then hang it up on your wall.

