 Microsoft Paint comes standard with any edition of Microsoft Windows, but depending on your settings and operating system, it can be located in a variety of different places. The quickest way to open Microsoft Paint is by opening your Start menu, finding the "search" function, and typing "Paint" into the search bar; this should locate Microsoft Paint for you, allowing you to click on the relevant icon.
 For your gradient, you'll be blending two colors together, so pick two relatively well-paired colors, like green and blue.
 Under the "File" tab, find Properties and click on it. This should bring up the image properties window. From here, you'll be able to resize your canvas.


You can also press Ctrl+E to bring up the image properties menu.
 On the image properties menu, change your canvas' width to 100 and your height to 500. Make sure you have "Pixels" checked under the "Units" portion, and select "Color" under the "Colors" portion--otherwise you'll have a black-and-white gradient with skewed proportions!

, Using the straight line tool from the tool bar, draw a line from the top left corner to the bottom right corner, making sure you don't leave any gaps. You'll want to draw using one of the two colors you chose earlier.


Depending on the size of your screen, you may have to zoom out before connecting the corners. The zoom function is in the lower right-hand corner of the screen.
You should use the thinnest line possible from the drop-down menu in the tool bar, since this will allow for the most accurate gradient.
 Select the bucket tool, then your first color. Click on the top slice of the canvas to fill it; for example, if your first color is blue, the upper right-hand corner half of your canvas should now be blue. Repeat this process with your second color and the other section of your canvas., Press Ctrl+W to bring up the "Resize and Skew" menu; this menu will allow you to stretch and pull your creation. Go to the resize section, make sure you uncheck "Maintain aspect ratio" and change the units from "Pixels" to "Percentage", and then change the horizontal value to "1".


On older operating systems, this menu is called the "Stretch and Skew" menu; it can be found under the "Image" tab in addition to the same keyboard shortcut.
If you don't uncheck "Maintain aspect ratio", both your horizontal and your vertical values will change when you input a number into one of their respective fields.
 Your canvas' vertical value should have remained consistent, while your horizontal value should have shrunk considerably. Re-open the "Resize and Skew" menu, uncheck "Maintain aspect ratio" again, and change the horizontal value in the "Resize" section to 500. Your canvas should expand horizontally, and your gradient should now be visible.


You'll want to repeat this process three times or more, depending on how wide you need your gradient to be.
 Once your gradient is the size you want it to be, save your work under "File". Gradients make great backgrounds for Powerpoints, desktops, and website pages, so don't be afraid to create more!

