 If it’s possible, try to interview several candidates to represent you. You may have a lower income, but you are still entitled to representation that you believe will serve your best interests. You should feel comfortable with your attorney, and interviewing him or her before hiring anyone will help you determine that.Ask about fees and payment upfront. If the attorney is not forthcoming or does not answer the questions to your satisfaction, look elsewhere.
Ask who will do the work. It is useful to know whether the attorney you are interviewing will do most of the work. In some cases, junior attorneys and/or paralegals can handle much of the legal “legwork” for a cheaper rate. Ask if this is an option to help you save money.Ask about the attorney’s qualifications and experience. Ideally, the attorney should have some experience in handling matters similar to yours. At the very least, they should have the proper qualifications to handle your case, such as training in property or divorce law., You should have a perfectly clear understanding of the terms on which you’re hiring the attorney. In other words, what will they do for you? What will happen if they are unable to resolve your case in the way you want? What will you pay, in what method(s)?


If your attorney does not answer these questions to your satisfaction, do not sign any agreement. Ask for further clarification, or find another attorney.
Clarify what, exactly, you will be charged for. For example, some lawyers may charge for any communication with you, including a phone call or email.Understand all of these charges and get them in writing.
 If you can get your attorney to agree to a set rate, it will give you peace of mind during your case. A set rate means that you will know what you have to pay, and when.Be sure to clarify any “hidden” expenses in this rate. Copying costs, postage fees, expert witness fees, etc., may be required for your case. They are not included in an attorney’s fee. Usually, the client is responsible for these expenses.
 Some expenses, such as copying costs and charges for time to file papers, may be avoided if you offer to do that work yourself. See if your attorney will allow you to volunteer your own time to help when possible to cut costs.
 Contingency fees can be helpful if you have been injured or harassed and do not have money to hire a lawyer upfront. They are not available for criminal, family law, bankruptcy, immigration, business, or intellectual property cases.If the case is settled quickly or a large amount of money is recovered, you may feel as though the attorney didn’t have to work hard enough for you. The attorney will still be entitled to whatever percentage you agreed on.If your settlement is not as high as you had hoped, you still have to pay your attorney the agreed-upon percentage.
If the case goes on for a long time, which is quite common, the attorney may end up feeling frustrated by the duration and expense of the case.