 Registering your copyright in your own country is generally a straightforward process, and it can usually be done online. In some countries (such as the United States), an officially registered copyright is required before you can pursue a court case against someone who has infringed on your copyrighted material.
 Responsibility for the administrative aspects of copyright law rests with the United States Copyright Office, whose website can be found here. You can also register your work online (for a reduced fee) by creating an account and logging into the Electronic Copyright Office (eCO) here.
 Canadian copyright law can be found in The Copyright Law of Canadaand relevant court decisions. You can register your copyright at the Canadian Intellectual Property Office, which can be found here.
 British copyright law can be found in The Copyright Act 1956, The Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, Copyright and Related Rights Regulations 2003, and relevant case law interpretations. Further information about copyright in the UK can be found at the Intellectual Property Office. There is no official registration system in place for copyrighting works. It is considered an "automatic right."You can send a copy of any published work to the British Library within one month of publication so that they can include it as part of their records of all published works. Find out more about the British Library and copyright here.
 Australian copyright law can be found in the Copyright Act 1968,along with various court decisions that have interpreted copyright over the years. The Australian Copyright Council is a good resource, while the relevant government site can be found here.


Like in the UK, copyright in Australia is automatic. There is no system in place for "official" registration. You can, however, send a copy of your book to the National Library of Australia.Check State legislation as well, as you may need to make a legal deposit to a relevant State library.
 New Zealand copyright law can be found in the Copyright Act 1994,and good copyright information can be found from the Copyright Council of New Zealand.According to the Copyright Council, no registration is necessary, or even possible, nor is any other formality required for securing copyright protection.You can send a copy of every new published work to the National Library of New Zealand. To function as a "legal deposit," should you need formal proof of the date of your copyright.

