 Depending on the age and playing level of the athletes, you may not need to learn everything right away. You can study the basics by reading manuals on the rules, basics of the game, and penalties. Then you can watch other games and learn something from other coaches, either local or televised, to get a feel for the rhythm of the game.


The company called Sports Interactive is now making games that can provide little experience in how to coach and how to manage the club. The game is called Football Manager 2011. If you play this game most of the time, it gives little bit of experience in coaching, the knowledge and teaches coaches to be better coach.





;
,, In small communities you just have to volunteer to be a soccer coach but you don’t get paid. So if you want to get paid to be a soccer coach you need to have qualifications and apply for a job in a league or overseas in English premier league to get paid lots of money to look after your family.
, Finance and insurance in soccer coaching is the most important thing both for the player and the club. It’s important because in professional coach you have to pay the player with their skills standards and position so good players get more money in their wages and also you need to buy new players from other clubs. The money helps to keep the club in shape, and you need insurance on equipment such as team bus, other gear and maybe the soccer field too.
 There is lot of media involved in the soccer coaching and soccer in general for example; television, radio, the newspaper; the most important thing is the magazine. They bring out new FIFA magazine English premier league every month.
 There are a lot of injuries in this sport industry when players get injured will need physiologist, therapists and physiotherapists. These people get employed by the soccer club full time. Health services are needed because as a coach you need to know if your players are in good shape and if they can play the next game so health services are the most important thing you need to have as a coach.
 Transport is also involved in soccer without transport you can’t go and play away games. In big clubs and international teams you will need transport like plane and bus. But some rich clubs usually have their own bus.







It is also active because in this career you don’t sit around, you have to go in the field and demonstrate to player what you want them to do some times.






In this career sometimes you need hands on your self helping others because as manager you actually employ people to work for you because you need a coach in each position on the field you need a coach for midfield, striker defense and goalkeeper so you have to help those coaches some times.







