 Eating French onion soup can be challenging. This soup comes with a crouton and a layer of melted cheese on top of a brothy onion soup. To eat it, you will have to break through the crouton with your spoon (or a fork and knife if it is too hard to break through with your spoon) and use it to scoop up a bit of crouton, cheese, and broth at the same time.Use the edge of your spoon to cut the cheese by pressing it against the edge of your bowl. You may need to support the bowl with your other hand as you do so.
 Consommé is a clear broth soup that may be served in an upscale restaurant or at a fancy dinner party. You can sip consommé like a cup of tea if the bowl it is served in has handles.However, if the bowl does not have handles, then eat it as you would eat any other soup, such as by spooning it away from you in the bowl and sipping the soup from the side of your spoon.
 This French dish contains a variety of different seafood, such as clams, mussels, crab legs, and scallops. Some pieces you will be able to pick up with a regular spoon, while you will need to crack open some of the other pieces with a shellfish cracker. You may also need to use a knife and fork to extract some of the seafood from the shells.This dish is often served in two courses. The first course is the broth along with croutons, garlic, and a spiced mayonnaise and the second course is all the different kinds of fish on a platter. Spread some garlic and mayonnaise on a crouton and eat it with the broth, then work on the fish., Sometimes crackers will be served along with soup, and you can add these to your soup to help make it a little thicker. However, do not add so many crackers that your soup takes on an oatmeal-like consistency. Just add a couple of crackers for flavor if desired.You can also dip a piece of bread into your soup if it has been offered along with the soup. Just be careful to wipe away any excess broth before you bring the bread to your mouth or you may drip on yourself.
 If your soup has been served with optional garnishes, then make sure that you add these before you start eating. Use a clean spoon or fork to add the garnishes to your soup.Some common garnishes may include:


croutons
sour cream
cheese
green onions
bacon pieces
bean sprouts
lime
crushed peanuts

