 A tall, open posture is key to unlocking your best singing voice. Practice in front of a mirror, looking from the front and side, to make sure you're up straight and following the best posture guidelines:Remember:


Shoulders back.
Chin level with the floor.
Chest out.
Stomach flat.
Joints relaxed., You should feel pressure in your chest, as if you voice is coming from your pec muscles, instead of your head or neck. When you sing in your "head voice," you can feel your voice up in your throat and head, as if there was a little vibration there. Work on "moving" this vibration around, playing with your voice until you feel it in your chest. This is the feeling you want when singing.


You want to move air from your diaphragm, not your throat, head, or mouth.
 When you breathe, breath "horizontally," with your stomach moving out as you inhale and in as your exhale. Working from your belly keeps your chest steady and helps control your air.Imagine you're wearing a belt around your belly. As you inhale, it slides down to make room for more air. As you exhale, it slides up your belly to move air up through your chest and out your mouth.In "normal" breathing, your chest moves. But singers need a solid, unmoving chest to keep a steady stream of air coming.
 Regular breathing is short and shallow -- as you rarely need a ton of oxygen. Singers, however, need to save their air to sing with. To do so, focus on big, quick inhalations and slow, even exhales. As you sing, you want to imagine one continuous, unchanging stream of air coming out. It takes work, but this is perhaps the single best thing you can do to become a better pop singer.When inhaling, think of just opening your whole throat to let air in, instead of trying to suction it in. It is much more effective this way.
 The sooner you notice these issues and fix them, the faster you'll learn to sing any genre effectively. Each of these issues is likely something you've done or felt yourself doing because they feel like good ideas. However, you'll notice the difference once you make corrections.



Tanking up: This is when people try to fill their lungs extra big. But better singers just release their air with slow, even breaths to make their air last longer, not fill up with more of it.

Pushing the air: You want to think of "letting" the air out gently, not forcing it.

Holding back air: Think of how a car jerks right when you hit the gas. This is when a singer stops their voice right between inhaling and exhaling. You want to work on breathing “into” your note, silently exhaling air quickly just before starting to sing so that the note slides out smoothly.