 You can use an actual bowl, but you don't have to. Anything that is rounded, like a bowl, will work, including candy dishes and balloons! If you decide to work with a balloon, blow it up however big you want it to be, then set it down into a cup. The mold needs to be big enough so that doily doesn't hang over the edges when you place it on top.


Place a couple of dried beans, some dried rice, or a marble into the balloon before you blow it up. When you put it into the cup, the beans/rice/marbles will act as weights and help keep the balloon steady.;
, You can also work on top of a stack of newspapers, a paper bag, or a cheap tablecloth. This project can get messy, so you want to protect your work area.
 If you are using a bowl, consider tucking the edges underneath the bowl to keep them out of the way.
 You can use just about anything you want for this, although a disposable container, such as an old (but clean) yogurt container would work best. Other options include old mugs, old bowls, plastic food storage tubs, and metal baking tins.


Can't find any fabric stiffener? Try decoupage glue instead. You can also mix together equal parts of white school glue and water.Pay attention to the type of decoupage glue that you are buying. Many come in different finishes, such as matte, satin, or glossy. Choose one that appeals the most to you.
 This is not completely necessary, but it will give your bowl a pretty color. Give the mixture a good stir so that there aren't any streaks of paint.If you with to dye the doily, do not add paint to the fabric stiffener.
This works well on both colored and white doilies. Colored doilies may require more paint, however.
 This is very important. Unlike acrylic paint, dye is translucent. This means that the old color will show through. For example, if you try to dye a yellow doily blue, you will get green. If you try to dye a pink doily green, you will get a brownish color.


This section is optional. If you already added paint to your fabric stiffener, or if you want a white bowl, skip this section an move on to the next.
 You will be mixing up your dye in this container, so you want something that you can throw away if it gets damaged. If you don't have any disposable, plastic containers (such as yogurt tubs), you can use a glass container instead. Make sure that it is safe for food coloring.If you have fabric dye that you wish to use, you can use that instead. Follow the instructions on the packaging. The amounts for water may be different.
 Stir the water until the salt dissolves. How much fool coloring you add is up to you; the more you add, the deeper and darker your doily will turn out. The salt is there to help the doily absorb the color better., There are lots of ways you can do this, and each one will give you a slightly different effect. For example:


To get a solid color, dip the doily into the dye completely.
To get a tie dye effect, scrunch up the doily, and secure it with rubber bands. Dip it into the dye bath.
To get an ombre finish, pinch the doily by the middle, then dip just the edges into the dye. You can get a gradient effect by dipping it multiple times, deeper each time., The doily may take a while to dry. You can speed things up by letting it sit out in the hot sun, or drying it with a hair dryer. Once the doily is dry, you can move on to the next section. Don't get impatient; if you get the doily wet too soon, the dye may come off.
 This is where your project gets really messy. Use your fingers to press the doily into the fabric stiffener, making sure that it gets completely soaked.
 Take the doily out of the fabric stiffener, and squeeze it in your fist, allowing the excess stiffener to drip back into the container. Place the doily on top of your mold, making sure that it is centered.
 Make sure to smooth out any ripples or wrinkles, working from top to bottom in downward strokes. You may notice some excess fabric stiffener pooling around the base of your mold., It will take at least 24 hours for the doily to dry.Keep in mind that exact drying times will vary, depending on the products you are using as well as the temperature and humidity in your home.
 Don't worry if the plastic wrap comes out with the doily. Simply peel the plastic wrap away, and discard it. If the doily is still damp inside, set it down upright, and let it finish drying.
