 Crate training is a good way to alleviate your new dog's anxiety about its new home and manage its behaviour by containing it while you are away. Dogs have a natural denning instinct, so your pet's crate can be a safe, comfortable place for it that it will avoid soiling (making it an effective way of house training, if necessary). Make sure to buy a crate that is large enough for your new dog to stand up straight in, lie down comfortably, and turn around without difficulty.Visit the Association of Professional Dog trainers website at https://apdt.com/pet-owners/crate-size/ to find out what crate size is appropriate for your dog.
 Avoid forcing your dog into its crate - the crate is not a punishment, and your dog should feel at home in it. Set up the "den" and leave it open for your dog to explore, with some treats and toys in it to draw interest. When you first close the crate door behind your dog, be sure that there is food to keep its interest and stay closeby, talking reassuringly to your pet. A trick to drum up your dog's interest in the crate is to lock it OUT of the crate, with its dinner locked inside. After a few minutes your dog will absolutely want to be in its den, and have a positive (food-based) association with it.
 Sit next to your dog's crate for a period of 10-15 minutes while it is locked inside, then leave the room for a few minutes and come back. Repeat this several times a day, gradually extending the amount of time that you leave the room. Once your dog can stay quietly on its own for 30 minutes, you can consider leaving the house with your dog crated., Start leaving the house for short periods of time with your dog crated. Leave toys in the crate and try crating your dog 10-20 minutes before you leave so that it is not directly associated with your departure. Keep the following tips in mind:


Do not give your dog any prolonged or enthusiastic goodbyes before leaving - be matter of fact and leave the house without making a fuss.
Continue to crate your dog periodically when you're at home so it doesn't associated being crated with you leaving, exclusively.
When returning home, be very low key and avoid indulging your dog's excitement about seeing you.
 Crate training should happen at night as well, when both you and your dog should be sleeping. Start by placing the crate it your bedroom, or just outside so the dog does not feel alienated. As your dog seems more comfortable and sleeps through the night, try moving it to another area of the house so your dog can get used to sleeping on its own., Crate training should only last until you trust your dog to be alone unsupervised at home - depending on the dog, this can last anywhere from a few days to a few weeks. Once training is done, leave your dog's crate in the house somewhere, open for it to retreat to whenever it wants. The crate can still be used to transport the dog (e.g. trips to the vet).