 Using coping skills and being able to soothe yourself when you feel unhappy with being alone is important. There are many ways you can self-soothe and which ones you choose will be very personal. The more ideas you explore, the better you will become at turning your negative mood around and feel happy about being alone.


Try journaling. Write down anything you want. Write about your thoughts, feelings, goals, and plans. Write down your dreams and aspirations.
Think about positive memories. Identify times in the past when you enjoyed spending time with others. Visualize this time in your mind and relish in it. This can increase your temporary sense of well-being.
Some people find that they are happier and less lonely when engaging in spiritual activities such as prayer or religious tradition (attending church)., Enjoy spending time with yourself. Tell yourself that you have chosen to spend time with yourself. If you feel like you're making the choice to be alone, then you may automatically feel more positive about it.


Realize that you are choosing to be alone and you have control. Avoid a victim mentality.
Tell yourself, "It's okay to be alone. Everyone is alone sometimes. I can deal with it."
If you find yourself fixating on negative thoughts, such as, "I'm alone because no one wants me," you are falling into a negative thinking pattern. Try reframing the situation with a positive mental script.
When these negative thoughts come, acknowledge them, but then remind yourself of the positive side of your situation. Say something like, "Wait a second. I might be alone now, and this isn't a bad thing. I have tons of time to myself to do whatever I want, time I wouldn't have if I were in a relationship. Things change, and I won't always be alone and have this much freedom, so I should make the most of this time."

, You always have yourself there. So, focus on connecting with and being friends with yourself. The relationship you have with yourself is the most important one you will have. How you treat yourself and think about yourself dictates how you will treat others.


Do things just for yourself. If you love cheesy disco music, make a playlist of your favorite songs and turn it up as loud as you want. If you love the ocean, go to the beach and stroll in the surf for as long as you like.
Engage in relaxing and de-stressing activities. For example, you could have a spa night – take a soothing bath, get a massage, and groom yourself (paint your nails, etc).
 If you are idle while alone, you may end up feeling unhappy, sad, lonely, or bored. To increase the likelihood that you can feel happy while alone, make sure you fill your schedule with positive activities.


Try new activities. One way to stay busy is to try new explore new activities that are out of your comfort zone. Art, dancing, writing, reading, playing an instrument, hiking, camping, taking care of a pet, travel, and cooking are all things you can try.
Do what scares you in order to increase self-reliance. For example, if talking to new people is intimidating, try saying hello or starting a conversation with a stranger at least once per day. You may find that this gets easier and less anxiety-provoking over time.
 People who feel lonely when alone may benefit from getting a pet for company. Some individuals may even think of their pets as humans.If your living situation doesn't allow pets then you could invest in a robot pet, like a singing tortoise, or take care of a pretend pet using an online game or phone application.
 It is common for some individuals to use negative ways of coping with being alone. However, these strategies often produce unwanted consequences, and can even increase depression and loneliness.


Don’t take up smoking cigarettes or marijuana. Some people say that smoking is a social activity. But it can also be a crutch.
Avoid drugs or alcohol when interacting with others or to cope with being alone.
Try to avoid excessive amounts of television, video games, or internet use.

