 Hormonal changes (e.g., puberty, menstrual cycle, androgens, and corticosteroids), family history, and exposure to greasy/oily substances are associated with acne. If both of your parents had acne, you are more likely to develop it. If you wear a helmet, hat, or work in a greasy area, you also may develop acne.If you have any risk factors for acne, it is important that you take good care of your skin and consult a dermatologist.
 While a healthy diet does not prevent acne, it can help your body have all that it needs to maintain healthy skin. Eat a variety of whole grains, fruits and vegetables, and use sugar, fried foods, caffeine and highly-processed foods in moderation. Vitamin A, C, and D are particularly important for maintaining healthy skin.Drink plenty of water as well to keep your skin hydrated.


High-glycemic foods (e.g., white bread, chips, and white potatoes) may trigger acne in some people. Low-glycemic foods (e.g., vegetables, beans, peanuts, and multi-grain bread) may improve your acne.Choose low-glycemic foods when you can.
Some people believe that greasy foods and chocolate cause acne. However, there is no evidence that they do.If you notice that your skin breaks out after you eat certain foods, stop eating them and talk to your dermatologist.
 Exercise is good for your overall health and for your skin. Your blood flow increases when you exercise. Blood carries oxygen and nutrients throughout your body. Increased blood flow helps nourish your skin cells and keep your skin healthy.Do not forget wash your face after you exercise.


Shower immediately after you exercise. Sweaty clothes can trap oil and bacteria and cause body acne., Your sheets and towels contain germs and oils that can affect your skin. Your bed sheets should be washed at least every 2 weeks and more often if you sweat a lot. Hang your bath towels after each use and wash them after 3 to 5 uses.If your towel contains sweat, blood, or any other bodily fluid, it should be washed after every use.
Allow your towels to completely dry between each use.
 If you get acne on your back, chest, or any other area of your body, avoid wearing tight clothes that can cause irritation.Helmets, sweat headbands, and turtlenecks can also contribute to acne. Opt for loose-fitting clothing when you can.There may be occasions where you must wear tight-fitting clothing (e.g., sports bras, uniforms). Only wear them when necessary and wash them when you are finished.

