 There are two ways that cocker spaniels are bred. The first way to use one purebred cocker spaniel parent and one purebred Scottish terrier parent. This will put the genetics of your puppy at roughly 50% of each breed. Another popular way is called multigenerational breeding; this is where the parents themselves are both Scottish cockers. While they may be the product of multiple generations of breeding, they may not have a perfect ratio of cocker spaniel to Scottish terrier.You can also breed one purebred parent to one multigenerational parent to help strengthen certain breed characteristics in your dog’s pedigree.
With mixes, it is very difficult to tell the temperament, markings, or characteristics of the puppies, as there is an equal chance that they will inherit something from one ancestral breed or the other. Look to the parents themselves as an example of what the puppies might turn out like.;
, If you do not have a male dog, you can hire one from a breeder. You can look for other Scottish cocker breeders, or you can find one who breeds either cocker spaniels or Scottish terriers. If you are looking for a purebred stud, contact a local kennel club. They can refer you to a registered breeder.


Stud fees can cost hundreds of dollars, especially if the stud is a purebred.Always make sure to have a written contract between you and the breeder beforehand. The stud’s owner may ask for a fee. You may also be asked to show proof that your dog is not carrying any diseases., Artificial insemination is not uncommon in breeding dogs. If you are having trouble locating a stud, you can ask your vet about buying sperm from a semen bank. This frozen semen will be sent to your vet, who will then impregnate your dog at the proper time in her heat cycle. Many of these semen banks have been genetically tested to ensure that you are receiving the proper breed of dog.Artificial insemination is expensive, however., A vet can help you decide if your dog is ready to mate and help you determine when they are going into heat. They can also provide genetic tests on both parents. Breeding puppies, even in mixed breeds, can bring the risk of genetic disorders in the litter. While mixed breeds do have a lower incidence of these genetic problems, they are vulnerable to any disorder common in either parent.


Cocker spaniels are prone to certain eye conditions, such as glaucoma, Retinal Pigment Epithelial Dystrophy, and Progressive Retinal Atrophy. They may also have hip dysplasia or chronic pancreatitis.Scotties are known for a blood clotting disease known as von Willebrand’s disease and neurological issues such as cerebellar abiotrophy., While your dog may not be pregnant yet, one of the most important things that you can do is start locating homes for the puppies right away. If you are struggling to find people willing to take the puppies, you may want to reconsider breeding Scottish cockers until you are able to find enough interested homes. Do not just assume that adopters will appear when the puppies are born., Puppies are cute, and it can be extremely rewarding to help bring new little lives into the world. There are not many Scottish cocker breeders currently, and by breeding a litter, you can help others find the perfect dog. That said, there are many dogs currently living in shelters. Adopting can save both money and a life.Before you breed, consider the following:


Can you afford the medical costs associated with a canine pregnancy?
Are you able to supervise the puppies around the clock for the first eight weeks of their life?
Do you have potential homes for all of the puppies?
What will you do with a puppy if an adoption falls through?
Is your dog healthy enough to mate or carry puppies?

