 Altering your eating habits is a crucial step to improving your heart health. This will also help manage your weight which also affects your heart condition.Change your meals to include more fruit, vegetables, whole grain, fish, and lean meat.
Avoid processed foods that contain high salt and preservatives.;
, A good breakfast that may help with reversing heart disease would include grains and fruit.Try 1 cup (250 ml) of cooked oatmeal topped with a tablespoon (14.7 ml) of chopped walnuts and a teaspoon (5 ml) of cinnamon. Add a banana and a cup (250 ml) skim milk.
Another way to go could be a cup (250 ml) of plain low-fat yogurt topped with three-quarters of a cup (187.5 ml) of blueberries. Drink three-quarters of a cup (187.5 ml) of orange juice.
 A heart-healthy lunch will have a good portion of vegetables along with grains, fruit, and perhaps some low-fat dairy products.A sample lunch might include a cup (250 ml) of low-fat plain yogurt with a teaspoon (5 ml) of ground flax-seed, a half cup (125 ml) of peach halves canned in juice, five Melba toast crackers, a cup (250 ml) of raw broccoli and cauliflower, and two tablespoons (29.4 ml) of low-fat cream cheese (plain or vegetable flavor) as a spread for crackers — or you can use vegetable dip. Drink sparkling water.
Another idea for lunch is a whole-wheat pita filled with a cup (250 ml) of shredded romaine lettuce, a half cup (125 ml) of sliced tomato, a quarter cup (62.5 ml) of sliced cucumbers, two tablespoons (29.4 ml) of crumbled feta cheese, and a tablespoon (14.7 ml) reduced-fat ranch dressing. Add a kiwi and drink a cup (250 ml) of skim milk.
 Your major protein portion can be with this meal, but you still want a balance of grains, fruits, and vegetables.A potential dinner for reversing heart disease might include a 4-ounce (113 g) grilled turkey burger (whole grain bun), a half cup (125 ml) of green beans with a tablespoon (14.7 ml) of toasted almonds, two cups (473 ml) of mixed salad greens with two tablespoons (29.4 ml) of low-fat salad dressing, and one tablespoon (14.7 ml) of sunflower seeds. Add one cup (250 ml) of skim milk and one orange.
Another idea for dinner is a chicken stir-fry including eggplant, basil, a cup (250 ml) of brown rice with a tablespoon (14.7 ml) of chopped dried apricots, and a cup (250 ml) of steamed broccoli. Drink four ounces (113.6 ml) of red wine or concord grape juice.
A little bit of alcohol is okay, but keep it limited.
 You don't want to ruin your heart-healthy diet by snacking on the wrong items.Try a snack such as a cup (250 ml) of skim milk and nine animal crackers.
Another snack idea might be three graham cracker squares and a cup (250 ml) of fat-free frozen yogurt.
Keep healthy snacks such as a fruit so you don't over-eat during meals.
 These two products can help — and hurt — your heart disease condition. If you consume them then you need to do so in moderation.Alcohol sometimes can benefit your heart if you can limit your drinks to one or two per day. Additional drinks will increase your risk of a heart attack, stroke, and raise your blood pressure.
Chocolate has been shown to lower the risk of heart disease in some consumers by nearly 40 percent, and reduced the risk of stroke by 30 percent; however, you should only consume dark chocolates for this purpose. Select small portions of dark chocolates with high cacao content — at least 70 percent.

