 Often salty soups don't have too much salt, but just need the flavors to be balanced. Try adding an acid such as lemon juice, vinegar or wine which will obscure the salty taste.;
, For a quick and easy fix add some more water, juices or stock gradually until the salt concentration is reduced. You can try this for thick soups, but it works best for brothy soups.


Make sure the liquid you are diluting the soup with isn't what made it salty in the first place!

, Foods like potatoes, rice, noodles and pasta will absorb the salt and help thicken the soup, especially if you have diluted the liquid.


Some people even add a potato just for it to absorb the salt and then take it out. If you follow this route, cut the potato into thin slices for maximum absorbing efficiency.
 Add a few teaspoons of sugar or another ingredient that is sweet. This will help take the edge off the saltiness.
 Remove the crust from the bread, tear it up and float it on the top. When the bread soaks the water it will simultaneously absorb the salt. This works best for thick soups.
 If all else fails find something clean to absorb the salty liquid. Clean paper towels work well to help soak up the excess liquid.
 If you can't reduce the saltiness or prefer to avoid messing around, add some more ingredients and liquid. Obviously, don't add more salt.
 Often people will season a soup and then boil in. This is a disaster waiting to happen because as it cooks the water will evaporate leaving you with a salty soup.
 Don't rush in and add all the salt at one time. Good chefs will add salt a little at a time, tasting in between, to get it just right.


If the soup still needs a flavor kick, add some acid such as lemon juice or vinegar.
 Too much salt can taste overwhelming, and it isn't healthy to consume a lot of sodium on a regular basis. If the soup already has bacon, ham or other salty ingredients it might not need any salt at all.
 It is normal for stock to taste bland without salt, but often companies add salt to their stock so it tastes good on its own.


When making stock, don't add salt because you can always do this later. If buying stock, look out for one with low sodium.
It is especially important to use a stock containing low sodium when the ingredients already have high amounts of salt.
 People often vary in their preferences for saltiness, especially in soups where you can't easily remove the salt. So hold off on adding extra seasoning, and let people add their own at the table.

