 Use bold font and uppercase lettering.


If your press release should not be published until a specific date, change the wording to "HOLD FOR RELEASE UNTIL ." Again, use bold font and uppercase.;
, Take your time on this. Identify what you want the public to know and make sure the headline communicates that clearly. Capitalize the first letter of each substantial word (not conjunctions or articles).


Keep it short. No more than 1 phrase or sentence.
Make it memorable and eye-catching.
Refrain from using exclamation points.
 Do not repeat information already identified in your headline. Instead, expand on it. It can be longer than your headline and should express a complete thought.
 Underneath the headline/sub-headline, list your city and state. Follow that with today's date, including month, day, and year.
 Understand that you are not writing the news story itself, but providing engaging information about the event or promotion so that a journalist or editor will write a story about it.


Put all important details in the first paragraph. This includes information like where, when, who, what, and why.
Use short paragraphs of 2 to 4 sentences each.
Try to keep your press release around 400 or 500 words.
Write "-more-"at the bottom of the page if you find yourself using multiple pages for your press release.
Write in third person. Do not use words like "I," "me," or "you." Instead refer to yourself by name, as if you were talking about someone else.
Incorporate quotes. This human element makes it much more likely to be accepted by a newspaper for publication.
 This allows the news reporter to follow up with you should they have any additional questions or want to expand the press release into a bigger news story.


Provide basic information about your organization that will help readers know what your company does.
Follow this with personal contact information: your name, title, phone number, mobile phone number, email address, web address, and physical address.
 This lets readers know that this is the end of your press release.
 These symbols appear at the bottom of most press releases. You could also choose to place the word count of your press release here instead.

