 In addition to writing and thinking about your negative thoughts, addressing your thoughts out loud can also help you to deal with your negative thoughts. Using positive self-talk to address negative thoughts can help to change your perspective and help you to become less critical of yourself over time., To begin using positive self-talk, do not allow a negative thought to go by without reframing it as something positive. This process might seem awkward at first, but over time it will become easier and you will begin to develop a more positive outlook. The next time you have a negative thought, turn it into a positive one.For example, if you think to yourself, “I am never going to lose weight.” Force yourself to reframe the thought into a positive statement. Say something like, “I am going to keep trying to lose weight.” By changing the negative thought into a hopeful statement, you are forcing yourself to focus on a positive part of the situation.
 You can deal with your negative thoughts by pointing out that they do not reflect you and that they are only thoughts. When you have a thought, repeat the thought to yourself out loud. As you repeat the thought, make sure that you label it as a thought.


For example, if you think to yourself, "I'm a failure," acknowledge that it is just a thought. You can acknowledge that it is just a thought by saying to yourself, "I'm having the thought that I'm a failure.", Remember that sometimes your negative thoughts have a purpose. Sometimes your mind is just trying to protect you from getting into trouble or having something bad happen. That does not mean that these thoughts won’t still bother you. It just means that you will have to take a different approach to address these types of thoughts. One way that you can deal with negative thoughts that are a result of your mind trying to protect you is to thank your mind out loud.


For example, you may think, "I'm going to be late for work because of this traffic jam and my boss is going to yell at me." In this case, you can say to yourself, "Thank you, mind. Thank you for looking out for my best interests, but there's nothing you need to do right now.", Negative thoughts have patterns that can be made less disruptive if you label them according to what kind of story they tell. In other words, you may have a variety of different thoughts that all boil down to the same basic meaning. Figure out the patterns of your negative thoughts and label them. This can help you to let them go.


For example, if you tend to say to yourself, "I am bad at my job," you can say to yourself, "Oh, this is my ‘I’m a terrible employee’ story."Framing a thought this way will help to remind you that you often have these types of thoughts.
 Sometimes you can address and a correct a negative thought by making a joke out of it. As silly as it sounds, you may be able to dispel your negative thoughts by singing about them. Use the tune of a familiar song, such as "Row, Row, Row Your Boat," or the alphabet song to turn your negative thoughts into a song.


If you don’t feel like singing, you can say your thoughts out loud in a funny voice, like a cartoon character.