 Most school districts and state departments of education have their own grievance process if you observe acts of discrimination against students with disabilities.These procedures also handle situations in which you believe a particular student is not being properly included in regular classrooms or is not being educated in the least restrictive environment for that child.
Federal law is directly enforced by the federal Department of Education (DOE). While the DOE doesn't require you to exhaust remedies at the school, district, or state before filing a federal administrative complaint, it often makes sense to start at the bottom and work your way up.
Schools and states have their own deadlines and procedures, as well as eligibility and evidentiary requirements that may differ from those of the federal DOE.
If you're thinking about filing a state or local grievance, check the written policy materials on disability education or visit the website to learn more about your school or state's requirements.
Keep in mind that if you do file a state or institutional grievance, that process must reach its conclusion before you file a complaint with the DOE. The deadline to file a DOE complaint is extended accordingly, giving you 60 days after the grievance's outcome to submit your complaint.;
, You can learn more about whether you are eligible to file an administrative complaint with the DOE, as well as the basics of the complaint process. The DOE also has a complaint form available on its website that you can download and fill out.While the word "inclusion" itself doesn't appear in the federal laws governing the education of students with disabilities, the rules and regulations issued by the DOE do require that schools educate properly identified students with special needs in the least restrictive environment.
The "least restrictive environment" requirement has been interpreted as typically mandating inclusion of children with special needs in regular classrooms to the extent possible.
The DOE responds to complaints of inclusionary violations that demonstrate a lack of compliance with federal laws prohibiting discrimination of disabled students.
Generally, you must file a complaint within 180 days of the incident that gave rise to the complaint. You have more time if you went through the school or state grievance procedure first and were dissatisfied with the outcome.
Keep in mind that you don't need to be the victim of discrimination yourself to file a DOE complaint. You could be a parent, a teacher, or even a community member who has observed inclusionary violations in the school.
 You must provide information about yourself, the students involved, the name and location of the school, and the incidents that you believe constitute inclusionary violations.You can download a fillable PDF copy of the complaint form on the DOE website, fill it out, and send it to the email address provided. You also have the option of mailing a paper complaint to the DOE office nearest you, or taking it in and submitting it in person.
If you are filing the complaint on behalf of someone else, such as your child, you typically also must file a consent form signed by that person.
You cannot submit an anonymous complaint. The form must include your complete legal name and current contact information so the complaint can be investigated if warranted.
You may want to include any documents you have that support your allegations or demonstrate that an inclusionary violation has taken place. For example, if you have a copy of your child's latest individualized education program that places your child in segregated special education classes when your child's disabilities would allow him or her to participate in regular classes, you might submit a copy of that document.
 Once you submit your complaint, it will be reviewed by OCR staff. If they decide to open an investigation into the facts alleged in your complaint, they'll send you a letter of notification.The OCR may need additional information before they can process your complaint. If so, you will receive a letter requesting it. You have 20 calendar days to respond to this request or your complaint will be dismissed.
If OCR staff determine they have the legal authority to investigate your complaint, you'll receive a letter of notification that your complaint has been opened. This letter also will describe the next steps that will take place as the investigation begins.
 As part of the investigation, OCR staff may request documents or information from you, as well as conduct interviews of you, the affected students, and teachers or administrative officials at the school.You may have already attached documents to your complaint. Even so, investigators may request additional documents or information from you, such as records or statements documenting the disabilities of the students who are the subject of your complaint.
Typically you will be interviewed by an investigator regarding the allegations in your complaint. Answer the investigator's questions completely and honestly, and don't be afraid to say you don't know if you don't have the information or knowledge necessary to provide an answer.
At any point during the investigation, if there's something that confuses you or that you don't understand, don't hesitate to contact an investigator and ask about it.
 The OCR will send you a letter of findings when they have concluded the investigation. If evidence was found to support your allegations of inclusionary violations, the OCR will encourage you and the school to get together and negotiate a voluntary resolution agreement.Since this process is voluntary, the school may refuse to participate. If that happens, you probably should consider filing a lawsuit. the OCR cannot force the school to negotiate with you.
If you reach an agreement with the school through the voluntary resolution process, a written agreement will be created that is legally binding. However, the OCR does not monitor or enforce this agreement.
Rather, if the school enters an agreement and later fails to follow it, you must either file another complaint with the DOE or file a lawsuit in federal court to enforce the agreement.
If the OCR determines your allegations are not supported by the evidence, the DOE complaint process ends. Your option at this point if you disagree with the OCR's findings is to file a lawsuit against the school in federal court.
 Inclusionary violation lawsuits must be filed in federal court, which have fairly complex rules and procedures you probably don't want to attempt to navigate on your own. Additionally, you can guarantee the school will be well represented by a team of education attorneys.You can reach out to organizations that support and advocate for the rights of disabled students in education to find a good attorney to take your case. Your local legal services office also might be able to provide assistance.
Keep in mind that the federal laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability and give you the right to file a lawsuit also allow you to include reasonable attorney's fees in any award.
This means that if you win or settle your case, you typically won't have to pay your attorney out of pocket. However, this doesn't mean you won't have to pay any out-of-pocket costs at all during litigation. Be up front with any attorneys you interview about your financial limitations. #Gather documents and information. Your attorney likely will want copies of any documents or records you've received from the school, as well as any forms or notices related to any local or state grievances or federal administrative complaints you filed.To build the allegations that form the basis of the complaint, your attorney must know exactly what actions you believe constitute inclusionary violations.
Your attorney also will need basic information about the student or students involved in the lawsuit, including any tests, diagnoses, or other reports regarding their disabilities and the effect of those disabilities on their learning ability.
 Using the documents and information you provided, your attorney will draw up a complaint listing factual allegations that together constitute a violation of federal disability education laws.You must pay a $400 filing fee to initiate a lawsuit in federal court. Depending on the financial arrangements you've made with your attorney, these fees may be added to your bill or you may be expected to pay them up front.
Your complaint also must include a specific dollar amount you are demanding as monetary damages for the inclusionary violations, as well as any equitable relief to which you believe you are entitled.
Equitable relief is a court order for the school to take particular actions or stop doing something. In an inclusionary violation case, this could involve a court order to re-evaluate certain students, or to arrange for children with particular disabilities be included in regular classes rather than segregated in special education classes.
 Once the school is served with your complaint, it has 21 days to file a written answer or other response to your lawsuit. Don't be surprised if the school's first response is to file a motion to dismiss.If the school files a motion asking the court to dismiss your lawsuit for failure to state a claim, you typically must appear at a hearing to defend the legitimacy of your lawsuit.
Keep in mind that although these hearings can sometimes seem like mini-trials, the court at this stage accepts all of the facts you alleged as though they are true.
A hearing on a motion to dismiss, or motion for summary judgment, is not a trial on the truth of the facts of the case. Rather, the defendant school is arguing that even if all the facts you alleged were true, they don't add up to a violation of federal laws prohibiting discrimination based on disability.
If the school files an answer to your complaint instead of or in addition to a motion to dismiss, it typically will deny most, if not all, of the allegations you made. This means you must carry your burden at trial of proving those facts more likely than not are true.
 Provided your lawsuit survives a motion to dismiss, the school likely will approach you, through your attorney, with an offer to settle the lawsuit. Expect the initial settlement offer to be a fraction of the amount you demanded in your complaint.Your attorney must present any settlement offers to you for evaluation. Although he or she may give you advice on whether to accept or reject the offer, the choice ultimately is yours alone.
Some factors to keep in mind when you evaluate a settlement offer are the time and expense of carrying out the lawsuit to trial, as well as the likelihood that you will prevail at trial.
While juries typically are sympathetic to plaintiffs in inclusionary violation lawsuits, there still is no guarantee that you will win your case, or that you will be awarded as much as you demanded in your complaint if you do win.
With an extremely low initial settlement offer, it may be advisable to counter with a proposal that is less than the amount you demanded in your complaint, but still considerably more than what the school offered.
 One of the first phases of litigation is discovery, which begins with both parties exchanging interrogatories and requests for production. Your attorney will work with you to respond to these questions when you receive them.Interrogatories are written questions that must be answered in writing, under oath. Your attorney will seek answers from you for questions that are properly within the scope of the lawsuit.
Requests for production ask the receiving party to provide copies of various documents that are related to the facts of the case or may be used as evidence at trial. In an inclusionary violation lawsuit, you may receive requests for production from the school for documents or medical reports related to the disabilities of the students involved.
As the plaintiff, you also would send requests to the school for all documents and records related to the students named in the lawsuit and their educational evaluations and plans.
 Assuming the case still has not settled, you likely will proceed with depositions after the completion of written discovery. Depositions are live interviews with parties and witnesses in the case which are conducted under oath and transcribed by a court reporter.As a party in the case, the school likely will want to depose you, as well as any students named in your complaint or discovery documents as likely victims of discrimination or inclusionary violations.
The school also may want to depose any doctors or therapists who have treated those children or evaluated their educational performance.
Your attorney likely will schedule depositions with the student's teachers and other administrative officials with authority over the student's educational plans.
 If you are unable to reach a settlement through private negotiation, you may want to enlist the assistance of a mediator – a neutral third party who facilitates settlement discussions.Some federal courts require the parties to at least attempt mediation before a trial will be scheduled.
Schools tend to prefer mediation because the proceedings and outcome are confidential, while a public trial could be damaging to the school's reputation in addition to encouraging additional lawsuits.
If you are able to reach a settlement through mediation, the terms and conditions of that settlement will be set forth in a written agreement and signed by both parties. Once signed, the agreement becomes legally enforceable in a court of law.
On the other hand, if you aren't able to reach a settlement through mediation, you will continue to work with your attorney in preparation for trial.

