 If you're carrying a single pregnancy, you probably won't start to show until the second trimester. For the first three months, most of your clothes (except the tightest ones) will continue to fit. When you do start to need larger clothing, the best strategy overall is to buy what you need as you need it.


If your spouse or partner is larger than you are, consider borrowing a few of their pieces to bridge the time between fitting into your regular clothes and needing maternity pieces. Men's button-up shirts can be a comfortable option for expectant mothers.
Use a "belly button." This simple device, consisting of an elastic with buttons, enables you to widen pants and skirts to accommodate a growing bump. Just make sure to cover your waist with a long top.
Consider keeping a few maternity items on-hand in case you experience a sudden growth spurt about the second trimester (for a single-baby pregnancy). You will need to have enough clothing to at least get by until you can go shopping.;
, Most department stores have a maternity clothing section. You can also shop at specialty maternity stores, which are likely to have a larger selection of styles and sizes. Because a lot of women don't need to hang onto their maternity clothing, consignment stores can also have a wide selection of gently-used, still-trendy items.


Remember that most sizes are based on your pre-pregnancy size, but brands will vary. When in doubt, go larger.
Fabrics such as cotton jersey and Lycra are designed to stretch. Pieces in materials like this will last you through several stages of the pregnancy.
As awkward as it might be, attempt to try on anything you're considering for purchase. If it feels itchy, sticky or otherwise uncomfortable, put it back!
Consider buying layers. As your hormones fluctuate, your body temperature can go from too hot to too cold several times a day. Build your wardrobe so that you can peel off or add clothing with little hassle.
Select several different styles and fits to try on. Pants, in particular, come with many different types of stretch panels, and will often fit and feel different. Also, as you progress in your pregnancy, it may not be only your stomach that grows, but also your posterior and hips.
Ask if the store has a "prosthetic tummy" to check the fit of what you're trying on. If one isn't available, try using a shopping bag with one or two clothing items in it - it works surprisingly well!
Most women find themselves with larger feet when they're pregnant. Find a pair of comfortable, supportive shoes that you can slip on without bending over.
Don't forget about undergarments! Because most women experience an increase in breast size during pregnancy, you'll probably need a few new bras. Buy these as needed, since you won't be able to estimate the size ahead of time. Also, don't be afraid to ask for a professional fitting at a department or lingerie store - you'll want to make sure the fit is as comfortable as possible. For underpants, you can either purchase maternity briefs that will come up over the belly, or simply buy your usual cut and fit in a larger size and wear under the belly.
 There's no need to hide in the tent-like dresses and sweaters your mother and grandmother might have worn. Embrace styles that will flatter your new, glowing-with-life form.


Highlight your favorite features. Buy a cute skirt to show off trim legs, a cap-sleeved top to draw attention to toned arms, or a top with an eye-catching neckline to flatter a pretty throat and décolletage.
Seek out pieces that blend comfort with easy style, like a well-made sweater or detailed, flat-soled boots.
Buy a few accessories, such as scarves and jewelry, to complement your new maternity clothes. Select pieces you can see yourself wearing with your normal wardrobe after the pregnancy.
 Recovering from childbirth and nursing a newborn can be exhausting, and the last thing you'll want to do is make a time and energy consuming shopping expedition. Purchasing some nursing items ahead of time, in your second or third trimester, can save you some trouble.


Buy or make nursing bras. These are bras that allow you to uncover one breast at a time if you are planning on breastfeeding. They are convenient and easy to use in public places.
Nursing clothes (usually shirts, but also camisoles and dresses) have openings that make it easier to nurse, especially in public. Nursing sleepwear likewise makes for less disrobing at nighttime feedings.
Try to guess how your existing clothes might work before spending too much money on specialized nursing items. They may be able to accommodate breastfeeding discreetly.
