 There are quite a few inmate registries on the internet that provide profiles of inmates who are interested in finding a pen pal. Spend some time reading through the available profiles to find someone you would like to get to know.Try to find someone with common interests so that you can have something to build on in conversation.
Make sure you choose an inmate with the same expectations as you. You don’t want to pick someone who is looking for a romantic relationship if you are not interested in that as well.
 Many prisons offer inmate assistance programs of various kinds that you can become involved in. These programs are designed to benefit the inmates and help them to use their time productively while incarcerated.


Some such programs provide educational or tutoring support for inmates.
 Print your name and address on the envelope neatly. You should do this also in the body of the letter in case something happens to the envelope. Make sure the inmate’s name, address, and inmate ID are clearly legible as well.To make sure mail does not get lost, put your pen pal's last name and correctional I.D. number on the back of each page or picture.
 In the first letter, give some basic background information about yourself. You can describe your hobbies, interests, or a small personal description. Be sure not to include anything too personal. Introduce yourself just as you would to any person you are meeting for the first time.You can also give some words of encouragement and respond to things in their personal ad if they have one, like their love of reading for example.
 Regardless of how close you become with your pen pal, try to remember that they are in prison for a reason. Unless you know them well (from real life or otherwise), be cautious about providing them with any personal information about yourself or your family.Consider using a post office box or mailbox, rather than a home mailing address, when writing to your inmate pen pal.
Limit what personal information you include in your letters. You can send plenty of stories and details without sending information that might compromise your personal security.

