 If a new dress just isn't in your budget, or you want to try to save as much money as possible, visit thrift and consignment shops. Places like the Good Will, the Salvation Army, and other thrift stores sell dresses that have been donated. Many of these cocktail dresses are nearly new and been worn only once. Consignment shops are a great place to find used formal wear. Consignment shops generally have nicer clothes than thrift stores, so they may charge a little more than a thrift store, but you might have a larger selection of consignment cocktail dresses. Many of these dresses have only been worn once or twice, so they should be in great shape.Thrift stores and consignment shops may have vintage dresses from ten, twenty, or even fifty years ago. Shopping in these stores for your perfect cocktail dress may lead you to a unique dress that will have everyone talking about your style!
Try garage sales in addition to thrift stores. You might even find a dress cheaper that way!

, Sites like ebay are great for buying used cocktail dresses at reasonable prices.Other sites like Pageant Resale, Tradesy, Twice, Etsy, and even Craigslist offer used dresses at discounted rates.Some of these websites allow you to speak to the owner of the dress directly, so you can request measurements, more pictures, or even a Skype session to get a better idea about the dress before you buy it., Some websites, like Rent the Runway, offer designer formal evening wear to rent for a fraction of the price. You have to return the dress, but you can end up wearing a dress that costs thousands of dollars for much cheaper., Raid the closets of family members or friends. If you want a cute cocktail dress for less, what's better than a free dress? You never know - maybe the perfect little black dress is in your mom or aunt's closet., If you have some formal wear you don't mind loaning out, trade that for the perfect cocktail dress. Ask around on social media for people selling dresses who might be willing to trade cocktail dresses with you.

