 If you have a disability, it’s important to discuss your concerns with losing weight with your doctor. They can let you know if you are healthy enough for some type of exercise or activity as well as let you know of any dietary or other restrictions you may have.Talk to your doctor about the types of exercise and dietary changes you want to try. The doctor will let you know if they’re safe for you. Your doctor may suggest meeting with a dietitian and fitness professional to help you find the best and safest ways for you to lose weight.
Be aware that loneliness and depression, which are emotional disabilities that can also affect the physically disabled, can affect your appetite and how you eat. If you are experiencing either condition, ask your doctor about how best to treat the condition and lose weight.;
, You may need to adjust your diet to lose weight and stay healthy because of slowed metabolism, which can occur when you have a disability. Even if you don’t have special dietary needs, a registered dietitian can help you formulate a plan to best lose weight and get the nutrients you need to maintain your wellbeing.Let your dietitian know that you’d like to lose weight and stay healthy. Make sure to tell the dietitian about your normal diet and ask how you can gradually make changes to lose weight.
Ask your doctor or local hospital to suggest a local registered dietitian. You can also find one on the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetic’s website at http://www.eatright.org/find-an-expert.
 Physical activity is an excellent way to boost weight loss. Depending on what type of disability you have, you may be limited in what type of movement you can do; however, even small movements may help you lose weight. Meeting with a physical therapist or certified trainer can help you figure out what types of movement and activity are feasible for you and can help you lose weight.Ask your doctor to suggest a physical therapist or certified inclusive fitness trainer, which is someone trained to work with people who have disabilities. You can also find a therapist or trainer by consulting the website of the American Physical Therapy Association or the National Center on Health, Physical Activity and Disability.Give your physical therapist or trainer copies of your medical records and let the person know about your weight loss goals. The person may examine you and ask you questions to get a sense of what you are able to do—as well as things you might like to do to help you safely lose weight.
Before your appointment, make a list of activities in your life which might benefit from exercise (if you struggle to put on your socks or lift a kettle to make tea, for instance). This can help your trainer choose exercises to strengthen the muscles that will help you do these tasks.
 When trying to lose weight, diet and calorie intake is the most important factor, even more than exercise or activity. It’s important to eat three balanced and healthy meals every day. Getting enough nutrients is especially important to any person with a disability. Selecting whole, nutrient-rich foods can promote weight loss while maintaining and even boosting your health.Aim to lose 1 – 2 pounds every week by eating 500 – 1,000 fewer calories than your current calorie intake.Don’t eat less than 1,200 calories a day because this will keep you from losing weight (your body will enter "starvation mode" and cling to fat) and make you feel miserable., To stay healthy, you need to eat different foods from the five food groups. They are: fruits, vegetables, grains, proteins, and dairy. Make different selections at each meal to reap the health benefits of a wide range of nutrients. Healthy foods also generally have a lot of fiber, which can keep you from eating too much., Whole fruits and vegetables are high in a broad range of nutrients that you need to stay healthy.Have at least 1 ½ to 2 cups of fruit and 2 to 2 ½ cups of vegetables every day. These can help keep you full throughout the day and promote weight loss.Select whole fruits and vegetables like blackberries, raspberries, bananas, spinach, squash, and sweet potatoes. Vary your fruit and veggie choices at each meal so that you get the health benefits of different nutrients.
You can also drink one serving of 100% fruit or vegetable juice each day.
 Whole grains offer you fiber and other vital nutrients while keeping you full throughout the day. Choose whole wheat bread, pasta, oatmeal, cereal, or brown rice over things like white rice and bread.

Consider cutting back on your grains, as low-carb diets result in quicker weight loss. The vitamins, minerals and fiber can be replaced by whole fruits and vegetables.
Try different whole grains like amaranth, barley, buckwheat, bulgur, quinoa, and spelt.
 Dairy products can help keep your bones strong and build muscle, both of which may be especially important if you have a disability. Dairy can also help you lose weight. Drinking milk and eating foods such as reduced-fat cheese and yogurt can help you get your 3 cups of dairy every day., Junk food is enemy #1 for any person trying to lose weight. It is often high in fat and calories and has little to no nutritional value, which can undo any other steps you’ve taken to lose weight.Stay away from refined, sugary carbohydrates like white bread, pasta, rice, and baked goods. Avoiding these foods altogether or replacing them with healthy, whole grain alternatives can help you lose weight.Limit or get rid of fatty foods such as French fries or burgers.
 If you have certain unhealthy foods you like, consider swapping them for healthy alternatives. This can help you cut calories while still enjoying your favorite foods. For example, eat brown rice instead of white rice. Add more vegetables to your plate than meat or pasta. Try air-popped popcorn instead of eating potato chips. If you’re looking for crunch, try carrots or cut veggies.


Give yourself one day each week to cheat. This can curb cravings and minimize the risk of overindulgence., One way to track calories and make sure you’re getting enough nutrients is to write a meal plan. This can not only ensure you’re eating healthy and getting enough nutrients, but also may save you time and effort at the grocery store.

Include three meals and two snacks in your daily plan. Make different food choices at each meal. For example, have cottage cheese with fresh berries, oatmeal, and coffee with skim milk for breakfast. Try a salad with different vegetables, grilled chicken, and homemade vinaigrette for lunch. Dip cut vegetables in hummus for a snack. Have a lean steak, small salad, and steamed mixed vegetables for dinner. If you want dessert, have a sugar-free popsicle or some apple slices sprinkled with cinnamon.
Include any restaurant meals in your plan. See what online tools restaurants offer or call ahead to a restaurant see what healthy choices are on the menu. Select a couple of healthy dishes and write these on your plan. Make sure to stay away from dishes in heavy sauces as well as buffets and bread baskets.
 It’s important to your wellbeing to drink enough water every day. This can also help you lose weight. Drink about 13 cups (3 liters) of liquid every day if you are a man and 9 cups (2.2 liters) if you are a woman. You will need to drink more if you are active.Stay away from high-calorie beverages like soda, juice cocktails, specialty coffees, and alcohol. Go for non-calorie choices such as diet soda, tea, plain coffee, or sparkling water.
 Sometimes people eat to cope with feelings of stress, anxiety, fear, depression, boredom, sadness, or loneliness.It might help to remind yourself that eating, while it can be pleasurable, is really an important function to keep us healthy and alive. Think of eating in terms of sustenance to keep the "machine" of your body running and less as an event or source of comfort or pleasure. Finding pleasure in other endeavors is important for everyone, with or without disabilities.

If you find that emotional eating is an issue for you, it may help to speak with a counselor or therapist to help change your attitudes about food.
Making and sticking to a meal schedule can help you avoid emotional eating.
 No matter what type of activity you decide to do to help you lose weight, remember that you can always make modifications to accommodate your disability. Ask a fitness professional for modifications or consider alternatives to other activities you do. For example, you could try running or walking in a pool with a floatation belt or using resistance bands in your wheelchair., Activity and healthy diet can help you lose weight and promote your health. Healthy and realistic weight loss is about 1 – 2 pounds per week.Getting some type of activity five to six days a week can help you lose weight and boost your health. Remember that activity can also energize you and help improve your mood.Talk to your doctor about how much physical activity is feasible for you each week. You might try to get ½ hour every day and break it up into manageable pieces. For example, try three 10-minute workouts. Remember to start slowly and gradually increase your activity level as you are able.
Try to make it part of your regular routine. For instance, do 10 minutes upon waking and 10 minutes in the evening, or 10 minutes after meals. Try listening to faster paced music or even just getting outside in the fresh air. Exercise should become habit to stay well and keep the weight off.
Choose activities that challenge your body and that you enjoy without pain. It may take a little trial and error to find what works and what you like. Consider activities such as walking, using a hand-bike, swimming, or light stretching.
Make sure to warm up, stretch, and cool down any time you do activity. Always listen to your body and stop if you experience any pain.
 Muscle mass can speed up your metabolism and burn calories. Strength training can also help people with disabilities perform regular tasks like transferring to and from a wheelchair as well as pushing, holding and carrying things. Add a few simple strength training exercises to your daily activity in order to lose weight and promote your wellbeing.


Consult a certified inclusive trainer before you start. This person can develop the best strength-training moves for your needs and abilities.
Consider trying regular yoga or Pilates. Both of these can stretch and strengthen your body while incorporating moves for your specific disability.
 It’s important for any person to give their body at least one full day of rest every week. You may want to take one or two if you are disabled. Rest can help build muscles and give them proper time to recover, especially if you are new to activity.


Sleep for seven to nine hours every night. Take a 30 minute nap if you’re tired during the day.