 This means that rather than critiquing someone as a person, or a pattern in their behavior, you should keep the criticism focused on one incident. This way, the person receiving the criticism will understand that the problem is not with them as a person, and that they don’t necessarily always do things poorly.Keep criticism in the present. If you’re talking about something that happened long ago, or relating a current situation to something in the past, that may not be constructive.Refrain from saying things like, “This is the same thing you did last time, too,” or “I’ve noticed that you always do things that way.” Statements like that are not constructive and can be hurtful.
Instead, you can say, "I noticed that you were late this morning," or, "I noticed that your presentation today hadn't been edited.";
, Constructive criticism addresses specific flaws, and provides advice on how to improve on them. The receiver of critique is left with a clear idea of what actions to take in order to do better. An example of the difference between specific and vague criticism is:Specific: "Some of the women feel that they're being talked over. It would be helpful if you spoke up if you noticed group members interrupting each other, or brushing off what others had to say. If certain members are feeling hesitant, you might even ask for their opinion to make sure people know their thoughts are valued."
Vague: "You aren't showing enough leadership. Your group is unsuccessful, and its atmosphere is unpleasant, particularly for the women. I expect to see better morale and more equal participation."

, Objective language lets the person know that you’re not judging them. Objective language means simply stating the facts, or things you’ve observed. Your feedback does not negatively evaluate their personal attributes or abilities. An example of the difference between objective and judgemental language when talking to an artist is:Objective: "The anatomy in this picture resembles a child’s, which contrasts with the more adult-like face. If she had a smaller head-to-body ratio and slightly longer limbs, she’d look more adult. Spending some extra time with anatomy books may be helpful to you."
Judgemental: "To be honest, you're lousy at drawing. All ego and no work ethic. I question how much commitment you have to art."

, If you care about your comments being constructive, you'll want to make sure they had the desired impact. If the person seems particularly offended or hurt, you may have been too harsh.


If the person doesn't seem to take your comments to heart, you can ask them if they understood, and why they aren't making changes.
It's possible that you were too vague or gentle and the person didn't think the feedback was meant to incite direct change.

