 Before you attempt to handle ear plugs, make sure to wash your hands. You do not want to expose your ears to dirt and germs.Wash your hands with soap and clean running water before using ear plugs.Get your hands wet with clear water and then lather your hands in soap. Scrub your hands for about 20 seconds. If you need help tracking time, hum the "Happy Birthday" song to yourself twice. Make sure to wash under your fingernails, between your nails, and the backs of your hands.
Rinse your hands completely when you're done. Then, dry your hands with a clean, dry towel.;
, Try to test them in your fingers before buying if possible. Buying in bulk is advised as soft foam ear plugs are not reusable. They should be thinner and rounded on one edge so the plugs can be easily inserted into your ear.
 This will make it smaller so it can be easily inserted into the ear. The foam will expand again once you’ve fitted it inside your ear, blocking sound. If the ear plug is particularly thick, you can roll it between your hands instead. Just make sure that you are just thinning the ear plug out lengthwise, rather than rolling it up into a ball.
 Grab the top of your ear with the hand not holding the ear plug. Stretch it slightly up and backwards.This will pull your ear open a bit, allowing you to more easily insert your earplug.









Don’t pull too hard. Just a gentle tug is enough to have your ear expanded enough for the ear plug.It may be helpful to use a mirror so you can more clearly see what you're doing.
 Slowly and gently insert the plug it into your ear canal. It should easily slide in place with your ear canal expanded slightly. Do not put the plug in too far and don't force it. While most of the foam body should be in the ear canal, there should be enough of the plug outside the canal that you can easily grasp it with your fingertips.
 Hold the plug in place with your fingertips. This will allow the foam to expand, preventing sound from getting into your ear canal. Slowly count to 20 or 30 as you hold the plug in place.


To see if the plug is working, listen to yourself speak. You should sound muffled, as should the sound around you. Do not expect it to completely silence the surroundings, but it should quiet them.If the plug is not working, you may need to try a different form of plugs or possibly smaller ones. Most of the foam body should be in your ear canal by the end. Sometimes you have to try again if the foam is not sealing sound out properly.

