 Most big brand retailers have daily,weekly or monthly electronic newsletters that you can sign up to receive information on their promotional offers. Very often by signing up to either their newsletter or simply creating a free account with them you may receive a welcome coupon code giving you an instant discount. Examples include SurfStitch ($20 off orders over $100), The Iconic ($10 off orders over $50), Get Wines Direct ($10, no minimum spend), EziBuy ($20 off, which you’ll receive in the catalogue which they send you) as well as Amazon UK ($20 off when you sign up to their fashion newsletter).;
, This is down to the fact that most retailers choose to make these sorts of announcements via social media. Often, you may also find that certain discounts aren’t advertised anywhere else, particularly when it comes to flash sales.
 Never shop without a voucher or coupon code as they’re easily accessible online these days, giving customers not only discounts on prices but free shipping in many cases as well. Always search Google and dedicated coupon sites for coupon codes at whichever store you plan on making a purchase from. If you’re not a regular coupon user, you’ll probably be surprised at how often you’re likely to find an active code giving you an instant discount.
 There are a number of extremely useful web browser plug-ins available that make hunting for the lowest product prices online a breeze. Most only take a few clicks to install. Not only will they find the cheapest prices of the product you’re looking at, but they’ll also notify you of any active coupons available for that particular retailer.
 With online shopping booming in Australia during recent years, a number of international retailers have taken note of this started shipping their products to Australia. The relatively high shipping fees that the average online retailer in Australia still charges is what, in many cases, makes it worth while shopping on overseas websites. Whenever there’s a lull in general sales or discounts locally, you now have the advantage of seeking out strong promotions from international retailers like Black Friday and Cyber Monday sales in the USA who may be discounting the exact product you’ve had your eye on. Popular categories of products that savvy shoppers use this tactic on often include games, electronics, and fashion.
 Shopping online is generally very convenient and cost effective, but when you receive something you don’t really want, that’s when things start to become costly. To return an item in person is often only feasible with large chains who have numerous stores nationwide. Thus if you're forced to return something online, it generally means you’ll have to pay for return postage which in most cases can be expensive. If you're looking to buy an item you want no matter what, you can afford the risk. However, if you aren't 100% certain make sure that you read the returns policy for that retailer so that you don't get caught out in this way. You'll also want to keep an eye out for retailers who offer free returns within a certain period.
 The old saying “You’ve got to be in it to win it” rings true in this instance. The motivation for retailers behind running competitions is to reward dedicated fans and followers as well as attract new customers by giving away free items or discounts. With such a vast array of options out there, the rule of thumb should be that if it only takes you a very short period of time to enter, well then it’s worth a shot. The people who enter competitions on a regular basis could end up winning something at least a handful of times a year – and sometimes that “something” can be pretty substantial.

