 Fees, regulations, rating systems, and requirements vary from district to district, but for now, you're just deciding if you want to do a solo, ensemble, or both. Different districts might have different limits as to how many things you can do, but doing more than two in any situation probably isn't a good idea.;
,


If you're doing an ensemble, you'll need to find other people to be in it. Some places are stricter about ensembles than others, but many areas require that you have "normal" ensembles, such as a flute duet, woodwind quintet, brass quartet, etc., with the exact instrumentation used in a standard one of these. Unfortunately, that can cause roadblocks - for instance, if your band doesn't have a bassoon player, you can't do a woodwind quintet. Ask about what kinds of ensembles you can have, but even if you're free to do whatever you want, keep in mind that you don't want to be too weird. A baritone sax, an oboe, a piccolo, and a trumpet may be just a little too bizarre, and good luck finding music for a group like that.
If you plan on doing a solo, you'll probably need a piano accompanist (unless the piece you choose ends up not having a piano part). In most cases, you can sign up someone you know, like a parent, grandparent, church music director, etc., or if you don't know somebody who can play, you can "borrow" someone else from your school or the district.
 You'll want to make sure you choose something that isn't too hard to learn (but one that will challenge you slightly is good), and that you actually like. A good way to pick is to narrow it down by difficulty, for starters. Ask what grade music your band usually plays, and if you think you can handle it, ask to see some music a grade higher, or stay around the same grade. Then, it's just a matter of flipping through books, sightreading, and making a choice. If you're doing an ensemble, make sure all the members agree on it, even if you are the appointed "leader".
 On most registration forms, you simply have to provide the name of your piece, the composer and/or arranger, and your name/the names of people in your ensemble, as well as the name of your accompanist if you're doing a solo. Generally, the rule is one form per entry, which means if you're doing a solo and an ensemble, you need two separate forms, and if you're doing an ensemble, your ensemble only submits one piece of paper. Keep in mind that there also may be a fee, which can vary a lot in different areas. Be sure to read the rules on that very carefully and have your money in on time.
 This is the most important part, as it's the whole point of Solo and Ensemble - to practice a piece and strive for the highest rating possible. If you aren't offered an opportunity to practice at school, find a way to get together with your ensemble or your accompanist after school, as much as possible.

