 Look online if your school has an online grading system, or ask all your teachers. Write down the subjects that have grades below your standards. If you are very tight with your grades focus on subjects below an A. If you are a little less uptight about your grades, focus on grades below a B. C's, D's, and F's show that you aren't a very consistent student, so we must get rid of these grades first.;
, If you do have anything missing ask if the assignments are still worth any credit. Even if it's only worth 50% (an F) if you turn it in late, it will increase your grade a little bit. 50% is always better than 0%! Then, turn in your missing assignments right away! This will show your teacher that you are determined to get your grade up.
 Ask your teacher if you can make up these assignments, or redo them. Not all teachers allow this, so don't get your hopes up!

, If your teacher gives you some extra credit to do, do a thorough job, and try your hardest not to make any mistakes, that way you can bring your grade up as much as possible. After this, keep on the lookout for any extra credit your teacher offers to the entire class, and make sure you take advantage of EVERY opportunity so you can your grade sky-high and if you miss an assignment it won't bring down your grade to a grade you don't approve of.
 This can be a LIFESAVER. Make a schedule ranging from Monday-Sunday, and allow yourself at least one rest day, and one day to study for upcoming tests. On each of the days you'll study one to two subjects for at least 20 minutes per subject. For example:


Monday: Vocabulary






Tuesday: Social Studies and Physics






Wednesday: Math






Thursday: Spanish and Chemistry






Friday: English and Science






Saturday: REST






Sunday: Test day







, This is a MUST! Buy a planner, or a small notebook to write down your assignments everyday. We're only human, and unless you're some kind of hybrid-psychic you can't remember everything! When you get home, check off the assignments until you have done them all!

, If you procrastinate, then all the progress you've made so far will be ruined! Something I've discovered is to set goals and rewards. For example, after you finish my math homework, you can play video games, or call your friends. Goals and rewards like this make you feel you need to get things done, but don't rush, it can cost you a few points off your finished product!

