 Communicating in CoD4 is arguably more important than in any other FPS (first-person-shooter) on the market today, given the extremely small room for error given the speed and intensity with which the game moves. Most of your communications will be taken up with relaying or receiving locations or enemies or objectives. Here are a few maps where you need to know the names for certain locations-


Crash- The 'blue-room' or 'blue-building' is the building across from the crash site that has a blue interior, also distinguished by the amount of damage on the house, leading to it also being called the run down house/building etc. The other location of importance is the three story building located diagonally across from the blue-room. This will usually be referred to as the 'third-story', i.e.-
"Where is that sniper?"
"Third story, third story!";
,


Cross Fire- First and foremost, controlling the sniping posts at either end of the street are paramount. These are usually referred to as- "He's in the sniping building at the end of the street." With it being expected that you can figure out what end of the map the majority of your forces are on, therefore being able to orient yourself accordingly. Another important area to control is the 'balcony-building' or just 'the balcony'. The balcony juts out from a second story building over the main street, giving whoever is there and unparalleled line of sight. Fortunately, this easily combated, as there is little cover on the balcony or the building attached to it. The third place is the second story building next to the balcony building, which is referred as the 'water-melon' shop.
You will pick up more lingo as you go along in game.
 If you're fighting close range combat, you wouldn't use a sniper rifle, now would you? Make sure that you choose or create a class that is set up for the kind of fighting you intend on doing. Here are the weapon classes listed from shortest to longest range-


Shotguns/Pistols
Sub-machine guns
Assault Rifles
Light machine guns
Sniper Rifles
Here are a list of good classes even the newest player can use that cover most types of combat-
M-16- M-16 w/ red-dot sight, M-9 w/ silencer, Perk 1-Claymores/RPGs, Perk 2-Stopping power, Perk 3-Deep Impact
Ak-47- AK47 w/ Grenade Launcher, M-9 w/ silencer, Perk 1-Attachment, Perk 2-Stopping Power, Perk 3-Steady Aim
Sniper- M40A3, M-9 w/ silencer, Perk 1-Claymore, Perk 2-Stopping Power, Perk 3-Deep Impact
Spec Ops- MP-5 w/ red-dot or silencer, Perk 1-Claymores, Perk 2-UAV Jammer, Perk 3-Steady Aim
Custom Class 1/2/3/4/5/6- M16 w/ ACOG, Side-arm= Deagle or M1911, Perk 1- Bandoiler or RPG, Perk 2- Stopping Power, Perk 3- Deep Impact. This class offers countless one-burst kills from the M16.
 Depending on the game mode, stealth can really help. Use a silencer, the Dead Silence perk, and the UAV Jammer perk. Use a sniper rifle, or the M14 with a Red Dot or ACOG sight if you intend on medium to long range firefights on large maps such as Backlot. Use flashbangs so that the enemy cannot see your position.


Use your knife. Knifing is the quietest attack method in Call of Duty 4.
Remember to silence your secondary weapon as well unless you want to get attention.
 Flanking has many benefits including the fact that: fewer enemies are attacking you, you are less likely to die, and because you will get more kills. You can also use a Light Machine Gun and get the attention of your enemies while someone else goes to flank.
 Enemies will either flank you, throw a grenade at you, flash/stun you, or shoot you shortly after you start camping. Only camp if you are using a Sniper Rifle, and have a claymore in order to not get flanked.

