


You will want to find accommodations as close as possible to minimize travel delays.
Reliable transportation is also an important consideration, whether you will work with a car service or transportation provided by the hotel or reserve a rental car.;
, Consistency when traveling from city to city can help smooth the way for increased productivity.
 Specifics will vary, but some items to consider include:


Meeting space. Does the hotel have space available if the need for a meeting arises? Are projectors, sound systems and other audiovisual aids available through the hotel?
Business technology and services. Be sure that WiFi, fax and photocopying services, as well as a courier service, are readily available. Video conference services may be needed as well. These services should be available to guests in executive accommodations 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, to accommodate long hours or global meetings.
 If the hotel is in a city that allows smoking, the preference for a smoking or non-smoking room is an essential element of the reservation process.


On-site dining facilities and room service are assets for client entertainment and for relaxation during a hectic trip.
Guest parking and hotel courtesy cars.
Personal services such as cleaning and valet services are helpful. The Lanesborough Hotel in London, for example, presses a change of clothing on arrival for executive travelers.
Exercise facilities and spa and salon services. These amenities can provide a much more comfortable hotel stay.
Concierge service is helpful with tickets for shows, restaurant reservations, travel changes and transportation needs.
Individual preferences that may make the stay more comfortable, such as the women-only floor with all-female butler service offered by the St. Regis Shanghai.
 A meeting planner or travel planner in the city may be able to advise you.



Ask for recommendations for accommodations that meet your criteria, nearby dining and any welcome packages they may offer.
Inquire about other significant events or factors that may affect the travel plan, such as major road construction that could cause delays.



Meeting with the sales staff or concierge will give the best sense of the accommodations, amenities and services, and will establish relationships with people you can contact if you need assistance during the executive's stay.

If possible, have this package placed in the hotel room before arrival.

