 It's nice to know people, but generally everyone will want to make you feel welcome. People have left behind the silliness of compulsory school and are ready to make new friends. Sometimes it can hold you back to be clinging to or clung on to by an old friend in a new environment; and every relationship can benefit from space and time to miss each other. If you and your boyfriend/girlfriend were to break up college would be very uncomfortable for you both.;
, Pick things you are interested in, want a job in, and are doing well in currently at school; these are generally the subjects you are more likely to commit to and put effort into to study. Not all subjects are taught at every establishment and entry grades may vary so you may have to practise your research skills early.
 Could you imagine yourself there? If you are big into sport you might like to check out their sport clubs and facilities. Have they got enough study spaces you could chose from? If you learn and revise better in school, do their teachers seem helpful, willing and enthusiastic about their subject? If think meeting new people is important, will the common room help you socialise?

, This can help you chose your subjects that will help you in the future, and you have to have a goal to motivate yourself. If you want to go to university that can be your goal; you are studying to get to that place in life where you know you want to be, and it would be a shame to let yourself down.
 You could spend your entire time studying forever; and you would probably do really well in your final exams, but you would be lonely. Sometimes you just need a good party or a get together with your friends from your old school. Organise activities; parties if you're allowed, bowling trips, meals out, days out, ice skating trips, days in the sun and days in the snow, shopping trips to town, swimming, a sleepover. And don't forget your family either, a meal out or a cinema trip with them can be just lovely, its nice to feel loved and a part of a family. You have been blessed with all the lovely people in your life; you have to make the most of every second with them.
 It would be stupid to revise for weeks beforehand to fail for one good night and a nasty hangover the next day. You will thank yourself for not going when the friends that did go fail.
 You have to look after yourself, and get out into different parts of the world; a part time job and driving lessons will give you skills for life. If you do have a part time job try to find one you enjoy, pays reasonably well and keep the hours reasonable, too. 12 hours is plenty when you have studying and socialising to get on with too.
 Sometimes you can sneak in a bit of homework/coursework in your break-time or free periods; giving you more time for life at home.
 Everyone has days where its all so hard to juggle, but at the end of it all you just have to ask yourself is it better to come out with B's and C's and happy memories of the 2 years than to come out with A's/A*'s and a miserable 2 years and few friends? It is your decision to make.
 Sort the problem out before it escalates.
, Rehearsal makes information enter your memory. If you can remember great, if not read your notes before you go to bed. Sort it out before the day ends.

