 Once again, this is where your figure becomes your best friend; you can wear tight fitting clothes. The same rule as above applies here; Avoid purchasing clothes that are too tight, and stay away from baggy clothes. Everybody has their own style, so experiment with yours. Try to mix things up and buy something you wouldn't usually wear, it may work in your favor. Some girls seem to think that button up shirts on guys are very sexy, so give that a go, but keep in mind that not everything will suit you.


Purchase some skinny jeans. You're skinny, so make the most of it! Lucky for you, you can pull of the oh-so-famous skinny jeans. Of course, refrain from buying skinny jeans that are too tight as well as avoiding ones that are too loose. When you find the right fit it will really work well in your favor. The girls will love it.;
, Be sure to present yourself well by showering, brushing your teeth, and wearing deodorant every day. Also consider shaving and cologne, depending on your need.
 It's not always clear why exactly, but confidence can be quite sexy. Now this doesn't mean you have to go around acting cocky and showing off, this simply means you should take pride in yourself and realize how brilliant you truly are. When you are comfortable with yourself, you will exude confidence without even trying.
 There is something quite alluring about mysterious men, so bring out your inner mystery and give it a go. Being skinny can give your movements a slightly awkward or eerie touch, which can get people curious about you. You can also be mysterious by being a little bit introvert occasionally (but of course, there is no need to isolate yourself). Also, there is no need to spill all your secrets, if you don't reveal much about yourself then everyone will be dying to know about you. Mysterious guys = Alluring = Sexy.
 If you wish to be sexy, staying healthy is a must. Eat healthy foods to keep yourself healthy, drink plenty of water to flush out intoxicants and participate in physical activity to keep your body toned and sexy.

