 While creating a parallel circuit is not complicated, this method requires you to use wire and a switch; it may be suited for slightly older students.


For example, this method will require you to strip wires, but if you lack the necessary tools for this or don't want young ones performing this task, you may prefer to read the method explained above.
 You don't need much to complete this project: You need a power source, a conducting material, at least two loads (the items which use electricity), and a switch.


Our directions call for you to use a battery as your power source. A 9-volt battery will work well.
You'll be using insulated wire as your conducting material. Any kind will work, but copper-wire should be easy to find.
You'll be cutting the wire into several pieces, so make sure you have plenty (30-40" should do it).
Our plans use lightbulbs as the load of choice, but flashlight bulbs are also a good choice.
You should be able to find a switch (as well as all of the other materials) at any hardware or home improvement store.
 The wire is your conducting material, which will create the circuits between the power source and your leads.


Cut the wire into five pieces (between 6" and 8" will be fine).
Carefully remove approximately ½" of the insulation from both ends of all your wire pieces.
Wire strippers are the best tool for removing insulation, but if you don't have these, scissors or wire-cutters will work; just be very careful not to damage the wires.
 Attach one of the wires to the positive terminal of the battery and wind the other end around the left side of one of the lightbulbs. , Take a separate piece of wire and connect it to the negative terminal of the battery. Take the other end of the wire and connect it to the switch. , Using yet another piece of wire, connect it first to the switch, and then wind it around the right side of the first lightbulb. , Take your fourth piece of wire and wind it around the left side of the first lightbulb, and then wind the other end around the left side of the second lightbulb. , Using your remaining piece of wire, wrap one end around the right side of the first lightbulb, and the other end around the right side of the second lightbulb.
 Flip the switch, and you should see both bulbs light up. Congratulations—you successfully built a parallel circuit!

