 Antifreeze has a sweet taste that is strangely attractive to cats. Unfortunately, if they drink antifreeze it causes crystals to form in their kidney, which destroys the nephrons in their kidney.Autumn usually sees a rise in cases of anti-freeze poisoning as drivers will refreeze their vehicle’s antifreeze to prepare for the winter.
Never leave drips or puddles of antifreeze on driveways or the side of road. Store unused antifreeze in secure containers that will not leak if knocked over.;
, Cover the spilled antifreeze with sand to absorb the spill and then transfer the contaminated sand into a plastic bag. Tie off or seal the bag and dispose of it safely in a trash can.


Hose the area with lots of water to remove any lingering traces of antifreeze.
Put old antifreeze into a plastic bottle with a child-proof screw top and disposed of it properly to comply with your local health and safety laws.
 Cats lack some of the enzymes that dogs and humans possess to break down certain medications. Cats are therefore much more sensitive to the effects of many human drugs and rapidly become poisoned if they eat them.They are especially sensitive to the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory group of painkillers, such as ibuprofen and naproxen.
Many other drugs are toxic to cats and will cause catastrophic liver failure, rather than kidney damage.
Always keep human medications in sealed containers with child-proof locks and never leave pill pots out in the open, in case someone mistakes them for animal medication. If possible, store them in containers in a lockable cabinet.
 The leaves, petals, and pollen from certain lily species can cause irreversible kidney damage to cats due to an unknown mechanism. The Lilium or Hemerocallis species are the most toxic, commonly found in Asiatic, Tiger, Easter, Day, Japanese Show, Stargazer, Rubrum, Wood, and Western lilies.While many cats do not chew on lily leaves, your cat could brushes against the stamens of the lily and pollen would then be deposited on her coat, which she would groom off and ingest., Do this by putting a buster collar on the cat, or by wrapping the cat in a towel with her head sticking out.


Use a washcloth soaked in water to wipe away any contamination. The mystery toxin from lilies is not absorbed through the skin so the main concern is the cat washing herself - if you prevent this, the chances of toxicity are greatly reduced.
 A high percentage of Persian cats have a life-limiting inherited kidney condition called polycystic kidney disease (PKD). While there is no cure for this condition, it is possible to prevent it being passed onto the next generation by carefully selecting your cat’s breeding stock.This condition is passed from parent to kitten, so if animals that do not have PKD are bred from the condition, it is entirely preventable.
 PKD is caused by a dominant gene, and there is now a genetic test that detect the presence of this gene. Responsible breeders are usually happy to test their breeding stock prior to mating.


If the test comes back negative the cat can be registered on the International Cat PKD Negative scheme.
If you are thinking of purchasing a Persian kitten, ask the breeder if you can see negative PKD certification for both parents. The gene only needs to be present in one parent for the kittens to inherit the gene.
 This can be performed once the prospective parents have reached 12 months of age. Any cysts present which are larger in size will be picked on the ultrasound scan.


Cats with PKD should be neutered., The first test will look at the urine specific gravity in your cat’s urine. Your vet will place a drop of your cat’s urine onto a piece of equipment called a refractometer. When the lens is held up to the light, it gives a reading of how strong or weak the urine is.


A normal specific gravity is 1.035 of above. Urine that is more dilute than this (1.001 to 1.034) is suspicious sign that the cat is drinking more than usually.
Another helpful test is a urine protein creatinine ratio. This test gives a measure of how much protein is leaking through the kidney and is one of the earliest indicators that the kidney is not functioning as efficiently as it should. This is a biochemical test so a sample of your cat’s urine is commonly sent to an outside lab for analysis.
 Cheap food with a high cereal content that contains low quality protein, such as fish meal, offal, or vegetable protein, makes the kidney work harder to filter out the waste products.Another example of a substance that hastens renal scar tissue formation is phosphate. Unfortunately this is a common ingredient in many cheap cat foods.
Your cat’s kidney has a finite amount of nephrons and once these are damaged, they are not replace. Once your cat is seven years and older, the number of nephrons starts to decline and as they wear out they are replaced by scar tissue. Making the kidney work harder accelerates this process.
 When broken down, high quality protein makes less waste products, so this helps with kidney longevity. Giving you cat a diet that puts less strain on their kidneys will prolong their kidney function.


These diets are marketed as "senior" diets, and will also have controlled mineral levels. Usually, manufacturers of prescription pet food will limit feeding cats “adult” foods to seven years old and younger, and suggest feeding cats “senior” diets when they are eight years and older.
Manufacturers of prescription diets such as Royal Canin Waltham, Hills, or Purina have food with low levels of phosphate and high quality proteins.
 This will prevent the development of kidney disease as your cat gets older., The kidneys are made up of tissues called nephrons, which filter the blood and remove toxins (the natural waste products of digestion) from your cat’s body by excrete them in their urine.Nephrons also recycle useful materials such as water and certain electrolytes, such as sodium, by sending them back into the blood to circulate.
As a result of disease or natural wear-and-tear the nephrons become damaged and are replaced by non-functional scar tissue. This then reduces the capacity of your cat’s kidneys to filter out toxins in their body.
 Your cat's kidneys have a large reserve capacity or ability to work even under stress, so kidney damage does not show up on blood tests until around 75% of kidney function has been lost or they are only working at 25% of their full capacity.
 In the early stages of renal disease, your cat will compensate for the lowered numbers of functioning nephrons in her kidney by drinking more liquids to flush toxins out of the blood stream, thereby making her have to urinate constantly.

