 Social media is crucial for outreach, exposing your brand to new people, and getting real-time feedback from customers. But research shows that Facebook, Twitter, and the like aren't very good at giving you effective sales leads. That does not mean you shouldn't be active on social media -- as this will help you prove your company is active and trustworthy online. It just means you shouldn't try to snag customers completely through hashtags and likes. Social media will help, however, when:You have a sale.
You want to create awareness of a new product or service.
Building name recognition, which helps eventually turn contacts into sales.

If you do use social media, LinkedIn is proven to have the highest lead conversion rate., SEO is considered the cheapest but best way to increase sales. Why? Because 90% of consumers report that their first move when buying services or goods online is to Google the industry.If your drumstick manufacturing business doesn't show up on the first page, up high, then very few drummers will be ordering your product.


SEO is about finding your search terms and making it so that you are the most reliable site for Google to point to. For example, you might try to show up top for "buy new drumsticks."
Younger companies have the most success with specific SEO. You might not win the Google race for "new drumsticks" against big corporations like Vic Firth, but you might win "new hand-crafted drumsticks," "new birch-wood drumsticks," or "new heavy-metal drumsticks."Create content around your tags every day to quickly shoot up the Google rankings. Tag every post, picture, meta-data, and text with your search terms to move even faster.
 This is especially crucial for tech companies or manufacturers. If you're the online leader in information about a product then you are also the go-to source for the industry at large. And when your judgment and insight is trusted, your product is trusted as well. While writing blog posts that don't ask for money or sales may seem counter-productive, avoid sounding like a salesperson at all costs. The goal is to be the most knowledgeable, impartial-seeming company out there. The sales leads will follow.


Offer free content to entice new clients in. Podcasts, blogs, how-tos, videos, and pictures will all increase SEO, attract readers, and bolster your brand., If your customer base is mainly the industry and businesses, you can track your website visitors with the help of Meet Leads or Google Analytics, free cloud-based services that tell you where your traffic comes from, the pages it looks at, and when they leave for another website. This information is invaluable when turning page views into sales leads.


Do viewers make it to your online store, or do most leave before getting there? Try to make this one of the most visible, and popular, pages on your site.
What kind of links, content, and pages bring people in the most? How can you replicate this success on more pages?What pages drive people away? These are often called "bounce" pages or "exit pages."

, People can't buy or order your services if they can't figure out how to get in touch with you. Don't assume they can see the "contact us" button at the top of the page. If your website sells something, put contact information or links on every single page to drive up sales.


An online chat feature, or direct email service with prompt responses, can quickly turn a "maybe" into a sale.Simple is better. Your page should be easy to navigate, not confusing or overly-ornate.

