;
, Make sure you know where you're going, where you have to go, and what you have to do when you get there.
 This is critical to a good defensive player. See the whole field; are you out numbered; is there a winger behind you; is there a defensive player who is able to make a dash?

, When you need to make a tackle, try to time your attack, so that your opponent is off balance, the fraction of a second, when you make your move is critical. If he is flat footed at that moment, or off balance, your chance of success improves dramatically. Go in hard and fast and go for and make sure you hit the ball. Also, you can thwart possible attacks by clearing any lose balls or intercepted passes.
 Deny the pass, deny the turn, and deny the shot. Position yourself to deny the pass; crouch, anticipate, act fast. If he gets the pass, do not let him turn to face you. The longer he has to keep his body between the ball and you the better. If he is able to turn and face you, stay between the ball and your goal and block his shot.
 Delay the offense until you have numeric superiority, then have someone back you up before you go in for a tackle. It is easy to beat 1 player but much more difficult to beat 2. Talk to your teammate; 2nd defender tell 1st when to go in to tackle.
 You control the offensive player, don’t let him control you. Fake a tackle (a sharp stabbing movement in and out) to keep him off balance and worried you will attack him at any time. Keep backing off as he makes his moves, the longer he is unable to beat you out right, the more frustrated he will be.
 Have a strong upper body, work out your muscles for your legs. You also have to work on being very fast. This helps a lot when defending.
 If he is able to turn you (So you are running alongside of him), you need to quickly get back to a position where your back is towards your goal. Stare at the center of his chest and don’t look at his legs or head movements. He can fake head motion or leg motion to get you going the wrong way but difficult to move his center of gravity.
 Some attackers are throw off their game if the defender is aggressive and play tough; but not dirty. That first tackle is critical and can set the tone for the remainder of the game. Let him know you are there and you are not a pushover.
