 Some studies suggest that cortisol levels and anxiety have a ‘cyclical relationship’. Anxiety may elevate your cortisol levels, which, in turn is related to more anxiety.The more you can learn about how cortisol and anxiety impact each other, the more you can do to lower both of them. Discussing this with your doctor is one way effective way to learn about ways to lower your cortisol and your anxiety.


Talk to your doctor about what type of anxiety you may have. Some research indicates that certain anxiety disorders are linked to higher cortisol levels than others. For instance, panic disorders are related to higher cortisol levels than generalized anxiety disorder.Some studies suggest that lowering cortisol can help manage anxiety and that controlling anxiety can help lower cortisol levels. In both cases, though, other treatment is usually needed as well.Ask your physician whether you should focus on lowering your cortisol levels, anxiety, or both. You might say, “What should be my priority? Lowering my cortisol, my anxiety, or both of them?”;
, Although there are everyday signs your body may give you that your cortisol levels need to be lowered, the most accurate way to tell is through a professional lab analysis.Once you know for sure your cortisol levels are elevated, you can work with your healthcare provider to lower it and the anxiety that may accompany it.


Your healthcare provider may have your blood, saliva, or urine analyzed for high levels of cortisol.
Ask what you should do to prepare for the analysis. You may need to avoid strenuous exercise and certain medications right before your test.
Because cortisol levels may change throughout the day, your healthcare provider may ask you to take your test in the morning rather than afternoon.
 There are lifestyle changes you can make to feel less stressed and naturally lower your cortisol levels and your anxiety. However, there are also medications that have been found to be effective in treating high cortisol levels and anxiety.You may want to consider medication management as a way of addressing these issues. Talk to your healthcare provider about the medication options you have for lowering your cortisol levels and managing your anxiety.


Recent studies have found that medications like pasireotide can help limit the amount of cortisol the body produces.Some research suggests that certain medications, such as SSRIs, that are effective in treating anxiety disorders may also be effective in lowering cortisol levels.You could ask your physician, “What are some of the medication options I have for lowering my cortisol levels? What medications might work for lowering my anxiety?”
Keep in mind that medications will only lower your anxiety while you are taking them, and your anxiety may increase when they wear off. This is why medications are best for short-term use and you will need to find other solutions for controlling anxiety in the long-term.

