 This might sound a bit strange, but it’s a trend that has exploded. You can instantly add a pop of color to a monochrome outfit just by adding a brightly colored or patterned button-down around your waist. If you’re wearing a dress or loose-fitting outfit, tying a shirt around your waist can even accentuate your waist, making a flattering silhouette.Plaid button-down shirts are especially perfect for this look. Tie them around your waist with a pair of jeans and a solid top, and you look comfortable and trendy at once.
 Seriously, this can change your outfit. Men, you may already do this when you’re at a formal event, so you know that untucked versus tucked is a major outfit changer. For ladies, this can transform an outfit similarly. Try tucking your button-down shirt into a pair of high-waisted jeans or a skirt, and you’ll instantly make your outfit look sleek and put together.
 You probably immediately think of a cowgirl tying up her flannel shirt, but this certainly isn’t the only look you can achieve by tying up your button-down. Unbutton two or three buttons form the bottom, and tie the two ends into a little knot. Try doing this with high-waisted bottoms, so that you don’t necessarily show skin but create a “cropped” look.Try tying up a button-down shirt over a dress. It is still modest, yet adds a bit of fun to an otherwise simple outfit.
 Button-down shirts don’t always have to be the bottom layer of an outfit. Try unbuttoning it and wearing it open, like a jacket or cardigan. When you can wear it both buttoned and unbuttoned, you have a whole new set of outfits you can create with the same shirt. This look works particularly well with thicker button-downs, like chambray shirts. , Why purchase a “shirt dress” when you can just make one? Throw on an oversized button-down shirt as a dress for a super easy and trendy look. To avoid looking shapeless, you can add a belt or something else to cinch in the waist, creating a shape. You can cuff the sleeves so they aren’t too long, and voila!

