 A spy needs somewhere to keep his or her gadgets. You can make your own briefcase with a shoebox, some duct tape, some string, and (optionally) some paint or construction paper.


Tape the lid onto the box along one of the long sides, so that it hinges open and shut without detaching.
Make string handles by poking four holes on the other long side (two in the side of the lid, spaced about two or three inches apart, and two in the side of the box itself, spaced identically) and threading a loop of yarn through each.
If you’re in a hurry to get out and play, you can leave it as-is and let your imagination do the decorating. If you’ve got a little time, though, you can make it look more official by painting it black, or gluing on black construction paper.
 Every spy needs somewhere to write down top-secret information. Fold a few pieces of paper in half, staple them together, and write “CLUES” or “TOP-SECRET” on the cover.For a pocket sized notebook, start by cutting a few pieces of paper in half, and fold these into booklets instead.
Don’t forget to pack a pen to write in your notebook with.
 Grab a couple toilet paper rolls and some tape, and whip up a pair of binoculars. You can make these look extra cool by decorating them with crayons or markers, or make them wearable by making a hole in either side and adding a loop of yarn you can hang around your neck.If you’ve got a paper towel roll but no toilet paper rolls, you can cut it in half and do the same thing, or use it as a telescope.
 You’ll need to be able to call for backup, or call HQ to let them know if something goes wrong. Cut out a phone-sized rectangle of cardboard, and draw on a screen and keypad with a marker.
 Squeeze some lemon juice into a baby food jar or other small sealable container, and put it in a small bag with a handful of cotton swabs.When you need to write a secret message, dip one of the cotton swabs into the lemon juice and use it as a pen. It will dry clear, but all the recipient will need to do in order to read it is heat it up by ironing it, holding it over a candle, or putting it in the oven for a short time at a low heat.Heating up one of these messages is, of course, not safe for children to do unsupervised. If you are an adult making invisible ink with a child, be sure to emphasize to them that they need to ask a grownup for help with this part of the process. If you are a child playing with invisible ink on your own, remember never to use irons, stoves, or flames without an adult’s help.
 Just about anything you need for a spy kit can be made with pipe cleaners and some cardboard. Spies are constantly incorporating new gadgets into their spy kits. Don’t be afraid to invent new spying technology, or to upgrade the technology you have.