 Have a group of friends you are close to, and then treat the rest of your classmates the same. If you feel like someone just isn't likable, remember that there as as many different ways to live as there are people. Each one deserves a closer look.;
, Other people sometimes just want a listening ear. It will make them feel worthy.
 At least your classmates. For those who are more shy, just ask them questions about themselves. Just asking people interesting self-questions will make you more approachable. They'll think you're sweet too.
 Even if someone says something weird or just something stupid, don't ignore them. Don't give them a funny look either. Just kind of shift the topic off in a different direction, so if the person has embarrassed his/herself, they will appreciate the fact that you barely gave it a second thought. People will be themselves around you that way.
 It's okay to forget but try to remember.
 Don't do it too much, though. It will make people feel self-conscious when you don't compliment them, since you usually compliment them.
 It is rude, and people will feel like you're a backstabber. Backstabbers don't make others feel special.
 Not too much, of course, but people will feel comfortable being themselves around you, since they'll know they won't be judged.
 It makes people feel special, trust me.
 Okay, I'm not saying that you will change yourself or anything for others. I'm just saying that you should adjust yourself a bit to hang around different groups. If you are outgoing and you are trying to make a shy group feel special or accepted, just be a bit more polite,and also have more fun. Be yourself, of course, but try to adjust to your surroundings and observe people, what their definition of "cool" is.
 Eliminate that from your dictionary.
 Try your best to discover your personality, and then let it shine.
 Open doors, carry stuff for others, etc. No matter what group you belong in, you still need to be sweet and friendly.
 People will love you for that.

