 Despite the fact that your dog may need aspirin to control pain from arthritis, your dog should otherwise be healthy in order to take this medication.


Signs that your dog is pretty healthy include drinking normally, having a healthy appetite, maintaining a stable weight, and have regular bowel movements.;
, It is always a good idea to confirm that you can give your dog aspirin with your vet. Your vet will do a thorough check up of your dog, and will run some blood tests to make sure that your dog’s kidneys are up for processing the aspirin.
 If your dog’s kidneys are weak, it is important that you do not give him aspirin, as aspirin can be very challenging for the kidneys to process. Signs of renal problems include:


Increased thirst.
Passing larger than normal volumes of urine.
Vomiting.
Losing weight without explanation.
 Aspirin comes in 75 mg and 300 mg tablets, and is available over the counter at your local pharmacy.


The recommended dose is 10 mg per kg of body weight every 12 hours. This is equivalent to giving a 30 kg dog one 300 mg aspirin tablet twice a day., You can also give you dog aspirin right after he has eaten. Doing this can help to decrease the chances of the aspirin coming into direct contact with the lining of the stomach wall.


When aspirin does come into contact with the wall of the stomach, there is a chance that gastric ulcers will form.
 If your dog vomits and is depressed, seek veterinary attention.


If your dog is bright and cheerful, but the vomiting persists for 24 hours, seek veterinary attention.
If your dog vomits despite the aspirin being given on a full stomach, do not give your dog another dose of aspirin, as his stomach can most likely no handle it.
 Aspirin can cause side effects if an incorrect (too high) dose is given, or if the dog has impaired kidney function. Impaired kidney function causes blood levels of aspirin to rise. Signs include:


Depression (the dog lacks energy and does not want to take part in his regular daily routine)
Vomiting (possibly blood-tinged)
Loss of appetite (due to nausea and gastric discomfort)
Rapid breathing.

