 Taking time to think about the composition of your shot is also important. This means thinking about the story that you want to tell about your subject or subjects.For example, if you are photographing a man sitting on a bench in a park, what is his story? Is he waiting for someone? Is he sad? Happy? Concerned? What else is happening that is relevant to this man? How can you frame your subject to tell this story?
If you want to portray the man as lonely, then you might choose to frame him in a way that no other people will be in the shot. You might also look for interesting things in the background or foreground to help tell your story about the man. For example, framing the shot so that a statue of woman is in the background might help to make him seem like he is lonely.
Investigate your surroundings and experiment with different angles and ranges to frame your shot and tell your story.
 It is important to have a central focus for your photo. This item or person should be at the center of the photograph or highlighted in some way. One way to do this is to use a physical object as a frame.For example, you might use an archway or window as a frame for your subject. Taking the photo so that the subject is within the archway or window, either in the foreground or background, will help to place emphasis on this subject.
You can also use people as a frame. Once you have chosen your central focus, frame your shot so that the subject is surrounded by people from all sides.
You can also emphasize your focus by using the rule of thirds. This is when you divide your shot into three vertical sections and three horizontal sections and then take the shot with your focal point in the center of this grid.
 Incorporating pleasing shapes and lines can also help you frame your subject and enhance the visual quality of your photo. You can use buildings, structural aspects within buildings, or other physical objects to incorporate pleasing shapes and lines.For example, you might find the exterior of a building visually pleasing and photograph your subject in front of it. The building will add a backdrop and help to frame your subject.
You can also use architectural elements within buildings to your benefit, such as a stairwell, a doorway, or a window.
 Shooting with something in the foreground or background can help to add dimension to your photos. If you want your subject to seem small, then you might place something in the foreground of the shot. If you want your subject to look large, then you might place something in the background.For example, you might take a picture of someone standing on a beach, but photograph the person from far away with a seashell in the foreground. Or, you might photograph the person from a closer vantage point, but capture a seemingly endless white beach in the background.
 Sometimes photos do not look as good as they could because you are too far away from your subject. If you notice that the details of your subject are hard to make out, then try moving a little closer.For example, if you took your first shot while standing 10 feet away, then take the next one from five feet away. Keep checking your shots and adjusting your distance until you have captured the desired amount of detail in your shot.

