 TOMS shoe sizes normally align with the shoe size you wear most often and are only available in a medium width.


Choose a TOMS shoe size identical to your size in casual or dress shoes. TOMS shoe styles and sizes are very similar to styles of casual and dress shoes.
If you wear 2 different shoe sizes that vary depending on the shoe style, choose the smaller size when buying TOMS shoes. TOMS shoes will most likely stretch and expand slightly after you have worn them. For example, if you are a woman who wears sizes 7 and 7.5, buy your TOMS shoes in a size 7.;
, This will provide you with the full collection of shoe styles that are available to buy in your size.


Visit the TOMS website featured in the Sources section of this article and click on either the "Women," "Men," or "Youth" links at the top of the screen to access the type of shoes you want to buy.
Navigate to the right side of your TOMS web session and select your shoe size from the drop-down menu provided. The page will then refresh and display your shoe size on the right.
 TOMS shoes are available in boot styles, wedding styles, and more.


You can place your cursor over the "Women," "Men," or "Youth" categories to view a drop-down menu of different shoe styles. Select "View All" or click directly on the shoe style you want to browse.
To view product details about a shoe that interests you, click on the "Details" box below the shoe photo or click on "Quick-Info" to display a small pop-up window with additional details.
After finding the shoe style you want, click on "Add to Bag" to add the item to your online shopping cart.



Navigate to the upper-right corner of your TOMS web session and click on "Bag." You will then be shown the details and subtotal of your purchase.
 The TOMS website will accept credit card payments or PayPal payments.


Click on the "Secure Checkout" button to pay with a credit card or click on "Check out with Paypal" to be redirected to PayPal's website to complete the purchase.
 Depending on the payment method you choose, you will be prompted for your email address or username and password.


If you do not have a TOMS or PayPal account, click on "Create an Account" and follow the prompts to create a username and password for the website.
After you have finished signing in to your TOMS or PayPal account, you will be redirected to your shopping cart to complete the purchase.



Select your shipping method and select "Continue." Shipping costs will vary depending on the details of your order and your location.
Enter or select your payment information to complete your TOMS shoes purchase.
Once your order is complete, TOMS will process your order, send you the shoes, and donate a pair of shoes for each item you bought to a child in need.

