 This isn't hard, look at the directions and calm down. Also remember not to EVER train defence.;
, Begin by ranging these (Mind you, picking up all feathers, and possibly bones.) Once you hit 10 ranged, use your runes to cast as many spells as you can. You should be 4-5 magic. Once you are done with this, begin training strength until you hit level 10.
 Just go to Lumbridge, cross the bridge, and follow the path past the cows. Sell all your feathers and bones. Buy about 100 bronze arrows, an iron scimitar, and as many mind runes as you can and an air staff.
 Cast wind strike with your new air staff until you reach 10 magic. If you have spare runes, get 13. Begin training your ranged as much as you can, and stop at 20. Pick up all cowhides and bones. Train attack to 5 and strength to 20. Continue this process, selling all hides and bones. Get a willow shortbow at 20 ranged, and begin using fire strike at 13 mage. With melee, get 30 strength then 20 attack and use a Mithril scimitar. once you hit 30 range, strength, and magic, you should be able to pk for a bit(if the cowhides and bones offered you enough profit.)

, Check the world map to know how to get there. It is to the west of Varrock. Make sure you have at least 300 bronze arrows, then head to the long hall. Shoot barbarian meleers across the tables until you are 40 ranging. Shoot fire strikes at them

, Melee the barbarians now, right? WRONG.
 Go down the hole in the middle of barbarian village, and begin by training on the goblins. Continue this until you are 30 attack. Begin ranging and maging the nearby minotaurs. pick up all the iron arrows, and use them or sell them.
 Go to the house to the southwest of the G.E. and enter it with the key. Bring ranging/Maging equipment. Go to the end of the Hill Giant cave on the light ground, not the dark ground. Find a spot where you can safely range and mage the hill giants without them hitting you. Pick up all big bones and sell. Do this until you are 60 ranged and magic.
 Kill the goblins in the hole in Barbarian Village until you have 45 strength and 40 attack. Range and mage hill giants until about 65 range/mage.
, You should bring about 40 fire blasts, a rune 2h, a strength potion, a maple short bow, whatever armour you want, and some lobsters to eat in your inventory. The only armour to really pay attention to is the Strength Amulet. Otherwise, you may want wizard robes, and green d'hide chaps and vambraces.
 You will lose all items upon death no matter what. Find a player to fight, and ask them to fight. If they say yes, drink a dose of strength potion and begin to range them. If they have defence, use fire blast a lot. If they don't, you can use fire blast sometimes just to hit them hard. When they are low health, they will most likely eat. When you see them at relatively low health, right when you pull up your bow to fire, wield the 2h and click on the opponent. The hits will combo, enabling you to possibly kill them. Rewind the bow if this fails, and continue.
