 Let him/her show you what engages their interest. For this you need to expose the baby to different environments. Different can range from a simple room filled with two or three toys to a walk in the park or a stroll outside your home.;
, Talk to your baby, try to capture her interest by pointing out and naming different objects, or how a toy operates etc.
 It's a good place to start exploring your babies interest. Go to the different sections and observe how your little one reacts. One maybe quiet taken with a soft toy another with a car, and a third with something else entirely different!

, Most babies like playing with water but this is to be done under strict supervision! Or give him/her some clay or dough to play with , after some time they tend to put it inside their mouth so again, this is to be done if you are sure not to take your eyes of the baby even for one second.
 Babies have different taste in music, try different numbers and see which one catches your babies attention. Pick him/her up and sway gentle, some giggle and sway along, while others find it annoying. Keep up the light moves if your baby seems to enjoy it

, Hide behind a little piece of cloth and emerge with a smile or interesting sounds, surprise the baby,don't startle! If she shows interest let her do the hiding. Again do this with caution, don't leave the baby's face covered in cloth, as this could cause breathing hazard or even scare her.
 Some 12 month olds enjoy turning book pages. This is indeed the right time to introduce board books if you haven't already. Try turning the book pages and naming the different objects. Be sure to also let her handle the book and get a feel of it. Try to get small books, easy to turn and colorful ones , this might help engage her attention better!

, Babies like to hear sounds of dogs, cats, crows, imitate them and see if your baby enjoys them, give her time to do her on imitation, if she succeeds be sure to show your appreciation by a smile or a clap or a kiss

, Babies can surprise you with their interest in the everyday things that you do, try including her in your every day chores, like combing your hair, don't let her comb your (she/he with tangle it up!) give her, her own baby comb and show her how to do it. Next time you take a comb , she will demand her hair to be brushed first!

, Light a torch in a semi dark room and make your own shadow play, or even show her how the light runs around and blinks. Of course the baby should be near you're in the dark or semi-dark room .Our intention is safe play! Also get stickers that glow in the dark which could truly spice up the sleep time and entertain the baby.

