 You can reduce your taxable income by choosing the tax deduction method that subjects you to least amount of taxes. The standard deduction is a dollar amount that reduces the overall amount of your taxable income.The amount of the standard deduction depends on your marital status, income, age, and the tax year.You can also itemize your deductions, which means that you add together all of the allowable deductions (discussed below), such as the amount you paid in state and local taxes, charitable gifts and a portion of medical and dental bills. You then choose whichever method provides you the greatest tax savings.;
, You should take the standard deduction if the amount of the standard deduction is greater than your calculated itemized deductions. You can determine the standard deduction that you can take by:


Conducting an internet search for “standard deduction amounts” and the applicable tax year. For tax year 2014, the standard deductions were: single filing status, $6,200; Married Filing Jointly, $12,400; Married Filing Separately, $6,200; Head of Household, $9,100.Using the IRS’ standard deduction tax tool to help determine your deduction. This tool can be found at https://www.irs.gov/uac/How-Much-is-My-Standard-Deduction%3F


, Some people are not entitled to take the standard deduction and therefore must itemize. People who must itemize include: those whose tax filing status is married filing separately and whose spouse itemizes deductions on his/her return; you filed for a short tax year; or you are a nonresident or you were both a nonresident and resident non-U.S. citizen (alien) during the tax year., When you itemize your tax deductions, you want to identify all of the deductions for which you qualify. Once you have calculated your itemized deductions, you must list these deductions on IRS Form 1040, Schedule A. Itemized deductions include:


Medical and dental expenses.
Deductible taxes.
Home mortgage points.
Interest expense.
Charitable contributions.
Miscellaneous expenses.
Business use of home.
Business use of car.
Business travel expenses.
Business entertainment expenses.
Educational expenses.
Employee business expenses.
Casualty, Disaster and Theft Losses (Including Federally Declared Disaster Areas)., The cost of medical and dental expenses that exceed 10% of your adjusted income can be deducted.The IRS defines medical expenses as “costs of diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, and the costs for treatments affecting any part or function of the body.”, You can deduct certain non-business taxes that you paid during the tax year. These taxes include: state, local and foreign income taxes; state, local and foreign real estate taxes; state, and local personal property taxes; and state and local general sales taxes.Identify the amount that you paid in these taxes, add the amounts together and list the total amount on IRS Form 1040, Schedule A.
 Mortgage points are fees that a home buyer pays to a bank/lender in order to reduce the interest rate on their mortgage.If you paid points in conjunction with a mortgage, you may be able to deduct the amount of the points. Some of the criteria to deduct points include:


Points were paid during the tax year.
Points were paid on a mortgage that secured your main home.
Points are a customary business practice and amount for your area., You can deduct certain types of interest to reduce your tax liability. Some qualifying interest includes: certain investment interest; qualified mortgage interest; non-farm business interest; farm business interest; and student loan interest.Determine whether you paid any of the deductible interest types and then report the amounts on IRS Form 1040, Schedule A.
 If you itemize your tax deductions, you should consider making or increasing your charitable donations. While your tax reduction will be lower than the amount that you donated to charity, these donations can reduce your overall tax liability., There are a number of deductions that you can claim related to business expenses not reimbursed by your employer. These deductions include certain expenses related to the use of your home or car for business purposes,and certain travel expenses that are required for your work.You may deduct business use of your home if part of your home is used as: your principal place of business; a place where you regularly meet and deal with customers; rental space; or a daycare facility.You may deduct business use of your car if you use your car exclusively or partially for work. You must maintain records of mileage and other expenses related to the business use of your car.You may deduct business travel related expenses that are ordinary and necessary expenses of travelling away from your home for job. Some of these costs may include the cost of airfare, train tickets or other transportation related expenses, meals and lodging, and other costs that were necessary for work but not covered by your employer. You would calculate these taxes using IRS Form 2106 or Form 2106-EZ., If you are employed and you take courses related to your work, you may be able to deduct the cost of tuition, books, supplies and other school-related expenses.If you are an employee, complete IRS Form 2106, then deduct these expenses as miscellaneous itemized deductions on IRS Form 1040, Schedule A.
 Once you have identified the applicable standard deduction and calculated your itemized deductions, you should choose whichever amount is greater and use that amount when filling out your federal tax forms. By choosing the larger amount, you reduce your taxable income.
 A tax credit can reduce your tax liability on a dollar-for-dollar basis. For a list and explanation of tax credits visit the IRS’ website at: https://www.irs.gov/taxtopics/tc600.html. Some of these tax credits include:


Earned Income Credit.
Child and Dependent Care Credit.
Adoption Credit and Adoption Assistance Programs.
Retirement Savings Contributions Credit also known as the Saver’s Credit.
Lifetime Learning Credit.
American Opportunity Credit, If your income is below a certain amount, you may get money back even if you didn’t pay any taxes. To determine whether you qualify for the earned income credit and at what amount, you can use the IRS’ EITC Assistant located at https://www.irs.gov/Credits-&-Deductions/Individuals/Earned-Income-Tax-Credit/Use-the-EITC-Assistant.
 This is a credit that you can take if you pay for childcare, for a child under the age of 13, so that you can work or look for work. To calculate the tax credit, use IRS Form 2441., This credit assists low-to-moderate income earners who are saving for retirement. If you qualify, the saver’s credit may increase your refund or lower your overall taxes. To calculate the saver’s tax credit, use IRS Form 8880., If you are an eligible student, you can take a yearly credit of up to $2,000 to offset the cost of certain tuition. You can check whether you qualify for this credit on the IRS’ website at https://www.irs.gov/publications/p970/ch03.html#en_US_2014_publink1000178207.
 If you are an eligible student, you may qualify for this credit of up to $2,500 to offset the cost of certain tuition, fees, and books that you paid for post-secondary education.To determine whether you are eligible for the American Opportunity Credit visit the IRS’ website at: https://www.irs.gov/publications/p970/ch02.html.
 If you adopted a child during the tax year, you may be entitled to a tax credit worth thousands of dollars to offset the cost of adoption. If you adopt a special needs child, you may be entitled to claim a credit as high as $13,190 even when your adoption costs did not reach that amount.To claim the adoption credit, complete IRS Form 8839., By maximizing the amount of pre-tax funds that you contribute to a 401(k) retirement savings plan, you can reduce your overall taxable income by that amount. For those younger than 50, you can contribute up to $17,500 and for those over 50 you can contribute $23,000.You should note, that while contributions are made with pre-tax money and they reduce your taxable income during that tax year, the money will eventually be taxed as income when you withdraw it during retirement., While a Roth 401(k) does not give you an immediate tax break like a standard 401(k) plan, any money earned on the investment and then withdrawn during retirement will be tax-free. While this tax savings is deferred, it may be beneficial to have a variety of retirement income (taxable and nontaxable) available for your future., An IRA is an account that is used for retirement savings. The maximum amount that you can contribute is $5,500 when you are under 50 years old and $6,500 if you are 50 or older. Some of your IRA contributions may be taken as a tax deduction., If your employer offers a health or medical savings/reimbursement account, you should take advantage of the program. These programs allow you to contribute pre-tax income to offset medical expenses that occur during the tax year. By contributing to an HSA, you can avoid income and social security taxes on the money you submitted to the program., Similar to an HSA, some employers offer childcare savings accounts. These programs allow you to contribute up to $5,000 of pre-tax money to offset future childcare costs. As you submit evidence of childcare payments, you are reimbursed for the payments. These plans reduce your overall taxable income, thereby reducing the taxes you owe., A 529 account allows people to use after-tax dollars to invest for future college costs. While these contributions do not immediately reduce your taxes, any money the account earns is not taxable when distributed to pay for college costs.