 This can be done through internet searches as well as referrals. Next, you must make sure that the consultant is not promising things they can not deliver. Check them out by Business name and personal name on Blogs and www.ripoffreport.com. In the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) there is only one program that qualifies for a sentence reduction. It is called Residential Drug Abuse Program (RDAP) and there is no magic to participation. "You simply have to have a history of substance abuse and even if you do not just say you do" to get the year off.;
, This is different for everybody and depends on your own needs. Some defendants work with a consultant as soon as they are arrested or indicted, while others wait until they are sentenced.
 This can be as simple or complex as the client wants it to be.
 Click Verisign icon at bottom of page to verify who owns site and a toll free phone number where he/she/them can be reached. Several prison consultants also have experience working with sentence mitigation professionals and the consultant's input is essential, but not always. Last, the best prison consultants should have at least 15-20 years prison experience in the Criminal Justice System (actually serving time) so that they can fully explain what prison life is really like and what to expect. This will make your time much easier for you and your family.There are a lot of Prison Consultants who have never did time, but whom are previously employees of the Federal government, they sound good but do not have any real experience.
 Never takes the place of an Attorney or undermines the Attorney's responsibilities to his/her client. This is true with most Federal cases. Prison Consultants are over stepping their boundaries in today's market when exploiting clients. They should only be consulting clients on Prison Life Issues. What I mean is anything to do with the Present Tense Sentence Report/Investigation (PSR/PSI) and Residential Drug Abuse Program (R.D.A.P.) and anything else that goes into the P.S.R. should be the sole responsibility of the Attorney and the client; because, what would that be saying about the Attorney's competency? Fraudulent Prison Consultants are giving Real Prison Consultants a bad name/rep with Attorneys and within the market.


You Can Not Appeal A Mistake In Your PSR by the Prison Consultant. You cannot appeal the mistake(s) made by a prison consultant with regards to you Presence Report (PSR/PSI) you can only appeal mistakes made by your counsel of record in accordance with the US Constitution.

