 Begin at about four in the afternoon. Clean your bedroom, as most of your time will be spent there.;
, This could include your cellphone, tablet, iPod Touch, Game Boy, laptop, D.S., some books, a notebook or diary, pencils, MP3 player, snacks and/or drinks, a PSP, etc.


Sneak some snacks into the room. Just a few snacks (salty, sugary snacks are best) and a bottle of any drink would be perfect. Try to get sugary beverages such as soda or juice.The drinks don't have to be cold.






If you are going to get on the computer, turn it on before going to bed, because it makes noise when it turns on.
 Make a list (in order) of what will be done because it is easier to stay awake with a list to work through.
 About 1-1.5 hours is ideal if a good night's sleep was taken the previous night.
 Avoid arousing suspicions around bedtime––just do everything normally, such as teeth cleaning and saying goodnight to everyone in the house., When they do, hide whatever you are doing and pretend to be asleep. Normally, when pretending to be asleep, you do not move, however, it is okay to turn a little in your "sleep".


Don't snore unless you are known to snore.
It helps to pull your blanket over your face to save half the trouble of keeping a straight relaxed face.
Consider sleeping with the radio on to give you cover. If you accidentally make a sudden noise, it'll be blamed on the radio.
 If you want, you can go to their room and double-check they're sleeping (if they are not and ask what you're doing, say you heard something strange.) If not, keep doing things quietly in your room, but if your parent(s) lock their doors, try to hear through the door, if it's quiet they're probably asleep, if not, stay 15 to 30 minutes in your room.
 Line towels against the crack of your door to block out the light.
 It should be late at night (10 -12 pm). Get out the PSP, PlayStation, Wii, computer, DS, 3DS, etc.


Use headphones or earphones for electronics. Putting earphones/headphones in your laptop/computer will keep things quiet.
 A new day has come (12 - 2 am)! If hungry, eat a snack, or drink something. Continue playing the same game until you are bored.
 At about (2 - 4 am), early morning, try something different like reading a book, drawing, watching a movie (quietly!). Get on Facebook, or make a Facebook. Make sure none of your parents friends are friends with you on Facebook; they might tell your parents. Make sure everything you do remains at low volume.


If you are going to text, put the phone's volume on silent or vibrate. This will make it less likely that your phone wakes up your parents.
 Between (4 - 6 am), late morning, have another snack. Keep doing whatever kept you awake most until 5 am. Then, move on to the morning tasks. Take a shower, get dressed, brush your teeth and hair, and tidy up the room again for the day.
 Usually the household wakes up between (6 - 9 am). Stay inside the room and do whatever until it's the time you'd usually be about the house. That will mark your all-night up!

, This way you will at least have some sleep instead of none. Go to bed early the next day; your body will be craving sleep.

