 If you were a part of the reason that the other person is upset, apologize to them for what you did. If you do not feel that you did something wrong per se, you can still apologize for making them feel the way that they feel.


For example, if you did something “wrong,” you might say, “I am very sorry that I accidentally downloaded a virus that destroyed your computer. I can understand why that would make you upset, and I will do whatever I can to help repair or replace the computer.”
For example, if you did not do anything “wrong” but still upset someone, you could say, “I am sorry that I upset you by picking out the paint color for the living room myself. I did not know that it was so important to you. I will try to be more considerate of your feelings in the future.”

, This divide may cause the tantrum-throwing party to become defensive or angrier. However, using “we” or “us” implies that you are a team and might reduce some of the other person’s angry feelings.


For example, the following may cause someone to become more defensive: “You should not be so upset about your computer crashing. My computer crashed and I didn’t get upset at all; I just went and got a new one. You should do the same thing.”
A better example of “team” communication would be, “What can we do together to solve this problem? Can we take it to a repair shop, or is it time for us to invest in a newer, better computer? We can get through this together and make the best of the situation.”

, It is important to avoid sounding condescending or frustrated while speaking with someone who is having a temper tantrum. If they think that you are talking down to them, they may become angrier or stop listening to you. It is also important to avoid sounding sarcastic. Keeping your voice at a consistent volume and tone will help you sound more neutral.
 Abandon emotionally charged language or anything that might be interpreted as an accusation and stick to the facts of the events that upset the person. Emphasizing the facts may not cause the temper tantrum to subside, but it is less likely to make the situation any worse.


For example, saying, “I’m sorry that the computer crashed, but you click on links of cat videos, too. You can hardly say that it was entirely my fault,” may cause the person to become angrier.
Instead, the following factual statements may be less inflammatory: “I clicked on the link and the computer crashed. We cannot change those facts. Now we have to decide what to do about the situation. We could either try to have a company repair the computer or we could purchase a new computer.”

, It might be difficult to convince someone who is having a temper tantrum to use rational thought, but if you can get their rational, thinking mind to overcome their emotional response,they’ll likely snap out of the tantrum. This is an approach for which you need to be particularly careful about not sounding condescending or invalidating.


This may not work for everyone, but helping someone understand that being angry will not help solve the problem might kick start their reasoning mind. You might say, “I understand that you are angry right now, and you have a right to be. Let’s talk through some possible solutions together and figure out how to make this better.”
Make sure that you are validate their feelings, to avoid coming off as condescending or uncaring. You can acknowledge their feelings and encourage problem-solving.

