 Repeated scratching and picking at the same area can create thick, scaly skin that itches even more. This can be caused by stress or over-scratching an initial irritation, which now remains itchy due to the repeated scratching.Signs of neurodermatitis include patches of red, scaly, or leathery skin and the inability to prevent yourself from scratching the same spot on your body., Wet a soft cloth with cool water and apply it to your itchy, inflamed skin. This should help soothe the affected area and prevent you from scratching it further.Apply the compress for 15-30 minutes at a time and repeat as necessary.
 If you manage to reduce the itching you can break the "itch scratch" cycle that caused your condition. The underlying cause is no longer relevant for this type of dermatitis, so the treatment is intended to soothe the itch and prevent further irritation. Topical hydrocortisone creams can provide a similar soothing effect., Only keep soft, well fitting clothing such as cotton in contact with the affected skin. Rough, scratchy fabrics can irritate the skin further and increase your desire to scratch the affected area., It can be hard to resist the urge to scratch the affected area, especially when you are asleep. Cut your fingernails short and wear gloves at night to prevent damage while sleeping. You can also bandage the area with a soft material to prevent you from scratching while you sleep.Avoiding sources of stress may also reduce the desire to scratch.
 Moisturize your skin by adding oatmeal to your (lukewarm) baths. Be sure to add moisturizer to your skin immediately after bathing, before you dry.Remember to pat yourself dry with a towel: do not rub or abrade your skin further.
 While neurodermatitis is easily treatable through lifestyle changes, it is possible that you cannot stop the itch-scratch cycle on your own. If your skin keeps worsening, or if your excessive scratching leads to infection, talk to a physician about other options. These might include:Psychotherapy
Stress-relief techniques or anti-anxiety treatments
Corticosteroids
Light therapy
Botulinum (Botox) therapies
Anti-inflammatories

