 It might sound gross, but hemorrhoid creams also contain anti-inflammatory agents that can reduce the swelling you're experiencing.


Using one finger, gently dab a small amount of cream onto the swollen area
Spread it into a thin layer that evenly coats the eyelid
Make sure not to get any of the cream into your eye;
, Put some ice in a sandwich bag and press it against your eyelids. If you don't have ice, put a couple of spoons in the freezer for a while, then press them against your eyelids. The cold will reduce the swelling, plus it feels soothing!


Also try washing your face with cold water.
 You'll have to lean your head back and keep still for a while, but cold cucumber slices are a lovely and relaxing way to reduce eyelid puffiness. Cucumbers have antioxidants thought to reduce irritation, and the cold will help with the swelling too!


Cut two thin slices of cucumber
Tip your head back
Place them over your eyes
Leave them for at least ten minutes
Remove them and wash your face

, Potatoes have an enzyme called catecholase that some say actually reduces puffiness better than cucumbers do.Cut two thin slices of potato
Tip your head back
Place them over your eyes
Leave them for at least ten minutes
Remove them and wash your face
You can also grate the potato instead of slicing it:
Peel and grate the potato
Using your hands or a kitchen mallet, press or pound the grated potato into a sort of plaster
Tip your head back
Spread the plaster over your eyes
Cover it with a cool wet cloth
After ten minutes, remove the potato and wash your face.
 Continue drinking water throughout the day to keep yourself hydrated.
 Overnight, fluids build up on your eyelids because you haven't been blinking. Tapping on your eyelids will encourage the excess water to drain away from your swollen lids.
 Although gentle patting can drain fluids, rubbing vigorously will likely only serve to aggravate the situation. Even if you're sleepy, try to keep from rubbing your eyes first thing in the morning.
 If the swelling is due to the dryness and irritation that sometimes accompanies allergies, over-the-counter eyedrops could be a cheap and easy way to make your eyes both look and feel better.


Look for preservative-free eye drops, as some people have allergic reactions to the preservatives in regular drops.
 They might recommend an eye drop with a mild steroid that treats allergy symptoms, though this is generally only for more severe allergies.If your swelling is due to an infection rather than an allergic reaction, the doctor may prescribe anti-inflammatory eyedrops or antibiotics, instead.
 Even though we don't feel contacts when we wear them, they are still layers of plastic rubbing against our eyelids all day. If your lids are puffy, it may be best to avoid further irritation by wearing glasses for a while instead.


It's good for your eyes to let them breathe from time to time anyway.
 If you ingest too much sodium through an unhealthy diet, your body will retain more water because of the amount of salt in your system.This buildup of excess fluids results in the puffiness you see in your eyelids. The American Heart Association recommends consuming no more than 1,500 mg of sodium per day.If you're retaining too much water, you probably want to take in even less than that.
 When the body doesn't have enough water, the kidneys begin conserving it by storing water in your soft tissues. This can lead to swelling throughout the body, especially in the soft tissues of the face, including the eyelids.


To meet general health recommendations, men should drink about 13 cups of water per day, while women should drink about 9.If you are dehydrated, you might drink even more than the recommended amount to help get your body back up to speed.
 Depending on how your body responds to sleep debt, a lack of sleep may cause dark circles to appear under your eyes, puffiness in your eyelids, or a combination of both. Get into a regular and consistent sleeping pattern that takes into consideration the Mayo Clinic's recommendation that adults get 7-8 hours of sleep per night., Puffy eyelids, along with redness, itchiness, and watering, is a common side effect of allergies. Visit your doctor to rule out allergies as a cause of your eyelid puffiness. If you test positive for an allergy that's causing your swelling, either discontinue use of the product causing the reaction or, if the allergen cannot be avoided, ask your doctor to prescribe medication. Common sources of allergies that can cause your upper eyelids to puff up include:


Makeup and/or makeup remover
Oily cleansers
Sunscreen
Mold (in your sleeping and living quarters, in books, etc.)
Mites or insects (including insect bites)
Pollens
Pet dander
Foods

, The light pressure the mask will put on your eyelids will prevent as much fluid from building up overnight. 