 Take some proactive steps to ensure that you both feel the same way. If the ex agrees to trying to be friends, be chill for awhile. If you start texting or calling right away, your ex might get confused and think that you want to get back together.Always ask exes if they can handle being your friend or not. Respect their wishes if they say no.
If the answer is yes, don't be tempted to send cute text messages or post links or memes on their Facebook wall. We all need time to heal, so don’t be pushy by reminding them about you so soon.
Try not to show up at your ex's favorite places when you know there's a good chance they will be there. It will seem like you are forcing an interaction.
 Talking about how this whole “being friends” thing is going to work is important. You need to convey your needs and expectations, and your ex certainly needs to weigh in. Don’t jump into trying to be friends until everything is out in the open. Discuss how you expect a friend to behave. Ask your ex to define friendship, too. You have to make sure that you have the same goals in mind before continuing.
Your ex might not be that comfortable with seeing you frequently since you are the one who initiated the break up, so give them a lot of leeway in establishing parameters.
Allow your ex to make the plans the first couple of times that you meet. They may feel more comfortable when feeling in control., You’re either friends or you’re not. Don’t take advantage of them because you used to date. Be sincere in all intentions, return calls and texts in a timely fashion, and don’t be flaky. If you act otherwise, you won’t maintain the friendship. Avoid blowing off your ex. If you are asked to hang out and you can’t, just reply back. Don’t ignore them, as that’s simply rude.
Assuming that this person might want to be a “friend with benefits” is a bad idea. You might end up embarrassing yourself.
Don’t think that your ex will enjoy accompanying you on work or family functions because you don’t have a date. No one likes to feel like an afterthought.

