 Move the door so that the entire hinge is exposed, and place blocks under the door to steady it. When replacing a door hinge, you won’t remove the door. Placing blocks underneath will help support the door and prevent it from falling over.
 Make sure that your new hinges match the old hinges in size and edge shape. Additionally, use a measuring tape to verify that the current hinges are in the right locations. The hinges should be placed so that one is 7-inches from the top of the door frame, and the other is located 11-inches from the bottom of the door-frame. If these are incorrect, you’ll need to go about the aforementioned steps on cutting the mortise and preparing the door jamb for the new hinge.
 Start at the top hinge, and remove the screws holding the hinge leafs in place. Carefully pull them away from the door and the jamb, and check to make sure the wood under the hinges is in good condition. You may want to plug some of the old holes with a small wood wedge, especially if some of the holes have stripped out.
 If the old door hinge had been attached for some time, you may need to do a little repair work on the jamb and door. Sand down the wood if necessary, and add a new coat of paint or stain to match the pre-existing wood.









If the replacement hinges are sized differently from the old ones, fill in the mortise holes in both the door and the door frame with wood putty. Use a metal scraper to fill in the screw holes or plug them with a small wood wedge.
Allow the putty time to dry, and sand it smooth and flush with the surface.
Paint or stain the repair to match the rest of the door and trim.
 Place your new hinge over the location of the old one. Use a drill or screwdriver and the package screws to secure the two sides of the hinge to the jamb and the door. Place the hinge pin in the hinge to secure the new hinge.
 Move to the next hinge, and use a drill or screwdriver to remove it. Replace it with the new hinge and new screws, holding it in place to make sure the hinge doesn’t get jostled out of location. Insert the new hinge pin when the new hinges are secured.









If you have a third center hinge, you should replace it at this point as well.
 Remove the blocks from under the door, and try opening and closing it multiple times. If the door opens without any problems, then your job is finished!







