 An emulator is software or hardware that enables a host computer mimic the operation of a "guest" computer system. In this case, game emulators allow PCs, notebooks or mobile devices to operate games that were designed for other systems (such as consoles). Performing a search for "game emulator" should take you in the right direction, but you can also visit a comprehensive site like .


While emulators themselves are legal, you should consult this article's warning section regarding the legality of downloading games themselves (for use with an emulator or otherwise).
 This decision will likely come down to which system you're looking to emulate. Make sure to read, review and compare emulators before making a final decision. Better yet, download several emulators for the same console. Some emulators may be better at mimicking certain mappers, graphic engines and sounds than others.While an emulator usually emulates one system, some multi-system emulators also exist.
By example, some of the more popular console emulators include Zsnes, Nesticle, Visual Boy Advance, MAME, Gameboid, SNESoid, N64oid and many more. Be sure to check the emulator's compatibility with your operating system.
If you're planning to play games on a mobile device, you should consider its processing power (or lack thereof) and select an emulator accordingly., Initially, this is generally as simple as locating and clicking the "download" or "start download" but that appears once you've selected and clicked on your emulator of choice. The file should appear in your Downloads folder.


Note that you may have to unzip the file manually if it doesn't happen automatically.
You may also find an .exe file that extracts and installs itself once it's been double-clicked.
 Perform a search for "ROM games for emulator." ROM game files are generally based on read-only memory chips from video game cartridges, firmware or an arcade game's main board. Several sites will appear with snippets indicating that ROMs are available for download. Pick one, perhaps after conducting some additional research into the best sites for ROMs.


The ROM games may be organized by their original gaming system, making it easier to find one for the emulator you selected.
 This process is much like downloading the abandonware games and pretty straightforward.
 To open the emulator, expand its menu, click File and then click Open. Once the emulator has started, select the game from the file folder in which it's been stored. Double-click the game, and it should begin loading within the emulator.

