 Make sure it's a time when you're not busy.



Send your friends invitations by email or card. Remind them to bring their stuffed animals.
 Some suggestions include: pizza, soft drinks, ice cream, jelly, pieces of fruit, pretzels, hot dogs, crisps, and toffee-covered popcorn. Try to have some healthy food too.
 Use a blanket to wrap over you and your stuffed animal if you and your stuffed animal don't have a sleeping bag. Or you can use a bag, a blanket and a small pillow to make a sleeping bag for your stuffed friend. Make sure you are both warm and comfortable.
 You could play fun games, make things, watch scary movies, (if you're allowed to) or do anything you want to do with your stuffed animal! Maybe you could buy some felt/glitter/ribbon/sequins and make cute bracelets for each other!


Dressing up is fun with stuffed animals. You can make clothes from anything, such as cardboard, yarn and old cloth.
 Make sure everybody is included and enjoying themselves. Dress into your pajamas after you eat dinner. You could have a theme for your pajamas, such as: you and your stuffed animal have matching pajamas, you all have to wear a particular pattern. i.e. spots, stars, triangles, stripes. Or, perhaps a particular colour.


If you don't have pajamas for your stuffed animal, you can make them out of a towel, wash cloth, or a blanket. It depends how big your stuffed animal is.
 Or, your parents may tell you to go to bed at a certain time, so turn the lights off and wish your stuffed animals a good night.
 Put out everyone's sleeping bags and pillows. Don't forget to include the stuffed animals' beds too.

If you don't already have little mini sleeping bags for your stuffed animal, you can make one. It's really easy––all you have to do is wrap a little blanket around your animal. Or, you can put all of your stuffed animals into a regular human sleeping bag. Because they're little, they will all fit it.
Make things even cozier with a tent! To make a quick little tent, you will need a blanket, something heavy such as a large book (but not too heavy), and a table or something to put the heavy thing on. Grab one end of the blanket, and put it on top of the table. To keep it there, put the heavy thing on top of it. Repeat this with the other ends of the blanket, and a tent will form.

Put a flashlight under your tent. Tell your stuffed animals ghost stories.
 The next day, cook a good breakfast and have everybody tuck in. You can cook a lovely English breakfast: eggs, buttered toast, bacon, sausages and tomatoes or you could make Spanish risotto, French toast, or American waffles. All of these are delicious.
 Choose something related to the stuffed animal theme, such as another toy, clothes for the stuffed animal, stickers, treats, etc.