 What type of outfit do you feel most comfortable and stylish in? Those are the trends you should follow. If you don’t feel comfortable tottering around on super high heels or wearing drop-crotch pants, stay away from those trends., Make sure your stock wardrobe includes plenty of neutral-colored pieces as well as a few nice printed pieces for proper balance.


For example, try white pants and jacket with a red shirt, or a cream colored dress with an olive cardigan or scarf.Just be sure to keep your outfit to a maximum of three colors.
If you struggle with matching clothes, consult a color wheel and stick with complementary or analogous colors for the most appealing match. Complementary colors are opposite each other on the color wheel. Analogous colors are three colors next to each other on the color wheel.
You wouldn’t want to mix a button-down dress shirt with running pants, or a sweatshirt with slacks, just as you’d never want to wear more than three prints at once.Keep athletic wear for the gym and pajamas at home. Nothing screams fashion victim like wearing your fuzzy pajama bottoms to the grocery store, or pairing athletic leggings with a nice blouse.
 Too much of anything - trendy items, make-up, jewelry, revealed skin—will put your outfit on the fast track from tasteful to tacky. Stick to dressing in a classic manner and throwing in one or two trends tops to avoid overkill.
 The easiest way to make sure you’re able to put trendy outfits together is to try them on before you buy them.


Try on items in the combinations you plan to wear them. Study yourself in the full-length mirror with an objective eye until you have a clear opinion of how it looks. This way you can see if the printed shirt you planned to wear under the blue blazer you want to purchase will actually go together.
Take along a fashion-conscious friend whose style you trust when you go shopping. When left to ourselves, it can be easy to talk ourselves into—or out of—just about anything. Your friend can provide you with a second opinion on the clothes you try on.

