 Doing exercise comparable to 6 or more hours of walking in a week showed a 47% higher chance of survival without recurrence.Although this may feel taxing to cancer patients, and especially to those suffering from fatigue or nausea from chemotherapy or radiation treatments, walking (a light form of aerobic exercise) will help diminish cancer symptoms.Even walking one hour per week, can improve the health of cancer patients who have completed their treatment, compared to cancer patients who do not exercise at all.Getting up and taking a short walk can help keep the circulation healthy in the extremities. A short five minute walk a few times a day may not sound like a lot. Nevertheless, you will feel better in the interim.;
, Focus on forms of exercise like:Running/jogging, hiking, or walking.
Dancing or rowing.
Skiing or snowboarding in winter.
 Cancer patients can gain the most benefits through adding weight training, or other forms of resistance training (such as using resistance bands) to their workout regimen.You could start as simply as sitting in a chair and lifting a can of food in each hand. Work up to more resistance for example: two quart and then gallon size jugs of water to lift. If you live near a city-senior center, or a commercial gym, you can work on strength training using dumbbells and barbells, or weight machines.
 An extended regimen of cancer treatments can leave a patient with poor muscle tone can lead to a longer recovery period. Doing simple strength-building exercises can keep muscles toned.Strength-training exercises will give you more energy, which is important if you feel fatigued or lethargic.


Strength training can also maintain bone density, which sometimes suffers during periods of inactivity during cancer treatment., Although often not considered a form of exercise on its own, stretching is important for cancer patients—especially those who are too fatigued or weak to engage in more active aerobics or weight training. Stretch as many areas as you can, by doing moves like shoulder shrugs, knee lifts, and overhead reaches. Hold each stretch for at least 30 seconds, then slowly relax your body.Stretching can also improve strength in specific bodily locations that may have been weakened during cancer treatment (especially surgery).Stretching will keep your joints and muscles limber.Prolonged periods of inactivity during cancer treatment will stiffen your muscles. Counteract this with regular stretching.

Recover more quickly -- following a moderate exercise routine/regimen.
Increase life expectancy -- building your body up and so including the immune system.
Reduce cancer reoccurring -- destroy some microscopic new cancers by healthy immune system .
Reduce fatigue -- by conditioning and toning the musculoskeletal system.
Decrease pain -- by exercising using low impact to develop tolerance.
Alleviate stress -- have a feeling of accomplishment/feel positive.
Improve balance -- keep muscles and nerves attuned to getting around
Build bone density -- put moderate weight/stress on bones and joints to make them stay stronger.
Prevent muscle loss -- use resistance training for muscles to stay in place.
 Recent studies have shown that cancer patients who maintain an exercise regimen are better able to withstand the harmful side effects of chemo therapy and radiation treatment.In many cases, patients who exercised regularly were able to handle stronger doses of chemo, which can lead to faster and more successful cancer eradication., Cancer treatments (especially chemo therapy) frequently lead to weight gain. Weight gain can also be a concern for cancer patients who lead an increasingly sedentary lifestyle. Aerobic exercises are best to help keep the weight off.Conversely, if your cancer treatment causes you nausea, aerobic exercise can sound stomach-turning.
For those dealing with inactivity (or even weight loss) due to nausea, moderate exercise can help soothe the stomach and allow food to become palatable again.
 Fatigue is a common symptom for cancer patients, especially for those going through chemo or radiation therapy. Although it may seem counterintuitive, regular exercise can diminish the amount of fatigue that you feel.Although cancer patients are often told to rest as much as possible, this advice can be counterproductive, as it will
Cancer patients who have developed a regular exercise regimen have also reported feeling fewer symptoms from their chemo therapy or radiation treatments., For individuals diagnosed with cancer, radiation therapy or chemo treatment may diminish your immune system, and catching other illnesses is a risk during this time. Regular, moderate exercise can keep your immune system at full strength and reduce your risk of catching illness., For those dealing with cancer treatment, mental health can be a concern. Depression and anxiety are major problems for anyone handling a regimen of cancer treatments. Physical exercise helps pleasure-producing hormones in the brain—these will elevate your mood and can help cancer patients avoid succumbing to despair or depression.


Even getting outside for five minutes at a time can make a significant difference in how a patient feels.
 Exercise can help to counteract the strong feelings of helplessness and fear that accompany cancer. Exercise will give you an encouraging sense of control over your body, and this will provide positive emotional support., If you regularly exercised before the cancer diagnosis and treatment began, getting back into exercise will give a note or normality. Even if you did not exercise before, getting out for a walk offers an opportunity to reconnect with neighbors and the neighborhood.


Going to a gym offers a chance to talk with people and get out of the house. Even taking a stroll down the hospital corridor opens up opportunities to speak with others and to see new faces.

