 The warm water will help relax your muscles, as you let your cares drift away. You can even add a bath bomb or two to help pamper your skin while you're soaking.Try lighting some candles in your bathroom to create a soothing ambiance., A face mask can be relaxing in and of itself, but it will also make your skin feel nice. The easiest solution is to use a store-bought version. However, you can also make a simple face mask at home with a few ingredients. Mash up a couple of strawberries. Add a dollop of both honey and plain yogurt. Mix the ingredients together, and apply it to your face. Wash it off after 15 minutes.For store-bought versions, follow the directions on the bottle for how long you should leave it on.
 This treatment can relax you just because it feels soothing on your head. In addition, it will also help moisturize and rejuvenate your hair. Afterwards, your hair will be silkier and shinier.To create a hot oil treatment, simply pour a little olive oil in a small bowl, a couple of tablespoons or so. Add a dollop of coconut oil and a tablespoon or two of honey. Heat it up in the microwave for about 15 seconds, but don't let it overheat. Mix the ingredients together.Use a pastry brush to apply the mixture to your hair from roots to tips. Tuck your hair into a shower cap, or wrap it in plastic wrap. Leave it on for several hours, if possible, then wash it out.You don't need all three ingredients if you don't have them. You can just use one of the oils (without honey) if that's all you have.
 Sugar scrubs are easy to make with ingredients you have on hand. You use these scrubs to exfoliate your skin, sloughing off dry, dead skin cells. To make sugar scrub, just mix one part oil (such as coconut oil or olive oil) with two parts brown sugar (white will do in a pinch). You can also add in a scent with essential oils or even just a dash or two of cinnamon from your cupboard.If you use coconut oil, heat it in the microwave for a minute or two to help it melt before adding the sugar.
To use the scrub, simply rub it into your skin with your hands and then wash it off.
 Get a thick foot cream. Wet a towel, making sure to shake or wring out excess water. Microwave it for about 60 seconds. Once it's done, apply the cream to your feet, and wrap up your feet in the towel. Leave it on for about 15 minutes., Of course, one of the best things about going to the spa is ending up with pretty nails, which you can do at home. Just take some time at the end of the day to paint your nails and toenails. Don't forget to add a base coat and a top coat for a longer-lasting effect.