 To get a smooth cut on a sheet of plywood, you'll need to have the right blade. Look for a carbide-tipped blade with a high tooth count.You can find blades labeled for plywood or "finished cuts," but make sure to check the tooth count.Blades come in various sizes, so be sure you get one that will fit your circular saw.If you stick with the blade that came with your saw, you'll likely end up with splintered ends, also known as tear-outs.;
, Before cutting your plywood, adjust your saw blade to the right depth. If your blade is set too deep, you'll be dragging a lot of excess blade through the sheet. If you have your blade set too shallow, you run the risk of not cutting all the way through the sheet.You want your saw to be about .25 inches (0.6 cm) below the sheet. If you're cutting a sheet of plywood that is .75 inches (1.9 cm) thick, set your blade to 1 inch (2.5 cm) deep., When cutting a sheet of plywood, it's important that you support the sheet on both sides of the cut.








A few long 2x4s laid across two sawhorses will keep the sheet steady as you cut. Keep the 2x4s handy just for this task, as you'll be cutting into the tops of them with your circular saw.If you don't have access to 2x4s or sawhorses, you can use a piece of rigid foam insulation instead. Lay the foam on the ground, and lay the sheet of plywood on top. Make sure the wood doesn't slide around on top of the foam board.If you use the foam board method, you can crawl across the board as you cut, and you don't have to worry about the board snapping off at the end of the cut., When using a circular saw, place your plywood on the cutting surface with the good face down. The teeth of the blade enter the sheet from underneath, and exit at the top. When the teeth exit, they may cause some chipping. Placing the sheet with the good face down will ensure a smooth surface., Use a straight edge to mark your line. Measure carefully and make sure you have the cutting line square with the edge of your plywood.For a smoother cut, score your line. Use a utility knife to score your line before you cut. You may have to run your knife over the line a few times to get it to score completely.A good rule to follow is "measure twice, cut once." If you cut the wood wrong, you can't do much to fix it other than start over with a new piece of wood.
 Find a piece of plywood that still has its factory edge and attach it to your cutting surface using clamps.Take into consideration the width of the saw's base plate, or shoe. Adjust your guide so that the shoe fits firmly against the guide, and the blade is in line with your cut mark.
If you are planning on cutting a lot of plywood, you might consider investing in a saw guide that attaches to your circular saw. Look online or in your local hardware store to find one that suits your needs., Line your saw up with your guide, and make sure the blade is over your cut mark. Turn your saw on, and run the shoe of the saw along your guide. Take care to make your cut as straight as possible.








Using a saw is dangerous. Wear safety goggles at all times, and keep your fingers clear of the blade.
Watch out for the power cord as you cut. Keep your work area clean.

