 This should be the image that you want to add a watermark to.;
, Open up your logo or design you would like to use as a watermark and save it to a place you can easily access, if you haven't already.


If you need to remove your logo from a larger image, grab the lasso tool. Make sure your feather is set to the number 0. Click once and draw around the image or text box you want to use as the watermark. When you have outlined it, release your click and save your image or logo.
 If you plan on adding a lot of watermarks to very similarly sized and arranged images, then you will want to create an Action. This will allow you to add the watermark to later images with less effort. Go to the "Window" menu on your toolbar. Select "action." Name the action "Watermark." Any actions that you perform from now until you stop the action will be recorded.
 Select your logo. Resize the logo until it is the size you would like. Change the opacity if you would like it to be lighter. Align the logo using the right, left, bottom top or center align buttons on the top tool bar.


Place the logo or text that you have just cut on to your photo in an area that will not obscure the image but will deter people from downloading your picture and using it. Make sure it is not in a place that can be easily cropped off the photo.
Be sure to use the buttons to align your photo because your Photoshop will be able to record those actions easier than those done only using the mouse.
 To do a text watermark in Photoshop, make a text box on top of your photo, color it and change its opacity until it is very light in your photo. Do this after you start recording your action.
 Because you are recording, this will tell Photoshop where to save any future watermarked photos.
 To watermark more than one photo, go to "File," select "Automate" and then select "Batch." When the window pops up, choose "Watermark" as the action in the drop down menu. Choose the folder with the images you want to watermark. You will need to have them in a separate folder for this action. Select the destination for all watermarked photos, using the browsing function prompted by the "Destination" button. Check the "Override box." Press "OK" and your folder of photos will be watermarked and saved in the folder you specified.

