 Turn off the lights when no one needs them. You should advise everyone turn off the lights, devices, computers and equipment when it is not in use. When everyone in the organization is doing it, you can feel the impact of it over time. It will gradually lower your energy bill.;
, Are you operating in an efficient level? Are you paying the lowest possible prices and tariff for your energy consumption? Business energy comparison sites can provide updated information about the cost effective energy supplier that can provide your energy requirements. It is free, so nothing's going to lose on your part.
 It is expected that during the summer season in a hot climate, you will need more energy for your air conditioning and ventilation system. However, if you allow your employees to wear comfortable clothes during this season, you won't need more energy for it.
 During the day turn down the thermostat to 65-68 degrees while turn it to 58-60 degrees at night and on cooler months. It will make you save energy while retaining the comfort.
 Even if the device is turned off when it remains plugged, it can still consume energy. You have to unplug all devices to make sure that no little amount of electricity travels through cords.
 Energy prices vary from time to time. You should watch out when the electricity is high and when it is low. If the prices are down, maximize your operation and produce outputs as many as you can but when prices are high, minimize production assuring that you won't be operating with opportunity cost. You can check it through your previous consumption data and meters and readings.
 Though you may have already built a relationship with your current supplier, you should prioritize the growth of your business. By choosing a cost effective supplier, you will lower down your expenses on energy. It can mean more money in the business; that can be used for further investments.
 You can't do it alone; your employees need to be involved in your goal to reduce energy bill. You can ask them to limit personal usage of office energy supply (e.g. charging of cellphones, watching TV, etc.). They should know why such measures are implemented so they can understand such action from the upper management.

