 Shower curtains with raised or etched patterns may allow moisture or water to collect in certain areas; whereas a smooth curtain will allow water to glide down into the drain.;
, This procedure will help your bathroom dry at a faster rate and help eliminate moisture buildup.


Open the window in your bathroom or turn on the ventilator fan to help remove excess moisture.
 This will allow any trapped moisture on the wet side of the shower curtain to escape and dry faster.


Separate any folds in your shower curtain to release trapped moisture.
Also consider putting an empty laundry basket or an Air-it-Out Shower Hook in the tub to hold the wet shower curtain away from the tub side.
 This will prevent mildew from forming on the area that clings to the tub.


Move the shower curtain to the outside of the bathtub only after it has dried partially to prevent water from dripping onto your bathroom floor.
 This will help prevent soap scum from forming on your shower curtain in addition to mildew.


Use a dry towel or rag to remove water from the wet side of your shower curtain after you shower.
 You can use a commercial bathroom-cleaning product that specializes in preventing mildew growth or make your own cleaning solution.


If you use a commercial cleaning product, use the product as directed by the manufacturer.
To make a natural cleaning solution, mix together 1 part warm water and 1 part distilled white vinegar and pour the mixture into a spray bottle.
You can substitute bleach for vinegar; however, you will be required to properly ventilate your bathroom after using the bleach mixture to prevent adverse health effects from the toxic fumes.
 This procedure will help disinfect your shower curtain and eliminate any bacteria that may contribute to the growth of mildew.


Spray your cleaning solution over the entire surface of your shower curtain.
Use a clean, dry towel or rag to spread the cleaning solution over the entire surface of the shower curtain.
Refrain from rinsing your shower curtain immediately after you have cleaned it to allow the properties from the solution to work completely.

