 Check with your owner’s manual to find the right one. If you cannot find the correct EGR there, check a parts manual or with an associate at an auto parts stores., Wait for several hours before you begin working on your vehicle. You can injure yourself very easily while working on a hot engine so let it set a few hours., Use a wrench to loosen the clamps on the battery’s two terminals. Be sure to wait at least 5 minutes after disconnecting the battery before you begin working on the engine. You want the system to discharge completely.


Always wear the appropriate safety gear before working on your engine.
 The EGR is usually located on either the top or backside of the engine. Consult your owner’s manual if you need help finding it.
 Twist and pull each line until they slide off the EGR valve. Each line connects with a specific port. Label each one so that you can easily reconnect them. , The electrical cable is located on top of the EGR valve. Grab the electrical cable with your hands and pull it.


If the electrical cable is held in by a clip or clamp, use a flat-bladed screwdriver to press it down and release it.
 Use lubricant spray on the bolts because they are usually very tight.
 Now that you removed the bolts, use your hands to remove the valve from its mount.


Inspect the valve for signs of carbon buildup. Sometimes this buildup causes the valve to malfunction. If you find buildup, clean it off and reinstall the valve. Test the valve again to see if it works after cleaning it.
 Use a scratch awl or something similar to remove any carbon buildup. Clean any debris or building in the gasket case.


Use carburetor or intake cleaner to help remove the carbon.
 Thread the bolts through the EGR and gasket onto the mount with your hands first. Then use a socket wrench with a swivel extension to tighten the mounting bolts when you seat the EGR valve in the engine.


When purchasing a new valve, see if it comes with a new gasket. You will have to purchase one if it doesn’t.
 Plug the cable back into the top of the EGR valve using your hands.
 Reattach the line with using your hands. Make sure that it’s tight to prevent leaks.
 Attach the engine leads to the battery terminals. Use a wrench to tighten the bolts.
 If you used a scan tool to test your EGR valve, clear any error codes related to the valve. Then test again to see if any error codes appear.
 Start your engine and listen for any leaks near the EGR valve. The two possible places leaks might occur will be with the vacuum hose or exhaust. Drive the vehicle to make sure that it runs correctly. Pay close attention to the idling and gas mileage of your vehicle as poor performance in these areas indicate that the EGR valve is faulty.

