 The two major types of cinnamon are Ceylon Cinnamon and Cassia Cinnamon. Ceylon Cinnamon is sometimes known as "true" or "proper" cinnamon, but is not always as easy to find in your average supermarket as Cassia Cinnamon. Ceylon Cinnamon is, however, the best choice due to its lower coumarin content.Regular coumarin consumption can potentially cause liver problems.It can also interfere with diabetes medication, so check with your physician to ensure that it is safe for you to use cinnamon.;
, You can buy cinnamon in a powder, in sticks, as a supplement, and as cinnamon extract. Think about what you are using it for before deciding which form of cinnamon to buy. If you want to introduce some cinnamon into your normal diet you will have different requirements than if you wanted to try to take it more medicinally. Try to use a variety of sticks and powders in different foods and drinks to keep it interesting.If you are buying it to season your food, go for a powder.
Add a stick to the pan when you are cooking rice.
If your doctor has advised you to take cinnamon as part of your attempts to manage your blood sugar levels, you can buy cinnamon extract from health food stores which has had the coumarin completely removed., Cinnamon is considered to have good anti-microbial properties, which can help your immune system fight against a cold or flu. It can help to tackle the growth of bacteria and fungus.By adding a teaspoon of cinnamon to hot water, you are making a soothing drink which will won’t cure your cold but will help you feel a bit better.
 Having a hot cinnamon drink can tackle your cold and flu symptoms, and more specifically, can help to dry up an irritating runny nose.You can combine it with ginger for an extra kick.
 A lot like a hot drink, adding cinnamon to hot soup adds some flavour while also potentially bringing some relief to those under the weather.


The anti-microbial properties of cinnamon are such that it has been cited as a natural food preservative.