 Introduce your child to the craft by watching a program about the sea or boats. Show them pictures of boats so that they get excited about making their own.


Gather used wine corks, popsicle sticks, craft glue and a skewer stick. Glue 2 sets of 3 wine corks together, for you and your child. Add another set of 3 corks for each other child or parent who is involved. Place a strip of glue onto either side of the middle cork and place it, side to side, between the other 2 corks.
Place dots of glue on the top of the corks and attach 3 popsicle sticks perpendicularly. Wait overnight for all the glue to dry, if possible. This craft is 2 days of craft fun.
Cut out a small triangle for the sail. Get out some markers or crayons and let your child decorate the sail on either side. Tape the triangle to a 4-inch portion of a barbecue skewer. Stick the pointed end into your cork.
Once the glue is dry on day 2, run a bath. Let your child get in your bath and race your cork rafts. Make waves in the bath to show them how a boat floats at sea. Set the raft to dry overnight and use it again for future bath times.
 Gather colanders, bowls, empty pots and plates from the kitchen. Place a large bowl or trough at the bottom so that you can reuse the water once it's been poured.


Construct a waterfall by creating a tower of bowls, colanders, plastic cutting boards and cups. Your child will likely need to try a few times in order to get the tower to balance. If possible, use plenty of colanders and sturdy cutting boards so that it is stable and allows water to move through.
Take a gallon of water and color it with food coloring. You can also use a few different colors in different pitchers. Pour some water into a smaller pitcher or liquid measuring cup. Let your child pour water on the top of the waterfall and watch as it pours down.
If the waterfall is unsteady it will fall apart, so you and your child can construct it again. Pour more water over the top. You can also gather water at the bottom with a cup and your child re-pour it at the top.

