 Financial aid packages are used to help pay for college with a variety of grants, which you don't have to pay back, and loans, which you do. This is also the way to find out whether or not you qualify for a work-study position on campus, which can further alleviate the financial burden of attending school.


To receive financial aid in the U.S., you'll need to fill out a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). While it's possible to use loans to get extra money during college, you're not really getting paid (even though it might feel that way). You'll have to pay all of it back eventually, plus interest. So when you receive a financial aid offer, focus on grants and ignore loans.
 Scholarships are like grants in that you don't have to pay them back, but they can be awarded by any organization--not just the government. The conditions to apply for scholarships vary widely. Some are need-based, some are merit-based, and some have very quirky requirements (like being tall, left-handed, or very good at duck calling. No, seriously.


Apply for a National Merit Scholarship, if your grades are good enough. While it's uncommon, a student at University of Alabama reportedly profited over $30,000 from his college experience, having received a tier one scholarship that covered all of his tuition and housing expense and included a $1,000 each semester, supplemented by a National Merit Scholarship. This is extremely uncommon.
 When checking out schools, ask about tuition waivers. You might have to do a lot of asking, though. They can be like hidden gems. For example, you might get a waiver for working on the school's newspaper, being a lab assistant, being a teaching assistant, or taking on the responsibilities of a resident assistant (RA). In addition, some tuition waivers are offered by the government. In Illinois, for example, you can receive a four-year tuition waiver if you commit to teaching in that state in special education once you graduate.Usually, state-based tuition waivers are offered to residents of that particular state, so do an Internet search for the state you're already a resident of and "tuition waiver" (like +Nebraska +"tuition waiver").
 Keeping in mind that there might be a work requirement, many schools are beginning to waive tuition for students who meet certain income requirements. Stanford University, for example, doesn't charge tuition to students whose families earn less than $100,000 a year, and also waives room and board for students whose families earn less than $60,000 a year.In the US, other institutions include:


College of the Ozarks
Deep Springs College
Berea College
Olin College of Engineering
Curtis Institute of Music
Alice Lloyd College.
 Going to college isn't just about going to a big name University that might be out of your price range. You get out of school what you put into it. Be the big fish in a small pond. Make a great impression on professors and administrators who can serve as beaming references when you apply for jobs. Network. Participate in extracurricular activities. Get an internship. You can do all of these things without being buried in politics at a cut-throat, competitive school that'll break the bank.


According to some studies, a degree from a prestigious university like an Ivy League might be cost effective if your goal is a serious six-figure income, but doesn't give you much of an advantage if you choose certain careers, like business or teaching. In fact, the resulting debt might cripple your career flexibility, meaning that you might not be able to take a teaching job at a great public school because you won't make enough money to pay off your loans and stay financially afloat.
Living at home with your parents and commuting to school can save you thousands - possibly tens of thousands - of dollars in room and board costs.

