 All cartographers must be able to visualize data using both analysis and artistic imagination. They use a close attention to detail and accuracy in order to translate the data into a map, and have a reputation for perfectionism.Computer programming skills and mathematical ability are increasingly valued in the cartography job market, but you do not necessarily need advanced experience in these subjects.


Most cartographers have office jobs, and spend 35–40 hours a week working mostly on the computer and drafting table.;
, Cartography is a wide field that combines elements of geography, engineering, programming, and design. While there are many specialized jobs out there, you can divide these roughly by how much mathematical and programming approach they use:



Cartographers who focus on creating traditional maps use technical drafting skills and geographical knowledge, but often computer programming as well. A minority of them perform aerial surveys or ground surveys.

Photogrammetrists use data from aerial surveys, LIDAR remote sensing, and other sources in map making. This typically involves heavy use of mathematical analysis and computer graphics programming.

GIS specialists use Geographic Information Systems technology to build maps connected to non-visual digital databases. This increasingly popular specialization relies heavily on an education in both geography and programming.
 While not technically cartographers, there are people in closely related fields who share many of the same skills and interests. Here are a few of the most closely related options:



Surveying technicians or cartographic technicians map physical locations from the ground. While they are paid less than cartographers, they get to travel and spend much more time outside.

Map librarians maintain permanent collections of current maps and atlases, while map archivists oversee collections of historical and unpublished map materials. They are not as reliant on programming skills or artistic ability, instead focusing on archival work, library science, and historical analysis.

