 Start toward the eraser end of the pencil and wind green washi tape all the way down to the graphite tip.


You can use solid or patterned green washi tape. Wrap the washi tape in a slight downward spiral so that the layers just barely overlap one another.
Pencils are the easiest option to use for this craft, but you could also use a wooden dowel trimmed down to pencil length, 7.5 inches (19 cm).
 Fold one colored cupcake wrapper into eighths, then use scissors to trim the open edge into a rounded triangle.


This cupcake wrapper can be any color and will be used to create petals.
You will need to fold the cupcake wrapper in half three times. This will create a flower with eight petals.
Alternatively, you can fold the wrapper in half four times and round off the top in a similar manner to create a flower with 16 petals., Repeat the folding and cutting step with four more cupcake wrappers to create four more layers of petals.


To create an aesthetically even flower, use identical cupcake wrappers and cut the same number of petals for each one.
If desired, you can also experiment by using different colors or by varying the number of petals.
 Fold a green cupcake wrapper into eighths, then round off one long edge.


You will need to fold the wrapper in half three times.
Round off the open long edge of the folded wrapper. Make sure that the point stays intact.
 Unfold the cut wrappers and stack them on top one another. The green leaves should be placed on the bottom, but the petal layers do not need to go in any specific order.


Turn the petal layers slightly so that there are no visible gaps when viewed from above.
Consider using a small dot of hot glue in between each layer. Place the glue directly onto the center of one layer before placing the next layer over it.
 Center the flower, leaf-side down, over the eraser of the wrapped pencil. Drive a small push pin through the center of all six flower layers and into the eraser.


If you are using a wooden dowel or are otherwise unable to use the push pin method, simply adhere the bottom of the flower onto one end of the stem with a small dab of hot glue.
 Use your fingers to carefully gather and bunch up the petal layers toward the center of the flower.


Continue manipulating the layers as desired to create the appearance of a full bud.

