 This will make construction considerably easier if you pre-cut the wood:


Top long portion: 2 – 6X2 @ 5′ 9-1/4″
Top side and middle: 3 – 8X2 @ 1′ 9″
Top center: 12 – 2X4 @ 1′ 11-3/4″
Legs: 4 – 2X4 @ 2′ 5-1/4″
Outer long skirt: 2 – 1X4 @ 5′ 2-1/4″
Inside long skirt: 2 – 1X4 @ 5′ 6-1/4″
Short skirt: 2 – 1X4 @ 2′ 5″ 
Cross beam: 4 – 1X4 @ 2′ 3-1/2″ 
Box supports: 4 – 1X4 @ 2′ 1-1/4″
Long box side: 4 – 1X6 @ 1′ 11-3/4″
Short box side: 4 – 1X6 @ 8-3/4″
Bottom box: 10 – 1X2 @ 7-1/4″ (bottom box);
,,


Use the Kreg Jig to create the holes, which will make the project considerably easier to put together.
 Place pre-drilled hole slats face up for easier assembly.


Lay top long boards on the outside, along with the 2 top center boards on the inside of each side.
Lay top side and middle boards on each end of the table to complete the design.
Add planter boxes in the middle upside down (hole facing down).
 Use wood glue to bound the wood planks together and then use the 2 ½” wood screws to attach the center boards to the middle boards through the pre-drilled pocket holes.


Hold boards in place while attaching with either glue or screws.
Repeat this step on the other side of the table.
 You will also need to use wood glue to hold boards in place after you’ve screwed boards together for further security.


Use a pencil to mark off the places where you will drill more holes using your Kreg Jig. You want 6 holes where the side and middle boards connect with the long board.
 These must be made to fit the middle of the table and hold the plastic planter boxes.


Screw together the sides of the box by screwing wood together and then adding wood glue between boards. Use the 1 ¼” screws to attach the frame together.
Create 5 evenly spaced holes along one open side of the box. Use your T-square to line up holes as they must be able to line up evenly.
Add the box supports. Place the pieces flush against the bottom sides of the box and screw into place using 1 ¼” screws. Add a little wood glue for extra support.
 Measure and mark the centers of both the cross beam board and the short box side of the wooden box.


Use the T-square to ensure you draw straight lines.
Clamp cross beam board in place. Add wood glue before adding clamps.
Attach cross beam board to the wooden box using 4 of the 1 ¼” wood screws.
 Turn table face down (if it isn’t already face down).


Mark and drill pocket holes in all 4 corners to attach the skirt to the table top. Use the Kreg Jig to make holes.
Glue table skirts to the table top through the pocket holes.
Add wood glue to the planter box assemblies, anywhere the they make contact with the table.
Attach cross beams to the table skirt by drilling 2 counter board holes at each junction. Use the 1 ¼” screws to hold all 8 areas together.
Line up and attach legs and outer skirt. Attach outer skirt and legs using wood glue and 1 1/4” screws. Clamp and hold in place until glue dries.
Use wood filler to patch any holes.
Add plastic planter boxes.
 Use the 2-1/2″ wood screws and wood glue. Clamp to hold them together.


Cut a hole in the lids using a 1 ½” hole saw bit. This will allow you to pull open the box tops.

