 Probiotics are known as healthy bacteria that live in your intestines. Probiotics help move food through your intestines. They are known to be helpful with Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS), Irritable Bowel Disease (IBD), and certain types of diarrhea.To improve the health of your intestines and encourage digestion, you can take a probiotic supplement or just eat foods that are high in probiotics. If you want to take a supplement, talk with your doctor first. Probiotic supplements are not regulated by the FDA, but your doctor can help you to choose a supplement and recommend a good dosage for you. These foods include:Kimchi.
Sauerkraut.
Kefir.
Yogurt.
Miso soup.
Kombucha tea.
Soft cheeses.
Tempeh.;
, Most people only get 15 grams (0.53 oz) of fiber a day although the daily recommendation is 25 grams (0.88 oz) for women and 35 to 40 grams (1.2 to 1.4 oz) for men.It's especially important to get the recommended fiber as you age because slower digestion can cause constipation. Talk with your doctor about taking a fiber supplement or include more of these high-fiber foods in your diet:Brans and whole grains: oats, wheat, corn.
Beans: lentil, kidney, black, pinto, garbanzo.
Berries: blackberries, raspberries, blueberries.
Nuts and seeds.
 As you include more fiber in your diet, you'll need to drink more water to prevent constipation. Drinking water before meals can also prevent weight gain. Try to drink at least 15 cups (3.7 liters) if you're a man or 11 cups (2.7 liters) if you're a woman.Keep in mind that these amounts include water that you're getting from meals that include fruits and vegetables. Drink enough water to prevent cloudy or dark urine and drink before you begin to feel thirsty.
 As you get older, your mouth won't make as much saliva or stomach acid. This can make digestion take longer and might increase your risk for choking on food. To improve your digestion, eat foods that are softer and take the time to cut your food into manageable bites.If you'll be eating dry or chewy foods, ensure that you drink plenty of fluids to help your body break down the food.
 Regular caffeine consumption affects people differently. Studies have shown that some people experience acid reflux and slowed digestion while others aren't affected by it. Some people believe that coffee has a diuretic effect, making it easier to pass stools.Caffeine may irritate the digestive systems of people with Crohn's, colitis, and irritable bowel syndrome.