 It is hard to find a dress worthy of Lucille Ball in a regular department store. You may want to devote a day to browsing vintage racks.;
, They create similar looks; however dresses can run between $65 and $150.


Most of these stores don’t have physical locations, so you will need to shop online.
 Lucy often wore patterns that popped in black and white. Ensure it has a full swing skirt., Both should be form fitting. The gingham shirt can be tied at the natural waist.
 Sling back or patent flats can also work.
 Chiffon fabric is the most comfortable, and you will need to measure it to the length of the dress. Lucy favored knee or just over the knee-length dresses.
 Although I Love Lucy was in black and white, she was well known for her red hair. She was likely to have been a natural brunette, but the red hair matched her trademark lipstick and outfits.
 Section the top of your head in a rectangular part along the sides and back. This will be the bouffant-like section.


It is recommended that your bangs be at least three to four inches long to pull off the pin curl look.
Tie up the rest of your hair so that it doesn’t get in the way.
 Twist one-inch (2.5cm) sections onto your head and pin them in place along each row. You should have three to four pin curls in each of the three front rows.


Secure with two bobby pins placed like cross hairs. Try to make each of the bobby pin pairs identical on each pin curl.
 Pin curl a bottom row going clockwise. Pin curl a top row going counterclockwise.
 Cover the pin curls with a scarf. Sleep on them and wait until you are getting ready the next day to take them out.
 This way it will be out of your face.
 Take down the sides first, one at a time.
 Wrap them up into the bun and pin them in place, leaving a wave at the side. Repeat on the opposite side.
 Comb through the curls gently with your fingers, leaving them mostly intact.
 Roll them so there is a ringlet in front. Pin them in place, taking care to hide the pins.
 The curls should come out slightly over your forehead., If you are going for the full black and white star look, remember that she wore heavy makeup to get a flawless complexion. If you are going casual, this is not necessary.
 Use a brow pencil to accentuate the arches. Lucy had fairly heavy, distinct brows.
 You can also use fake lashes to get a more dramatic look.
, Lucy arched her lips slightly bigger at the top and bottom, between the creases.
 Fill the lips in with matching red lipstick. Powder the lips slightly to set them., Have someone help you into your dress at this point, so that it stays free from powder and hairspray.

