 Don't stick around when they start abusing you. You are under no obligation to stay, call, visit, or otherwise expose yourself to abuse. Don't let your parents guilt you into thinking you need to take their bad treatment. Set boundaries and stick to them.Stop coming over or calling if they abuse you.
If you live with them, retreat to your room or go to a friend's house if they are yelling at you or insulting you.
Set limits if you do stay in touch. Say, "I will call you once a week, but I will hang up if you say cruel things to me."
Keep in mind that you do not need to get involved in an argument if you do not want to. You don’t have to respond to what they say or try to defend yourself in any way.
 Don't live with an emotionally abusive parent, and don't give them any power over you. Abusers often try to maintain control by creating dependence. Earn your own money, make your own friends, and live on your own. Don't depend on abusive parents for anything.

Get an education if you can. You might look into how you can apply for federal student loans without your parents. This usually requires some type of documentation from a mental health professional stating that your parents were abusive.
Move out as soon as you are financially able.
If you can't afford to get through college without living with or relying on abusive parents financially, make sure to take care of yourself and draw boundaries.
 You may feel obligated to fulfill a notion of duty to your parents. However, if your parents have abused you, you might find it triggering to care for them when they have been emotionally abusive, especially if the abusive behavior has continued. Consider cutting ties if your relationship is more painful than it is loving.You don't owe a debt of care to those who have abused you.
If community members do not understand why you have cut ties with your parents, you don't owe an explanation.
"Closure" is not always possible in conversation with an abusive parent. If you don't want to be in touch but fear missing the chance for "closure," ask yourself: have they shown that they are willing to listen? Do they acknowledge my feelings? If not, you may be better off without any contact.
If you decide to become your parents’ caregiver at some point, focus your discussions only on their care. If they become verbally abusive or insulting, then leave right away to make it clear that you will not tolerate this type of behavior.
 Do not put your kids through the same abuse that you were put through. If your parents say inappropriately critical or insulting things to your children, intervene. Either end the conversation or cut off visits.

You can end the conversation by saying, "We don't talk to Eli that way. If you have an issue with the way he eats, you can talk to me about it." Although most adult conversations should be conducted in private, it is important for your children to see and hear you protect them in the case of abuse.
Your children will likely have a happier childhood if they are not subjected to abuse by their grandparents.

