 You're no longer a slave to the standard gray! Head to your local fabric and hardware stores (or even Target or Walmart) and go crazy.

Dress patterns can be found for under $10 at most fabric supply stores.










 


A size 10 body needs about 2 rolls of 60-yd (55 m) duct tape, depending on the pattern.












;
, This is easiest to do on a hardwood or clean tile floor. Getting duct tape stuck to your carpet is like getting gum out of your hair.

Lay them sticky side up, slightly overlapping each other. Lay out enough to cover the dress pattern and then some.













Cover them with a thin cotton cloth. Wrinkles aren't a serious issue; if you see some, don't fret.













Plastic wrap is usable here, but it won't do you any favors in soaking up sweat (or being comfortable) when worn.
 Some dress patterns come with multiple options; just because you're working with duct tape does not mean you have to choose the easiest one.

Trace them on the cotton side of your duct tape material and cut the pieces out.













Make sure to think ahead when it comes to duct tape lines--do you want your pieces vertically or horizontally lined?














, You may feel like Sisyphus here, but fear not! Any piece sticking out or bulging can be forced into its proper place. You're the boss, after all.

Peel back about 5/8 of an inch (1.6 cm) of your backing (plastic wrap or thin cloth) and join the pieces together with this slight overlap.













Layer the seam with a piece of duct tape on the front, if desired.













Cover any raw edges with folding. Peel back the cloth or plastic layer to adhere as necessary.
 Even though you're working with duct tape, this is doable! If your pattern calls for it, go on ahead.

To gather your duct tape fabric, simply scrunch it with your fingers, then wrap a 1/2" strip of tape around the edges to hold it in place. Position it on another pattern piece as directed by the instructions, then secure with more tape.













To hem your duct tape fabric, remove a couple inches of backing from the edge and carefully fold the edges in.













Make a cut down the back, if necessary. You have the option to add velcro or a zipper, if desired.














