 As soon as you know, or suspect, that your cat might be pregnant, you should take her to the vets to get her checked over. The vet will examiner her, check on how her pregnancy is advancing, and give you guidance about how to care for her during the pregnancy. If your cat has any pre-existing health condition, or is overweight, it is especially important to take her to the vet.


You will need to increase the amount of food you provide for her as the pregnancy progresses.
Your vet can advise you on how to go about this in detail, but switching to kitten food in the third trimester is generally advised.
The vet will be able to give you an estimate of the number of kittens your cat is expecting.
It is possible that the vet will determine that the pregnancy could endanger your cat, and may decide that spaying her is the safest thing to do., It's essential that you provide a safe, warm and quiet area for her to give birth. You should have this birthing nest set up and ready to go at least a week before she is due. Introduce her to the nest early and make sure she knows about it. If she doesn't have a regular bed or box she likes to sleep in, just get a good sized cardboard box and put some warm blankets in it to make it comfortable.


Make sure you only use blankets you don't mind getting soiled. Don't use blankets that have a strong smell.Place a litter tray near to be box, but not right next to it. Keep the box a couple of feet away.
Ensure there is fresh water and food next to the box, but keep the bowls outside of the box., Once you have prepared the nest and the mother, you need to prepare yourself. Gather together all the supplies you might need if there are any problems with the birth. This way you can act quickly and provide the best possible care. Make sure you have plenty of clean and dry towels, which you might need to clean off the kittens. Get some cat-milk powder, and a kitten bottle, in case there is a problem with nursing.


Have a cat box ready to go in case you need to take her to vets in a hurry.
Keep the phone number of your vet handy. If there is a problem call up your vet for advice on how to proceed., Once labour begins you should monitor the mother closely. Stay nearby, but don't get too close. Don't invade her personal space, but being in the same room will let her know you are around and can help reassure her. You should be aware of certain warning signs that could indicate a problem with the birth. Knowing these will help you react quickly, so you can contact your vet is there are complications. There could be a problem if:


Half an hour after abdominal contractions have started, no kittens have been born.
Half an hour has gone by since the birth of a kitten, the contractions are continuing, but there is no indication of another kitten on the way.
A kitten has become stuck halfway during birth. In this case you may be able to apply some gentle pressure to the kitten, but if it doesn't move easily and immediately, contact a vet straight away.
There is a green or dark discharge from the mother before giving birth. If there is a discharge twelve hours after giving birth, contact your vet.
A kitten has not suckled for three hours.