 Compound interest can be thought of as three amounts: the principal, the interest, and the interest earned on interest. Set up three labeled jars to represent the different amounts.
 Add $1.00 to the jar, and explain that you will help them to add 10% interest on what is in the jar to the "interest" jar each day. You will also need a way to keep track of how much money is in each jar and the total amount between them as you add money.You can do this for longer if you want. A week should be enough time to show your child how compound interest works.
Keeping the jar in a place where it is in view will keep you both from forgetting about the project.
 On the first day, you will have $1.00 in the jar, so for the second day, ask your child to help you figure out what 10% of $1.00 is. Once they tell you that 10% of $1.00 is 10 cents, add a dime to the interest jar. Ask them to tell you what the new total is. Keeping the interest figure low will present a more realistic idea of what your child could expect to earn from a bank. If you want to, you can also use higher interest rates., Have your child add another dime to the interest jar on the third day. Then, explain to them that 10 percent of the money in the interest jar must be added to the interest on interest jar. Allow them to calculate that this would be 1 cent and add a penny to the interest on interest jar.


On each of the following days you will repeat this process. Have your child count the contents of the jar, and ask them to help you calculate 10% of the total contents of the first two jars.
Remember to total the amount you have on each day. For example, on the third day you now have $1.21.
On the fourth day, you would add another dime to interest and then calculate that 10 percent of the interest jar is now 2 cents. You can then add 2 pennies to interest on interest for a total of $1.33.
 On the eighth day, you and your child can now take down the jar and count up the new total. Be sure to point out that your child has saved up almost 100% of what they put in the jar in the first place. Remind then that only the dollar represents money that they paid in to the "bank."Explain to your child that this is a good way to grow their money.

