 Avoid walking around staring at your cell phone or listening to music. If someone is following you, it will be much easier if you aren't paying attention to what is going on around you., Look for non-descript or plain vehicles; spies don't usually go around in flashy cars. Alternatively, check for vehicles you know, that is belong to people you know who might have a reason to follow you.If you are driving, slow down a little, and see if the car you think is following you does so as well. If you are on a highway, change lanes, and see if they follow.
If someone is following you, it won't be in a flashy sports car. It will likely involve something non-descript, that can easily blend in without catching your attention. If you think you are being followed, take notice of distinguishing features like a license plate., There are many small cameras out there that are easy to miss. They can be hidden in tight spaces or in other objects, allowing someone to record you and your actions. Most cameras are small, so you'll want to be on the look out for smaller items that appear out of place, or loose wires that don't seem to run to anything.You can use a smartphone to discover cameras. Turn off all the lights in the room you are in, then put your phone in camera mode. Look at the room through the camera. Night vision cameras will emit a bright red light (which is how they see in the dark), which will appear on your screen. If you see that, you may have found a hidden camera.
There are a number of hidden camera detectors available for purchase. They are small devices that produce a high-frequency red light, which you can use to sweep the room. The light will reflect off of any lenses, chips, or infrared lights., If you notice odd sounds on your phone, even after you've hung up, someone might be listening in to your conversations. Listening devices may also cause interference on electronic devices like televisions and radios., Hidden devices like cameras and recorders can use Wi-Fi networks to transmit what they find. If your phone or laptop detects a strong signal in your home that isn't your network, someone may be using that nearby network.