 Though not a loan or credit extension, consumer credit counseling services allow individuals to pay all of their debts in one monthly payment at a lower interest rate than otherwise. Both nonprofit and for-profit services are available. Both (ostensibly) consolidate your debt into one payment by negotiating with your lenders on your behalf to secure a more forgiving repayment plan. However, some credit counseling agencies prey upon debt-stricken individuals by charging exorbitant fees for services that can be obtained for cheap or free elsewhere. Entering an arrangement with a predatory credit counselor can make a difficult financial situation even worse, so be cautious when picking a credit counseling service.


In the United States, the Department of Justice's Trustee Program provides a state-by-state list of government-approved credit counseling services., Credit counselors negotiate with your debt holders to obtain a more forgiving repayment plan. When your debt has been consolidated in this way, you pay your credit counselor every month, rather than paying your creditors directly. Your credit counselor then distributes your money to your creditors according to the repayment plan that has been negotiated.


While this monthly payment is often lower than your previous debts required, often, the repayment schedule when using a credit counselor is longer than with traditional forms of debt, which means you may pay more money in the long run.
 Credit counseling may have a negative impact on your credit score because it signals to future creditors that you had difficulty managing your debt. However, the effects of credit counseling are still far better than those of bankruptcy, so entering into a debt management plan with a reputable credit counselor is almost always a smart choice if it allows you to avoid declaring bankruptcy.
 Individuals who are unable to obtain a loan any other way will benefit the most from consumer credit counseling services. Because of the long repayment schedules and various fees associated with credit counseling services, generally, the other options in this article are preferable to enrolling in a debt management plan from a credit counselor. Thus, be sure to pursue the other options first if they are within your means.

