 Even on cloudy days, ultraviolet (UV) light can still cause sunburns and damage skin. The easiest way to protect your head is to cover it with a cap of some sort. If possible, wear a wide-brimmed hat that protects your neck, as well.A hat is less effective than sunscreen (roughly equivalent to SPF 5), but it protects your scalp and other areas where sunscreen is difficult to apply.If you do not have hats available, walk in such a way that minimizes your exposure to the sun. For instance, walk on the shady side of the street instead of the sunny side, or choose a path that keeps you beneath the shade provided by trees.;
, If your hair is thinning, if you have your hair in braids, or if your hair is arranged in such a way that the scalp is exposed, apply sunscreen to your head. Take special care to apply it to areas where a large percentage of your scalp is exposed to the sun. Use a sunscreen that offers both UVA and UVB protection with at least SPF 30 if you’re spending an extended amount of time outdoors (at the beach or out on a bike ride, for instance) or at least SPF 15 if you’re just out on an average outing.Ensure your sunscreen is not oily. Your scalp can more easily absorb a lightweight, moisturizing formula than an oily one. Plus, an oily sunscreen will make your scalp feel greasy. Check for ingredients like zinc or titanium oxide that could make your sunscreen greasier.Apply the sunscreen in a thin, even layer across your scalp, just as you would when applying it to any other part of your body.
Reapply sun lotion every two hours.
 The midday (10 AM to 4 PM) sun is the worst for your skin. Try to avoid going out during these times. If you do, cover your hair and head with a hat, or seek shade beneath a stand of trees to maximize hair and scalp protection., Water, snow, and sand all reflect UV light back at you. If you visit a beach or snowscape during the late morning or afternoon, wearing a hat and high-SPF sunscreen is especially important., If you have long hair but no hat, consider wearing a ponytail, bun, or updo. Unlike hairstyles with a part, these will cover your scalp completely, preventing sunburn.


Since this leaves your hair unprotected, it's best to rely on a hat most of the. People with afro-textured hair, fine hair, or light-colored hair should be especially cautious, since their hair is more easily damaged by sun., Many weather reports tell you the day's UV index, at least during the summer. You can also find these predictions here for some countries, including the US, Australia, and Canada.Here's how to interpret the international WHO UV Index so you know how cautious you need to be:1 or 2: Low risk. No protection required.
3 to 5: Moderate risk. Wear a shirt, sunscreen, and hat. Seek shade around noon.
6 to 7: High risk. Wear a shirt, sunscreen, and hat. Reduce time in sun from 10am to 4pm.
8 to 10: Very high risk. Avoid sun from 10am to 4pm as much as possible.
11+: Extreme risk. Stay indoors between 10am and 4pm if possible.

