 When you pay for something in cash, what do you do with the change? Many of us tend to lose track of it, only to discover it years later under the seat of our cars. Instead of letting that money slip away, start saving the change every time you break a dollar.Put the change into a jar or piggy bank when you get home each day. Don’t allow yourself to take money back out it and watch your savings start to add up.
Some banks even offer programs to put the change from a dollar into a separate savings account for you when you make purchases with your debit card.
 We’ve all been there: you stumble across a new video game, tee shirt, or pair of shoes that you suddenly feel like you have to have. Take a step back and really consider how much you need to make that purchase and if it’s worth putting off your shopping spree.Remember that every dollar saved is one step closer to your shopping spree.
If you find something you think you want to break you budget over, go home and sleep on it before making a decision. You may find that your desire to keep saving returns after a good night’s rest.
 Instead of going grocery shopping and wandering up and down the aisles looking for things you may need, make a list before you go to make sure you buy only the things that you need and reduce the chances you may end up buying unnecessary products.Using a shopping list can prevent you from buying things you don’t really need but crave suddenly because you saw it at the store.
Lists are also great for making sure you don’t forget anything you need, causing you to waste gas and take multiple trips.
 Eating out can be extremely expensive, especially if there are drinks involved. Instead of meeting your friends out for dinner, invite them over to your house to hang out for a while.Eating out gets expensive quickly. You shouldn’t have to spend money to spend time with your friends.
Eating at home is not only less expensive than eating out, it’s often much healthier.
 Drinking water doesn’t seem like something that could save you money, but it actually can make a significant difference. Instead of buying expensive, sugary drinks like soda and juice, have yourself an nice glass of ice water.Water is the healthiest choice of beverage and most people don’t drink enough of it during their day.
Drinking water regularly can help you feel full and satisfied and limit unnecessary expenses from snacking.
 You may have been buying the same toothpaste or bag of potato chips for a long time, but it might be worth looking at generic brands or buying the same product from other stores to reduce the cost.Generic brands often offer the same level of quality as their name brand counterparts at a reduced cost.
Compare prices online or make a note of what you pay and what you notice things you purchase going for at other stores while you shop.
 Don’t let your leftovers go to waste. Eating those leftovers will reduce your daily expenses by not requiring that you pay for an entirely new meal each time you eat. Get your money’s worth out of your food by eating it before it spoils.Consider warming your leftovers up in the oven or on the stove to make them feel and taste more like they were freshly cooked.
Combine leftover meals to make new and creative dinners. Mashed potatoes from Monday night combined with chicken from Tuesday can make a great meal on Wednesday!

