 This is a command prompt program used for newer Source games. This program will install and update your CS:Source dedicated server. You can download SteamCMD for free from the Valve website. The file comes in .zip format., Make sure to extract it to a folder that is not your Steam client folder or an old HLDSUpdate folder. For best results, create a new folder on the root of your hard drive, such as C:\SteamCMD\., Double-click the extract SteamCMD program. The program will automatically connect to the Steam servers and begin downloading any updates. This could take a few minutes. Once the update is complete, you will be presented with the Steam> command line.

If your SteamCMD program will not connect, you may need to adjust your internet settings. Open the Control Panel and select Internet Options. Select the Connections tab. At the bottom of the window, click the LAN Settings button. Make sure that the box next to “Automatically detect settings” is checked.
 Use the command line to set the install directory for the dedicated server. Use the following command:force_install_dir c:\css-ds\
Change “css-ds” to whichever directory you would like to use.
 Once your directory is set, you can start the server install process. Enter the following command to begin downloading the server files. The download is over 2GB in size, so be prepared to wait:app_update 232330 validate
, Once your server is installed, it will have created a variety of files and folders in your dedicated server directory. Open the folder “css” and then the folder “config.” Open the “server.cfg” file using Notepad. Adjust any settings in this file, such as “Hostname” which is the name of your server., Once your download is finished and you have control of the command prompt, type Quit to exit the Steam download servers., Open a command prompt and navigate to your dedicated server directory. Enter the following command to start the server:

srcds -console -game css +map <map> +maxplayers X –autoupdate
Replace the <map> with the map that you wish to start the server with. Change the X next to “maxplayers” to the number of players that you wish to allow (8,10,16,24, etc.).
 Any computer connected to the same network as the dedicated server should be able to see the server in the Steam servers list. Open Steam and right-click on the icon in the system tray. Select Servers from the menu. Click the LAN tab. The dedicated server should appear on the list. Joining it will automatically launch Counter-Strike: Source as long as it is installed.