 If you have an elderly cat you should make sure that it gets a health exam twice a year. This can be done by any certified veterinarian. If you don't have a veterinarian for your cat already, you simply need to find a veterinarian in your area that is accepting new patients and schedule an appointment.


In order to find a veterinarian, ask for recommendations from friends and family or you can do an online search for veterinarians and reviews of their practices.;
, Call your veterinary office and make an appointment for your cat's exam. Depending on how busy your veterinary office is, you may need to call a week or two before the date and time you want to assure you get them.


You will need to make these appointments twice a year, so that your cat gets looked at by its veterinarian every six months.
If you have not been to this veterinary office before, they may need some basic information from you before the exam. Because of this, they may request that you come in a few minutes early for the appointment in order to fill out new patient paperwork.
In order to make sure that your cat continues to get wellness exams, you may be able to schedule your cat's next wellness exam when you take it in for its current wellness exam. However, not all veterinary offices like to schedule six months in advance.
Many veterinary offices will send you a reminder when your cat needs another health exam.
 Before bringing your cat in for an exam, it's a good idea to know what to expect. Because wellness exams for senior cats can be thorough, they may include:Discussing the cat's health history
A physical exam to check general health and to spot potential health problems
Blood tests to check for problems with the liver, thyroid, and other organs
Urinalysis to check kidney function
Fecal testing for parasites

, Before you bring your cat in for its exam, you should make sure to know how much the visit will cost you. Because these exams are relatively thorough, the cost of a wellness exam for a senior cat can be more than an annual exam for a young or middle-aged cat.The price quoted to you when you make your appointment may not include all treatments and tests that your cat receives. This means that the quoted price is just the base price and your bill may be higher at the end of the appointment.
 When calling in to make an appointment, you should ask the person you talk to about any preparations you need to make. This could include collecting fecal or urine samples or having the cat fast before the appointment, among other things.If you have never done something that the veterinary office asks you to do, such as collecting a fecal sample, feel free to ask the person on the phone for advice about how to do it.
 During the wellness exam the veterinarian will likely ask you about your cat's health and behavior, so be prepared to answer questions about your cat's diet, daily behavior, lifestyle, and litter box habits.You should also prepare by making a list of any concerns or questions you have about your cat's health., Your veterinarian may ask you to limit your cat's food intake before its veterinary appointment. This usually means that you will be asked to limit your cat's food for about six hours before the appointment.Fasting allows the veterinarian to get better results for certain blood tests because it reduces the fat that is prevalent in the blood after eating.
If you know you will need to have your cat fast, try scheduling your appointment for early in the morning, so that you can simply bring it in before its morning meal.
 Your veterinarian may request that you bring in a fecal sample when you bring your cat in for its appointment. The fecal sample will be analyzed in order to look for parasite eggs.Your cat's fecal sample can be collected in a collection bottle supplied by your veterinarian or in a clean plastic container, such as a ziplock bag. It can be collected straight from your cat's litter box.
 Before your cat's appointment you should try to limit your cat's urination so that it has a full bladder. This will allow the veterinary office to easily collect a sample. In order to limit your cat's urination, you may need to keep the cat contained in a bathroom for an hour or two without a litter box. Also, if your cat is an outside cat, you should keep it indoors for a few hours before the appointment.If limiting your cat's urination is not possible, then you may need to collect its urine yourself. This requires that you use special litter box crystals that are non-absorbing, so that the sample remains pure. Once the cat uses the litter box, collect the urine in a clean plastic or glass container.
If at all possible, schedule the appointment for the early morning so that you do not have to keep your cat contained for long.

