 There can be several factors that will determine how long each interview will take. Once you have a complete estimate of time, you can determine how much time off to request. Factors include the following:


Drive time. Add up drive time to and from the interview and your home or office. Include time for traffic and/or detours.
Type of interview. You can ask your contact what the interview will entail and the approximation of time. Knowing the approximate time it will take to interview will allow you to plan better and reduce the feeling of being rushed.
Change of clothes. If you need to change out of interview clothes back into your regular work attire, this time needs to be accounted for. Also, determine where you will be making the change (your car, home, or fast-food restaurant bathroom) to help with a timeframe.;
, Once you have determined how much time must be safely taken out of your work day, determine if you can complete this interview during a regularly scheduled work day. Take the following for example:


Early in the day. You can choose to take time off at the beginning of your scheduled work time. This may be a good time for you because it does not interrupt your day, and you can choose to work later than usual to complete unfinished work.
Lunchtime. If your interview and drive time is short, say within an hour and a half, you can choose to interview during your lunch hour and eat your lunch in the car. If your work culture allows occasionally longer lunches, you do not have to give an excuse. If you must return to work within the given timeframe, it is best to ask for a longer lunch to take care of a personal matter.
Toward the end of the day. Leaving early can be a good option because you can try to finish up your work before you are scheduled to leave. You can then focus on the interview. This also eliminates the worry of how long the interview process will take.
 It may be best for you to take an entire day off when scheduling an interview. This can be done by taking a vacation day, sick day, personal day, or general PTO. Choosing to take off an entire day can be determined by assessing several factors:


How many interviews you schedule in one day. You can choose to schedule multiple interviews in one day to eliminate the need for constant time off requests. Taking a day off this way may reduce any suspicion as well.
How long you estimate the interviewing process will take. As stated above, it is important to estimate the time you will need to take off. If it is more than a half of a work day, it may be best to just request a full day off.
Suspicion level at your job when others take time off during the day. Every workplace is different. If you feel that you may raise unwanted suspicion because you requested a few hours off, it may be best just to schedule a whole day off.
 You know your job best. Think about the slow times versus busy times, and choose a day to take some time off when you are missed the least.


For example, if Monday afternoon is your busiest time of the week, do not choose to interview on a Monday afternoon. On the contrary, if Thursday mornings are very slow, you may be able to schedule something at that time.
It may even be best for you to take time out of your Friday afternoon and get a jump on your weekend plans.
 After evaluating your options listed above, determine your comfort level:


Will a half of work day be best to take off?
If so, what day and time are you more comfortable leaving?
Should you take an entire day off instead?

