 The first step in eliminating fleas in your dog’s kennel is to purchase a yard and kennel spray to kill fleas on contact. Look for an all-natural, non-toxic spray to kill fleas without exposing your pet to harmful chemicals. To purchase, look in pet stores, department stores, hardware stores, or online., Connect your garden hose to the treatment sprayer and turn the hose on. Turn the product nozzle to the “on” position. Spray the entire surface of the kennel evenly and leave it to dry thoroughly, overnight.Keep your dog out of the kennel until you are reasonably certain that it is flea-free (i.e. after a second treatment has been applied).
As a precaution, use a protective mask and gloves while spraying the treatment.
 To be safe, use the yard and kennel flea spray to treat the rest of the yard as well as the kennel. Remove chairs, toys, or any other items set up in the yard. Rake away leaves, twigs, and other debris, and mow the lawn. Spray the treatment evenly over the grass., A day after the product has been applied, use a garden hose to flood your dog’s kennel to remove eggs that fleas have already laid – eggs and larvae will not survive being flooded with water. Make sure to soak every corner of the kennel, as well as the ground around the kennel. If necessary, use a fan to ensure that the kennel dries thoroughly., To ensure that the treatment is effective, use it again after 2-3 weeks. Spray the kennel and surrounding grass with the yard and kennel flea spray. Focus on shady, cool, and damp areas of the yard where fleas would thrive.Once the treatment is repeated a second time and the kennel is dry, let your dog back in to it. If your dog has fleas itself, wait until its treatment is completed.
 Nematodes are microscopic worms found in dirt that seek out insects (like fleas), infiltrate them and release a toxin into them which kills them. Nematodes can be applied to your yard by means of a spray and do not harm humans, animals, or plants. The treatment will work quickly and last several months.Purchase beneficial nematodes from a local garden center or online.

