 In this setting you are likely to have a handful of regulars you will personally get to know. The atmosphere is a "home away from home."Operating hours for these bars tend to be earlier than others, opening in the early morning and closing slightly earlier at night than others.
These bars typically start with beers and wines on their serving lists first. Pay attention to this for licensing purposes. If demand for hard liquor is present, then getting the proper license to carry them should be pursued.
Light food fare can be served at these locations such as sandwiches and/or appetizers, but full dinners are not frequently on the menu. This will mean avoiding the need for a costly full restaurant license.
Some light gaming equipment is a good idea to have on the premises of such bars. Jukeboxes, pool tables, dart boards, arcade video games, and the like are good entertainment ideas.
Typical neighborhood bars cost between $50,000 and $100,000 to start.;
, These are similar to neighborhood bars, but tend to offer a bit more substantial food fare. The biggest difference is with entertainment as visual and audio options are significantly more important in sports bars.Investment in numerous televisions with cable and/or satellite channel packages will be a significant change for sports bars over other types.
Maintaining the latest audio/visual technology can sometimes take a large portion of the bar's revenue.
Food options tend to include burgers, chicken wings, ribs, pizza, grilled items, and appetizers.
Extra gaming equipment isn't as important with sporting events being the main attraction. However, having some video games at the table, pool tables, or arcade games can be a nice addition.
Thoroughly research the local sports team(s). You'll want plenty of authorized logos, posters, pictures, and other gear of theirs around your establishment. You might even consider contacting the team directly to see if joint-promotions are a possibility.
The average sports bar can cost $10,000 to $50,000 to start.
 These are essentially "beer only" operations that tend to have lower costs due to easier licensing and simpler stocking conditions.Brew pubs create their own beer on their premises and sell it on tap. Other beer options may be offered in bottled form. There is the added cost of brewing equipment in this case.
Beer bars sell a wide variety of beers on tap or bottled. This can include microbrews. However, since beer is typically consumed more often than other liquors, it is often easier to turn a profit especially with the lower licensing costs as you are not stocking hard liquors.
Beer bars can cost as little as $20,000 to $100,000 to start depending on location. However, brew pubs can cost $100,000 to over $1 million to start due to the brewing equipment.
 These have a wide variety of types to choose from, but the bar you create must be narrow in focus once you build it. Still, there must also be flexibility within the theme you pick.Some specialty bars focus on a particular drink such as the martini. However, there are many versions of the martini that your bar would need to produce including the traditional version with vodka and gin or the sour apple variety.
Specialty bars can be focused on wine. In cases such as wine bars, you will need to produce a wide selection of variety and vintage for patrons to enjoy.
Bars like these can focus on other consumables like cigars. You will need to produce a wide variety of types and allow customers to learn about their qualities.
Specialty bars tend to be smaller in size. Clientele will be more intimate and exclusive. Startup costs for these bars will vary greatly depending on your product choice.
 There are several types of clubs you could consider including small cocktail lounges, mid-sized clubs that double as neighborhood bars by day, and large dance clubs that attract celebrity guests.Cocktail lounges tend to have small musical entertainment such as a piano or jukebox.
Mid-sized clubs, especially ones that are regular bars by day, often have area bands or other popular talents invited in by night.
Large dance clubs need larger populations to be successful--perhaps a city of 500,000 people or more if you plan on attracting a major celebrity guest star.
 The regulations for getting the proper license to carry and serve alcohol for your bar can vary widely from location to location. These frequently have different rules by state, city, and county. There are also differences for the types of alcohol and if you are serving food.Get in touch with your local or state Alcohol Beverage Control (ABC) office.
Ask the office what you will need licenses for including if you are selling beer, wine, and hard liquor. They may also be able to help with licensing if you are selling food.
You may need to take a state approved course on food safety if you sell more than just sandwiches and appetizers.
Often there are limited numbers of liquor licenses produced for a locality for the purposes of control. So you may have to buy your license from another citizen at least in the case of hard liquor. Some localities may require the license for any form of alcohol sale.
Usually there is a mandatory waiting period for you to receive the license. This can be several weeks.
 This is a substantial task in the business process. You may even consider hiring a business manager or accountant to assist you. You will need to figure out how much money you will need from a business loan or investment to begin your business. This way you can also know how much money you need to take in from patrons to turn a profit.Include costs for basic equipment such as: drinking glasses, sinks, storage racks, drink taps, beer and soft drink dispensing systems, coolers, freezers, ice bins, ice machines, ice picks, ice scoops, dishwashers, cabinets, and display cases/shelves.
If you are serving even light food fare you need to include costs for kitchen equipment for snack preparation, sandwich making, coffee making, etc...
Figure out how much you are paying for the building. You may be buying an existing bar or renting a location. Include costs of utilities (phone, electricity, heating, air conditioning, plumbing), maintenance, security systems, signage, and safety devices like smoke detectors in this.
Total how much you will be spending on your initial inventory of alcohol and food.
Figure out how much you will be paying your staff including bartenders, wait staff, managers, and any guest entertainers.
Factor in costs for marketing, accounting assistance, retaining legal services, and insurance.
Take ten percent of the total you have so far, then add that on as the cost for miscellaneous items you can't predict.
 You want to keep an eye on where alcohol, food, and money go in your bar. So build in a system from the start-up phase that does this.Money usually first goes to the bartenders and/or servers. Though, cashiers and takeout servers may also handle money.
Create security logins and accounting redundancy for alcohol movement and money movement to protect your bar and your staff from theft.
Verbal order methods may leave your bar vulnerable to drinks being given away for free. Consider tighter order and inventory systems.
 Having employees you can trust around you is essential for a smooth operation, and happy clientele.When interviewing staff, including bartenders, have a couple of people interview applicants to get a better sense of professionalism, availability, and demeanor.
Ask questions with open-ended implications such as "What are your professional strengths and weaknesses?" or "What would you do if you saw another employee stealing?" Let the bartender, manager, or wait staff show you their abilities and limitations.
Be accurate about the hours, opportunities for advancement, and work load the potential bartender, wait staff, or manager can expect.
Note stability in the applicant. If they tend to move from job to job within a year, this may indicate they will not stay at your establishment long either. Married employees tend to stay longer as well, though you should not necessarily exclude single applicants.
Check the application for appearance and references. If there are inaccuracies or it appears sloppy, then this could indicate a lack of professionalism. This could also indicate poor attention to detail.
Test their knowledge of drink mixing if they are a bartender.
Ask about scheduling and transportation. You are going to be running a hectic business and they may need to be available on short and frequent notice. See how many hours they are will to work and how much they ask for in salary.
If they are eager to learn your business, then this is a good sign of adaptability to conditions that might change as your bar business evolves. If they seem to "know it all," then this might mean they are too stubborn to take direction from managers or other staff members.
 Basic qualities to look out for are safety, parking access, and site history problems. Beyond that, the type of bar you run will affect your choices.Location includes the physical appearance of the bar. This is very much up to you in regards to building material, size, color scheme, and so forth.
Picking the location also will dictate what your bar will contribute to the community. It can liven up a neighborhood, attract more traffic to an area, and also attract different kinds of people to an area that normally may not have come. For example, if you set up a wine bar in a location--you may attract exclusive clientele that will frequent other shops in the area.
The location itself may affect the kind of clientele that come to the bar. Setting up shop on a street surrounded by run-down buildings may deter customers from coming in groups or parties.
Always keep your budget in mind. You need to afford the building you operate out of. Ownership or rent of a structure will vary with the location be it a neighborhood tavern or major downtown dance club.
Match your location to the step regarding name choice for the bar to create a complete concept. You wouldn't set up a martini bar in a former neighborhood bar and call it "The Winery" for example. But if you're in a alley and called "The Alley," this is more on the right track.
Consider how "on the way" your location is. The harder your place is to reach, the more marketing you will need to do in order to attract customers. This is not to say prime locations can take it easy on marketing. However, locations not easily reached from main streets or work routes will need to make that extra effort.
 Naming your bar is up to you, but keep in mind this is the most important element to advertising your business to customers.Consider what customers the bar's name will attract.
What would a stranger expect upon hearing the bar's name? If you name the bar after the street corner of your location, make sure it's that location and not the wrong street. Don't name a bar "5th Avenue" when it's physically located on 6th avenue.
What name fits the concept you intend for the bar? If you're making a high energy dance club, you don't want to just name the place after yourself or like a sports bar. Conversely, if this is going to be an exciting all-inclusive sports bar, you don't want to pattern the name after exclusive wine tasting clubs.
 Direct advertising, websites, and word-of-mouth are key to getting patronage early on.Ideally, customers that first try your bar out of curiosity will spread the word if you've done a good job. This is the best, and cheapest way to advertise your bar and attract more patron.
You can help yourself out by putting up a website and paying for some advertising on other websites.
Have yourself and your staff participate in charitable and community events as representatives of your bar.
For example, if there is a local blood drive, you can have your bar sponsor some of the snacks to the donors as they finish. Or if there is a local community market--you can work with the other members of your local chamber of commerce to sponsor games, host tables with flyers about parties at your establishment, offer samples or coupons if you have permits to do so.
 These can vary from community activities to major guest stars at your bar. You want to put your bar's name out, and attract customers for a long time.Consider the schedule of when your bar is busy and when it's not. Bars normally are busiest on Friday and Saturday nights. Sometimes Thursday nights are busy. If you want to boost business during the weekdays, you'll need to adjust your marketing accordingly.
Start advertising the event a month or two in advance. This will give patrons and yourself plenty of time to prepare.
Budget for guest stars, extra staff, extra supplies, prizes, contests.
Don't set an end date or time in case you want to cut a bad promotion early or extend a good one to run longer.
For example--you might have a local band scheduled for three nights, but they play so badly you need to cancel them after one night. Conversely, you could have a promotion for a video game contest at your sports bar that is bringing in lots of friends of the competitors that you might want to run an extra week.
 Even if you are more interested in owning than operating your bar, you need to make time to get to know your patrons. If you are too opposed to making contact with your customers, this may not be a good business for you.At least go around and say "hello" to your customers if it's a busy night.
Ask customers how they are doing personally, especially if it's a small gathering (such as in the specialty bar). You can take the time to get to know them a little.
In neighborhood bar situations, you can expect regulars that you will get to know fairly well over time. Embrace this quality.
In sports bars, get comfortable with the local teams and fans. Learn their tendencies, chants, and traditions. Incorporate them into your bar's atmosphere.
 During promotions, sporting events, dances, and the like... never completely "turn off" the music or atmosphere.You can reduce the volume or tone things down to speak or during some special activity, but you want to keep you energy constantly going.
Save big prizes or announcements for after midnight or later so customers stay in-house longer.
 You can do this in person or with surveys. Find out what your customers think of promotions, guest stars, food, drinks, service, etc...This can also be done online.
Find out what guest acts, celebrities, and bands were a hit with customers and which ones were boring and shouldn't be invited back.
Get feedback on your alcohol and food. You want to know how your liquor stock is holding up against demand and trends. For example--are specialty cocktails doing better than classics? Do your customers prefer more wine than beer? You can change how you buy accordingly.
Pay attention to feedback on service too. If you have comments saying your service is too slow, whether or not you're having a busy night, you may need to address issues with your staff.
If feedback on your promotions is positive, you can mix and match the ones that are successful later on--maybe even make some of them periodic traditions such as an annual Fourth of July grill contest. If the promotions are not such a hit, you can modify or replace them.
 Whatever issues come up as negative in feedback, you observe yourself, or are reported by others in your staff--deal with them swiftly. Besides poor financing, failure to understand the bar business is among the top reasons bars fail.Keep backup records for inventory of your alcohol and food supplies so you have something to check against for theft or mismanagement.
If you've hired an outside accountant, then be sure both you and they have matching records for money transactions your bar has been making especially during the startup phase.
While no one expects to hire thieves--if you suspect this is going on among your staff, confront it immediately once you have evidence.

