 You’re going to want to put each door back in the same spot, so plan ahead to avoid confusion. Stick a strip of painter’s tape or something similar over each one. Label or number each door so you know which one goes where. For example:Write where each one goes, like “Left Door Under Sink” or “Right Door Over Range Hood.”
Number top and bottom cabinets from left to right, like “Top Cabinet #1,” “TC #2,” and so on.;
, Lay a dropcloth over your counters and/or floors. Make clean-up easier by catching any sawdust or other debris that falls when you remove the hinges. Also protect them against damage in the event that a door slips from your grasp as you remove them., Expect most cabinet hinges to be attached to the inside of the door. This means you will have to unscrew it with the door opened, so ask a partner to help you so they can hold it steady. Use a screwdriver or power drill to remove the hinge’s screws from each door. However:


More modern hinges may have a release latch that separates the hinge into two parts. This means that, once released, you can remove the door from the cabinet and then unscrew its hinge attachment., Use your screwdriver or power drill to remove the hinge from the cabinets. Do the same with the doors if your hinges have release latches and break down into two pieces. As you remove each one:


Take note if all of your hinges are all the same. If not, group each type separately as you remove them and add notes to your doors’ labels about which door had which type.
 Choose a pot or pan large enough to fit your hinges, and that you don’t mind sacrificing if your hinges are particularly old and nasty. Add enough water to cover them. Also add a tablespoon (or more if you think they need it) of dish soap as it fills.Alternatively, you could use a slow cooker if you have other things to do, but again, the inside might get a little foul if your hinges are coated in grime.For especially dirty hinges, also add a tablespoon of white distilled vinegar and a tablespoon of baking soda to the mix.
 Place the pot or pan on the stovetop. Turn the burner to high. Once the water comes to a boil, turn the heat to low. Simmer for at least ten minutes.If using a slow-cooker, set it to “low” and leave for six hours., After the hinges have soaked long enough for the grime to loosen, drain the pot empty. Keep in mind that they’ll be pretty hot to the touch, so either give them a chance to cool or wear safety gloves to take them out. Then brush each one vigorously with a fresh toothbrush to clean off the lingering residue., As you clean each hinge, rinse off the grimy/soapy water with clean warm water. Inspect each in case it needs another soak and scrub. If so, repeat the process. Otherwise, towel each one dry as much as possible, then set them out on a fresh towel or drying rack to air-dry before reinstalling., Apply spray lubricant to the top and bottom of the hinge. Then open and close the cabinet door a few times so the lubricant can work into the hinge while its parts are in motion. Repeat if the squeak doesn’t disappear entirely after the first application., Keep in mind that repeatedly opening and closing cabinet doors will loosen the hinges’ screws over time. Expect this to cause damage to your cabinets due to the door’s weight pulling at the loose screws. Retighten the screws periodically to keep them firmly in place without gouging larger holes in the woodwork., Prevent the need for frequent deep-cleaning by wiping up messes as soon as they occur. Wipe down the inside and outside components whenever they are dirtied by cooking, spills, or other means. Do the same as part of your routine kitchen-cleaning to prevent buildup of gunk.How often you’ll need to deep-clean your hinges will vary depending on how often you spot-clean them and how active your kitchen is.
 Expect hinges to wear out and become less effective if you abuse them. Don’t slam doors shut or whip them open, since this places undue stress on the hinges. Avoid forcing doors to open wider than the hinges allow. Also avoid leaning, pulling, or otherwise placing undue weight on them., With proper care and maintenance, hinges should last a pretty long time. However, if the doors don’t function correctly despite deep-cleaning, consider replacing them. This may be necessary when:Doors do not open or close smoothly.
Two doors interfere with each other when opening and closing.
Hinges appear warped or otherwise damaged.

