 A negative attitude towards math can hurt your ability to perform well.So, it is important to be optimistic about math and your abilities. Just because you performed poorly in the past does not mean you can’t improve in the future and be successful.
 Math ability is not a talent you are born with. Math skills are something you have to learn and practice to do well. It is natural to make mistakes, and in fact, mistakes help us learn and do better. If you avoid math work because you are afraid of looking stupid and making mistakes, you will likely not fulfill your potential., Math practice can be boring, so make it fun by practicing while playing games. Just make sure you are also completing your regular classwork.

Take advantage of math games, programs, and apps you use at school, such as iReady, IXL, or STMath. When your teacher gives you time to use the computer to practice math, make sure you stay on task. 

You can use free computer time to go on math game websites. Some popular ones include Cool Mathand Math Playground.Play games that relate to the current topics you are learning in math. Your teacher may be able to pick out appropriate games for you to play.  

According to one study, the majority of men pursuing a career in STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) became interested in the subject through games and toys they played when they were younger. , Learning is always more fun with friends, as long as you stay on task. Study partners can also help you with missed work from absences, as well as preparing for tests.Study groups can help you improve in a number of ways. You can share notes and learn from each other, since some members of the group may be better at certain skills than others.Pick a weekly day and time for studying with your study group. Study in a comfortable place, like someone’s house or a library. Make sure, though, that you don’t study in a place with a lot of distractions.

To make sure your study sessions are effective, have goals for each session, and come prepared with your notes, work, and textbooks.