 It might be easier to push your emotions away or pretend they don’t exist. You may even think of yourself as strong for not engaging with your emotions. However, it’s important to feel what you need to feel regarding your trauma. Your feelings are valid, so let yourself express them.For example, if something makes you feel angry, express that anger. If you become overwhelmed with sadness, don’t be afraid to cry.
You might wish to talk about your feelings with a friend or therapist or write them down in a journal. Do what helps you express your emotions.;
, Many survivors of trauma find it therapeutic to tell their stories and repeat them. Talking about the trauma can help express the pain and help to restore power back to you. It can also help you remove the awful feelings attached to the event. This might mean talking about it in a support group or therapist’s office, or with friends and family.While many people find it helpful to talk, you might want to express your feelings through writing, singing, or dancing.
 Some people turn toward religion or spirituality as a way to heal and work through trauma. Your beliefs may help you navigate the meaning and purpose of your negative experiences or help you connect with something outside of yourself. You may take refuge and comfort in your beliefs of a greater plan or higher power.Being a part of a spiritual community may help you gather with other like-minded individuals ready to help you and support you.
Join a spiritual community or participate in spiritual practices on your own. Start by meditating or by reading sacred texts.
 Don’t let your entire life revolve around your trauma. Constantly thinking about the trauma can be draining and remove you from the rest of life. Part of healing is having things and experiences in your life that don’t involve the trauma. Enjoy some social activities like getting together with friends, going bowling, or attending concerts. Try to experience some “normal” time.If you’re invited to spend time with friends, do your best to go, even if you don’t feel like it.
Spending time doing “normal” things can help you feel like you’re moving toward a more normal life once again.
 Self-medicating with drugs and alcohol may feel good in the moment, but it won’t make the trauma go away or help you on your healing process. Using drugs and alcohol tends to mask your problems momentarily, but can lead to addiction and other mental or emotional problems. Cope with your feelings in a healthy way and don’t turn to addictive substances for a quick fix.If you think you might have an addiction, get treatment and do activities that don’t revolve around addictive substances.

