 Look for or take pictures of similar hairstyles you like and are considering. You can find them on social media, in magazines, or by searching the Internet. Ask friends, family, coworkers, or even people you see in passing if you can photograph their hairstyles. This allows you to put together a portfolio of the styles you like or want as a reference point for your stylist., Go through the images you’ve collected and take notes on each style. Having these notes can remind you what you want in case you forgot what draws you to the style. It also gives your stylist some insight into what elements you want from your desired cut.Write full sentences or keywords to guide you. For example, “I really like the long layers on this person,” or, “Shorter around the face.” Keywords such as “layering,” “bangs,” and “undercut” are also useful.
 Stick with your stylist or build a relationship with a new one before getting your hair cut. This gives the stylist a chance to talk to you, touch your hair, and figure out what the best cut is for your hair type and face. It can also put your mind at ease before, during, and after the cut., See your stylist for a consultation if you want a major change, such as you are going from waist-length hair to a pixie or you want a tapered cut instead of your usual high and tight. This can ensure that your hairstylist has time to think about the style for you. It also keeps you from making rash decisions you may regret after the cut., Let the stylist know things about yourself such as if you want a wash and go style or usually end up pulling your hair up in a ponytail. Tell them if you are more hip and what your work environment is or if you are very physically active. Talking about your lifestyle and hair routine can help the stylist figure out the ways to give you the cut you want while working with your individual needs., Take your images and notes to your appointment or consultation. Show them to your stylist and tell them exactly what you like about each. Having your notes on hand can remind you if you get too nervous. This can be a great starting point for your stylist to give you the cut you want and what works with your hair texture and facial structure., Be as precise as you can when describing your desired cut. For example, “I really like the swoop to the left side of this person’s face. I am really active and need to pull it back so I’d like my swoop to be longer, around my cheekbone.” This can ensure your stylist understands exactly what you like and is able to incorporate these features into your cut., Show specific measurements when discussing length and how much you want cut off. For example, “I want about an inch cut off my hair. This is an inch for me and the amount that I’d like trimmed.” Talking to your stylist in descriptive and concrete terms can ensure that you’re both on the same page about your cut. It can also minimize post-cut shock or disappointment., Some hairstyles may not work with your hair type or lifestyle. Allow your stylist to make suggestions about how best to achieve the cut you want or something similar to it. This can ensure you get the style you like and that it works with your hair and lifestyle., Before the stylist begins cutting, ask them to summarize what you discussed for your cut. Let them know if something doesn’t sound right or if you have a specific question. For example, “I thought we said directly on my collarbone and not above it. Your hand is above my collarbone.,” or, “Where will this meet my sideburns?”, It can be tempting to sit in a stylist’s chair and relax, but it may lead to feeling uncomfortable when you see the final product. Ask the stylist to position you so that you can see how they’re cutting and styling your hair. This can ensure that you still get the cut you want without being upset or disappointed at the final product., If you feel uncomfortable, have a question, or don’t like something, kindly but firmly let the stylist know as soon as possible. Keep in mind that it’s your hair and money and you should get what you want in terms of the feeling and style. This can ensure that the stylist has enough time to change gears if there is something you don’t like.End the appointment if the stylist reacts badly or you feel very uncomfortable.

