 As your trainee progresses in their training, allow them to take the lead on certain tasks and projects. Start by having them take care of the daily routine without your help. Then, when you feel comfortable with their ability to handle the day-to-day, allow them to take lead on a particular project or project component.


There is no set time frame for when any one trainee should be taking lead on anything. Look at what your training schedule will allow. If you have a few weeks to work with your trainee, you may want to focus the last week on getting them independent. If you only have a few days, this may need to happen faster.
Allowing them to take lead should mean that you are removing yourself from the process. Offer to assist your trainee if they want or need it, but otherwise leave it to them to perform the job functions.
 As you transition your position to your trainee, introduce them to other people who may be of help in completing their job. Look at those coworkers with whom you have worked in your position, and introduce your employee, explaining how, specifically, they may work with this person in the future.


Make sure your trainee has the phone numbers, email addresses and any other contact information they may need to get in touch with these new contacts on their own.
If possible, try to arrange coffee or lunch so that your trainee can really get to know the person and their job functions, rather than just stopping by their desk.
 At some point before your trainee is completely on their own, you should schedule to stop performing your current job functions. If you are able, you may want to turn your attention toward your new position. Let your trainee take over the position while you still have training time with them so you are there in case they need help.


Let your trainee know well in advance when you plan to have them fully assume the position. Explain to them, “I will be there if you need help or if something comes up that we haven’t covered yet, but otherwise you are going to be taking on the job completely.”
Let your supervisor know in advance, as well, and have them communicate with trainee first starting that day.
 At the end of the training period, do a final performance review with the trainee. This should primarily address their strength and growth, and place secondary emphasis on where they need to improve.Ask your supervisor if they would like to sit in on this process to offer their praise and constructive criticism, as well.
If you do talk to your trainee about areas where they may need to improve, do so through constructive criticism. Let them know that they are on the right track, and give them specific points of improvement on which to focus.
Talk to your trainee about where they can seek additional training if they feel there is any area they want to strengthen. Provide them with names and contact information of resources both internal and external to your company.
 Once the training period has ended, stop performing your old job duties. If you are able, allow your trainee to come to you with questions as they assume the position. Do not, however, have others within your organization demand you perform functions that should be done by your trainee.If you move to a different position in your current organization, talk to your new supervisor and let them know that you are being asked to perform tasks from your old position. See if they can speak with your old manager about transitioning responsibilities to your trainee.
If you are leaving your organization, you are likely under no obligation to continue performing work them. Simply let your former employer know that while you appreciated your time with their company, you are not in a place to complete those job functions anymore.

