 The height of your cone will be determined by the radius of your circle. The larger the radius, the taller the cone. You can print the template in the document above, and trace the shape onto the paper you want to use. If you choose to make your own disc, do your best to make the shape as round as possible.


Improper measurements will have a big effect on your cone's result. It's a good idea to put extra effort into making the circle as round as possible.
For your disk shape, you can also use a compass, or trace a round object, such as a lid or container.
 Use the template to cut out two sides from the circle to make your wedge. To draw your own wedge, make a mark in the center of the disc. Draw out two straight lines from the center point to make a wedge with your ruler. If the lines are closer together it will make a smaller wedge which will result in a cone with a broad bottom.


Use a compass protractor to pinpoint the centre of your disc if you're unsure where to place your dot. If you're using a protractor tool to outline the disc to begin with, it can save you time to make the centre dot before you trace the disc around it.
You can also draw your own triangle wedge using a ruler and pencil.
 To make a cone with a small bottom, cut out a larger triangle wedge. Use scissors or a precision knife to cut out your wedge as straight as possible. If you run into any cutting mishaps, you will probably need to start over again., For your cone shape, bring one cut end of your disc over to the other in a cone shape. Hold it together and make sure the lower ridge of both sides overlap evenly. With this, your disc should have the desired cone shape you're looking for.


Unfurl the paper and try again if the sides don't meet properly at first.
Don't make firm creases in your paper. Your cone should be rounded.
 Once you tape the two sides side by side so that the paper makes a cone. Tape the inside of the cone by bridging the two sides so that they slightly overlap and bridging the overlap with tape. With that done, your cone should be ready to go.

One straight piece of tape will give your cone the best stability. Multiple pieces of tape inside will make a mess. It is helpful to have one hand applying the tape while the other holds the shape of the cone.

