 Get out 2 1/2 cups (315 g) of pecans and toast them in the oven or in a pan on the stove. Remove the toasted nuts and let them cool completely. Chop the nuts and place them into a large mixing bowl. You'll also need to crush 8 whole graham crackers so you end up with 1 cup (85 g) of crumbs. Put the crumbs in the bowl with the nuts.You can crush the graham crackers in a plastic bag by smashing them with a rolling pin. Or just put them in a food processor and pulse them until they're crumbled.;
, Stir together the chopped pecans, graham cracker crumbs, 1 cup (200 g) of packed dark brown sugar, and ½ teaspoon of salt. Stir the mixture until it's completely combined.Although you could use granulated sugar instead of the brown sugar, the brown sugar will give the classic molasses flavor that you get in pecan pie.
 Stir in 2 tablespoons of maple syrup, ¼ cup (60 ml) of bourbon, and 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Ensure that all of the dry ingredients are moistened so the truffle mixture will hold its shape.The bourbon is optional. If you choose to leave it out, you may need to add a little extra maple syrup to help the mixture bind together.
 Use a small cookie scoop or two teaspoons to scoop the truffle mixture into walnut-sized portions. Use the palms of your hands to roll each portion into a ball. Set the truffle balls on a baking sheet and put it in the freezer. Chill the truffles for two hours so they harden.You may need to dip your hands in water occasionally to keep the truffles from sticking to your palms as you roll them.
 Melt 7 ounces (200 g) of chopped dark chocolate. You can melt it in a double boiler on the stove or in the microwave. Set the bowl of melted chocolate on your work space and remove the chilled truffles from the freezer. Set a truffle on a fork and lower the fork into the chocolate. Lift up and let the chocolate drip through the fork. Place each dipped truffle on a baking sheet and chill them for 15 minutes.Consider lining the baking sheet with parchment paper so it's easier to remove the dipped truffles once they're firm.

