 The eyes or buds on the top of each tuber should be covered with no more than 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5.1 cm) of soil. Planting peonies before the frost date gives them time to get established and often allows them to bloom sooner than they would under other circumstances.


However, even these peonies may not bloom in their first season and specimens that have been grown from seed may take up to five years to flower.
 Gardeners need to be careful not to plant peony roots too deeply or these plants may produce foliage and no flowers. Specimens that are heavily mulched may also suffer from this problem. In the spring, you should clear away mulch and make sure the root’s eyes are buried no more than two inches deep in the soil. Otherwise, you may end up having to dig up the plants to place them at the correct depth.
 Water the peony tubers generously every 10 to 14 days until the ground freezes. Deep but infrequent watering will encourage the peonies to grow deep roots, making them more tolerant of drought conditions.


When the ground freezes, spread a 2- to 3-inch layer of organic mulch over the peony tubers. Pull the mulch back away from the peonies when the first new stems begin to emerge in the spring.
Begin watering them again, if they are not getting enough water from spring rain, and continue to water them every 10 to 14 days throughout the growing season.
In the fall, when the foliage has begun to die down after the first hard frost, remove the foliage and stems and water the peonies less often.
 Peonies do not need high amounts of fertilizer but a little low-nitrogen fertilizer will give them a boost to help them bloom. Use fertilizer with a 5-10-10 or 5-10-5 ratio


A common application rate is 1 to 1 ½ pounds per 50 square feet, but this can vary. Follow the application rate recommended by the fertilizer manufacturer. Sprinkle the fertilizer over the soil 6 to 18 inches (15.2 to 45.7 cm) away from the peony stems. Do not let the fertilizer touch the stems.
Work the fertilizer into the top few inches of soil gently with a hand rake. Water the peonies generously after applying the fertilizer to help wash it down to the roots.
 During July and August, gardeners should avoid trimming their peonies if they want flowers because doing so will weaken the plant and reduce the number of blooms. Sometimes the plants will not flower at all under such circumstances.


However, gardeners may want to consider trimming their plants to ground level during the autumn months to prevent any illnesses from taking hold while the peonies are dormant.
 Clusters of peonies that have been growing for over five years may need to be divided if they suddenly stop blooming. Peonies that are being crowded by other plants may stop flowering because they are having to compete for nutrients and may not have enough. Dividing will help rejuvenate the plants.


However, recently divided plants may fail to bloom for a while after they are divided.

