 Are you a recent conservatory graduate seeking to pursue music professionally? You probably have favorite brands and features, so focus on the preferences you have. Are you simply looking for an instrument for your elementary-age children to practice on? You will probably have more flexibility, but will still want to focus on quality and durability. Buying a piano is a commitment, and no matter who you are, the instrument you purchase should be in good condition and in tune.


Think about if you’re settled in your current dwelling. It’s best to buy a piano if you don’t plan to move for a while, since they’re tricky to transport.;
, Buying a used piano is usually cheaper than buying a new one, but it’s still more expensive than a harmonica. Furthermore, there are hidden costs in acquiring a piano that need to be considered.


Expect to spend a minimum of $2000 on a well-made used piano.How will you get the piano home? You probably can’t strap it to the roof of your car, and most movers don’t specialize in transporting pianos. Your best bet is to book a trained piano mover, which can cost as much as a few hundred dollars.Consider the other professional help you’ll need. In some cases, you may seek the input of a Registered Piano Technician (RPT) before you buy, and in others, you may need to make an appointment with a piano tuner to get the instrument in ideal condition before you play it.
 You probably already know if you’re looking for a grand or a modest upright piano, but use a measuring tape and make sure you have plenty of space for it. While you’re at it, measure your doorways and stairwells (if applicable). It’s no use finding a perfect piano if you can’t get it into your home.


An average upright piano is 60 inches long, 44 inches tall, and 24 to 30 inches deep.A baby grand is around 5 feet in width and depth.Remember to leave extra room for your preferred seating.
 You might already have a good handle on which piano brands you like and don’t like. A brand’s quality can vary a bit from model to model, but a well-known brand’s name on the piano is generally an encouraging sign.


You can generally rely on Yamaha, Kawaii, and Pearl River for solid budget pianos.If you want to get really fancy, look into Steinway & Sons or Bösendorfer pianos.