 As you continue to work in copywriting, add to your portfolio. If you did a particular ad or blog post that went over well, add that to your portfolio. Always look for opportunities to diversify. If you don't have a lot of ads in your portfolio, apply for jobs writing ads. The bigger and more diverse a copywriting portfolio, the better chance you have of landing jobs.
 Networking is one of the best ways to find a job in any field. Copywriting is no different. Stay in touch with contacts from past jobs and freelancing experiences. This may be somewhat easier if a lot of your work is freelance or remote, as you can stay in touch via social media. Add past clients on Facebook and Twitter. E-mail them on occasion. If you ever need a reference or a job lead, you should have a variety of contacts on call.
 Much of modern copywriting is electronic. People in search of potential copywriters may browse LinkedIn for leads. If you do not already have a LinkedIn account, create one. Keep it updated regularly as you gain more experience.


Showcase your work on LinkedIn. In the publications section, link to any articles, web copy, or other content you have worked on. Double check with clients before doing so, however, to make sure it's okay to take credit.
Have "copywriter" written somewhere in your general description. This way, you'll more easily come up when recruiters are searching for copywriters.
List your past jobs, including part time or freelance work. Ask post clients to endorse you for skills or to leave reviews.
Checked your LinkedIn regularly. Those interested in your services may contact you via a LinkedIn message.
 A web presence is important in copywriting. As so much of modern copywriting is digital, being on the web is vital to your success.


Create and sustain a LinkedIn profile. Do not hesitate to reach out to past contacts to ask them to endorse you for certain skills or write you a recommendation.Have a separate social media for work and personal use. Post only content relevant to your field on your professional Twitter and Facebook.As stated, it's a good idea to have a blog that you update regularly.

