 When the heart does not beat properly, it does not pump blood effectively all over the body, especially to the organs that are highly dependent on blood supply such as the brain, lungs and kidneys. Inadequate blood supply may cause these organs to become damaged in the long run and eventually shut down.According to the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention, an estimated 600,000 people die from sudden cardiac death per year and up to 50% or patients have sudden death as the first manifestation of cardiac disease., Normally, the heart fires impulses that start from the sinoatrial node. However some conditions, such as blocks in the conduction pathway, predispose the heart to fire in abnormal rates that cause irregular beats. These irregular beats may decrease blood supply to the vital organs.


This can lead to symptoms such as heart palpitations, fatigue, slow heart beats, chest pain, loss of consciousness, dizziness, lightheadedness, mental confusion, fainting, shortness of breath, and sudden death., Family history is the most significant risk factor for arrhythmia. Figure out if an immediate relative has heart disease and find out what age he was when he discovered the arrhythmia. This can make a difference — arrhythmia in an 80-year-old is most likely not genetic, but an arrhythmia in a 20-year-old is much more likely. Look for conditions such as a heart attack, angina, angioplasty, or a blocked artery. These conditions are genetic and cannot be changed.


Genetics plays the most important role in how you should manage yourself because these risk factors are ones that you cannot change. However, you can make sure you follow a healthy lifestyle that reduces any additional risk of arrhythmia over time., To keep a watch on your blood pressure, check your blood pressure often. You can get free readings from machines found at many pharmacies, grocery stores, or general stores.If you systolic blood pressure, which is the top number, is 140 or higher, you need to change your lifestyle, such as reduced sodium diet weight loss and close follow up. If you have a family history of coronary artery disease, you most likely will need medication and lifestyles changes to help reduce it., There are a few other conditions that can cause arrhythmia. Overactive and underactive thyroids can cause arrhythmia. Individuals with obstructive sleep apnea may suffer from some for of arrhythmia as well. You may also suffer an arrhythmia if you have an electrolyte imbalance in your blood.


Some of these conditions can be treated in other ways, so ask your doctor about treating the underlying condition that puts you at risk of arrhythmia., The risk factors for arrhythmia are varied and can affect each person differently. You need to be aware of how many risk factors you have. Make sure you understand your particular risk profile, which your doctor can help your to understand.


Once you understand, set personal goals specific to you personal risk factor profile so that your actions will help you the most.

