 Search online, in stores and observe others. With trial and error, you'll understand what works best. Be sure to have a full-length mirror.;
, Accentuate your highlights, such as the color of your eyes or hair, the tone of your skin and shape of your figure.
 Look over your current wardrobe. Two or three weeks worth of clothes can stretch into a couple of months, if you've taken the time to arrange your outfits.
 Visit the yard sales, thrift store, dollar store and discount stores. Can you find exactly what you want for less? Keep a list of reasonable prices in your purse.
 Visit a store the day before a sale to check out the merchandise. You'll have a little more time to think things over to make the best decision.
 Look for quality rather than quantity.


Look for $20 skirts. Mid-calf in length gives you the option to shorten the hem. Stick with subtle colors or add a little flare to your wardrobe.
Look for $25 jeans. Get black or navy blue for dress pants. Get stone-washed or distressed for casual wear. Jeans are appropriate for just about any occasion and they go well with everything.
Look for $15 tops. Avoid logos and graphics. When layering, try a print fabric for a change.
Look for $20 sweaters. Button sweaters are great for layering or wearing alone. Try red with an earth color.
Look for $25 jackets in black, brown or navy blue. They'll need to go with everything and through every season.



Look for $25 shoes and boots in classic, but casual styles. Look for black or brown with a slight or mid-level heel.
Look for $25 athletic shoes for housework and errands. Colors vary.
Look for $15 sandals. Be sure they're comfortable, yet durable. A couple pair should last through a summer season. Try a $5 pair of flip-flops.
 Look for $7 items. Wear one piece at a time.


Hoops, dangling or gold earrings accentuate an outfit.
Try bold, colorful necklaces or a charm bracelet.
Look for long scarves for your hair, neck or waistline.
Choose black or brown belts.
Choose a small purse for the essentials and a tote bag for everything else.
 Buy a hooded, hip-length coat to go well with pants or a skirt. It saves from purchasing and carrying an umbrella. Plan on spending at least $50.
 The healthier, happier and more confident you are, the less you'll need to buy. Tend to your skin, hair and nails with $5 soaps and makeup.

