 Your friend is flying through a portal at high speed when suddenly the portal he was jumping into changes into a pit of flame. Oops. This tactic involves being a "teammate" right up until your teammate is truly relying on you to contribute — especially when it involves you "holding a line" for him — and then maddeningly failing. From shooting the boomer next to your teammate in L4D to stepping off the button as your friend steps on the platforms across a pit in Lara Croft and the Guardian of Light, there are just so many ways you can pull it off.
 This does not mean you actually have to leave the game. Just set the controller down and walk away. Nothing will annoy your teammates more than dead weight that the other team can keep killing.
 When you have high latency and you're the host in multiplayer games, disconnect and start another game. You'll be sure to be hated.
 You walk out of the forest where two other people are aiming down at you. You get on your knees. You say, "Hey guys, I'm friendly." They say: "How can we be sure? Here's a gun. There's some bandits over there; go take them down and you can stay." They hand you a gun. Two shots later, four bandits are running your way and you're running off with as much food, potions, and ammo as you can carry. Plus, two neutrals are neutralized and are considering rage quitting.


Try playing a game of plasma potato in Halo: Reach. Say your team is one point away from winning. Play hot potato with a plasma grenade, knowing full well that there's a betrayal penalty (say -10). Your plasma grenade kills each team member. If you're in a team of 8 people, you just lost your team 80 points. This is trolling at its most diabolical.
This tactic really only applies to survival games. You just gain somebody's trust, and as soon as they drop their guard, they're dead. Kind of like the "teamwork" tactic, just more sadistic. Of course, just killing on sight is fine as well. Just make sure you can win it.
Don't push this tactic. If you overdo it at any time (except for the survival bit), you'll probably be kicked. Do it moderately; make sure enough people find you funny to vote no to the votekicks that come up.
 This one is so annoying because it offends our sense of justness. This strategy works nicely in Mass Effect 3, for example. In multiplayer vs Cerberus, the atlas comes down and you sit behind a wall and camp, waiting for your friends to labor away at taking its armor and health down. Swoop in at the last moment and kill it, taking the kill, the points, and the glory. That's an annoyance.
 Leeroy Jenkins is a now-famous WoW meme: unaware of his guild's intricate attack plans, Leeroy rushes the enemy and unwittingly gets everyone in his guild killed. You, too, can do the same. Especially in FPS games, this method is sure to not only lose the round for your team but also make it very annoying to be in the same game as you.
 Be the boy who cries wolf. If your teammates rush to your "aid" but find nothing to protect you against, you can say something like: "Why did you guys come here? I handled those noobs all by myself. I'm insulted you ever thought I'd need the help."

