 She may be more receptive if you involve her in the process rather than surprise her.Sit down with your daughter and ask her about how she would like her room to be.Try saying, “I know that school is a lot of hard work. I’d like to give you the gift of arranging your room so that you have a comfortable and fun place to sleep and study. Do you have any ideas on how you’d like your room arranged?”;
, Look online and in catalogs to gather ideas. Clip and save the ideas you like the most. When you go back through the ideas you saved, it will help you to decide on must-have pieces, and if you want to use a theme to build your design around.Ask your daughter: “What colors do you like the most? Would you like a theme to your room?”
Some examples of themes you can use are: beach, retro, musical, literary, or floral. Browsing theme ideas is a good way to get started, but a theme isn’t necessary. You may choose to design around one or more focal points, or you may stick to a general style or color palette to incorporate throughout the arrangement., The range of what you could spend will vary substantially based on your situation and preferences. Taking existing items from your home to rearrange your daughter’s room could cost nothing, and DIY makeovers can be very low cost. On the other hand - depending on the brand and type - new bedroom furniture sets alone can cost thousands of dollars. How much you need and how much you are willing to spend will be major factors in estimating your costs.Some examples of things you may consider purchasing: bed frame, headboard, mattress, bedding, pillows, desk, chair, night tables, accent furniture, lighting, flooring, paint, shelving, window treatments, and décor. Also consider storage bins, dressers, and office supply items for organizing school supplies.
 Create a list or spreadsheet of the items you want to purchase. Check online, in local stores and/or catalogs to determine an acceptable cost range to you for each type of item. If you plan to hire a professional remodeler for painting, flooring, or other services, shop around for quotes. Then calculate the total. Add 10 to 15 percent to your total to account for unexpected expenses.The average cost of materials for a bedroom makeover including updated painting, decorating, and lighting is $383-446 for materials. This cost does not include hired labor or furniture.Invest in important room features like furniture that will be used often, or focal points. Be more thrifty with purely cosmetic purchases and figure those in last.
 If you want a complete bedroom revamping with structural changes such as flooring, windows, doors and/or walls, use a remodeling costs calculator online. A cost calculator can consider prices in your specific location and give you a ballpark idea of expenditure.
 Take measurements of the floor space and any furniture you plan to keep in the room. Write down the room dimensions and the width and height of each piece of furniture.



Measure the walls, floor area, height, and perimeter of the room.
 Draw the dimensions in pencil on a piece of graph paper. Mark windows and outlets. Pencil in furniture lightly so you can easily erase and move them as you plan the arrangement.Before purchasing any new furniture, find out its measurements to see if it will work with your existing floorplan.
 You will probably want to look at ceiling or hanging lighting, as well as supplemental lighting like lamps and possibly a lighted mirror.Bring your room measurements when shopping so an expert can advise you on how much lighting you need to fill the space.Avoid lamp shades that are overly opaque, as they will provide dimmer light and less functional value.
 If the room is large, you can place the bed opposite from the door as a focal point. If the room is smaller, place it against the wall so that it does not obstruct the path to other zones. Avoid placing the bed under a drafty window. Other items to consider for the sleeping zone are: pillows and bedding, a headboard, and night stands with lamps.When choosing a pillow, you can test different pillows up against a wall to see how they feel. For bedding, the higher the thread count, the more soft and durable it will be.Avoid silk or velvet headboards, as they can discolor quickly.The ideal depth for night stands is 25” or less., The study zone should have a desk, a comfortable chair, good lighting, and basic school supplies. One or more letter trays are a helpful way to temporarily set paperwork aside for filing later.For small spaces, a corner desk with a chair that can be pushed underneath will work well.
 Organizing a closet will optimize the space you already have for storage. Bins and other closet organizers can make the most of a small space. Add a second clothing rack low in the closet for pants and shirts; this will double the hanging space. Make sure to allocate a place for shoes, and you may want to designate hanging space for belts, scarves and other fashion accessories.Mounting a pegboard inside the closet door creates an extra place to hang fashion accessories., Consider adding a place she can get ready for school: a vanity area with a desk, chair, lighting and mirror. Or, the desk and study area can double as a makeup vanity.Come up with other zones as space allows, geared towards your daughter’s specific tastes.For example, she may like a reading zone with a comfortable recliner, or she may prefer a bean bag chair and plush rug for sitting and talking on the phone. If she plays an instrument, create a zone for that.
 A desk should be full of drawers for storageand can be supplemented with a hutch on top for storing extra supplies.You can purchase an ottoman that doubles as a covered storage bin, and a bed with built-in storage underneath.


Keep traffic flow in mind – leave about a 3 foot path of walking room. To do this, try to have every piece offer some type of functional purpose. Keep your eye out for multi-purpose pieces, and you will begin to recognize them as you shop. There are even ironing boards that also function as a floor mirror! , Vertical shelving doesn’t use up much floor space but offers a place to display photos, trophies, and collectibles.Floating shelves are an economical and space-saving way to hold items like lightweight books, DVDs and CDs.
 If possible, work on designating, organizing and labeling bins with your daughter. Decide together where the bins should go.Devise a system for organizing school paperwork, such as a box of accordion folders., Window treatments may be drapes, blinds, or other aesthetic window coverings. Hold window treatments up to the light in the store or showroom to see how the light comes through them. Pleat the material in your hand if you can and see how it drapes.Blinds will need mounting brackets and the tools to install them. Curtains will need brackets, relevant hand tools, and a decorative hanging rod.
Remember to buy appropriate hardware to install window treatments.
 Offer to let your daughter select items with the project’s budget in mind. Involving her in these decisions will give her a sense of pride in the design, and it’s also a great way for you two to bond!For example, let her choose bed linens, window treatments, and/or upholstered furniture pieces. Have her compare the cost of each item she selects to the budget to help her understand decision-making that considers finances.
 Discuss her ideas and use this process as a way of learning to compromise with each other in a positive way. If her favorite color is hot pink, for example, use it for accents like throw pillows or picture frames, rather than more permanent items like furniture. If she disagrees, convey to her the importance of longevity when it comes to purchasing decisions.If she has her heart set on hot pink walls, for example, try offering to allow her to one accent wall in her favorite color. A single wall is easier to paint over over than an entire room.
 Your teen can express her own unique creativity by decorating boxes or making pictures for the wall. Painting one wall or part of a wall with chalkboard paint gives your teen a place to express herself with quotes, song lyrics, drawings, etc. A corkboard for pinning photos and inspiration can be dressed up with a frame painted in metallic or your daughter’s favorite color., The options for hanging décor are endless. You can hang photos, beads, unneeded CDs, plaques, paintings, and more. Use your imagination and consider your daughter’s personality and likes when selecting decoration.If you hang gauzy fabric from the ceiling around the bed, you can create the illusion of a bed canopy.You can even add strings of lights behind the draped fabric for a beautiful effect - just follow the safety instructions for the lights., A bulletin board is a great place for her to hang invitations, appointment reminders, and pictures. If you buy a board that comes with a chalkboard or dry erase board, you can leave each other messages and hang it on her door.
 Paint takes less preparation than wallpaper and tends to be less expensive; wall paper is considerably more difficult to remove. However, wallpaper can be purchased in washable styles and may be more durable. You can also opt to use paint on certain walls and wall coverings on others.If you are painting over a dark color, apply primer first. If the wall is damaged, fix imperfections with spackle and let it dry for 24 hours before painting.
 This could range from quotes to other decals. You can shop a wide variety of inspirational quotes in wall decal form online, or head to your local home improvement store and look for decal designs. These can be cheaper and less permanent than paint or wall coverings.


Check the label or the manufacturer’s website for information on maintenance and longevity of the wall decals. Most people have no wall damage or problems with removing interior wall decals., Area rugs are more practical than installing new flooring. Work with your floor plan and choose an area rug that is a minimum of 6” and no more than 2’ away from the wall.Bold patterns can make a small room look larger, and can even make the area rug the focal point of the room.
 From light switch covers to larger scale details, adding aesthetic details to the décor can make a huge difference. Blank walls can be pretty and useful if you interlock ribbons and attach them to the walls: it creates a pattern where your daughter can also put up pictures and postcards. The items she hangs there can even be changed out easily according to her changing tastes.Some inexpensive but noticeable details: large letters of initials from a craft store; decorative mirrors from a dollar store; hanging a row of slim door mirrors on a wall; mason jars mounted on the wall for storing beauty items; and old drawers repurposed as floating shelves to hang jewelry.
 The only limit to DIY décor is your imagination! Laundry line can hold clothespins with clipped photos. If you find a good deal on plain pillows, why not stamp custom designs on them? You can also make custom patterns on lamp shades with a paper design from your own printer and hole puncher. Bulk fabric can make eye-catching wall art, drawer fronts, or cover a headboard.Pinterest and online interior design blogs have a wealth of DIY décor ideas to get your brainstorming started.
 Give your daughter positive encouragement when she tidies up her own room. If you notice things accumulating, try addressing it with humor rather than reprimand. Teens tend to react better to humor than strict approaches because of the stubbornness that comes with adolescence.Try a quip like, “Were you planning on getting back into the organizing groove soon, or should I get out my galoshes?”

, Often teenagers don’t understand how to keep their room clean and organized. Show her how to achieve this by doing one manageable task at a time.For example, Tuesdays can be vacuuming day, and on Thursdays she can make sure that all of her dirty laundry is in the hamper. Consider letting her choose which day she does specific chores. If you’re met with resistance, you can then remind her, “You chose Tuesdays for vacuuming; it’s important to stick to your word.”

, Set days periodically where you sit down together and go through items that are no longer needed. This time can refresh the good feelings you two shared organizing the room together, and reinforce the importance of upkeep. Use several bins to designate what should be done with each item.For example, items in good condition that are no longer wanted can be given to charity or passed on to a younger sibling. Broken or worn out items can be trashed. Seasonal items can be moved elsewhere for storage.Try asking, “Do you really use this item, or is it just taking up space?”

