 If you have an online account or existing relationship with the institution your card comes from (such as with a bank, credit institution, or retail store), you may be able to activate the card through your account.Check the information mailed to you along with your card to see if this option is available to you.


You may also be able to activate the card on your smartphone or other device via the institution’s mobile banking app, if it has one, and if your credit card is issued by your bank. Check the information mailed to you along with your card to see if this option is listed for you.
 If your card issuer allows you to activate the card through your personal account, use a web browser to go to your account login website. Enter the information you are prompted to (username, account number, password, etc.) in order to access your account.If you are not sure of the account login website, it should be listed in the information mailed to you along with the credit card.
If you have an existing relationship with the credit card issuer, but do not yet have an online account, follow the directions provided on the website in order to create a username and password and set up your account.
Avoid visiting credit card activation websites when using unsecure internet connections, such as public wi-fi in coffee shops. It is easier for thieves to access and steal sensitive information like credit card numbers over unsecure connections.
 Follow the directions provided to you in order to activate your card once you are logged into your online account. Your identity will be verified and you will be notified when your card is activated and ready to use.If you are unsure of where to click to activate your card, look for keywords like “activate my card” or “new card.” The directions should also be provided on the materials mailed to you along with your new card.
Enter any information requested, including the card number, expiration date, etc.
If you get stuck, look for online assistance, or call your credit card issuer for help.
 Once you have completed the activation process on the website, you can remove the sticker from the front of the card. You should also sign the back of the card in the designated area. If you do not sign, merchants should ask to see identification when you attempt to use the card. Once the card is activated, it is ready to use.


Remember to destroy your old card, such as by shredding it or cutting it up.