 Your or your spouse's being negative about anything will discourage you. More importantly, the baby develops its psyche under whatever conditions it is brought up in. So be careful what you say about yourself and your baby. Reasonably happy parents make for a better-adjusted, smiling baby.


Believe that you can be a good mom, and you will be. Believe that your baby is going to be a good baby, and he or she will be, or at least you will ensure that he/she will be.;
, To worry about anything drains your energy. Worrying does not solve any problems. It makes the problems seem bigger than they really are.


If your baby gets a fever, for example, try to not worry right away that he/she will get brain damage, etc. Most fevers go away after about 24 hours. Just give your baby some medication as directed by the label, and everything will most likely be okay. Let your baby sleep as much as they want to to fight off the fever.
If your baby is crying and you can't figure out why, it may be because of gas and that they need to be burped. Usually babies cry when they are hungry, for the most part, but their needing to burp is something that is harder for moms to think of. Sometimes you will have changed your baby, fed your baby, but they are still crying and it might be driving you crazy. Don't worry, every mom has been there, at a loss and not knowing what else to do. You may just need to pat their back and hold them upright so that they can burp.

Swaddling your baby can also comfort them and help them to stop crying, if the crying continues after feeding and burping.
 Don't worry too much if you make a mistake or lightly bump your baby's head, and don't let your spouse worry too much either.



Take as much time off work as you can in this time so you won't have to worry about sleeping so many hours every night so that you are rested for work.
If you can, move to a smaller house or cheaper apartment so that your family can survive on one income until your baby is older.
 You can't do this huge new job on your own. You will feel overwhelmed if you don't have any help at all.


If at all possible, make sure you are living near supportive family members.  You will definitely need their help and advice. Also whenever you have questions, Google whatever it might be. You can find the answer to pretty much anything online.
You have to have breaks, even if it's just going to the store by yourself, baby free, once a week. Try to get your mom or mother in law to babysit once a week, so you can relax and recapture the peaceful life you had before taking on all this responsibility.
 Still have friends after your new baby comes. If you used to go to a book group or religious group, keep going. It helps a lot to have other women to talk to about being a mom.


Make sure you maintain a healthy relationship with your spouse and don't let the baby consume all of your time. It can be easy for your husband to get jealous of a new baby, but if you still do things together, that will help. Watch movies together, play games, or go shopping.
 You probably won't be able to do everything that you did before your baby arrived.


If you used to go to church every Sunday, don't stress yourself out too much if you can't make it to church on Sundays anymore. You can find alternatives during this phase of your life, such as watching online church services or going to a mid-week Bible study when a babysitter is available.
Be flexible and refrain from forcing yourself to go out when you know the baby might have a very hard time in the nursery, etc.
 Have grace with yourself. You don't have to be the perfect mom, because no one alive can be a perfect mom. We all make mistakes, but always know that is okay.


Don't blame yourself for not being perfect. Realize it would be impossible to be. Don't expect too much of yourself or anyone else.
 Don't just take care of him or her.  Play with your baby, laugh with them, and make faces and noises at them. Dress them up in tons of cute outfits. Take lots of pictures.  Learn to enjoy this time because it goes by quickly.
  Not everyone gets to be one. Remember to be incredibly thankful everyday that you have the most precious gift in the entire world. Recognize that it is a tremendous privilege to get to be a mom. You are a very lucky and very fortunate woman.

