 Your teacher should lay out the basics of what you need to do to create the project. Look at the description, and figure out exactly how many things you'll need to complete it.For example, maybe your assigned project is "Pick a specific country to make a presentation on. You will need to represent this project visually. You need to provide information on the geography, the people, the culture (including food), the language, and the government, at the very least. As a part of the project, provide a food for the class that represents the country."
For this project, you'll need to focus on these components: 1) Choose a country. 2) Research the country. 3) Figure out a visual representation. 4) Provide text for informational purposes. 5) Cook or buy food.;
, If you procrastinate, you will wind up doing the project in a hurry, and you won't be able to do your best work. You'll likely need more time than you think to put your project together.


Essentially, there is no way to do an A+ project at the last minute. If you do happen to get a good grade on a project you procrastinated on, consider it luck.
Look at how much time you have. To make yourself a timeline, look ahead to when the project is due. You need to know exactly how much time you have to divide up the time properly., On a sheet of paper or calendar, label each week that you have to do the project. Next, think about how much time you'll need to do each part.For instance, the first week could be "Doing Early Research and Deciding on a Project" and "Gathering Materials." The next week could be "Doing Research for the Project," followed by "Writing the Text for the Project." The fourth week could be "Putting Together the Visual Aspect," while the final week could be "Wrapping Up the Project and Working on Food."

, No matter what your teacher assigns you, you will likely have to decide on part of the project. That is, you'll need to narrow down the more general project to something more specific. For instance, in the example project, you need to decide what country you want to report on.If you aren't sure whether you've chosen something appropriate, feel free to ask your teacher. She will tell you if you're on the right track.
Another advantage to starting early is that if your first idea isn't quite right, you have time to try another one.
 If you can't decide what you want to do, try doing some pre-research. Basically, you pick a good website or book on the general topic.For instance, a good website for information on countries is the CIA's World Factbook.The best sites are government websites or educational websites. Look for the ".edu" extension or the ".gov" extension.If you aren't sure where to look, talk to your school librarian. She will be able to guide your research and give you some excellent sources to use.
 You need to think about the direction you want your project to go. Brainstorming is a great way to develop ideas. Brainstorming is essentially just taking some quiet time to let your creative juices flow.Try blind or free writing. Basically, you just start writing with your project in mind. Try not to judge yourself while you're writing; just let the ideas flow. After you're done, highlight any ideas that seem worth developing.You may prefer a mind map if you're a more visual person. Start with a large piece of paper. Write down words or ideas that come to mind. As you write more, you can begin to connect them with lines to show how these ideas fit together.Try figuring out your questions using a graph. You can make your own by dividing a piece of paper into four parts. Label these parts as follows: "I want to know", "I think maybe", "I already know", and "I don't know." This will help you collect your ideas.
 Before you move on, you should decide, in basic terms, how you are going to present your information. If you have been assigned a particular medium, such as a poster or a paper, always follow the teacher's requirements.


If your teacher gives you free reign, use your imagination. You can do anything from using clay to a tri-fold poster board to a pop-up book. You need to decide now so you can think about materials, and you can be thinking ahead about how you will present each piece of information.
Don't just go for the "easiest" option. If your project is a creative one, part of your grade may be based on how creative you get with your presentation of information. The simplest, easiest way may also be the quickest way to a grade other than that coveted A+.
Consider your strengths when making this choice. If you aren't very artistic, but you're very organized, a PowerPoint presentation could be a better option than a hand-drawn portrait. If you're more creative, you could take photographs to illustrate your ideas.
 You want a basic idea of how you want your project to go. Sketch out an idea of what you want your project to look like, as well as where you want your main texts to go. This sketch will also give you an idea of what you need to research., Create a list of what you're going to need for your project. For instance, you may need clay, poster board, or markers. Look around your house first to see if you have some of what you need, and then make a list of just what you need to buy or borrow.
 For a big project, it's best to have one space where everything goes. That way, you won't spend time looking for items every time you sit down to work on it. Plus, you'll know exactly what you have to work with., Put the materials you found around the house in the selected space. Go buy what else you need. If you need to, ask your parents to take you to the store.


Make a list so that you don't forget anything. You don't want to lose valuable time having to make a second trip to the store.
 Different projects require different types of sources. For instance, if you're writing about a person's life, you'll need everything from letters the person wrote to biographies on the person. For a project on a specific country, you could use encyclopedias and well-established websites, including the country's government website.It's tempting to use the first thing you find on a Google search, but this will not get you that A+ grade. Use credible, authoritative sources for your project.
For websites, it can be hard to decide whether something is credible. In general, stick with government sources, peer-reviewed research, and major news outlets such as the New York Times or the BBC.
If you aren't sure whether a source is credible, ask your teacher or your librarian.
 Of course, one of the best places to find sources is your local or school library. In addition to having many of the resources you'll need, your librarian can guide you to the types of resources that are appropriate for your project. You'll definitely be able to find books. You may also be able to find primary resources and articles through an article database.Use the catalog to find books. Your library will most likely have an online catalog. You can use a keyword to find books on your subject.To use an article database, you pick the databases that are relevant to your topic. For instance, if you want to find newspaper articles, you limit it to a newspaper database. If you want to find articles on biographies, you may want a history database., You need to first decide how many sources you need. Your teacher should give you an idea of how many you'll need to use. If she doesn't, you'll have to decide. You may use a couple for a middle school project, while for a college project, you may need as many as 20 or more.Once you've decided how many you'll need, look at your resources to decide which provide the best information for your project. You'll be able to reject some at the library, but you'll probably need to take a selection home to look at them more in-depth.
 Make sure you dedicate a notebook, binder, or folder to the project. As you read about your project, put down notes about it. Jot down important ideas. If you write word-for-word, make sure you indicate that by putting quotation marks around it.You can divide your notes how you like; however, you should have some organization. Maybe you want to organize by topic as you go, or maybe you want to keep all the notes from each source in one area and reorganize by topic later. It's up to you., Make sure you are putting the citation information down as you take notes. It needs to be clear where you found each piece of information, as you don't want to steal someone else's ideas, which is cheating.For an article, you'll need things like the author's full name and the title of the journal and the article. You'll also need the volume and issue information, as well as page numbers, both the range of the page numbers of the article in the journal and the page number you found your information on. Finally, you'll need the digital online identifier (doi), a unique number that you can usually find on the article or in the catalog.For a book, you generally need the author's full name or the editor's full name, plus the title of the book. You'll also need publication information, such as where it was published, the publisher's name, and the book's edition. Write down page number information, such as where you found that piece of information and a page range if it's an essay within an anthology. If it is an essay, you'll want to provide the author's name and the title of the essay., If you haven't already, take time to organize your notes by topic. Be sure you don't lose the citation information for each piece of information.


For example, for our example project, you might organize your notes by "people," "culture," and "cuisine" for your chosen country.
 Decide how much text you need for each section. Write your text, using your notes to provide the information. Make sure to put the writing in your own words, unless you make a direct quote with quotation marks around it and cite the author. You need to cite where you found each piece of information, anyway, as you must give credit where credit is due.Use Purdue's Online Writing Lab to learn how to cite information. Your teacher should tell you which style guideline she wants you to use.
 Read through your text to make sure you catch any mistakes. You want your project to shine, and typos make it look bad.Print out your text. It's easier to catch mistakes in print.Try reading it aloud. It forces you to slow down, which helps you catch mistakes.Ask someone else to look over it. It's easier for someone with fresh eyes to catch mistakes.
Don't forget to use spellcheck on your computer. It doesn't catch everything, but it will help you catch some mistakes., Now is the time to get your hands dirty. Since you already have a plan of what you want your project to look like, all you have to do is execute it. If you're not particularly artsy, you can use a computer to help you create your graphics and letters.


For a project such as a PowerPoint, you'll do everything on your computer. It's still a good idea to have a plan in place so that you can figure out how your slides will be organized and what each slide should look like.
 Next, you need to add your text into your visual project. You can print off your text, or write it by hand, depending on how you want to style your project. Make sure your organize your text properly; that is, make sure you are putting like ideas together., Ensure your project guides the viewer through ideas. Label sections clearly, so that your teacher knows exactly where to find each piece of information. Also, leave some white space or negative space, so that the board isn't so crowded and busy that it's hard to distinguish one topic from another., Once you think you're done, go back over your project to make sure you have included everything your teacher asked for. If you haven't, you need to find a way to add it. Don't forget your list of references, which you can also learn how to make on Purdue's Online Writing Lab.


Make sure that you've attended to all the details carefully. Even things such as straight lines and careful cut-and-paste jobs for pictures show that you put your best work into your project. It may not land you the A+ of your dreams, but this attention to detail will show that you gave it your best try.

