 If you're going for the biggest bubbles, the gum you start with matters. You'll definitely want to use "stiffer", less sugary gum than you might normally chew. Bazooka gum is great for this — it's a little harder at first than the average bubble gum, but its rubbery texture makes for great bubbles. Sweeter, softer brands of gum contain lots of sugar and additives, which may taste great, but make for a softer, more fragile bubble.


You also may want to use more gum than normal. Try chewing two or even three pieces at once to make sure you have plenty of material handy for you bubble.
 Start by chewing your gum and flattening against the top of your mouth as you normally would. When you start blowing, it's extra-important to keep a slow, even pace. The bigger your bubble gets, the more fragile it will get, so you'll need to hit that "sweet spot" between too fast and too slow to keep it inflated.









If you're really serious about blowing bubbles, you might want to learn a technique used by musicians of wind instruments called circular breathing. With this technique, you blow until you're almost of air, use your last bit of air to fill your cheeks, then push the air out with your cheeks as you breathe in through your nose.When done correctly, this allows you to blow more or less without ever stopping to inhale.
 As you get better and better at blowing large bubbles, you'll eventually get to the point where the bubble starts to touch your chest. Because bubble gum can be especially hard to get out of clothing, you'll want to avoid this, so use the tips of your fingers to ever-so-carefully keep the growing bubble away from your body. Be gentle! The bubble will probably be quite fragile at this point, so a delicate touch is needed.


If you do get gum on your clothing, don't worry! You can get gum off of clothing by freezing it or rubbing it with a bag of ice cubes until it hardens, then scraping it off with a knife or your fingernails. Alternatively, you can try applying white vinegar directly to the gum to soften it up. This works well when the gum has already been worked into the fibers of the clothing., Huge bubbles aren't the sort of thing you'll be able to get overnight. The world's biggest bubble-blowers take years to get their skills to the point where they're recognized for their talent. The best way to get good at blowing huge bubbles is to try to do it, so go buy yourself a pack of gum today!









Don't give up! With lots of practice, you can become a champion bubble gum blower. The current Guinness World Record for the largest bubble gum bubble ever blown (without using hands) currently stands at 20 inches (50.8 centimeters) in diameter.