 Compile photos and/or videos of the two of you together. Then you can use video and photo editing software on your computer to make a photo montage. You can even include a few video clips of you together, but when you’re done you should burn your wedding proposal presentation onto a blank DVD or USB memory stick. You don’t want your future bride stumbling across your hard work and ruining the surprise!


You can use captions or text boxes at the bottom of your presentation to show just how much she means to you. At the end of the presentation, you could show the question “Will you marry me?” along the bottom of the screen with a video clip or image of you holding out the ring to the camera. Then you can mimic the gesture in real life, so when she turns from the video, there you are, on bended knee holding out her ring.
To add some extra surprise to your proposal, you might use some help from others and have your marriage proposal played somewhere she won't expect. This might be at an awards banquet, before a movie at a theater, or even at a family party.
Use some kind of excuse, like a DVD marathon, to set the trap for your proposal. Make sure it's realistic, otherwise she might know you’re up to something! Prepare popcorn, order her favorite meal, or maybe make her a favorite snack. When you’ve both settled in, play the DVD, and get ready to fish her engagement ring out of your pocket., An aerial banner is a long streamer attached to the back of an airplane. These are often used as advertising gimmicks, and can be seen at beaches, athletic events, and parks. An aerial advertising company near you can be found through an online search, or perhaps even through contacting the customer services of your local airport.


Before contacting an aerial advertising company, you’ll need to think of the message you want on the banner. Something short and sweet, like “Will you marry me?” will save you money, but you may want to use your own words. Remember, messages that are too long might be difficult to read up in the sky!
You’ll also need to think of a suitable, wide-open space where you and your partner will be able to see the message. A public park, a local pier that juts out from a waterfront, or a similar location might work well for viewing your banner. If you notice her look up, get ready to bend your knee and pop the question, but you might have to direct her gaze by saying, “What’s that up there?” While she’s looking up and reading the message, get on one knee and extend her ring toward her.
A common variation on the banner proposal is skywriting. This is where an airplane uses special smoke that hangs in the air for a period of time to spell out a message. For more information, you should look into how to arrange a marriage proposal in skywriting., Especially if your beloved is a fan of scrapbooks and mementos, a physical compilation of your good times and the love you have shared can also be used to propose. Gather photos, items that remind you of time spent together, and other supplies to create a proposal scrapbook.


At the end of your scrapbook, you might write the message “Will you marry me” along with an arrow pointing toward the side of her which you plan on sitting. When she reaches this page, kneel and hold up your ring so that when her eyes follow the arrow, she sees that it’s pointing to her ring.
A digital scrapbook might be a good alternative for the more technologically adept. You can upload your pictures from social media or other places, or scan your physical pictures to use in your digital scrapbook.
You might even include the ring as part of the scrapbook. You can use the clear plastic of your scrapbook to form a pouch for your ring on the last page along with your proposal message. This way, when she turns the last page, all you need to do is bend your knee and wait for her eyes to meet yours. Then you can ask, “Will you?” to hear her reply., A ring can be the perfect ornament to top an elegant desert, to hide in the bottom of a celebratory drink, like champagne, or to hide as a prize in a favorite snack. You might hide your ring in a plastic egg to keep it clean, then place the egg as a prize in a box of her favorite treats.


If you are planning on proposing during a fancy dinner, you might want to bring the restaurant in on your plans. This way the wait-staff can help you make your proposal go as smoothly as possible. The chef could place the ring artfully on a desert platter, or your server might distract your partner so you can secretly slip the ring into her glass.
Be careful when hiding your ring as a “prize” in a box containing a favorite snack or candy. There’s always a chance that the prize could be missed! Be sure you are on the scene to prevent any mishaps or accidental ring disposals., Your partner may be especially fond of a TV, movie, or book series that you can employ in your wedding proposal. You could recreate a scene and use your ring and proposal as its climax, you could use a prop from the series to present your ring, or you could propose in a way the characters of the series might.


If your girlfriend is a fan of the Dr. Who series, you could hide your ring in a Tardis cookie jar. Since a running joke about the Tardis is “It’s bigger on the inside,” you might attach a note to the ring you’ve placed inside the Tardis that says, “And so is my heart when you’re with me. Will you marry me?”If your girlfriend is and avid reader and you know she is planning on rereading her favorite series, you could buy an extra copy of the book and hollow out the pages and then store the ring inside with a message. This way, when she opens it up to read, she’ll see your proposal. You can earn bonus points by using her old copy for the hollowed out proposal and buying a signed copy to replace the one you destroyed.
For a fan of Lord of the Rings, you could arrange a massive theme party in the style of Bilbo’s final birthday celebration. Then, much as Bilbo passed the ring onto Frodo, you can present your beloved with her engagement ring at the end of the party. You might even say something like, “Just as there was only ever one ring, you will always be the only one for me.”, Flowers are a common romantic gift exchanged between partners, but you can use these creatively to convey the depths of your love. You might send a rose each day for 11 days, and save your proposal for the 12th. She’ll most likely be expecting a final rose to finish of the dozen, but you could present her with a full dozen on the 12th day, along with a ring and your proposal.


You might communicate your feelings by spelling out a message with flowers or petals. Be careful when doing so, as some petals and flowers can stain fabric. Light some candles to add a romantic ambiance and make your proposal extra special.
Make a mix-and-match message proposal with flowers. Buy 14 of her favorite blooms and attach a piece of paper to the stem of each. On each paper, write a single letter of the 14 letter phrase “Will you marry me” and send them to her one at a time or hide them around the house.
Time your deliveries so that she receives a flower every hour on the hour throughout the day. Then, when the 12th hour arises, you can make an appearance with the final flower of the bouquet, your ring, and your proposal to her.