 The dye will take a few minutes to pigment your skin. Even if the dye has begun to set, the sooner you treat it, the easier it will be to remove.


Your skin is made up up layers, and as the dye seeps into your skin, it will dye it layer by layer. If you allow the dye to sit on your hands, it will be able to dye more layers of your skin, and deeper layers of your skin.
If the dye is allowed to stain the deep layers of your skin, it will likely take harsh measures to remove, which may damage your skin.;
, Toothpaste has abrasive agents that scrub your teeth, and these will exfoliate your skin. Removing the dead, dyed skin cells of your hands will reveal the new skin underneath, which may not be stained yet.Scrub your hands for about 30 seconds, then rinse with warm water.
If your hands are still stained, try scrubbing again, only this time add a pinch of baking soda.
 This is an especially helpful method if you have sensitive skin. The oils will slowly dissolve and break down the dye while simultaneously softening and conditioning your skin.








Rub the oil over your hands using a cotton ball or a damp washcloth.
The oil may ruin your sheets if you touch them while you sleep, so try wearing gloves or even clean socks on your hands while you sleep.
Use a cotton ball to remove excess oil in the morning and scrub with warm water.
 The dish soap will break up the dye and the baking soda will exfoliate your skin. Rinse with warm water to cause the baking soda to bubble, which may help lift the stain from your skin.








Look for a dish soap that is gentle on your hands and won't dry them out.
 Because it is formulated for use on your face, makeup remover will definitely be gentle on your skin. If the stain hasn't penetrated too deeply, it should be able to dissolve and lift the pigment.Pour the makeup remover onto a washcloth or cotton ball and rub the stain. Wait for at least five minutes before rinsing.Try makeup-removing wipes if you have any. The fibers of the wipe will exfoliate dead skin and the makeup remover will break down the pigment.
 If you want to skip the home remedies and do like the professionals, visit a beauty supply store and purchase a hair dye remover that is designed for use on your skin. You may find it in the form of a solution or as wipes.

