 You probably already have an unscented candle at home but if not, you can find one at stores that sell home furnishings. Purchase the scented fragrance oil at a candle shop so you can smell several options.;
, Fragrance oils are simply a synthetically created smell. Many perfumes are created using fragrance oils because the scent options are plentiful. It is also an inexpensive way to add scent to candles.Oils can be purchased at most major retailers that sell home décor or candle products.
 Let it burn for several minutes or until about an inch-deep pool of melted wax has accumulated around the wick. Once this happens, blow the candle out.
 Use an eye-dropper to add a few drops of fragrance oil into the hot pool of melted wax. About 3-4 drops should be enough to create a nice, light scent. However, if you want a richer scent, add several more drops.


Every bottle of fragrance oil is a little different so read the instructions for best results. The bottle will offer insights into how concentrated your particular oil is.
 Use a toothpick or other small instrument to mix the wax and oil. Start with small circles close to the wick and work your way to the outer edges. Be as thorough as you can to create an even distribution of oil. Mix slowly to avoid making a mess or splattering hot wax onto your hands.


You can create a unique scent by adding two oils. Consider combinations like vanilla and rose or lavender and pine.
 Wait for the wax to cool and harden completely. This will take several minutes. Doing this will allow the oil to settle into the wax and really absorb, which will further enhance the scent.
 When ready, relight your candle. Within seconds, you will be able to smell the scent you’ve added. After several minutes, the smell will fill the room.


If you are unhappy with the potency of the scent, make note of how many drops you added and increase the number for the next time.
If you can’t smell anything at all, blow the candle out again and repeat the steps of adding drops to the wax, mixing, allowing it to cool and relighting.

