 Not only are you looking for more customers, but you should be seeing better quality customers. Your customer base should be bringing in more profit. This means you are seeking to gain repeat customers and build customer loyalty.


Customer value is often measured as customer lifetime value (CLV). This figure is calculated by multiplying the average sale value by the number of repeat transactions and then multiplying that total by the average retention time of each customer.The result of the CLV calculation should be regularly recorded and businesses should seek to increase it often time.
This can be measured by customer surveys, purchase analysis, or by immediate feedback ("is this your first time shopping with us?"). Systems need to be implemented to measure these variables., Revenue growth is one of the simplest ways to measure company growth over a period of time. Typically, growth is measured using the compounded annual growth rate (CAGR). This calculation is particularly useful for summarizing growth over longer time frames, like 5, 10, or 20 years.The CAGR equation is as follows: CAGR = final value divided by starting value times 1 over number of periods less 1 or (FV/SV)1/n-1.
The beginning value here would be revenue in the first year in the range being calculated and ending value would be revenue in the last.
For a longer explanation of how to calculate CAGR, see how to calculate compounded annual growth rate.
 Keep track of new hires for the year and compare them to previous years. A growing company should continue to hire new employees as it expands. You can also express this figure as a percentage by dividing the number of new hires in a year by the total number of employees at the beginning of that year.
 Market share is a company's portion of the total value of their given industry. It is calculated by dividing the company’s total revenues by the total revenues in an industry over a period of time by the company's revenue over the same period. This period can be a quarter, a year, or several years.


Growth can be determined by calculating the company's market share in several different periods and looking for growth or shrinkage in that company's share of the market.For example, if you are researching a company in a $1 billion market and that company had revenues of $150 million in 2014 (15 percent of the market) and $170 million in 2015 (17 percent of the market), their market share has increased 2 percent in the past year.

