 The first step in caring for dry skin under the nose is to clean the area to remove any dirt and loose, dead skin. Dry, scaly skin can easily lead to open wounds and cause bacterial infection, so keeping the area clean is important.Avoid using harsh soaps that can dry your skin even more. Instead, use cleansers with added moisturizers or mild soaps with added oils.
Also avoid antibacterial detergents or cleansers with fragrance or alcohol as these may promote dryness.;
, Do not rub or use a harsh towel to dry the skin as this may cause more irritation. Instead, use a soft towel and gently pat dry the skin under the nose.
 If the dry skin under your nose is red, swollen, and/or painful (inflamed) apply an ice cube wrapped in a paper towel over the area for a few minutes to reduce inflammation and pain.Do not apply the ice cube directly over the skin as this may cause more skin damage. Instead, wrap it inside a clean paper towel or cloth.
If the skin under your nose is just dry without any signs of inflammation (redness, swelling, pain), you can skip the icing and move to the next step.
 Creams and ointments prevent water from escaping from the skin and help seal in your skin’s natural moisture. Apply a rich moisturizing cream under the nose.Use moisturizers that are thicker or hypoallergenic (such as over-the-counter Eucerin and Cetaphil). Most lotions are not thick or moisturizing enough for the really dry skin under your nose, although they can be used for larger areas of your body.
Avoid using moisturizers that contain fragrances, alcohol, retinoids, or alpha-hydroxy acid (AHA).Do not use over-the-counter anti-inflammatory creams or lotions unless directed by your doctor. These products can contain chemicals that may irritate the skin more. If the cream you applied increases burning and itching, stop using it., Some natural products can be used to help combat persistent dry skin. You may want to try some of the following to see what works best for you:


Sunflower seed and hemp seed oil are mild oils packed with fatty acids and vitamin E and may help repair dry skin.Coconut oil is also very moisturizing when applied directly to the skin.Raw honey has antibacterial and antiseptic qualities and can help keep skin moist., Certain factors or conditions can draw moisture out of your skin, such as cold weather or eczema. Thus, it is important you re-apply the moisturizer as needed to keep the skin under the nose well-moisturized throughout the day and night.


For the night, you may want to try ointments that contain petroleum jelly, such as Vaseline or Aquaphor. You can also use these during the day but due to their greasiness, you may prefer to use these only before bedtime.
If you have extremely dry skin, your dermatologists may recommend a nonprescription ointment (such as those that contain lactic acid and urea). Use these only as directed and do not exceed the recommended number of applications per day., Typically, dry skin under the nose is temporary and responds well to regular moisturizing and at home care. However, if the dry skin is caused by a more serious skin condition, such as atopic dermatitis or psoriasis, your doctor may recommend a prescription ointment in addition to home care. These ointments typically include a topical corticosteroid or a topical antibiotic.If the dry skin does not improve or continues with at home care, consult your doctor or a dermatologist.
 Sometimes, dry skin can lead to infections. Impetigo (a superficial skin infection) can be very common under or around your nose. See your doctor if you notice any signs of infection, including:Increased redness
Red bumps
Swelling
Pus
Boils
If the irritated area suddenly gets worse, or becomes painful or swollen, this could be signs of an allergic reaction. See your doctor as soon as possible.

