 If you have the dedication you can look like a WAG if you follow these simple steps! Being a WAG is all about being on top form all the time. Even when its the wrong time of the month, or you have a cold, always looking like the epitome of health and beauty.;
,,, A good way to maintain your tan is with a boosting moisturiser, they have a little bit of fake tan in it and keep that summer glow all year round. Its important to exfoliate to keep the tan even and your skin looking fresh and healthy.
 Get a trim every six to eight weeks to keep split ends at bay. WAGs are well known for their long luxurious hair so if your hair is a little on the short side, your best bet is extensions. You can get these done professionally at most salons, or get clip in's from places like Boots, Superdrug or most Afro hair shops.
 No one should see you without your make up on, even if your popping round to the corner shop at 7.30am. It ruins the illusion of perfection. Keep make up simple and fresh, foundation, concealer and powder. Add a dash of hi lighter to your cheek bones and few coats of mascara and sweep of lip gloss. You can add to this in the evening building up a smokey eyed look with a bit of bronzer to the cheeks., It is important that you dress for the occasion, however to make sure you stand out from the crowd always go one step further than expected. For instance hanging around at home, instead of grimy pyjamas and tatty slippers: a velour tracksuit, push up bra, tight tank top, shiny watch and earrings and some Uggs. And of course your full face and your hair straightened and fluffed.
 Invest in statement pieces. You don't have to go out and buy a whole new wardrobe, after all Rome wasn't built in a day. WAG style is simple and elegant with a flashy twist. Skinny jeans, a white T and a pair of heels will never fail to turn heads. Following trends are important, try to keep your eyes open in the Mags and media so you can be the first to master it. Once again you don't need to rush out and buy it all, most of the staples can be found lurking at the back of your wardrobe. A few key pieces will spruce up your look!

, Never wear something twice without washing it, use fabric conditioner, and iron everything. Even your knickers.
 If you can invest in things such as a designer watch/scarf/jewelry/shoes/sunglasses/handbags. If you can't stretch your budget that far, not to worry, the high street has bang on trend options at affordable prices. Never leave the house without accessories. They finish the outfit and make you look polished.
 So if you are as graceful as a clown in heels, then get practicing. The age old book on the head. First master it without heels on, then once you feel comfortable with that, try it with your heels on. Always walk tall and hold your head up high.
 You need to make sure your legs are always smooth, your nails are painted, skin moisturised, teeth are clean. You could even try extra hard and get a manicure/facial/wax or get your teeth bleached. Being a WAG is all about looking your best.
