 Research has shown that vitamin C plays a vital role as an antioxidant. It strengthens your immune system and lowers your risk of various chronic diseases.Your body does not produce or store vitamin C. If you consume more than your body can use, it will be expelled in your urine. The recommended daily intake is between 65-90mg a day, and no more than 2,000mg a day.Keep in mind that low doses of vitamin C may aid in prevention, but will do little to fight an acute cold or sinusitis. Very high doses of vitamin C (1000mg-2000mg) may help kill virus or bacteria.The best way to increase your consumption of vitamin C is by adding more nutrient-rich foods to your diet. The following foods are rich in vitamin C and other essential nutrients:Citrus fruits (e.g., oranges, grapefruits) and juice, red and green peppers, and kiwifruit have very high levels of vitamin C.
Broccoli, strawberries, cantaloupe, baked potatoes, and tomatoes also have vitamin C.


People who smoke need more vitamin C than people who don’t smoke. This is because cigarette smoke increases the amount of vitamin C your body needs to repair the damage free radicals do to your cells. If you smoke, take 35mg more vitamin C per day than the recommended dose for nonsmokers., Probiotics are microorganisms that are naturally found in our digestive systems and in certain foods. Research has shown that probiotics can reduce the severity and duration of symptoms of illnesses like colds and flu.Probiotics also help boost your body’s production of cells that fight infections.


You can find probiotics in yogurt, some types of milk, and certain soy products. Look for products that contain Lactobacillus or Bifidobacterium strains. Make sure the product says “contains live cultures.”Probiotics are also available as dietary supplements.
Consult with your doctor before taking probiotics if you have a weakened immune system or are currently taking immunosuppressant drugs. Antibiotic drugs may reduce the effectiveness of probiotics., Zinc is an essential trace mineral found in many of the foods you may eat on a regular basis, such as red meats, shellfish, or cheese. Zinc has antibiotic properties that help protect cells in your body from damage caused by bacteria and viruses.Some studies have shown that zinc can help reduce symptoms caused by the common cold.Adults should aim to consume between 8-12mg of zinc daily.Good dietary sources of zinc include shellfish (especially oysters), red meat, and poultry. Other good sources include beans, nuts, whole grains, and dairy products.Eating a good diet and taking a multivitamin supplement should give you all the zinc you need in most cases.
If you do need more zinc, such as when you’re trying to fight off a cold, you can find zinc in many supplements. Easily absorbed forms of zinc include zinc picolinate, zinc citrate, zinc acetate, zinc glycerate, and zinc monomethionine. Do not take high doses of zinc for more than a few days without consulting with your doctor.
 It also boosts your immune system, helps form red blood cells, and keeps blood from clotting.The recommended daily intake for adults was 15mg per day, but has recently been raised to 50mg or 400IU.Look for supplements that contain at least some gamma tocopherol (the most effective type of Vitamin E), not only the less effective alpha tocopherol.Good dietary sources of vitamin E include vegetable oils, almonds, peanuts, hazelnuts, sunflower seeds, spinach, and broccoli.The highest safe level of vitamin E supplements for adults is 1500 IU per day for natural forms, and 1000 IU per day for synthetic forms. Ask your doctor which amount is best for you.
Eating vitamin E in foods is not harmful or risky. However, taking very high doses of vitamin E in supplement form may increase your risk of serious bleeding within the brain. Pregnant women who take very high levels of vitamin E may also increase the risk of birth defects., Inflammation happens when a part of the body becomes reddened, swollen, and painful in reaction to an injury or infection. Nasal infections result in inflammation, and certain foods can slow down your body’s ability to heal this inflammation.Try to avoid the following foods to avoid inflammation:


Refined carbohydrates, such as white bread, pastries, and doughnuts
Fried and greasy foods
Sugar-sweetened beverages
Red meats such as veal, ham, or steak (limit to once per week if possible)
Processed meats such as hot dogs
Margarine, shortening, and lard

, In addition to being unhealthy for your body in general, smoking irritates the linings of your sinuses. Cigarette smoke, even secondhand smoke, is linked to recurrent sinusitis.Secondhand smoke contributes to as many as 40% of the chronic sinusitis cases in the US each year.