 Raising baby chickens is a rewarding experience, but it is not something you should jump into too quickly. Before you raise baby chickens, think long and hard about why you want to keep chickens and whether you have the time, money and space to provide for them.


In terms of expense, keeping chickens is relatively cheap compared to other animals. However, chicken feed is a necessary and ongoing expense, and vets' bills can add up if one or more of your chickens falls ill. You may also need to invest in a breeder and/or a coop if you are raising chickens for the first time.
Chickens are not terribly time consuming, but you will need to feed and water them daily, keep their coop clean (which involves shoveling manure) and collect their eggs once or twice daily. If you you are planning on going away for more than a couple of days, you will need to seek out a chicken-sitter, which can be tricky. If you let eggs accumulate in the nest boxes, the hens may become broody, which is where they will hiss and growl if you attempt to collect the eggs. To discourage this, loom into a broody box.;
, Before purchasing birds or planning for a coop, it is important to check local regulations and homeowner association rules. Many municipalities ban roosters (due to the noise they make) or place a limit on the number of hens a household can keep.


Some communities also require permits, signed agreements from neighbors, or an appearance before the zoning board, while others have ordinances that restrict the size and placement of outbuildings., Chickens are very sociable creatures, so you should plan on keeping at least three to six birds for company. Having an extra one or two is also not a bad idea should any of your chickens fall victim to predators or disease.


In addition, hens typically lay 5-6 eggs a week, so four birds will provide you with almost two dozen eggs per week.The more chickens, the more eggs!

, The breed of chickens you choose to raise should be based on qualities such as temperament, egg-laying ability, size and color of the eggs, climate suitability, aesthetic value and meat quality, depending on your preferences.


For dependable egg production, choose "layer" breeds, such as Black Australorps, that were bred to lay reliably. Leghorns, also, produce about 325 eggs a year.Dual-purpose breeds (which provide eggs and meat), such as Buff Orpingtons and Laced Wyandottes, and Plymouth rocks, are bigger than layers but have better egg production than "broilers" (Cornish Cross) or (White Rock Cross), which are breeds used primarily for meat., You can find day-old baby chickens at your local farm store in springtime, or order them from a mail-order catalog. Be aware that mail orders usually have a minimum order policy, requiring a shipment of at least 25 chicks. This is because larger numbers of chicks are easier to keep warm in transit, resulting in fewer losses. However, open the box in front of the mail carrier to account for any losses.Place your order in spring. You don't want to be ordering in the middle of autumn or winter. Colder weather can hold you back and be much harder to care for your chickens. If you order at the start of spring it'll be easier for you and the chicks. Besides, most chicks are only available to order in spring.
If you only want three or four chicks to start off, consider combining your order with the orders of other local chicken breeders or farmers to overcome the minimum shipment requirement. Alternatively, you can ask a farm-supply store if they will include your order in their own.If possible, specify that you want all females when you place your order. Roosters can be loud and aggressive and are not recommended for first timers. The hens will also lay better without roosters around., Initially, the chickens will need a brooder, which is a small enclosure like a cardboard box or rabbit cage, which can be kept indoors or in a garage. Then, once they move outside, they will need a chicken coop; a safe place where they can lay their eggs and be safe from predators. In the chick stage, the chicks might do something called feather picking. This is where the chicks pick at another chick new feathers, the shafts of which are filled with blood. The chicks are attracted to the color red, and will therefore pick all the feathers, resulting in the crippling or death of the chick. To discourage, buy a brooder light that is red. The blood will look less interesting because everything will be red.


Once grown, chickens don't necessarily need a whole farmyard to run around in, in fact, city and suburban chickens are becoming increasingly popular amongst those who have even small-sized yards. However, you will need some semblance of a yard, preferably with grass for the chickens to peck around in.

