 The plastic containers should be food grade, durable and stable. Hence, the best ones are those containers that have held your own food initially and are strong enough to be reused, such as ice cream containers, or other frozen food storage containers. Avoid any containers that won't clean, are stained, appear weak, or that have any sharp edges. Never use containers that have had toxic products in them (which includes knowing which human foods are not good for pets) - stick to food grade containers only. When sizing, consider:

Cats - remember their whiskers, which are wide and sensitive. Cats need a shallow, wide container that doesn't obstruct their head access with whiskers included, but don't make the dish too deep. The water dish should be slightly deeper than the food dish.
Dogs - dogs need a dish that has enough room for a single meal. Things to think about include not having too large a dish to avoid the temptation to over-feed your dog, and floppy eared dogs should be give a dish that doesn't cause their ears fall into the meal. The water dish should be twice as big as the meal dish.;
, Use a non-toxic adhesive-removing solution if there is any sticky residue left behind. Wash the container with warm sudsy water, inside and out, thoroughly. Leave it to air dry., These will protect the work surface. Keep your pet away from your workspace - you don't want him licking glitter or paint!

, Use anything you have available or that inspires you, to make your designs, such as stickers, non-toxic permanent markers, glitter, non-toxic paint, sequins, rhinestones, whatever! Enjoy this process and remember that your artwork doesn't have to be perfect; it's not like the dog cares if a letter is a fraction of a millimeter shorter than the rest! Keep in mind, however, that it is very important to make sure that whatever you decorate the container with is securely attached to the container, to prevent your pet from pulling it off and chewing it or swallowing it. If in doubt about a stick-on item, don't use it at all, especially not for puppies and kittens.
 This means covering your decorative work in neat layers, being careful not to leave gaps. This will let you to wipe off food stains easily. This step is optional if you'd rather not apply tape; just be sure that your decorations can withstand being wiped clean.
 Wash it twice, for good measure. Be careful with the outside - wiping will be better than washing the external surface. Allow the completed container to air dry again. Fill it with food or water, and watch your pet enjoy their first meal or drink from the new container.