 Watching movies in Spanish is a great way to get excited about the language. Do an internet search to find some classic, popular Spanish films to watch with subtitles in either your native language or in Spanish.Whether to use Spanish subtitles or your native language’s subtitles depends on your skill level. If you are an absolute beginner, watch the movie in your native language with Spanish subtitles, or in Spanish with subtitles in your native language.If you know how to read Spanish but are struggling with your listening skills, try watching the movie with Spanish subtitles.
Learning through watching movies in Spanish can be more effective when you have learned some basic Spanish vocabulary already.;
, If you have a smartphone or a computer, you can find some great apps, such as Duolingo or Memrise, to help you learn Spanish. Many of them feel like games, which can help you with your motivation!


You can try downloading a few to see which app fits best with the type of learning you enjoy—some apps offer rewards as motivation, some have competitions with yourself or others, and some have a more standard structure of learning.
You can practice listening, speaking, reading, and writing on various apps.
 Since you’re probably going to be washing dishes, opening the refrigerator, and looking in the mirror every day, use those opportunities to practice your Spanish. Write the name of the item in Spanish on a sticky note, place it on the item, and practice saying the words when you see them.


To take this a step further, write a full sentence in Spanish on the note. For example, on your bathroom mirror, you could write, “Estoy cepillando los dientes.” This means “I’m brushing my teeth.”
On your refrigerator, you could write, “Tengo hambre” for “I’m hungry,” or “Estoy abriendo el refrigerador” for “I’m opening the refrigerator.”

, For better or worse, many of us spend a large amount of time on our computers and phones. Since you’re using them anyway, integrate your language learning into that screen time. You can change the language on your android, iPhone, or other smartphone, as well as the language on your computer, to Spanish. You can also change the language on your browser and other websites that you frequent., Going to school doesn’t fall into everyone’s interest category, but if you are someone who loves to learn in a formal capacity and get feedback, try taking a class at a local college or language institute. A quick search on the internet will provide you with an abundance of options for classes to take, either online or in person.


Choose a class that has “immersion” or “conversation” in the title. An immersion class means that the teacher speaks in the language that you’re learning. Conversation classes will focus on practicing conversation skills with others in Spanish.Hiring a tutor is another option to consider for more one-on-one practice.
Websites such as Verbling offer online conversational classes and lessons.
Your local library may offer free or low-cost classes, if price is an issue.
 Using various audio methods to learn Spanish can help improve your ability to listen and comprehend the language. Listen to Spanish-learning audio on your daily commute, on your morning walk, or while you do other tedious tasks, such as cleaning. Do a search in your podcast app to see which Spanish language apps are the most highly rated., Listening to Spanish music, looking up the lyrics, and singing along is a fun way to practice your speaking and pronunciation. The themes and emotions conveyed in music are universal, so bringing Spanish music into your life will help you feel connected to the culture and motivate you to keep learning.Listening to Spanish songs can also introduce you to idioms and more colloquial language that is used in different Spanish-speaking countries.
 Reading Spanish literature will help you become immersed in the language, and seeing the words on the page reinforces word acquisition. Choose things to read that match your current skill level as well as your interests! Be patient with yourself as you incrementally move from simpler works to more complicated ones.If you are a beginner, start with reading Spanish children’s books. The illustrations can help you retain the words’ meanings. Keep a Spanish-to-English dictionary or translator app handy while reading, so you can look up words and phrases that are unfamiliar.
Memorizing poems is another great way to internalize the language and appreciate its beauty.
Prioritize works that were originally written in Spanish over those that have been translated from your native language to Spanish—they are likely to have richer language.
 Practicing having conversations in Spanish is the most important component of learning to speak comfortably. No matter how much you read, write, and study, the only way to learn to have conversations is through practice with real people. Fortunately, there are many ways to practice your skills with others:


Search for opportunities to meet people in your area, such as a Spanish conversation group—websites like Meetup and Couchsurfing can be great for this.
Find native Spanish speakers to chat with online via sites like Italki.
Try a language exchange, where you will be paired with a native Spanish speaker who wants to learn your language. This is a wonderful way to make new friends and expand your understanding of other cultures.
 Arguably the most effective way to learn a language is to be immersed in it. If you can take a trip to a Spanish-speaking country, it will be a wonderful way to surround yourself with the language, practice your existing skills, improve your pronunciation, and make friends from a new culture., Setting small, incremental goals will help you to celebrate your accomplishments and keep yourself motivated. Take some time to think about different goals for yourself, and how you’ll know when you’ve reached them. Write down how you’ll know when you’ve reached your goals, and when you reach them, celebrate!


Remember that any amount that you learn is progress, and much of the joy of language learning is about the journey. So, regardless of your long-term goals, remember to praise yourself for every little step you take.
Some examples of progress markers could be: “I can order a drink at a restaurant in Spanish,” “I understood a whole Spanish movie with Spanish subtitles,” or “I can read 100 Years of Solitude in Spanish.”

, To avoid getting frustrated and giving up, it is important to be patient and gentle with yourself as you learn. Remind yourself that learning a new language takes time, and allow yourself to have fun with it! Be open to making mistakes, sounding silly, trying out new phrases, and not getting your pronunciation right immediately. You will enjoy learning much more if perfection is not your goal.
 Find something that you care about to help you get motivated to keep learning. Join a volunteer group for helping Spanish speakers get accustomed to life in your country. Make a Spanish friend to practice with, or plan a visit to a rural town in a Spanish-speaking country where you will be obligated to use your language skills.