 Research has shown that alcohol can increase appetite and how much food you consume. Moreover, most types of alcohol, including beer and liquor, have been associated with belly fat specifically. (Wine appears to be an exception.) However, you don't need to cut out all alcohol, but instead limit yourself to one to two glasses of wine or clear liquor a day. Remember that when the liver is focused on processing alcohol, it cannot be focused on fat loss. To keep the liver focused on fat loss, consider eliminating alcohol altogether and taking a liver cleansing supplement to keep it in tip-top shape.
Stick to wine and liquor. A 5-ounce glass of wine or 1-ounce shot of liquor has about 100 calories, while a standard 12-ounce beer has 150 calories.
Avoid mixed drinks and summer favorites like margaritas and daiquiris, which are usually loaded up with sugar.
One 2010 study showed that women who consumed a light to moderate amount of alcohol actually gained less weight and had a reduced risk of becoming overweight than non-drinkers across a 13-year period., Most of these are empty calorie foods. "Empty calorie" foods are those which have calories (from sugar and/or solid fats) but little to no nutritional value. Further, many processed and refined foods, like white flour, white bread, and white rice, also lack B vitamins and other nutrients. Many also often contain partially hydrogenated fats (trans fats) or refined sugars (think high fructose corn syrup), which are extremely unhealthy.Foods and beverages that provide the most number of empty calories for Americans include cakes, cookies, chips, pastries and donuts, sodas, energy drinks, fruit drinks, cheese, pizza, ice cream, bacon, hot dogs and sausages. You can see how this is an especially big problem in the summer!
Sometimes you can find better or alternate versions of these foods. For example, you can purchase low-fat hot dogs and low-fat cheese at grocery stores. You can also have sugar-free drinks. In other foods, like candy and regular soda, all the calories are basically empty.Avoid saturated fats, like those in animal products, such as red meat, butter, and lard.
 Replace those bad fats with good fats, though you'll always need to keep even the good fats in moderation. Monounsaturated fats have been clinically proven to help you burn fat, especially in your midsection. So, add foods like avocados, kalamata olives, olive oil, almonds, walnuts, and flaxseed to your diet to help facilitate weight loss.Fats are our friend! Healthy fats can provide satiety, eliminate cravings, improve joint pain, promote hormone production and more!
Try to make healthy substitutions wherever you can, such as olive oil instead of butter in your cooking or a small handful of 10 to 12 almonds instead of a pre-packaged cookie for a snack.
 Meats are a popular food found at summer barbecues and parties. In order to lose weight over the summer, it is important to choose meats that are lower in fat, which most red and processed meats, like hamburgers, hot dogs, sausages, and steaks, are not. Leaner meat options include turkey, chicken, center cut pork loin, or extra lean ham steaks.Remove any skin or visible fat before cooking and eating meat. You can also purchase some meat, such as chicken or turkey breasts, skinless.
You don't need to cut out red meat entirely but instead make better choices. For instance, when buying ground beef or turkey, choose meats that are 93% lean or higher (in other words, 7% fat or less). If you are grilling steaks, choose a leaner cut of steak, such as a top sirloin steak or round steak.
 Try and eat fish at least twice times per week. Fish, particularly salmon, mackerel, and tuna, is high in omega-3 fatty acids, which our bodies cannot make and get from our diet.These omega-3 fatty acids may also help you lose weight.Fish is also an excellent source of protein and a good choice if you're looking to phase out fatty meats.
 Opting for lower fat dairy options will help reduce the amount of saturated fat you consume, thereby helping you lose weight (since saturated fats contribute to weight gain).Buy milk and cottage cheese with 1% fat or less. Choose low-fat or fat-free yogurts.
When buying cheese, pick hard cheeses that are lower in fat, such as cheddar or parmesan Avoid the soft and gooey cheeses.
 Whole grains are loaded with fiber and minerals that are essential for a healthy body weight. Not to mention, whole grains fill you up and keep you full.


Eat 100% whole wheat bread instead of white or wheat bread, brown rice instead of white rice, whole wheat pasta instead of white pasta.
Eat more oats such as steel cut oats, old-fashioned oats, or quick oats.
 Fruits and vegetables are an essential part of a nutritious diet; they're low in calories and packed full of important vitamins, nutrients, and minerals. Adding more fruits and vegetables will help you lose weight and also make you healthier in the long run in part because they are high in fiber that can help you feel full longer and prevent you from overeating. In addition, Many fruits and vegetables are in season during the summer making it easier to add them to your diet since there are more available and they tend to be less expensive.Children aged nine and older and adults should consume 1.5 to 2 cups of fruit and 2.5 to 3 cups of vegetables every day. A good way to achieve these recommended amounts is to make sure that at each meal, your plate is 2/3 loaded up with fresh produce.
Try color blocking. Make sure your meals have lots of colors; the best way to do this is by adding lots of fresh produce, from eggplant to beets to kale to yellow peppers. This color blocking usually helps you eat more produce and makes the meal look appetizing and appealing at the same time!One way to add more fruits and veggies to your diet, cut calories, and still enjoy the foods you love is to add or "hide" veggies to dishes. Researchers have found that adding pureed vegetables to dishes (e.g., cauliflower to mac and cheese) helped people eat a few hundred calories less of the dishes.Veggies add but bulk to a dish but not really a ton of extra calories.
 Studies have shown that people who eat foods with high water content have lower body mass indexes. The water in these foods helps keep you full for longer so you eat less overall. Unsurprisingly, foods with the highest water content are fruits and vegetables, thus hitting two birds with one stone!Watermelon and strawberries have about 92 percent water per volume. Other fruits with high water content include grapefruit, cantaloupe, and peaches. Remember, though, that many fruits are high in sugar, so try to limit how much fruit you eat daily. For vegetables, cucumber and lettuce have the highest water content at 96 percent. Zucchini, radish and celery have a water content of 95 percent.
 Staying hydrated over the summer is extremely important. With higher temperatures and more physical activity, your body needs more water due to excess sweating. Drinking water has been shown to increase weight loss in women who are also dieting to lose weight.Although the exact mechanisms as to how water aides in weight loss are unknown, it may be that water consumption facilitates weight loss because it keeps you full for longer and gives your body energy and provides your water with enough water to efficiently burn fat. Drink the recommended 13 cups per day for men and nine cups per day for women to help you lose more weight over the summer.If you have a hard time drinking enough water, you can also try to stay hydrated and nourished with these fun, summer ideas:


Make your own smoothies. The perfect way to make a single serving smoothie is to fill the container halfway with leafy greens (such as spinach or kale), fill the other half with fruits (banana, berries, mango, etc), add some type of nutritional boost (such as flaxseed, chia seeds, or almonds), pour 8 fluid ounces of liquid on top (such as water, 1% milk, almond milk, or soy milk), and blend together until smooth.
Make homemade popsicles. Homemade popsicles are an excellent way to stay hydrated as well as stay cool during the summer heat. They can be made just like a smoothie and then poured into a popsicle mold and frozen overnight. Another healthy and refreshing way to make popsicles is to fill up the mold halfway with water and the other half with 100% fruit juice (not fruit cocktail or any other juice "blend". These have additional sugars that will not aid in weight loss). Freeze overnight.
Make infused water. Infused waters are an excellent way to add flavor to your water and make it more palatable if you're not a fan of drinking plain water. Infused waters are made by soaking freshly chopped fruits and vegetables in water for a minimum of 30 minutes to add flavor to the water. Some popular combinations for infused water include raspberry-lemon, strawberry-kiwi, and cucumber-lime.

