 There are no terms and conditions for happiness. Most people are as happy as they decide to be.


Happiness doesn't depend upon who you are or what you have. It depends on what you think.





;
, Life is simple. Don't complicate it. Tension or worrying are forms of negative thinking.
 It's all about balance. If you are feeling sad or unhappy then ask yourself, "Am I emotionally, mentally and physically balanced?" If not, then try to maintain that balance and you will find that you are now happy.
 People often become what they believe themselves to be. If you believe you cannot do something, it makes you incapable of doing it. Remember, when you believe you can, then you acquire the ability to do it even if you didn't have it in the beginning. Live your beliefs and you can turn the world around.
 Stand in front of mirror and say to yourself, "I am always with you. I will never let you down!" Accept yourself, respect yourself and love yourself. True love doesn't come to you, it has to be inside you.
 Always be thankful for the things you have now. Treat yourself as the luckiest person in the world. There are people who don't have enough food, clothes and shelter. Be happy with what you have.


Use auto suggestions. Auto suggestions can help you to achieve people your goals, with amazing results., Remind yourself that everyone else's expectations must not be important to you. Try to meet the expectations of those people who care for you. It is not possible for anyone to meet all the expectations others have of them. If you try to complete everyone's expectations then you will be stressed.
 If you make any mistakes or make a wrong choice, then accept it and forgive yourself quickly! Don't ever worry about future, exams you fail may not stop you getting your dream career if you don't allow yourself to believe that, for example.
 Treat any problem as an opportunity to prove yourself. Be an opportunist for every problem. Make every challenge a celebration. Enjoy every moment of your life.


Be unafraid of failure. Once you have started working on something, don't be afraid of failure and don't abandon it. People who work sincerely are the happiest.
Have courage. Nothing in life is to be feared. It is only to be understood.
 Action may not always bring happiness, but there is no happiness without action. Action is remedy on any kind of depression. Just do it! Plan your goal. A goal without a plan is just a wish and the plan enables action.
 To live without stress, we would have to solve all problems immediately as they arise, without thinking about them later, without worrying.
 Be responsible for your own decisions or lack of them. Understand that even if you aren't "at fault", that someone has to step up and clean up so that things can move forward.


Don't try to be a perfectionist. No one is perfect.
 When expectations are not fulfilled, it gives you pain. When you get something without expecting, it gives you pleasure. Do your best and good things will come to you.
 Don't sacrifice your own goals for their narrow perceptions.
 So, be happy, always!

, Even on your small achievements give complements to yourself for your efforts and your achievement. Make it habit.
 Keep smile on your face as often as possible.
 Adjust yourself in every situation.
 Be the change you want to see in the world.

