 Pruning may seem counterintuitive, but is actually incredibly beneficial in aiding new growth on peach trees.


Pruning your peach trees produces new growth, which in turn produces more fruit. Therefore, pruning yields a larger crop over time.
Peach trees need to be open to sunlight, as shaded branches won’t produce as much fruit. Pruning them opens up all branches to the sun.
Removing dead parts of the tree is necessary so that new branches can come in.
If you intend on spraying your tree with pesticides, pruning allows for an equal coverage over the entire plant.;
, The best time to prune your peach trees is early spring, after the last major cold snap of winter. Avoid pruning in very cold weather though, as this can reduce the trees’ cold-hardiness and total output of fruit.


The best month for pruning is typically February, but adjust this time based on your local weather.
Prune older trees before younger ones to allow time for the new growth.
Avoid pruning when the trees are blooming or shortly after blooming, because this can negatively affect the new growth.
Prune your peach trees at planting or at the next spring (if done in the fall).
It is better to prune a little late in the year than a little early., Use pruning shears for smaller, more manageable branches. Remove large limbs with loppers or a pruning saw.


Wound dressing is available to put on branches post-pruning, but has shown to have little to no effect in preventing fungal growth., When you are cutting back branches, it is best to follow the “cat tossing” rule. All the branches on your peach tree should be wide enough apart that a cat could be tossed between each of them without ever hitting a branch.


A total height of 8–9 feet (2.4–2.7 m) is preferred when the tree is at its maturation.
Prune the tree low to start, to encourage outward growth instead of upward.
For big, full fruit, remove up to 90% of all developing fruit. A healthy tree will produce much more than it is capable of carrying, and must have most of it removed for the best output.