 Select one that either has personal significance or one that matches the décor or theme of the room. Make sure the book is sturdy and can stand alone without much assistance––a book with between two and three inches (5cm-7.5cm) of pages is your best bet.


Evaluate your room to determine which colors and style work best. For some rooms, a loud, colorful book cover will enhance your style, while for other rooms, a more romantic, subdued book cover cover will work best. If you're going completely for style, you may want to troll some used book stores for the right fit.
Consider choosing a book that is symbolic of your life. If a certain book has made a significant impact on your life, it might be the ideal one to transform it into your clock. That way, it will always be on show to remind you of the journey you took with this work of literature.;
, You only want the clock for its motor and hands, so it doesn't matter what the rest of the clock looks like. However, do match the hand size and style to the size of your book - if they're too big, the hands may not fit on the cover.
 Pop open the top and gently remove the contents using the X-ACTO knife.


Make sure you don’t damage any portion of the clock when taking it apart––the hands can be fragile, so take care when disassembling the clock.
 First, open the book cover so that you only have to drill a hole in the cover, and not through the rest of the book. Then, carefully drill a hole large enough so that the clock's motor rod can fit through the hole.


Alternatively, consider other areas of the book cover than the center for placement of the hands. You don't have to be “by the book” with this clock––creative license is allowed. For example, if you find a clock with smaller hands, you could place the clock portion towards the top of left of center area of the cover. This could create interest and offbeat appeal.
 The motor will sit nestled inside the pages, so you’ll need to make an exact space using the actual motor as your model. To do this:


Place the motor behind the opened-out cover on the first page of the book, centered directly behind the drilled hole. Make sure that the motor is perfectly centered, as you will want the motor rod to fit through the cover hole.






Trace the motor with a pencil and then set it aside. Doing this will provide you with your stencil for cutting out the exact shape in the pages. It helps also to measure the motor’s depth, so you know how far into the book you should cut.
 Carefully slice away at the pages to create a nook for the motor. Drop the motor into the nook from time to time and try to close the book to determine if you have cut far enough into the book yet. Consider cutting fewer pages at first and checking the depth regularly until it's just right.
 Now you can assemble the clock using the hands and any decorative items to accentuate your new book clock.
 If the book tells the entire “story” and completes the décor, you may want to stop here. This is the basic body of the clock. You may like it the way it is or decorate it further:


Match the room décor. Add decorative numbers, jewels or small items to embellish it. You could also decoupage the clock with pictures to follow a theme.
 Check that it sits solidly without being likely to fall. This may require steadying the book or adding rubber feet.
