 For this project, you will be gluing bits of paper, fabric, or tissue paper to create a patchwork or paper mache effect. Tissue paper will give you a translucent effect, whereas paper will give you the most opaque one.


You can use scrapbooking paper, map pieces, or pages torn from an old book.If you want the text appearance that book pages can give you, but don't want to tear up any books, then consider using newspaper instead.
 Almost any shape will work for this method. You might want to use a lighter colored lampshade, however, especially if you plan on covering it with tissue paper. Because tissue paper (and certain types of fabric) is so thin, the original color of the lampshade will show through. A lighter color, such as ivory or white won't make much of a difference, but a darker color, such as black, burgundy, or navy, will. You might not even see the colors of your tissue paper.

If you can't find a light colored lampshade, you could paint your current lampshade white. Keep in mind, however, that the light may not pass through the lampshade as well anymore. You'll end up with a softer glow.
 Try to keep the squares proportionate to the lampshade itself. For a very small lampshade, try cutting the squares 1 by 1 inch (2.54 by 2.54 centimeters). For a larger lampshade, try 3 by 3 inches (7.62 by 7.62 centimeters)., The patch should be a little bit bigger than the size of your square. Use a paintbrush or a foam brush to apply the Mod Podge. You will be working in small patches so that the Mod Podge does not dry out.

If you do not have any Mod Podge, you can make your own by mixing 1 part white school glue with 1 part water.
 You can smooth it out using your fingers. If you don't like getting messy, you can also use the paintbrush or foam brush you were using earlier., You can line them up side by side to create a quilt-like effect. You can also apply them at different angles to create a patchwork or paper mache effect. Whatever design you decide on, try to overlap each square by a little; this will help prevent any gaps from showing up in the finished piece.

Be sure to cover both the top and bottom rim of your lampshade. Do this by folding the excess paper or fabric over the top/bottom of the lampshade, and pressing it against the inside. This will give you a clean, finished-looking edge.
 This can take anywhere from a few hours to a day, depending on how dry or humid it is., You can do this by brushing more Mod Podge over the lampshade using a foam brush or a paintbrush. You can also spray the entire lampshade using a clear, acrylic sealer. This will help protect your work, and prevent it from peeling. If necessary, wait for the first coat to dry before applying a second one., This can take anywhere between a few hours to a whole day. It depends on how much Mod Podge you used, and how dry or humid it is.