 and seem to do their assignments poorly. Most bullies cannot accept authority, and often get into arguments with teachers, guidance counselors, and possibly even parents. Bullies do not generally perform well in school, and get poor grades. You can also sometimes see them talking back to teachers, being mean to others, not listening in class, or just not doing their best during class time.;
, They are typically of an athletic build. They tend to bully other boys and other girls and usually bully physically or even sexually.






Female bullies are still overly aggressive and assertive, but they are often more focused on isolating other girls from their cliques and making hurtful remarks than they are focused on inflicting physical pain to their victim.
 They will only cause trouble and you may get caught up doing something you don't want to do like getting into a fist fight. You will also be a suspect in crimes (whether just school crimes or more serious ones) if that person gets in trouble often simply because you are their friend.
 Elementary school playgrounds are sometimes unsupervised, and most of the bullying goes unnoticed, therefore unpunished. Even worse, when a group of middle school children were sat down for an interview, over a third of them stated that bullying was acceptable if the victim was "annoying", and the same amount admitted that resorting to physical violence could be a valid option in dealing with conflict. In the majority of high school environments, it is considered important to be liked by peers, and it has been found that many students are guilty of becoming neutral bystanders (individuals who witness bullying, but say nothing about it). Neutral bystanders provide emotional support for bullies, and bullies crave this more than anything else. Remember that yes, it is important for others to like you, and mostly not hate you, but remember to be yourself and most of all don't be mean or a bully or bystander.
 Bullies love to use language like the following:


"You're trying out for the basketball team? They allow wimps to waste their time?"
"You are ugly, and I am sure that she or he would rather go out with an ape than you."

,, A bully (even if they do not look like it) will not think twice about attacking you if you attempt to assert yourself while no one else is around. Beware of bullies appearing in empty schoolyards to confront you; always stand up for yourself when other students are near. Do not attempt to engage in "scheduled fighting" that involves having a sparring match between you and the bully in an area where your classmates can watch. It is important not to fight back, and be sure to stand up for yourself and say something back that is not mean and rather more mature. If you say something back while standing up for yourself and not being mean, then this can work to stop/lower the bullying.
 They are not ashamed of what they do, no matter how bad it is. They often advertise their actions to peers and are proud of themselves because of the reputation that it gives them. Despite popular beliefs, studies have shown that bullies are not shy; they have high self esteem.
 Girls are more likely to be cyber bullies than boys, because girl bullies like to spread rumors, and the Internet provides them with the perfect venue. However, male cyberbullying is still existent and hardly uncommon. Record the harassment, print out your proof, and show it to a school official. Cyberbullying is becoming a much more serious issue than before, and there is no reason to let it go on. Be sure to block a bully online and don't reply. Also, be sure to stand up for yourself and others.
 Try your best not to go near them, especially if there is no teacher around.

