 If you have a recurrent case of tendinitis or suspect you may have it, you can try treating it at home before seeing a doctor. By initially applying RICE—rest, ice, compression, and elevation—you may help alleviate tendinitis and prevent further issues. Change to very warm heat treatments after 48 hours and thereafter.Be aware that even with early treatment for pain, tendinitis may last for more than three months. If you wait for more than 1 to 1½ months before seeing a doctor, it might take longer for you to alleviate the condition., Give your body a chance to heal by taking a break from stressful activities. Do lower-impact ones such as swimming and biking to help heal your tendonitis.If you do high-impact activities such as running or tennis, switch to lower-impact options. You can try biking, walking, or swimming to stay active while giving your affected tendon a rest.You may also want to rest the area completely for a while.Begin gently moving the affected area if you take a few days of full rest to help prevent stiffness., Use an ice pack on the painful area of your tendon. This can help reduce swelling and relieve pain (do not apply ice directly to skin; so use a cloth to protect against ice burns/frostbite).You can use an ice pack as often as necessary for 20 minutes at a time for the first 2 days (then change to very warm heat treatments from 3rd day and going forward). Wait 40 minutes for the iced area to warm up between applications of ice. You can take a slush bath by mixing ice and water in a bathtub. Soak the area or your entire body for up to 20 minutes.You can freeze a plastic foam cup full of water to massage the affected area gently.If you feel too cold, or your skin gets numb, remove the pack. Warm up for 40 minutes. Use a towel between the ice pack and your skin to help prevent frostbite/skin burns., Use a wrap or compressive elastic bandage to compress the area with tendinitis. This can help relieve swelling and help preserve mobility in your joint.Swelling can cause loss of mobility in the injured joint or area, so compressing it will help.
Use compression until the affected area is no longer swelling.You can get compressive wraps and bandages at any pharmacy and many large department retailers.
 Raise your affected tendon or joint above the level of your heart. This can help reduce swelling and may also help preserve mobility in your joint.Elevation is especially useful for tendinitis of the knee., Consume pain relievers for severe discomfort and/or as necessary. These medications may help alleviate pain and possible swelling.Take over the counter pain relievers such as aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen sodium or acetaminophen.Ibuprofen and naproxen sodium may also help alleviate some of the swelling.