 First decide why you want to volunteer in South Africa. Do you want to contribute in a project, club traveling with volunteering or hone your professional skills? Set your priorities straight and prepare yourself for your project.;
, It's important to gather information about the country. Weather, population, lifestyle, challenges that the country is facing, cultural sensitivities and other such relevant details are important to know before deciding to volunteer in South Africa.
 One can volunteer in different locations in South Africa, such as Port Elizabeth and Cape Town, among others. Keep the information regarding these places handy and decide as to where you want to volunteer. You can keep the activity and sightseeing options as a deciding factor when zeroing down on the location.
 Be it volunteering in an orphanage or teaching kids, working in a wildlife conservation project  or any other project that interests you. Keep your skills and interests in mind before deciding on your volunteering project.
 Depending on the weather, health and socio-political conditions in mind, decide which is the best time to volunteer in South Africa and make your travel plan accordingly.
 It is always good to contact an international volunteering placement organization to volunteer abroad since they have the expertise of providing the volunteering project that is relevant to both the volunteers and the recipients of volunteering. It is also always safer to volunteer through such organizations. Cross Cultural Solutions, Volunteering Solutions, and UN Volunteering are some of the organizations that you can contact for good volunteering placements.
 It is always advisable to prepare for your trip beforehand. Pack the necessities, read about your location, inquire about your volunteering project, make a list of the places that you want to visit, get your vaccinations done and buy your travel insurance. With preparation, you will make the most of your volunteering stint.
 Volunteering can be a very demanding and challenging exercise, as you’re expected to make a difference in the lives of people who are devoid of the basic facilities in life and are living under abject poverty. You are expected to be committed and dedicated towards your project and must give your best to the project you are volunteering for. Volunteering requires you to be patient, committed and hard working.
 Apart from the volunteering work, you should not forget to explore the location where you are headed, as it will give you a lasting experience. Living in a volunteer house or with a host family will give you a taste of the local culture and an authentic travel experience.
 Volunteering abroad lets you create memories for life as you make new friends while doing so. Going to a new destination, spending time with the locals, sightseeing in the region, and above all, volunteering towards a noble cause are all experiences that will stay with you for years to come.

