 If you are unable to work out an agreement with your landlord but still must leave the property, provide your landlord with at least 30 days' notice that you are leaving.You always have the option to simply break the lease – even if your landlord makes statements to the contrary.
However, keep in mind that breaking your lease without an early termination agreement may end up costing you more money as well as potentially causing bad blood between you and your landlord.
Make sure you read your lease agreement carefully. While residential leases typically require 30 days' notice if the tenant wants to break the lease, commercial leases may require 60 or 90 days' notice.
 Leave the leased space in a clean condition free of any personal property or debris, and hand off the keys to your landlord by the date you gave in your notice.Once you've left the property, you may be responsible for continuing to pay rent – at least until your landlord finds a new tenant – but you won't be responsible for the property itself.
If your landlord has an inspection form, review it before you leave to make sure you won't be on the hook for any repairs.
You also can create your own inspection checklist and look over the condition of the walls, floors, windows, and other main features of your space.
Generally, you should aim to leave the premises in the same condition as they appeared when you first moved into the space – minus normal wear and tear.
Keep in mind that any fixtures or other property you leave in the space after you've left typically are considered abandoned and become the property of your landlord. Don't leave anything behind that you want to keep, because you may forfeit the right to remove it or have it returned.
 Although your landlord can hold you liable for the entire amount of remaining lease payments, he or she has a legal duty to mitigate those damages by finding someone else to lease the property.If your landlord is unable to find a tenant to rent the place at the same or higher rent than you paid, you may be liable for the rent for the remainder of the lease – or the difference between your rent and the rent the new tenant is paying.
This may be a problem if the rental market is stagnant, leaving you on the hook for far more money than you would be if businesses are booming and there's a high demand for commercial spaces like yours.
You can help lower your costs by finding a suitable tenant to take your place. However, keep in mind that your landlord does have the right to refuse to lease to someone who doesn't meet his or her requirements.
 In addition to retaining the entire amount you provided as a damage deposit, your landlord may require additional money from you for breaking your lease early.If your landlord is uncooperative, or is threatening to sue you for a substantial amount of money, you may want to get a business lawyer involved to protect your financial interests.

