 Before falling asleep, make your body go through an adrenaline rush. This doesn't have to physically drain you much, it just has to drain your mind. Use any method, be it your imagination or dancing and sweating it all out. After this adrenaline rush, your mind will feel tired and need to take a break, helping in putting you to sleep and lessening the effects of the mania.


This is the reason adrenaline junkies are comparatively much healthier than any drug addict; however, this does not justify an adrenaline addiction under any circumstances. Adrenaline can be helpful if done occasionally; don't make a habit of it.;
, During the day, work out, stay active, and don't lie down. Why? It is much easier to fall asleep when you have drained yourself to the point where you cannot stand to stay awake any longer. When the body is tired, it automatically send signals that it needs to take a break. Generally speaking, it's easier to get better, peaceful and uninterrupted sleep if you are tired. Consider it shutting down your whole system and letting it charge.


When the body is exhausted, there is no need to make an extra effort to shut the mind off or to try hard to fall asleep because all the strength that has been sucked out of your body does the work for you. Your mind finds it easier to come down from the manic episode, allowing your body to fall to sleep.
 It is important to figure out a way to fall asleep even when the last thing you feel is tired. A good way to do that is by using visualization and relaxation techniques. These can help you settle down and will prepare your mind for a restful night’s sleep.


Even though there are many visualization techniques you can use, a very popular one is to picture a situation when you were very tired and could not wait to go to bed – imagine the way you look, subtle music and a big, very comfortable bed. Use your imagination and make the visualization as vivid as possible – the more life-like and alluring it is the more likely you are to start feeling sleepy.
 Talking has always been a helpful part of treating any part of a psychological disorder and the same is true in reducing the tensions of bipolar disorder. While lying down on the bed, tell yourself that it’s late and that you need to sleep. More than that, tell yourself that you are sleepy and tired even if you are not. This may help your mind put away the mania and think that you are sleepy, putting you to sleep.


Just like confidence, happiness, and every other emotion is in your head, you can urge your brain to sleepiness, too. This is especially helpful if your self-talk is supported by other external cues your mind associates with oncoming sleep, like blankets, comfortable clothes, dim lighting, and white noise.
 A tried-and-true way to fall asleep is to do something that bores you. Even mania can't resist the lures of boredom. Here are a few ideas to get your mind so unstimulated that sleep is the inevitable result:


Lie down and count the stars in the sky
Imagine a herd of sheep and count them
Watch a documentary or a program that doesn't interest you
Read a textbook
Go through the newspaper

One thing to remember is that "boring" techniques differ from person to person based on their personal interests. Stick to what you know bores you the most.
 There are different techniques used for relaxing the body, which, if done right before the time you decide to sleep, might help you in sleeping better and getting rid of those turbulent thoughts. Here are some ideas:


Get a massage right before sleeping
Take a warm shower before sleeping.
Have a warm glass of milk
Rub your stomach and wiggle your toes
Do deep breathing exercises
Meditate for 30 minutes.
Do yoga for half an hour
Imagine things in green and blue
Listen to soothing music

, There will likely be times during a depressive episode when you have a strong urge to fall asleep no matter where you are and whom you are with. All you need at that time is to find yourself a comfortable place to succumb to this urge. These are the times when the body is demanding sleep the most and if used appropriately, can help you get the sleep you've been lacking at night.


A power nap of seven minutes when the body has fallen apart with tiredness can feel like a proper sleep of eight hours.Power naps are body boosters that re-energize you when you need it most.
 With the power of mind even a physical problem can sometimes be treated – all you need to do is to think in a positive way. When the mind is free from all the negative thoughts that have been keeping you from falling asleep, you'll be able to sleep peacefully, deeply, and regularly.


Take a break from all worries and tensions that have been daunting the peace of your mind and concentrate on thinking that things are going to be fine. This is just a bad phase and it will pass. Think that when you wake up tomorrow, there will be a new sun shining on your face.
 Another common relaxation technique you can use is to lie down in a comfortable and quiet place and concentrate on different parts of your body. Focus hard on one body part at a time, starting from your toes and ending at the top of your head. Concentrate on that body part for a few seconds and try to make it the only object of your thoughts. Afterwards you need to tense it up for a few seconds and then release. Repeat for each part of your body, no matter how small.


This technique will help you understand your body better and will help you relax your muscles. Even though those techniques are useful and can work wonders with your sleep, you should keep in mind that they won’t have much of an effect the first few times your try. However, if you apply visualization and relaxation techniques often, your will get used to them in a week or two and falling asleep will become much easier.
 Before falling on the bed to get some sleep make sure you have completed all the work that you had planned for the day and have done everything that is a part of your routine. Leaving something out might make you feel incomplete, making you restless when you need to sleep. It is better to lie down when you are done with all the work and when your mind is free from all tension and worry.


Make a to-do list every day that you can look at and check off as activities get completed. Then, when it's time for bed, you can look at this list and see that everything you needed to do is crossed off. This can serve as a signal to your mind to allow your body to sleep.
During a depressive episode, sometimes it's hard to get out of bed, even when you can't sleep. Having this list may help you see what you need to do that day and provide you the motivation to do it.
 Do your best not to give your body rest during the day if you don't actually intend on sleeping or taking a power nap. Even if you are not busy and free all day, do not lie down just to ease your body. You might have an urge to lie in bed just to relax but not sleep, and that is the time when you need to control yourself. Leave that need of rest in your body. Make your body crave the rest. When it is time to sleep, finally go to your bed and lie down.


This leads to tiredness and exhaustion, which, as stated above, helps your body go directly to sleep and stay asleep. You'll be more likely to sleep deeper, which is more relaxing and re-energizing for your body.
 Having a regular sleep schedule is important for everyone, but even more so for people with bipolar disorder. Going to sleep at approximately the same time and sleeping for the same amount of hours every night is very important for your brain, as this is what helps it rejuvenate and feel rested. This includes weekends, too!


Sleeping has a few cycles and all them are important if what you want is to function healthily. That is why it is best to get continuous, uninterrupted sleep whenever possible. Sleep is most rejuvenating when it’s in one long block because you go through all the cycles.A well-rested brain means that you will feel better and will not have such a difficult time during manic and depressive episodes.
Even though every person needs a different amount of sleep, the approximate amount of hours you should aim for is seven to nine.Having a sleep diary will help you establish the exact amount of hours you need, as you will find out how much sleep you need to feel refreshed and ready for the new day. After you have decided on an amount of hours try to always stick to it.
This will help you avoid tossing and turning for hours after you have gone to bed – your brain and body will get used to the sleeping schedule and you will get tired and sleepy when the time of night comes.
 Every routine helps your brain adjust better and makes everyday activities less challenging during both manic and depressive episodes. The right evening routine can help you fall asleep and the right morning routine can help you feel energized.


For your evening routine, pick something that relaxes you and makes you sleepy. Take a bath or listen to some soothing music. Any activity that doesn’t require much movement or concentration but makes you sleepy is good.
Your morning routine should be quite the opposite affair as you need to wake up, feel refreshed and energized. You could try drinking something with a high vitamin concentration, like a glass of freshly squeezed orange juice. Afterwards you might find it useful to do some exercise, as movement releases feel-good chemicals in your body and raises your energy levels. You can pick any exercise you enjoy and only spend about 15-30 minutes doing it to achieve great results.
Keep in mind that having morning and evening routines can do wonders for your sleep, but only when your complete them every day, or at least as often as you can. If you don't, your brain will not be able to get used to the tasks and will not wake up or wind down as easily.
 In this diary, you'll write down how long it takes to go to sleep, how many times you wake up during the night, how many hours you sleep per night, and what happened on days when it was either difficult or easy to fall asleep, etc. Keeping a diary like this can help because it can uncover patterns that you never knew existed. Writing things down is much more useful than just thinking about them, because it can serve as a visual aid and thus is more likely to help you understand the effects of certain routine activities.


For instance, after writing in your sleep diary for a few weeks you might find that you sleep very well after an evening with friends or that you wake up a lot during the night after a stressful day at work. Even though uncovering your patterns is not a solution in itself, it will help you understand the reasons behind your lack of sleep or oversleeping. Once you have grasped what the reasons are you can focus on them in depth and achieve healthier sleep patterns.
 If you have been consuming any of these substances, try to reduce intake or use especially before you try to go to sleep. All these substances increase the level of serotonin in the body which brings it into a state of hyperactivity, eventually making you energetic, feeling that you don't need any rest.In case of heavy consumption, these things often trigger unpleasant memories and bring them to the present making you feel frustrated and sad. These negative feelings then become a hindrance in falling asleep.
Heavy alcohol consumption is very dangerous when done during a depressive episode. Alcohol is a depressant and can make your symptoms much worse. If you can't limit yourself to a glass or two, don't touch it.

