 Makeup and other cosmetics should be avoided for at least seven days after your procedure. When you do use cosmetics or hair dye, be very gentle, especially for the first month after your hair transplant.


Combing gently is okay, but be very careful not to rub the transplanted area with the teeth of the comb.
Avoid haircuts for a minimum of two weeks.
Do not use scar reduction creams unless advised to do so by your doctor., A small amount (about 20%) of your calories should be from lean protein like soy, nuts, or beans. Drink at least eight cups of water each day.


Foods with vitamin A (carrots, broccoli), vitamin C (citrus fruits, berries, cucumbers), vitamin E (avocado, leafy greens), vitamin K (figs, soybeans, lettuce), and vitamin B (tomatoes, oats, brown rice) are effective at producing strong, healthy hair.Increase your intake of foods with these vitamins to speed your hair’s growth.
Avoid spicy food before and around the procedure, as it might disrupt the scalp’s ability to heal., Additionally, do not drink alcohol for at least three days post-procedure. If you have headaches or other pain, use an aspirin alternative like acetaminophen, or contact your surgeon for recommendations appropriate for your specific medical history.
 Together, these factors will increase your chances of infection and scarring. Plus, some studies show that smoking limits hair growth, and after getting a hair transplant, you should be doing all you can to encourage your hair to grow.


If you are a smoker, quit immediately. Reduce your cigarette intake by half over the course of two weeks. Then, over the following two weeks, reduce it again by half. Continue in this way until you kick the habit.
Use nicotine gum and patches to help ease cravings.
 Non-absorbable sutures are typically removed 10-14 days after the procedure. Staples are typically removed two to three weeks after the procedure. Your doctor will provide you with details about your follow-up appointment in a post-care information packet before you leave the treatment center.


Do not pull on or otherwise touch your sutures or staples.
If you have absorbable sutures, you’re in luck. Absorbable sutures will dissolve on their own over the course of a week or so, saving you a trip back to the doctor.

