 Use play or virtual food and pretend to feed the pet.
 Use a soft baby brush to groom the pillow. Wash it if needed, following the manufacturer's instructions for using a washing machine. Don't forget to take it out of the machine quickly once washed, to avoid it getting smelly.

Spot cleaning is often more effective than washing the whole pillow.
 It could either sleep in its own little box or you could let it stay on the bed with you. Your pillow pet should be comfortable.
 If you want, tell him/her a story or sing/play him/her a lullaby like "Appalachian Lullaby" from Tanya Goodman. Don't forget to wish it goodnight!, Feed your pet a little bit of food once in a while to make your pet's stomach feel better. If your pet throws up, clean it up and help your pet relax. Make your pet take a nap. If your pet refuses to, tell your pet the throwing up and sickness will never go away.
 Have conversations with it; you can tell it anything as it won't talk!, Play with your pet every day. If your pet has a favorite ball, play with it.


Entertain the pillow pet with toys, play hide-and-seek together, and play your video games together.
 But be careful, there should be some sounds that make you sad, so don't watch anything with those sounds.

Make sure the show is TV-Y, TV-Y7, and TV-G, and the movie is G or PG. Blue's Clues, Team Umizoomi, Bubble Guppies, Max & Ruby, Little Einsteins, and Fanboy & Chum Chum are great examples of shows to watch together.
 Trips are fun! Your pet is probably sick of staying in your house all the time. Whether it is a cool vacation to Disney World or just a visit at Grandma's house, your pet will sure be glad you let it have a nice getaway.


If you are spending the night at a hotel, or a week at a hotel, be sure to bring everything you and your pet needs. If your pet has a favorite ball or blanket or whatever, be sure to bring it. If your pet can't sleep without that special blanket or teddy, and you forget it, tell your pillow pet you are very sorry and you will not forget it the next time you go on vacation and you will let your pet sleep with you.
 Take your pillow pet to a restaurant, a movie theater, museums, parks and more, This is great because you've both a little friend and something to sleep on or rest against. Sit by a window so you and your pet can look out the window and see how far up you two are. If your pet is scared being so high, comfort your pet and tell your pet it won't last for long and your pet will get used to it.
 If you are sleeping on a bunk, and you are sleeping on the top bunk, make sure your pet isn't afraid of high places.
 If you aren't allowed to, and you brought books and fun games, you can play some games. Games you and your pet might like to play are in the tips.
 When you had all your fun, pack up and get ready to leave. If your pet hides behind a couch or under the covers of your bed, ask them why your pet is hiding. If your pet was afraid of the plane, your pet is probably hiding because your pet didn't like the plane ride to the place. If this does happen, tell your pet it will be okay.


Home, sweet home. When you are home, let your pet relax. Help your pet get settled in to your house. When your pet does, watch TV, eat popcorn, or do any fun thing that you couldn't do that your pet loves. Take care of your pet nicely! Have a good life with your pet! Love it very much!







