 The point of a retainer is to maintain the work of your braces, and if you don’t wear it, you risk having your teeth move back to their original position. Wear your retainer for the recommended amount of time, except when eating, cleaning the retainer, or participating in ball sports that could result in injury to the mouth. Remember what it was like to go through braces; you don’t want to have to do that again.For example, your doctor may recommend wearing a removable retainer all the time for three months, then move to only wearing it at night.
 You need to remove your retainer during meals and having a case handy allows you to store your retainer when it’s not in your mouth. While it may be tempting to simply place your retainer on the table next to you, this is less hygienic than a case and also puts your retainer at risk of being broken. Carry your retainer in your pocket, backpack or purse so that you have easy access at all times. Wrapping your retainer in napkins instead of putting it in a case often results in the retainer accidentally getting thrown in the trash.
Retainers are expensive to replace, costing as much as $250. Keeping a case with you will make you less likely to lose your retainer., Having a good cleaning routine prevents buildup of bacteria and keeps your retainer from developing a nasty smell. Be sure to brush your retainer once a day with warm water. Always check with your dentist about which types of cleaners you can use, as you cannot use toothpaste with some retainers.Soak your retainer in a disinfectant at least once a week but preferably once a day. Choose a denture-cleaning solution, and mix the cleanser with one cup of warm water. Or you can opt for dissolving pills that have the similar effect and remove any bacteria on the retainer. You can also use mouthwash.
Instead of commercial cleaners, you can try a few home remedies if you don’t want to use denture cleaner or mouthwash. You can soak your retainer in equal parts water and vinegar for fifteen to thirty minutes or in a 3% hydrogen peroxide for thirty minutes., Heat sources can cause the plastic in the retainer to break or bend. Make sure you don't use hot water to clean it, just warm water. In addition, make sure not to leave it on hot surfaces, like the radiator.