 Trademarking a symbol or logo for your business is a complex process and there are several things that can go wrong. Consulting an attorney who specializes in trademark law is the best way to protect yourself and your business from problems later on.Keep in mind that trademarks, copyrights, and patents protect different types of intellectual property. Trademarks are used to protect symbols, logos, and designs that distinguish your company’s products from your competitors., Before you decide to trademark your symbol or logo, it is important to conduct a search for similar trademarks. Otherwise, you run the risk of trademarking a symbol or logo that is identical or similar to a competitor’s symbol or logo.


You can search for similar trademarks at: http://www.uspto.gov/trademarks-application-process/search-trademark-database


, As you search the database for similar logos and symbols, you should consider the similarities between your logo and/or symbol and those of your competitors. Some things that may affect whether or not your trademark will be accepted include:Sound. Even if your logo is spelled differently than your competitor’s logo, the way the words in the logo sound can be grounds for rejecting a trademark application. For example, if your competitor’s product is called “J. Time,” you could not call your product “Jay Thyme.” These both sound the same when you say them.

Appearance. Trademarks also cannot look the same. Therefore, you could not use “J. Time” as your logo with a different font. For a symbol, you could not use an image that looks similar to one of your competitors.

Meaning. Logos cannot share meaning either. For example, you could not have a brand logo called “Fortunate” if your competitor’s logo bore the name “Lucky.” These words mean almost the same thing.

Commercial Impression. You also cannot use a symbol or logo that might lead to confusion for your customers. For example, you could not use the same symbol as a competitor and just leave out the words in the logo. The image would confuse customers about whether or not the product was made by your competitor.
 Once you are certain that your product’s logo and/or symbol does not infringe on any of your competitors’ logos or symbols, then you can complete an application to register your trademark.


You can file your application online by visiting: http://www.uspto.gov/trademarks-application-process/filing-online


, The cost of filing for a trademark is somewhat high. It ranges between $225 and $325, depending on the type of form you fill out. The three different types of forms include the TEAS plus form, TEAS reduced fee form, and the TEAS regular form.For the plus form and the reduced fee form, you will need to authorize email communication.
You have to complete a full application for the plus form, which offers the lowest filing fee ($225).
The TEAS regular form is ideal for those who do not want to complete the full application right away and do not want to receive correspondence via email.