 There are several ways to do so.


The most direct approach would be to type the word “narrator” in the Start screen search box, and choose the Narrator program from the search results.
You can also start the program by pressing the Windows and U key simultaneously.
Users can also visit the Control Panel, click on the “Ease of Access” icon, and then click on the “Ease of Access Center.”;
, You will be able to view some of the basic controls for the Narrator program present at the top of the Welcome screen.
 When you execute the Narrator program, note that the Narrator’s default settings will include, for example, an American accent. Customize as you please!, This is a good place to start customizing your Narrator program.


The “Read out voiced Narrator errors” option tells the program that you want to hear the text of the actual error read as well as any other sound coming from the Narrator when you commit a mistake.
The “Highlight cursor” option lets you know where the Narrator is on the screen.
The “Play audio cues” option enables the Narrator to notify you by playing an extra sound when you execute certain tasks on the screen.
The “Read UI hints and tips” option controls whether or not the Narrator will grant you a hint or a tip about what the Windows operating system is expecting.
The option present right below the list of check options labelled “Retain notifications to be read for” puts the items forward. The Narrator will remember these items for the duration of the time that you’ve set. When the time limit is reached, whatever text that hasn’t been read yet will no longer be read.
 To optimize your use of the program even more, make sure to go through all the navigation settings, and select your preferences.


The “Read and interact with the screen using the mouse” option controls whether the Narrator reads out the contents currently placed under your mouse cursor.
The “Activate keys on the touch keyboard when you lift your finger” option is intended for people who use touch interface devices, and type by sliding their fingers from one letter to the next using the keyboard. Enabling this setting forces the Narrator to announce the letter you typed only after you’ve lifted your finger off the key.
The “Narrator cursor to follow keyboard focus” option will move here and there from items present on the screen as you keep on tapping the tab key.
 The voice settings section is one area where Microsoft can be thoroughly applauded for. In the voice settings, you will be given three options: "Speed of the voice," "Volume of the voice," and "Pitch of the voice."


Before selecting, you can play around with these settings to see which one is to your liking.
 Here you can view and alter several keyboard shortcuts that have been assimilated into the Narrator program.


Since there are more than 100 combinations you can choose from, go the trial-and-error route to see which best suit your purpose.
 Remember to click on “Save” before exiting the settings window; otherwise, your custom settings will not take effect.

