 Place the shrimp and salt in a large bowl and mash them together using a wooden spoon or your hands.


If possible, use fresh shrimp instead of frozen shrimp.
Make sure that the shrimp has been washed in running water and drained well in a colander before using it.
The salt must coat the shrimp evenly after you mix the two ingredients together. The shrimp must be allowed to absorb as much salt as possible.;
, Set the shrimp mixture off to the side and allow it to stand for two hours.


The shrimp mixture should sit out at room temperature during this time. You can cover it partially with a loose sheet of plastic wrap to prevent dust and debris from falling in, but do not create a tight seal.
 Place the rice and bamboo shoots in the salted shrimp mixture. Use your hands or a wooden spoon to mix them in thoroughly.


The rice should be freshly cooked, slightly cooled, and slightly watery when added to the shrimp mixture.
Strictly speaking, the bamboo shoots are optional. Shrimp, salt, and rice are the only ingredients that must be included, but bamboo shoots are highly recommended.
 Transfer the mixture to a clean, dry glass jar. Leave at least 1/2 inch (1 cm) of empty headspace at the top of the jar, then seal it.


You can use separate jars or opt for one jar. If using one jar, it will need to hold 1 to 2 gallons (4 to 8 L).
Cover the top of the jar tightly with a sheet of clean plastic wrap. After covering it with the plastic, tightly screw on the cap.
 Allow the mixture to sit in a cool location for 3 to 10 days.


It is best to keep the jar in a slightly cool location. A refrigerator can be too cold, but a humid kitchen is too warm. A basement or cellar is ideal.
 After buro ferments, you should store it by keeping the jar in your refrigerator or freezer.


When stored in the refrigerator, the buro should last for about one month. When stored in the freezer, it should remain good for two to three months.
If storing the buro in the freezer, you may wish to separate the buro into serving size portions before freezing it. That way, you will not have to defrost the entire jar just to use a portion of it.
 When you are ready to serve the buro, sauté the amount you want in hot oil, onion, and garlic for roughly 10 minutes on medium heat.


For one-quarter of the buro produced in this recipe, use 1/2 cup (125 ml) vegetable oil, 2 Tbsp (30 ml) minced garlic, and 2 cups (500 ml) chopped onions.
Cook the garlic and onions in the oil, stirring occasionally, until they become fragrant and lightly browned. Use a medium skillet or saucepan.
Add one-quarter of the buro to the pan with the onions and garlic. Cook for 10 minutes, stirring continuously, until browned.

