 Are you only planning to dress like a Shadowhunter for Halloween, Comic Con, or some other one-time deal? Or do you wish to adopt their aesthetic for your own day-to-day wear? Depending on which route you take, think about how authentic you wish to be, since leather and tattoos are signature styles for Shadowhunters, which can be quite expensive and, in the latter case, either permanent or really time-consuming if you reapply temporary tattoos on a daily basis.;
, Feel free to accent your outfits with complementary colors that also match your hair and skin tone, but limit those colors to accents, as opposed to making them your clothes’ primary color. As a rule, though, default to solid black, especially if you are going out on the hunt. Also, stick to solids without any prints, logos, or designs (unless your fashion is inspired more by Clary).


If you plan on dressing the part on a day-to-day basis, feel free to vary the “all-black” look with more color. But if this is a one-time deal, like for a Halloween party, stick to all-black to make your costume easy to identify.
 Since Shadowhunters often find themselves brawling with demons, always dress so that you are ready to fight. If you can afford it, opt for leather pants and jackets, since Shadowhunters often wear these because they look bad-ass AND stand up to serious wear and tear. If the cost of leather is too much (or if you have a moral objection to animal products), go with another durable material, like denim.


Also, choose form-fitting clothes rather than loose ones, since you don’t want to give those pesky demons any extra handholds to seize.
Some characters, like Isabelle, stray from the rough-and-tumble look and dress more femininely. So whether you're dressing up for one night only or every single night of the week, go ahead and stray from the Sarah Connor aesthetic if you like. However, be sure that whatever articles of clothing you choose fit comfortably and allow you a wide range of movement so you're ready to kick some butt at any time.
 Unless you plan on wearing no jacket at all, wear short-sleeves or sleeveless tops. This way you can slip your form-fitting jacket on and off without anything bunching up along your arms. Also, if you take the time and care to draw some authentic-looking runes on your body like a true Shadowhunter, be sure to keep your arms clear so you can easily show off your fantastic body art!


If you take your fashion cues from Alec, only wear sleeveless tops, since Alec wears a sleeveless leather jacket, too.
If you plan on dressing like a Shadowhunter all the time (as opposed to a one-time costume), feel free to disregard this step and wear long sleeves, since Shadowhunters generally try to keep their runes hidden from view.
 Remember: they’re not just made for walking. Keep your feet well-protected with a tough pair of black boots when you go out stomping evil creatures. If you opt to wear a mini-skirt instead of pants, and if you happen to be very petite, choose a pair of knee-high boots to catch other people’s eye.
 Draw runes on your body. Wear military-style belts, or even a utility belt. Bring a dagger or sword with you to stand in for your seraph blade (which magically extends from a dagger to a sword with an incantation). Be sure to only carry replicas, however, for physical safety and legal purposes.


If you are going out as any characters, carry a stele with you, since every character has one.
If you are dressing up as Isabelle, find a bracelet that resembles a whip, since she wears her whip as a bracelet.

