 Everyone knows that Barbie has blonde hair, so if you really want to imitate Barbie's look you'll have to follow suit!


If you really want to commit to the Barbie look, you'll probably need to bleach your hair to get that white-blonde effect. If you've never done this before, you should book an appointment with a professional hair stylist -- you don't want to ruin your hair!
If you're not ready to commit to all-over bleach, you can lighten the color of your hair less dramatically using a blonde hair dye or by getting highlights. Again see a professional if you don't feel comfortable doing this yourself.
But if you're simply trying to achieve the Barbie look for a costume party or fancy dress, a blond wig is your best option. This will give you perfect Barbie-blonde hair without the need for permanent color or dye.
 Barbie's hair is always perfect, without a strand out of place. If you decided to buy a blonde wig, your job is pretty much done, but styling your natural hair to look like Barbie requires a little more effort.


Keep your hair in good condition by washing it frequently with a moisturizing shampoo and conditioner. This is important, as blonde hair color can be very drying.
Keep your hair as long as possible, but make sure it's in good condition by getting it trimmed regularly. Barbie sometimes has bangs, so consider getting those cut in too.
If you decide to wear your hair down, use a flat iron to make large, loose waves and use some hairspray to give your hair lots of volume.
Alternatively, you can just wear your hair straight or tie it up in a high ponytail -- it depends on which Barbie look you're trying to achieve.
 Barbie has sun-kissed skin, something you can achieve by tanning your skin naturally or using self-tanner from a bottle.


If you can tan naturally, you're lucky. However, you still need to take good care of your skin. Always wear sun-tan lotion while sunbathing to prevent sunburn and skin damage -- otherwise you will pay the price in later life.
If you need to apply self-tanner, use one that builds up gradually and compliments your natural skin tone. Make sure to exfoliate well before applying -- this removes any rough or flaky skin and prevent the self-tanner from looking patchy.
Regardless of whether your tan is natural or fake, you should moisturize your skin regularly with a hydrating lotion to keep your skin nice and soft.
 Barbie girls should always have perfectly manicured nails -- on fingers and toes. You can paint your nails yourself or go to a salon for a more professional finish.


Obviously pink is the natural choice for Barbie nail color, but you could branch out a little by going for something like purple or orange -- as long as it's something bright and cheery. No dark colors, like red, purple or black (unless you wanna be a Goth Barbie!)
Another good option is a French manicure -- light pink or peach base with a white tip. This is very classic and sophisticated and works well with the Barbie look.
If you apply the nail polish yourself, try to be as neat as possible. Apply a single stroke of polish down the center of your nail, then do a second and third stroke on either side. Clean up any mistakes with a cotton bud dipped in nail polish remover.
If you decide to get your nails done professionally, think about getting a gel manicure. These are more expensive than a regular manicure, but the polish will last for up to three weeks and won't chip or peel.

