 Go to a spot where you can be alone. Make sure that those around you know not to disturb your solitude while you're there.


The location can be as plain and simple as your bedroom or a quiet corner of your house.
On the other hand, some people find it more beneficial to chant in a space that is spiritually uplifting. This could include a quiet spot in the park or a small church (or similar place of worship).;
, Remove anything in the space that could draw your attention away from your chants. This includes any visual or auditory distraction.


You can play soft instrumental music in the background or a soundtrack of natural sounds if it helps you focus, but any music that distracts you from the words you chant should be eliminated.
Clocks can be distracting because they draw your attention to the passage of time and away from the words you're chanting.
 Many people find it helpful to chant in front of a picture or similar symbol of the deity they worship. That image can help maintain your focus and elevate your chants to a spiritual level.You can use an iconic picture or an image that represents your deity.
Other options might include small statues, religious medals, and similar three-dimensional tokens.
Note that some faiths prohibit the use of visual images and icons, however. If this is the case or if you are otherwise uncomfortable with this practice, you can skip this step.
 Chant in the morning, before the distractions of the day have set in, or just before bed, when your thoughts are already winding down.


The important thing is to pick a time when there are fewer thoughts buzzing around in your mind. Early morning and late night are usually the best for most people, but if you find it easiest to focus your mind in the middle of the afternoon, that time of day would work just as well.
 Sit in a comfortable chair or lie down on a bed. Reduce the amount of physical suffering you have to endure to prevent your thoughts from straying toward the way your body feels.


Aside from sitting comfortably, you also need to do everything you can to make your overall body feel as relaxed as possible. Change into loose, soft clothes. Empty your bladder. Stretch if your muscles are sore or stiff.
 You can let your hands rest at your sides or in your lap, but if you position your hands in a specific, intentional pose, their placement will serve as a constant reminder of the purpose of your activity.


The most common hand posture associated with chanting and meditation is the mudrā. Touch the tip of your index finger to the tip of your thumb, and let the rest of your fingers curl gently and naturally. Do this with both hands.
Alternatively, keep both hands straight and lightly press the palms and fingers together, creating standard "prayer hands."

, Look straight forward and keep your gaze fixed on a single point. If this proves too distracting, you could try closing your eyes, instead.


If you keep your gaze on a fixed point, choose something simple, like a stationary spot on the wall or the handle of a closet door. Avoid looking at detailed objects or objects that move, especially if those movements are erratic or unpredictable.
If you choose to keep your eyes closed, make sure that you are not tempted to drift off to sleep. If you feel your thoughts wavering and your consciousness fading, you should open your eyes again.
 There are many different things you can chant. The right words will depend on your faith and spirituality. You can use a common prayer or mantra, or you could come up with your own chant that has meaning for you alone.


If you belong to a certain faith, you can chant a common prayer of your faith. For instance, a Christian could chant the Lord's Prayer.
You could also chant a verse from a religious text. For example, a Jew or Christian might chant a psalm.
Any set of meaningful words could be beneficial, though. Paramhansa Yogananda, an Indian yogi, wrote rhythmic chants that are still used by many people. One such chant goes: "I am the bubble, make me the sea. / So do Thou, my Lord! Thou and I, never apart, / Wave of the sea dissolve in the sea, / I am the bubble, make me the sea."
Another popular option is to simply chant "om". This is a sound that supposedly resonates within each person and vibrates throughout the universe.
 Begin the chant by reciting the words aloud in a clear, strong voice. By both speaking and hearing the words, you awaken your conscious mind to the meaning of those words.


To further guide your conscious mind, you can also play a recording of the chant for a few minutes and chant along with it. Doing so is only optional, though.
Chant at a normal volume or a slightly louder than normal volume when you start. The louder your own voice resonates within you, the easier it will be to drown out all unrelated thoughts and feelings., Gradually decrease the volume of your voice. Soften it to a whisper before closing your mouth altogether and reciting the words only in your mind.


Once your conscious thoughts are focused on the chant, reduce your volume to a whisper. This action brings your chant to a subconscious level.
As you whisper, you should eventually feel the words and rhythm of the chant vibrate throughout your mind. At that point, remain outwardly silent and continue chanting inside your mind. Imagine fixating your chant at a place in between your eyebrows. At this point, you have drawn the chant into your super conscious, elevating it to a spiritual discipline.
 As your volume decreases, the speed at which you recite the lines should gradually increase. After reciting the chant at a rapid speed for a short period of time, gradually decrease the speed back to normal again.


Varying the speed of your chants can refresh and refocus your mind when it begins to stray. By changing the pace of your words, you must pay closer attention to the words themselves.
 When you are reciting a repetitive prayer or mantra, keeping count of the number of recitations can also keep you focused. One of the easiest, most common ways to keep count is to use some form of prayer or chant beads.



Mala, or Japa-Mala, are strings of beads used to count Sanskrit mantras. These beads allow you to count your prayers in sets of 108 repetitions.
A Rosary is a similar set of prayer beads used by Roman Catholics. Each element of the Rosary has a certain fixed prayer assigned to it, however, so you'll need to know which prayers go with each piece.
 The goal is to coordinate your chants with your natural breathing pattern. Each time you begin your chant, you should try to do so on an inhale.


There is a theory that thoughts and stimuli from the external environment enter the internal mind as a person inhales. By focusing on your chant each time you breathe in, you can reduce the effect of these external distractions.
 If you are chanting for spiritual or worship purposes, a good way to remind yourself of the purpose for your chants is to speak an occasional prayer for guidance and focus throughout the chanting period.


The prayer you interject with should be from the heart, rather than one that you have memorized.
You can pray for focus and guidance by saying something like, "God, please help me to concentrate on the words and meaning behind these words as I chant."
You could also try a prayer of gratitude, like, "God, thank you for speaking to me through the practice of chanting."

, This means that you will need to practice chanting regularly. After chanting regularly for a prolonged period of time, it will become easier to stay focused even in the midst of distraction.


Chanting is a unique form of worship in that it requires no previous sense of inspiration. You do not need to perfect it or feel moved before engaging in it. You only need to commit to starting it.
In this sense, chanting is a devotional practice. Even if the words do not inspire you as you begin to speak them, you are offering a heartfelt prayer through the words and through the discipline you display in reciting them., Auto suggestions are ideas you plant deep within your consciousness to help guide your subconscious thoughts and behaviors.


Your autosuggestion could be something as straightforward as, "When I think useless thoughts, I will become aware of it and refocus on chanting."
After chanting for several minutes, repeat your autosuggestion five times in a row. You can either recite it in the middle of your chants or wait until you finish a full period of chanting.
 There is no rule saying that you can only chant when you have perfect peace and quiet. In fact, taking a few minutes in the midst of your busy day to recite a chant can help clarify your mind, heart, and spirit.


It is often easiest to repeat a chant during your daily activities when that chant is one you have already used during a time of focused meditation.

