 Hold one nostril closed with your thumb while you exhale gently through the other nostril, then switch. This prevents pressure buildup in your sinuses and clears mucus better than blowing your nose the “normal” way.Be sure to wash your hands after blowing your nose.;
, Add 1








You can also purchase saline solution in a drug store.
 The neti pot thins mucus and flushes it out of your nasal passage. Follow the instructions that come with your specific neti pot. In general, follow these guidelines for use:









Make an irrigating solution of 16 ounces lukewarm (and sterile) water, along with 1 teaspoon of salt. Fill your neti pot with the saline solution.
Stand over your sink or in the shower. Tilt your head sideways so that your forehead and chin are about level and bring the tip of the neti pot to the uppermost nostril. The saline solution will go into one nostril, travel through your nasal cavity, and come out of the other nostril. If the solution drips into your mouth, just spit it out. Blow your nose and repeat the process on the other side.If you suffer from severe sinus problems or allergies, you can try irrigating daily.Once symptoms improve, use it three times per week.
Make sure your neti pot is always clean before you use it.
Always use distilled, sterile, or boiled and cooled water in your neti pot., Hop into the shower for about 10 to 20 minutes, using the warmest water you can stand. Breathe in and out deeply, filling your lungs and nasal passages with steam. Alternately, place your head over a steaming pot of water and drape a towel over the back of your head to capture the steam.









Add several drops of eucalyptus oil to the hot water. Eucalyptus may have soothing properties that help open up a clogged nose.Some people find adding some chamomile tea to the water to be soothing.
 Humidifiers help put moisture into the air, which helps to flush your nostrils.Warm-mist and cool-mist humidifiers are equally effective, but always use a cool-mist humidifier for children to prevent burns. Be sure to keep your humidifier clean.








If you don't have a humidifier, bring some water to boil, place the pot on a heat-safe trivet, and let it rest in a room you'll be in. The warm steam will increase the moisture content in the room.
 Create a warm compress by soaking a clean towel in hot water, then squeezing the excess water out and folding the towel in half. Make the water as hot as you can comfortably stand it, but not so hot that it will burn you.