 This will improve the effect that you have been changing over the break.;
, They will think you are insane. If you follow these steps and act correctly, they will think they found out your "big secret"!

, Follow them, but don’t stalk them, to most places, and in dangerous situations, protect them. Since you are, unfortunately not an actual werewolf with any powers, ensure you do not put yourself or your friend in any danger.
 If they wouldn't, then don't ask, as they would most likely think you are crazy and not be friends with you anymore.



If you can, play hooky on full moons and new moons. If people ask you where you were yesterday, act really worried and mumble some excuses.
 Don't wear skirts or dresses. After a full moon, sprinkle a little dirt on your shirt and shoes. Only do this if your parents don't mind your clothes getting dirty.
, Just keep your distance but remember to be friendly.
, This will help you draw minimal attention to yourself, but if anyone notices you, you will look natural and beautiful. The dark eyeliner will make your eyes more intense and helps with giving defensive glares at people who might stare.
 Wolves and werewolves are quite hairy. You don't have to shave, so a light coating on your arms and legs would work too.
 If someone teases you, give them a look that says "No." and act defensive. A wolf would do the same, but wolves usually engage in a fight, which you should avoid at all costs.
 Wolves are natural predators, and they are always moving and waiting. Improve your balance, grace, and patience to perfect the look of a wolf hunting prey. Though you can do this, make it minimal so people will not be freaked out that you are glaring at them hungrily and hunting them down.
 This will improve your technique. Also, if you own a dog, watch how it plays, sleeps, eats, etc.
, If someone invites you over after 7:00 or dusk, say you can't and that you have something to do. If they ask what, make up an activity that you could actually do, like "Oh, I am just going grocery shopping. It won't be much fun." White lies are okay in this situation, but try to never lie because it could get you into a heap of trouble.
 Play Frisbee to help with reflexes.
 Do the opposite if you're more of a pack kind of wolf.
, Pretend to crave meat like crazy, but this is only optional.
 Animals are almost all afraid of fire. Don't go near fire and if you see fire stare at it and snarl a little not too loud just loud enough that one or two people can hear it., Pretend to have a really keen sense of smell and scratch like you have picked up the odd flea from running around chasing deer at night.,