 The term "antiques" can include subcategories such as toys, furniture, jewelry, clothing, books, clocks, watches and a variety of other objects, so finding at least a general area of interest will help you to pursue your educational and career goals more effectively.;
, There are no set federal requirements; some legal jurisdictions have their own standards for the required level of education, certification, required exams, and hours of experience. You must understand and fulfill all of the specific obligations prior to practicing as an antique appraiser.
 Depending upon your area of specialization, earning a degree in art history or the fine arts from a traditional college or university will benefit you. Courses in antiques appraisal and in specific areas of specialization are available in class or online as correspondence courses, offering either degrees or certificates. Bear in mind, however, that you will still need 'hands on' experience with antiques to develop your skills. The flexibility of educational requirements enables you to tailor your educational experience to your immediate needs and goals as well as the pursuit of your career.
 Compiling an assortment of books that have detailed descriptions and pictures of authentic antiques, especially in your area of specialization, will benefit you throughout your career. Choose the books that best suit your needs, according the area of antiques appraisal you plan to specialize in.
 Auction houses, museums, and companies specializing in collecting, insuring, appraising, cleaning, or restoring antiques can provide useful work experience and hours of experience that can be applied to the number of hours required by your state or region. Many experienced antique appraisers connected with these organizations will also mentor those entering the field.


In addition, collecting objects specific to your area of antiques can provide real-life experience to compliment your education and training.
 It is not necessary to join a professional organization of antique appraisers, and most have membership fees and dues. However, membership provides credibility and support, as strict standards of ethics are upheld within each organization. This will help you establish and further your career and reputation as an antique appraiser.
 Antiques appraisers can work in or for a variety of organizations, including museums, auction houses, different government offices, or law firms, either as permanent employees or for one specific appraisal. Working for a company can offer continuous work, but freelancing affords more flexibility in where and when you work. Many antique appraisers begin by working for a company to gain work experience and establish a credible reputation before freelancing.

