 You might feel overwhelmed at the prospect of feeding your child with Crohn's. That is normal. It might help to learn more about the disease. Do some research to more fully understand what your child is going through.Children suffering from Crohn's frequently have to deal with many issues. A flare up of Crohn's can include symptoms such as abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, intestinal bleeding and weight loss. Some symptoms, like skin rashes, joint swelling or pain, and problems with eyes, can also manifest outside of the gastrointestinal area.
Many children with Crohn's will try to avoid eating. This is often because eating can cause discomfort. Try to be patient and understand why your child is resisting food.
Your child might be disappointed if favorite foods are removed from their diet. Ask your nutritionist to help you find substitute foods.
 Diet is one of the most effective ways to help your child deal with Crohn's. In addition to knowing what to feed him, try to do other things that can reduce the effects of the disease. For example, you can talk to your doctor about medication.Abdominal pain is one of the major issues your child will cope with. Your doctor may prescribe steroids, other medications that reduce inflammation or affect the immune system, or antibiotics to help lessen the inflammation.
There might also be surgical treatment options available to your child. An ileostomy and a colostomy are both common procedures.
Talk to your doctor about all of your options. Treatment options will depend on your child's age and health.
 Your child might have a tough time dealing emotionally with Crohn's disease. Many kids suffer from depression and body image problems. Keep a close eye on your child's behavior and talk to your doctor if you notice any problems.If your child doesn't feel well, he might be tempted to withdraw socially. Encourage your child to maintain his friendships.
Talk to your doctor about your child's behavior. If your child is older, it might be useful to talk to a counselor.
You might feel very protective of your child. That is normal. However, it is important to try to treat your child as normally as possible.
 It can be challenging to cope with a child with Crohn's. You will likely feel a wide range of emotions. Remember, you are in a difficult situation, too. Don't be afraid to ask for help.Lean on friends and family. Try saying, "I'm having a tough day. Do you have some time to talk?"
Don't be too hard on yourself. Dealing with Crohn's has a learning curve. Give yourself time to adjust.
Join a support group. There are many online communities that can offer advice and support.

