 The interest in this type of compounds stems from the fact that many sugars have biological roles in the body that is manifested as their involvement in certain biochemical processes in the body. Examples are the sugars glucose and fructose both of which have important metabolic functions at the cellular level inside the body. Sugars can have open form structure as well as a cyclic form structure. The cyclic form is the more thermodynamically stable compound among the two possible forms.
 The practice of organic heterocyclic compounds which contain oxygen in its molecular structure is basically the practice of sugars chemistry and its derivatives. These compounds and its derivatives have potential uses as pharmacological drugs that can be used to treat certain types of diseases., These sugars are convenient targets of drugs that have slightly different structure but which can mimic their biological function. Thus the result is the interference with the normal function of the physiological sugar. This can for example interrupt the normal function of the DNA molecule by substituting the pharmacological sugar instead of the physiological sugar., Also heterocyclic organic compounds which contain oxygen have other potential uses such as their use as solvents in many organic reactions. An example is the compound Tetrahydrofuran. This compound has unusual chemical properties as an excellent solvent for organic and organometallic reactions. Oxygen containing compounds which are used often in the laboratory as solvents have the disadvantage of their being potential to form peroxides. These compounds are potential explosive material that can harm the user of these compounds. For these reasons the handling of oxygen based solvents must be carefully kept under inert atmosphere of nitrogen or argon. Nitrogen has been shown not be completely inert when used as an atmosphere for a chemical reactions., For these reasons chemists that want to design conditions for their reactions must choose these conditions very carefully., This is ascribed to the fact that oxygen is more electronegative than nitrogen and therefore it is less likely to give its lone pair of electrons in a chemical reaction. For these reasons alcohols are not as reactive as amines. Alcohols must be deprotonated using a strong base in order to obtain a reactive oxygen species that can enter a chemical reaction. Deprotonated oxygen in alcohols is called an alkoxide and has more basic character than nucleophilic character., This is especially true in the absence of an acid in the medium of the reaction. This alkoxide is the predominant species that participate in the cyclization process of alcohols to form heterocyclic compounds that contain oxygen atoms., Activation of alcohols requires deprotonation of the hydrogen that is attached to the oxygen atom. This is usually done using a very strong base such as butyl-lithium or tert-butyl-lithium. These two compounds are extremely unstable compounds that can react with any substance in its environment. Therefore they require special handling such as working under inert atmosphere of an inert gas., A special type of heterocyclic compounds which contains oxygen is the aromatic heterocyclic compound. A typical example is the furan molecule and benzofuran. The aromaticity of these two compounds relies on the fact that they share the electrons lone pair on oxygen as part of the aromatic electrons., These compounds are important due to its ability to solvate positively charged ions that under normal conditions would precipitate in a medium of organic solvent. There are various types of these crow ethers. Each is designed to solvate different type of ions based on its ionic size.