 If the father will not take a DNA test voluntarily, then you can obtain a court order compelling him to take the test. You will have to file a complaint in the appropriate court, which is the court in the county where the child lives.If you have questions about where exactly to file, then contact a family law attorney or the family law facilitator at the courthouse in the county where you reside.
In California, you can have your local child support agency initiate a paternity suit.All you need to do is contact your county’s agency, which can be found by using this interactive map.
 Many states have pre-printed “fill in the blank” forms for you to fill out. You will need to fill out any form and get a summons from the court clerk.


The forms go by different names in different states. Ask the court clerk for the appropriate forms. In California, the forms are called “Petition to Establish Parental Relationship,” Form FL-200 and “Summons,” Form FL-210. In Texas, you will have to fill out a “Petition to Adjudicate Parentage” and a “Motion for Genetic Testing and Notice of Hearing.”You also will need to fill out a “Declaration under the Uniform Child Custody Jurisdiction and Enforcement Act,” Form FL-105.
 Once you have completed your forms, you must make copies. Make at least 1 copy for the father and 2 copies for your records. Take the original and copies to the court clerk.


File the original with the clerk and have your copies stamped as well.You may also have to send blank forms (such as a Response form) for the father to fill out. Ask the clerk what forms you may have to send.Typically, you can have papers served on the father using the sheriff. The court clerk will schedule, and you will be charged a small fee unless you fill out a fee waiver form.Many states also allow you to use a professional process server who can make personal service on the father.
Some states also allow service by mail. Since this is less reliable than personal service, states often discourage it., Once the sheriff or the process server makes service, he or she will fill out a “Proof of Service” form indicating that service was made. You must then make a copy and file this proof with the court., The father will respond and deny parentage, accept parentage, or not respond at all. If he denies parentage, then the court will review the evidence to see if a DNA test is warranted.If the father does not respond, then you can get a default judgment. You will have to fill out certain forms and file them.Ask the court clerk for the appropriate forms.
Once you receive a default judgment, the father will have to come into court if he wants to contest parentage.

