 Use contrasting colors so that the designs stand out. For example, you could paint your frame red, and then add green stripes to it. You could also paint it white, and then add black spots into it.
 This can be done onto a painted frame or an unpainted frame. If you are adding designs onto a painted frame, make sure that the paint is completely dry first.


Try some fun, simple designs, such as hearts, starts, spirals, and squiggles.
 Make sure that the stamp is narrow enough to fit on your frame. Small, simple designs, such as stars or chevron patterns, will work best.Do this on an unpainted frame. Stamp ink does not show up well on paint.
 Consider tying the theme of the items into the theme of the photo. For example, if the photo in your frame was taken at a beach, consider gluing down some tiny shells onto the frame. Here are some more ideas to get you started:Buttons or pompoms
Natural items, such as twigs or shells
Sand or glitter
Sequins or gemstones
Small ribbon bows or silk flowers

, You can glue the ribbon right onto the sides of the frame, or wrap it around the sticks, like a candy cane. Consider painting the frame a solid color first, and then gluing the ribbon on.To continue the "sewing" theme, glue a large button in each corner of the frame.
 Glue tiny/mini puzzle pieces onto your frame. Wait for the glue to dry, then paint the entire frame a solid color. Make sure that you get the paint into the cracks between the puzzle pieces. Wait for the paint to dry, then attach a ribbon on the back so that you can hang it.Consider gluing mini foam letters to the front of the frame to spell a message. The letters should not stick out beyond the edges of the frame.
 Paint the entire frame your favorite color. Great princess colors include pink, purple, white, and light blue. Wait for the paint to dry, then glue some glitter onto it. Great colors include silver, gold, and iridescent. When the glitter dries, glue a sparkly gemstone in each corner of the frame. Silver gemstones will match most frames, but you can also use colors like pink and purple.Consider painting the glitter on instead. Mix some white glue with a few drops of water. Stir some glitter into the glue, then paint it on with a paintbrush.
Most gemstones will be round or oval. You can use those, or a special shape instead, such as a star, heart, or crown.

