 It sounds ridiculous, but this prepares your brain for planning.;
, you may start by writing down the goals or thoughts you have for the mentoring programme. Make sure you identify the group you would like to mentor, i.e. over 50's, single parents etc. What do you want to / feel comfortable mentoring others on? When would you like to start and where would the meetings take place? How often should it be? How many people would be involved? Would you need to get other people to help you? And at what stage would this help be required? Who would fund it? (You would have some costs including rent of space used, refreshments, pc/internet rental, phone bill, other equipment depending on your target group.
 Are you planning to mentor your mentee for more than 3, 6 or 10 months? Would they require your services for longer?

, Can you refer your mentees to another trusted mentor if you need to?

, Can you get someone to replace you should you decide to move on? Can the mentee become independent of you after the original planned duration? What if they become dependent? What can you do to prevent this?

, Are you equipped for this project? Do you need training, or need to find a mentor yourself to guide you through the mentoring steps? Do you have any qualifications or experience to share with your mentees?

, do you have friends, neighbours or colleagues that share the same vision? Why don't you share your vision with a few other responsible members of your interest groups? These may form your core group. Do they need to be checked at the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) in the UK or the relevant local police authority where you are? If working with vulnerable mentees, the disabled, children and senior citizens, protect your clients and your program by obtaining all required credentials.
 Finalise who the target mentees are and make plans to contact them.
 be realistic with your plan, would the volunteers be happy to go ahead with this? Invite some respectable people to grace the launching occasion.
 make noise about it. don't rush to pay for this. seek free advertisement all the time. Only pay when you have to!

, At this time, you would have contacted a few mentees who are ready to start on the programme. Introduce yourself in a formal or an informal way. choose the one that suits your intended style of mentorship.
,