 The snare drum is perhaps the most important drum in any drum set. It is a rather shallow drum fitted with a set of tightened wires underneath the resonant head; this gives it its signature "crack" sound. In nearly any musical style, the snare drum is played on the back beats (beats 2 and 4 in a 4/4 time signature).;
, The bass drum, often called a kick drum, fits hand-in-glove with the snare drum. The bass drum has a large diameter, most commonly 22 inches (56 cm), and thus has a deep, resounding sound. It is played with the drummer's right foot using a pedal. It is often played on the upbeats (beat 1 and 3 in a 4/4 time signature) to balance the snare drum back beat.
 If you could only choose 3 components for an extremely basic drum set, the best choices would be a snare drum, bass drum, and a pair of hi-hat cymbals. The hi-hats are played in eighth- and sixteenth-note patterns to fill in the drum groove of nearly any kind of music. They can be closed and opened using a foot pedal located under the drummer's left foot.
 The ride cymbal is the largest cymbal in a drum set, usually with a diameter between 20 and 22 inches (50 - 56 cm). It is the next most important component after the snare, bass, and hi-hat. Ride cymbals are used for the same eighth- and sixteenth-note patterns as the hi-hat, but provide a more sustained, "washy" sound. Ride cymbal patterns are especially prevalent in jazz drumming.
 Crash cymbals are smaller than ride cymbals, usually boasting a diameter between 15 and 18 inches (38 - 45 cm). Splash cymbals are even smaller and higher in pitch, with diameters ranging from 6 inches to 14 inches (15 - 35 cm). These cymbals are usually struck on their edge, providing a loud, piercing impact that is ideal for ending drum fills.
 The remaining drums in a drum set are called toms or tom-toms. These drums do not have snare wires underneath them, and so provide a more mellow sound than the snare drum. Toms can be mounted over the bass drum or supported on a set of adjustable legs. They are most often used in drum fills, but can also form crucial parts of the groove in Latin American and Afro-Cuban drum patterns.

