 To create animations with Photoshop, you will need to have at least Photoshop CS3 Extended. Versions of Photoshop starting with CS6 includes animation in all versions.;
, From the File menu, choose Import > Video Frames to Layers...


Select a movie file. Be aware that Photoshop will only import a maximum of 500 frames. If the movie file you've selected is longer than that, you will need to trim it.
 In the Import Video to Layers window, make any adjustments necessary. The options under Range to Import are the main ones you'll want to look at.


"From Beginning To End" is the most straightforward. Photoshop will attempt to import every frame of the movie. If there are more than 500 frames, the movie will be truncated at that point.
"Selected Range Only" lets you choose the in and out points using the controls at the bottom. Use the scroll thumb to quickly look through the movie, and drag the bookends below that to set the range of frames to import.
"Limit To Every Frames" will cut your frames by at least half, at the expense of choppier animation.
"Make Frame Animation" enables both the conversion of the movie into layers, and turns the layers into an animation. Deselecting it will still import the movie into layers, but does not then create an animation. For this tutorial, we will leave it selected.
When you're set up, click OK to import your movie. It will take a couple seconds, then you will see all the individual frames in the Layer menu, and each individual frame spread out across the timeline.
 You can use Photoshop's adjustment layers to add effects, color correction, brightness and contrast, and more. Adjustment layers are, by default, applied to all layers below them.


You can apply a wide variety of built-in adjustments. You can also add a new layer using an overlay to change the character of the video, or a new base layer to add a background.
For example, you could have a short video of somebody just standing there looking around. On the lowest layer, you might add a picture of the city—or the country—to place them in a particular environment. You could then add adjustment layer on top of everything, to give it a sepia tone. You could even recreate the look of the animated newspapers in the Harry Potter movies.
 Click on a frame in the Timeline window, and find the matching layer. By default, the frame number is the same as the layer's name, i.e., frame 18 can be found on Layer 18.


You can modify any individual layer, either to add effects, or clean up glitches, or whatever strikes your fancy. If you do this over several frames, you can even animate your effects.
For example, if you add a lens flare to one frame, in the next frame you could type Control-Alt-F (Command-Option-F on Mac) to bring up the same filter. Reduce the effect by 10%, then move to the next frame and repeat the process. Continue until you've reduced the effect to 0, and it will look like the lens flare is animated.
 From the File menu, select Save for Web... This will let you set the size and output options for the GIF, as needed to fit your requirements.

