 Ear mites will cause your dog to scratch in his ears a lot. In addition, he may scratch around his ears if the ear mites have moved outside his ears.Ear mites may also cause scratching around his head and neck if they have crawled to those areas. If the itching is intense enough, your dog may pull out his hair when scratching.Your dog may or not scratch other parts of his body where the ear mites have crawled to.;
, Ear mites can cause so much irritation that your dog will start shaking his head. This head shaking may be frequent, depending on the severity of the ear mite infestation. Frequent head shaking can damage the blood vessels in the ear, causing a pool of blood and formation of a hematoma (large blood clot).Head shaking is meant to relieve the itching, but may not be very effective at doing so., The constant itching can leave your dog feeling pretty miserable, especially if he has a developed an infection in his ears from all the scratching. Mood changes to watch out for include depression and a bad temper. In addition, your dog may start running in circles in the direction of the most severely affected ear., Ear mites affect the outer part of the ear canal (the part you can see), called the otitis externa.They can pierce through the skin lining the ear canal, causing irritation.Redness is a common sign of irritation.Your dog's ears may be very painful and sensitive, so use caution when touching them.
 If your dog scratches enough, the insides of his ears could start bleeding. When the blood dries, it would start to resemble coffee grounds.Dried blood is a common indication of ear mites.


Ear mites also cause excessive production of brown wax. The combination of wax and dried blood create the look of coffee grounds in the ears., Since ear mites are not confined to the ears, you may see evidence of irritation and scratching (e.g., abrasions, scratches) around your dog’s ears.In addition, you may see rashes on the skin around the ears., The intense scratching caused by ear mites can damage the skin in your dog’s ears and lead to an invasion of bacteria. A secondary bacterial infection can cause pus to drain out of your dog’s ears.It would look yellowish or greenish.
 Ear mites themselves do not have an odor, but the secondary infections caused by ear mite irritation could cause your dog’s ears to smell badly. If you detect a foul scent coming from his ears, a bacterial or yeast infection is likely present., If your dog is showing signs of an ear mite infestation, take him to your veterinarian for diagnosis and treatment.Your veterinarian will perform diagnostic tests and then recommend treatments to kill the mites.


Do not delay in taking your dog to your veterinarian. The longer he continues to scratch, the more damage he will do to his ear, possibly leading to damaged eardrums and hearing loss., The more information you have about your dog’s history and ear problems, the better your veterinarian will be able to treat your dog. Give your veterinarian a history of your dog’s overall health, when his ear symptoms started, the severity of the symptoms, and if your dog has been in contact with other animals.Ear mites are very contagious, so other pets in your home may have gotten ear mites from your dog., Your veterinarian can diagnose ear mites in several ways. For example, they can use an instrument called an otoscope to look in your dog’s ears and see the mites. Interestingly, the mites would start moving around in response to the warmth from the otoscope’s light.Your veterinarian may also swab the debris inside your dog’s ear with a cotton-tipped applicator, then place the debris on a microscope slide with some mineral oil.Under the microscope, mites appear to have round bodies with four front legs and four back legs.Large numbers of mites would be easily visible in the ear. However, if there are only a few mites, it would be easier to see them under the microscope.If your dog’s ears are extremely damaged and painful, your veterinarian may have to sedate him to get a closer look in his ears.