 Eventually you’re almost certainly going to have to pay for the information you need, but gather what you can without paying first. It may save you a month’s subscription fee.


Government record resources are one avenue to consider. See, for instance, this list at usa.gov. See also the lists of free and pay sites here and here.
Many subscription websites, such as ancestry.com offer free trials, so you can sign up and make the most of it before (or without) paying.
If your ancestors immigrated during the late 1800s or early 1900s, the Ellis Island website provides a useful passenger search.
 Ancestry.com is the most popular, but there are other options as well.


If you have immigrant ancestors and don’t want to travel internationally, these may prove essential.
These sites generally offer not just search functionality but also organizational assistance and the ability to view and connect with existing family trees.
Ancestry.com, for example, provides easy access to U.S. Census records, which can be essential to figuring out when and where your ancestors lived, and (depending on the census) what they did for a living, when they arrived in America, and so on.
Remember, however, that census records are sealed for 72 years, so as of 2015 you will have access only up through the 1940 census no matter what resource you utilize., This is one of the great benefits of pay and free websites. You can connect with others who may be facing the same search issues, may have information you need, or may even be a relative you didn’t know about.


There are exceptions (as always), of course, but in general, amateur genealogists are a helpful bunch who want to share what they have uncovered. Draw from what they have found and share what you have found as well.
 Bad information on one ancestor can send your family tree completely off course. And who wants to find out that one little mistake turns your whole presumed ancestry into someone else’s?


Last (and first) name spellings were not as standardized until modern times, with the explosion of government record-keeping. Search for multiple variations of a last name when you hit a “dead end.”
Keep an eye out for multiple people with the same name as well. If you have an ancestor named John Smith or Mary Johnson, for instance, you are more than likely going to have to do some sleuthing to figure out which one born in Ohio in 1879 is your great-great grandparent. If you’re not sure, follow multiple lines back and see if you can find useful clues in prior generation(s).
Verify information gleaned from other researchers as well. They almost certainly have good intentions and believe their information is accurate, but they can lead you down the wrong path as well. Rely first on your own research.
 If you have little information on your ancestry, or just want a better picture of your ethnic heritage, there are multiple genealogy websites that now offer do-at-home DNA testing. They generally involve spitting into a tube and mailing it back. Strange to say, but maybe a little saliva is all it will take to get your family tree back on track.


See also How to Use DNA Tests to Trace Your Family Tree


