 Brock specializes in rock/ground type Pokémon making Pikachu almost useless in this fight. To make this battle easier on yourself, you're going to have to get some new Pokémon and level them up a fair bit.;
, It would be ideal to have a grass or water type Pokémon for this gym battle, but at the very beginning of the game your options are extremely limited. There are 4 helpful Pokémon that can help you obtain the Boulder Badge.


Mankey is a fighting type found on Route 22 and is very helpful in the battle against Brock because fighting-type moves are super effective against rock types.
Nidoran in either female or male form because both learn Double Kick as they level up which is a fighting type move. Nidoran is also found on Route 22 as well as Route 2.
Butterfree learns Confusion as soon as it evolves from Metapod (which evolves from Caterpie, found in Viridian Forest) at level 10, which is useful because Geodude and Onix's special stat are low and Confusion does neutral damage against them.
 If you really truly want to use Pikachu, you should level it up to level 15 so that it knows Quick Attack and Double Team. Mankey should be between the level of 9 to 13 at the lowest. Nidoran should be leveled up to around 14 at the minimum. Butterfree should be at least level 12.


You shouldn't have a problem leveling up your Pikachu because of the mass amount of Pidgey and Spearow that you will run into. Just Thundershock them and gain some quick experience.
Once Mankey (Low Kick) and Nidoran (Double Kick) have learned a fighting type move, they can make quick work of normal types like Rattata. The same goes with Butterfree once Metapod evolves into it.
 Now that you have your party all set make sure you have a few Potions (3 to 4) and then challenge the Pewter Gym.


There is only 1 gym trainer who has a level 9 Diglett and a level 9 Sandshrew. Both of these Pokémon are strictly ground types so your fighting type moves won't be super effective against him. Take out his Pokémon with moves like Quick Attack and Gust (if you have a Pidgey or Pidgeotto) and then heal if you wish before taking on Brock.
 Now you're ready to take on Brock; nothing is standing in your way. After defeating Brock you will earn the Boulder Badge and TM34, which is the move Bide.


Brock starts things off with a level 10 Geodude. Geodude is a rock/ground type so your fighting-type moves will be super-effective. Geodude only knows Tackle so you should be able to take him out rather easily.
Brock will then send out his other Pokémon Onix which is level 12 and is also a rock/ground type. Onix knows Tackle, Screech, Bide and Bind. The only move you should really worry about is Bide. Once you see Bide used you should hold off your attacks and use status moves like Tail Whip to lower its defense until Bide is over, that way you won't take damage from it. Once again fighting-type moves are super-effective, so just keep attacking as long as Onix isn't using Bide. If you're using Butterfree, attack it with Confusion. As with Mankey or Nidoran, use one of its status moves (Harden, String Shot, Stun Spore, Poison Powder, or Sleep Powder) when Onix is using Bide.
Use a Potion whenever your Pokémon's HP runs low and you shouldn't have too much of a problem.

