 Begin by resting the pad (the flat, fleshy part) of your thumb against the pad of your middle finger. Don't use the tips of your fingers — you want the soft, squishy parts to meet. A good way to get the right positioning is to pretend you're picking up something heavy with your thumb and middle finger.


To start, practice with your dominant hand (the same one you use to write). When you master the basic snap, you can try with your other hand.;
, Without moving your thumb and middle finger, take your ring finger and pinky and rest them gently against the heel of your palm or the base of your thumb — wherever feels natural. Try to leave a little room at the base of the thumb for your middle finger to snap against the fleshy part at the bottom.


These fingers aren't involved in the snap, but this part is crucial. The ring finger and pinky basically "prop up" the rest of the hand, allowing you to use more force when you snap (and thus get a louder sound).
 Now, start to press your thumb and middle finger together, but don't let either one move out of the way yet. Press fairly hard here — a little harder then may feel natural at first. There should be enough pressure to turn the tips of your fingers a little red.









The more pressure you build up, the more power behind your snap. While it's hard to hurt yourself this way, if you feel pain, you're pressing a little too hard.
 Move your index finger down so it rests against your thumb without letting up on the pressure. Move the thumb from the middle finger to the index finger. Your middle finger should slide off of your thumb and "snap" towards your palm. It should hit the fleshy base of your thumb and make a sharp cracking sound. Congratulations — you've just snapped your fingers.









Don't worry if you can't get it on the first try. This is something many people have difficulty with at first, but once you get it, it quickly becomes easy. See below for tips on getting your snap just right.
 The only way to get better at finger snapping is to do it! Once you get your first good, loud "snap," try to replicate your motions exactly until you get good results again. Within a few days, you should be able to snap fairly consistently.









If you can't seem to get a good snapping noise, try a few more times and make sure you're doing the following:
Keeping good pressure between your thumb and middle finger until you make your snap
Keeping your ring finger and pinky folded firmly down against your palm
Leaving enough room at the base of your thumb for your middle finger to hit — your middle finger should not end up behind your ring finger
If you're still having little success, try one of the alternate methods below — some people find them easier.

