 Take general science, biology and chemistry classes in junior high and high school to prepare for college. Classes like these will give you a framework for topics in college level science courses and give you an idea of what you’re getting into before you commit to a program of study.;
, Volunteering at animal shelters or human societies can give you hands-on experience working with animals and prepare you for your future career.


Remember, any experience you plan on submitting to a college as evidence of your commitment and work ethic needs to be well documented. Be sure to obtain proof of your involvement in these activities, and request letters of reference.It may also be helpful to have experience interacting directly with horses, so try working, volunteering, or interning at a stable, or even participating in activities like horseback riding.
 The college application process is lengthy and involved, so get started on it as early as you can.Expect to fill out information about extra-curricular activities and compose a personal essay. Keep track of any community service or volunteer work you may have done—many colleges will look specifically for evidence that you’re donating your time to worthy causes.


Most high schools have guidance counselors who will walk you through the application and admissions process. Take advantage of this and any other resources your high school provides for prospective college students.
 As an undergraduate, enroll in a pre-veterinary program of study to prepare for veterinary school. Expect the courses to be demanding and science-heavy with a heavy emphasis on biology. But beyond just being challenging, pre-veterinary programs will give you hands-on experience and allow you to make connections within your field. You can even join clubs within your program to get advice from older students and teachers. Graduating from a pre-veterinary program typically takes 4 years.


Every veterinary school's expectations of an undergraduate's coursework are different. If your undergraduate college doesn't have a specific pre-veterinary track, consult with an academic adviser and take a science-heavy course load. This typically takes 4 years.
 The American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) is the main body of accreditation for veterinary schools. It represents more than 89,000 professionals in the veterinary field, and while it’s not a requirement that every veterinary school be accredited, the vast majority of well-respected schools have opted for AVMA accreditation. Accredited schools are held to higher standards of education and obtaining a certification from an accredited program can make it easier to find a job.Depending on your veterinary school of choice, you may need to take the Veterinary College Admission Test (VCAT) exam before applying. This is a standardized test designed to indicate an applicant's level of readiness for graduate level coursework and your scores may determine your eligibility or likelihood of acceptance.
 Here, you will earn your Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree (DVM). You’ll learn about things like diagnostic procedures, radiology and imaging technology, and preventative techniques. This degree typically takes 4 years to complete.
 In your last year of school, gain additional experience while completing your DVM degree by pursuing clinical rotations that focus solely on veterinary medicine for equines. Fourth year clinical rotations are a crucial preparation for your day to day work as an equine veterinarian. You should expect it to be challenging yet informative, as you’ll be working directly under a certified veterinarian., In order to legally practice equine medicine and be licensed, you’ll have to take and pass the board exam. Like many other professions, becoming a veterinarian means you have to be board certified. Passing the state veterinary board exam can be difficult, so be sure to study and take advantage of any preparatory classes that may be available., After finishing the Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree and licensing, many graduates choose to pursue a one-year internship. Internships can hone your diagnostic and therapeutic skills and boost your chances of finding a job.These paid, hands-on opportunities can be found through networking or listings through the American Association of Equine Practitioners (AAEP) or the American Association of Veterinary Clinicians., After completing an internship, some people choose to specialize even further within their discipline. The American Board of Veterinary Practitioners recognizes several subspecialties within equine veterinary including sports medicine, radiology, theriogenology, large animal surgery or equine internal medicine.


Before you can apply for certification, you must complete a residency program that typically lasts 2-5 years and is best carried out at an accredited equine specialization facility. These programs are designed to familiarize you with large animal veterinary practice and to prepare you for certification within your specialty. Sometimes you’ll be required to work with other large animal species as well, but the majority of your residency will be spent working directly with horses.Certification will be complete once you have passed the 4-part exam. Upon passing, the American Board of Veterinary Practitioners will recognize you as an equine specialist!

, Most equine veterinarians work in private practice, but many others work for the government, in labs, or in classrooms as educators. Read testimonials by professionals working in these different work environments to find out which one is best suited to your talents.


As of 2015, the median salary for equine veterinarians was about $88,000 dollars, but this salary can vary depending on which working environment you choose. It’s important to consider how much you’ll need per year to support your lifestyle before applying to jobs., Once you’ve determined what type of job you’re interested in, gather the necessary paperwork documenting your various internships, residency, and applicable experience. Once you feel confident in your resume,seek out and apply for jobs in your area.


If you like the people you worked with during your internship or residency, and you feel like you made a good impression, try applying there first.
 Once you’ve landed your first interview, dress appropriately (when in doubt, business casual is usually a safe bet), and emphasize your strengths to your interviewer. Most employers end up hiring people who are inventive or offer solutions to problems, or who they believe will add value to their practice.Think back on your experiences and review your qualifications to communicate your worth to your would-be employer.


If you don’t get a job right away, don’t take it personally. Be persistent in seeking out new opportunities and applying to jobs—perseverance is key!

