 To get the Gold Shovel, you’ll need to unlock the Department Store. It’s the last tier of the shop upgrades and can be a bit tricky to do. You’ll need to have unlocked at least the T.I.Y. Home Center to do so. You can do this by spending about 50,000 Bells in the Supermarket, and it must be at least 21 days after building the Supermarket.

To unlock the Supermarket, the Convenience Store and the Gardening Store must be open for 10 days prior, and you need to have spent 25,000 Bells in the Convenience Store.
To unlock the Convenience Store, you must have bought a house, the town must be 10 days old at least, and you must buy 15 items in total or spend 12,000 Bells in the store.
All player data in the game card can contribute to the upgrade requirements.
 When you have the Home Center, you need to spend a total of 100,000 Bells in the store, and the Home Center must be open for 30 days in total before you can upgrade. You can use all your player saves to do this quicker too., Here is the trickier requirement. Once a week, on random weekdays, Gracie, the fashionista giraffe, will visit your town plaza and judge your fashion sense.You need to pass her judgement 4 times to fulfill the last requirement to unlock the Department Store upgrade. You can do this by wearing a complete set of clothes, or clothes from the same type and theme to pass her judgement. There are guides in the Internet that list all the clothes and outline which articles of clothing you can combine together to pass her judgement, so if you’re unsure of what clothes you can wear to get a pass, you can look it up. Afterwards, the Department Store will unlock after you fulfill the requirements.

Note that socks count as an article of clothing, so even if you’re wearing shoes or pants that conceal your socks, they still count during judgement.
 When you have the Department Store, you need to buy 50 Fertilizer from Leif, and when you buy the 50th, he hands you the Golden Shovel in return. While it does not yield you gems from Money Rocks, when you bury some Bells on the ground with a Gold Shovel, a Money Tree will grow from it, and you can literally harvest money from it!