 The easiest way to stop collection calls is to pay your debt, but you need to be careful when doing so. Speak with the collector to set up a payment plan. Many collectors will encourage you to set up automatic bill-pay. Make sure that whatever plan you agree upon, you are comfortable with. Scam collection agencies love setting up automatic bill-pay and will charge you an exorbitant fee for the service.
 Under the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA), you are allowed to tell debt collectors to stop calling you. Tell them in writing that you prefer to communicate with them by mail only. Send any correspondence, including disputes to both the collection agency and the creditor by certified mail and request that a return receipt be sent back to you upon delivery.Sample letters are available online.Make sure you keep a copy of your letter. Written communication works to your advantage as you will have a record of everything that is said, whereas phone communication is only recorded on occasion.
If the creditor still contacts you after your written request, you can file a “cease and desist“ letter. Find a consumer lawyer who can draft such a letter. If the problem continues, you might even have a case to sue the collection agency.
Debt collectors are also prohibited from contacting you while you are at work.
 There are many lawyers who concentrate on debt collection. They’ll be able to help you if you owe money or if a collector is illegally harassing you. These lawyers will charge you a fee or will take a percentage of what they collect on your behalf. The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, unlike most laws, actually spells out how much money you might receive if you win your case. The amounts can range from $5000 for individual cases to $500,000 for group law suites. The first thing a lawyer will do is look up the statute of limitations on your loan. Old loans, acquired decades earlier or by deceased relatives, sometimes can be the cause of collection calls. Statutes of limitations exist in many places. If the statute of limitations has expired, you could be off the hook. Even if a collection agency tries to pursue it, you are under no legal obligation to pay. When this occurs, if you do not wish to pay, you could use a cease and desist letter. Remember, you can receive a bad credit rating longer than the statute of limitations., They may have come across an alternate way that works well with this particular agency. Each collection agency is different. Sometimes, they require forms to be filled out. Others only need a letter. Rather than discover this for yourself, ask for help from others. , Report the collectors to the FTC online. They are generally slow to move on these kinds of problems, but if they receive enough reports about one specific agency, their wrath can be formidable.