 For example, construction, industrial, mining, transportation, ship building, longshoreman, etc.


This is important because the US Department of Labor  may through its division, OSHA (Occupational Safety & Health Administration) have specific or unique standards that are regulated by one or more agency. OSHA has published their standards in the Code Of Federal Regulations (CFR). This information is grouped and identified by Titles.  

For Example, the construction industry is Title 29 - CFR1926, Manufacturing is Title 29 - CFR1910. As earlier mentioned general provisions are Title 29 -  CFR 1910.The OSHA web site has many many tools and a very good search engine that will assist you.  Also you can highlight and copy the standards.;
,  Additionally a few regulations such as "Employee Rights" or "Minimum Wage" are required to be posted.  


You may obtain an OSHA Poster at the following link.
OSHA has a specific requirement to establish and maintain records of safety training, accidents, and testing of work specific equipment. You can review these requirements at http://www.osha.gov/recordkeeping.
Typically this information is required for completing  OSHA forms annually; OSHA Form 301 and OSHA Form 300A.
Failure to maintain OSHA recordkeeping can be expensive. https://www.osha.gov/recordkeeping/RKforms.html 
When creating an Employee Safety Manual you must realize that a great deal of information regarding standards and regulation is available from OSHA.
You must edit this and allow it to remain complete, but only as it would apply to your circumstance.
As an EXAMPLE, OSHA requires the use of PPE (personal protective equipment). Hearing , eye, footwear, passive respiratory or other items are required where needed.
Rather than define each work place location that requires PPE, is needed, consider whenever located on company property. PPE must be worn.
  Additionally you should create a listing of any testing of equipment or machinery that must be done. This list will be valuable to you when searching the OSHA site.
 Although it is not required, you can create a user name and password to obtain a few privileges. You can also order many products writings, training guides free of charge.  This web site will actually be your best friend at creating your safety manual.
 The employer is responsible for requiring the wearing of appropriate personal protective equipment in all operations where there is an exposure to hazardous conditions or where this part indicates the need for using such equipment to reduce the hazards to the employees. Feel free to modify it for your company, but be sure not to alter the context.ABC Construction Company requires the wearing of the appropriate personal protective equipment in all operations where there is an exposure to hazardous conditions or where this part indicates the need for using such equipment to reduce the hazards to the employees. Each step is basically as simple as the example given here.
 Contact your local authorities for their regulations or standards.
