 This might relieve some discomfort associated with symptoms of Crohn's disease, such as bloating and gas.Every individual with Crohn's disease will have different needs. You will likely need to go through a trial and error period to find the foods that work best for your child. Try different foods to see how you can best fulfill your child's nutritional needs.People with Crohn's generally have trouble absorbing nutrients. The goal of creating an effective diet for your child includes trying to limit problems such as diarrhea, cramping, bleeding, and malabsorption.
Fiber can help with some of these issues. Look for foods that are rich in soluble fiber. Try to limit insoluble fiber when your child's symptoms are flaring up; insoluble fibers are foods like seeds and nuts, as well as the skins of fruits and vegetables.
Try feeding your child bananas, rice, and applesauce. Oatmeal and tapioca are also good choices.;
, Since Crohn's affects the small intestine, your child might experience a lot of uncomfortable symptoms. Diarrhea is particularly common. Take care to limit foods that can cause gas and irritation.Cruciferous vegetables can be very difficult to digest. Avoid feeding your child broccoli and cauliflower.
Beans and peas can also cause gas. Avoid them, and plan to avoid onions and cabbage, as well.
 Foods that "trigger" Crohn's symptoms are known as trigger foods. Each person will have different triggers. Make an effort to figure out what your child's trigger foods are.When you introduce new foods to your child's diet, keep a record. A food journal will help you track reactions to new foods.
During flare ups of the disease, track what your child has eaten. This record will also help you figure out triggers.
Although everyone has different triggers, there are some foods that commonly aggravate symptoms. For example, caffeine, sugar, raw fruits, vegetables, and nuts are often triggers. Many people with Crohn's disease are lactose-intolerant, so avoiding dairy may also reduce triggers and symptoms.
Fatty foods are triggers for many people. Red meat, pork, and whole grains can also cause aggravation during flare ups.
 Feeding your child the right foods can help control Crohn's symptoms. It is also important to feed your child at the right times. Getting on a feeding schedule can be very helpful.Try to feed your child small, frequent meals. They will be easier to digest than feeding three larger meals.
Have your child drink liquids between meals, rather than with meals. This can also help digestion.
Write down meal times in the food journal. You can make note if certain times of day seem better for your child's digestion.
 Crohn's disease can make it very difficult for people to absorb nutrients. This is especially true for children with the illness. You may need to supplement your child's diet with nutrients they're not getting from food.You can consider adding a liquid supplement, like Ensure Plus or Boost Plus, to your child's diet.
Many children with Crohn's are deficient in vitamins C, B12, and D. Consider giving these to your children in supplements, like pills.
Your child may also require supplements of folic acid and magnesium. Calcium, iron, and zinc might also be necessary.
Your doctor might also recommend that you supplement with prebiotics or probiotics. These promote "good" bacteria in your child's system.
 Many children with Chron's simply cannot get the nutrients they need by ingesting food. You may want to consider enteral feeding. Enteral feeding is a method in which you child receives nutrients from a tube.For enteral feeding, your child will be fed by a nasogastric (NG) tube. This tube will be inserted into your child's nose and go down through his stomach.
Your child's nutrients will be inserted into the NG tube. You will be able to administer the food supplements to your child.
Talk to your doctor about enteral feeding. It can be effective for 1-3 months.

