 Excessive sodium in your diet makes you retain water, and the area around your eyes is a great example of this. After a salt heavy dinner, you will find that your eye bags are puffier the next morning. The salt makes water pool around your eyes, increasing your bags. Try using less salt in your cooking and in your diet, using other methods such as herbs or spices to liven up your food., When your body does not get adequate water, it retains the water it does have. One of the places this happens is under your eyes, causing bags. Increase your water intake every day by switching out some of your beverage choices with water instead. This will also help you to avoid excessive caffeine, especially in coffee, which also causes dehydration and water retention., Allergies cause eye irritation, swelling, and sinus pressure, all of which cause eye bags. Most over the counter allergies medicines that help reduce your allergy symptoms will have the added bonus of reducing the bags under your eyes. They will dry up the excess water pooled under your eyes and reduce the irritation that leads to severe eye bags.Make sure you only use this method if you have allergies. Don't take allergy medication just to reduce the bags under your eyes. This method only works if you eye bags are caused by complications due to allergies and does not work as an overall treatment method.
 Fatigue and stress due to tiredness causes bags under your eyes. The recommended amount of sleep you should get is around 8 hours a night. You need to make sure that the sleep you get is restful. Try to go to bed at the same time every night, which will get your body into a better sleeping pattern and will help you to sleep better., When you sleep, gravity causes fluid to pool under your eyes, causing those unsightly bags. If you sleep on your side or your stomach, try changing your sleeping position to your back. Gravity will naturally reduce the amount of fluid retention under your eyes and help with the appearance of bags in the morning.You can also add another pillow to your bed. The increased elevation of your head will reduce the amount of fluid that pools under your eyes., A glass of wine is fine, but avoid consuming too much alcohol. It dehydrates you, which pulls much needed water from your skin. This causes the skin around your eyes to weaken, making the area under your eyes sag. If you do go out and drink, have plenty of water before you go to bed to re-hydrate your skin.


Adding some moisturizer under your eyes when you drink also helps combat under-eye dehydration., If you smoke, you are causing damage to your skin. It can dry and weaken the skin around your face, causing deep bags under your eyes. Kick the habit. On top of the many health benefits, your skin will get better and the bags under your eyes should lessen.