 The best way to start having a better relationship with your siblings is to spend time with them. Hang out, play, go places... it doesn't matter. Do whatever feels right for you. This will give you great memories together and also build a friendship beyond the sibling relationship.
 You want your siblings to have great self confidence, so help them boost their confidence. Compliment them when they deserve it, help them build skills and get smarter, and help them do things that they can be proud of. This will also make you happy because not only will they be proud of themselves but you'll be proud of them too.
 If you want to have a good relationship with your siblings, you should have a lot of trust between you. When they tell you something, don't go and tell your parents. Keep things just between the two of you, unless your sibling asks you to tell your parents. If you can't trust each other, you'll probably have a hard relationship for the rest of your lives.


You should also build their trust by creating a safe place for them to come and talk about their problems. You should never laugh at them or judge them for the things they say to you, so that they know they can always come to you without fear of how you'll react.
 Don't try to make them into you and don't be angry if they don't always make the decisions you wish they would. Respect that they are their own individuals and celebrate them, just the way they are. Try to do some of their unique hobbies with them or at least talk with and ask them about it from time to time.
 You will probably disagree about stuff sometimes. That's just how being siblings goes. But when you argue or when they do something you disagree with, try to see things from their point of view. Sympathize with them and understand that they're probably trying their best. This will help cut down on fights.


Seeing things from their perspective can also be done every day. Appreciating their struggles in life and respecting them for what they go through will give you both a better respect for the other.
 When they have problems, help them! Don't just do it for them but show them how to fix it themselves. This will make their life better in the long run but it will also develop the friendship between you.


However, if they refuse your help, you need to respect their wishes. If they really want to try to do things on their own, the best you can do is to be there for them if they fail or need help still.
 Encourage your siblings to go out and do what they want with their lives. Encourage them to reach for the stars. Encourage them to be better people. These things will help them achieve more in life and to be happier people. This will save you from the heartbreak of seeing them hurt and suffering.
 Your siblings might someday run into trouble, whether they're getting bullied or they're hanging out with the wrong crowd. No matter the situation, you should stick up for and protect your sibling, helping them to make better choices as necessary. You may not always win these battles, but your sibling will never have to doubt how much you love them and you'll never have to feel guilty about not doing enough to protect them.

