 Stress is one of the main causes of headaches. And once you have a tension headache, you may be sensitive to light or sound. To counteract this, sit or lie down in a dimly lit room. Close your eyes and try to relax your back, neck, and shoulders.Turn off sources of noise like a television, computer, or cellphone.
You can also close your eyes and cup them with the palm of your hands. Apply light pressure for two minutes. This will help to shut down your optic nerves and relax you.
In a dark, quiet room you can also try a neck exercise. Place your palm on your forehead. Use your neck muscles to lightly press your forehead against your palm. Make sure you keep your head upright as you press your forehead against your palm., Deep breathing can help you relax and reduce any stress in your body, including your head. Take slow, even breaths and try to relax.Close your eyes and take several deep breaths.
Exhale slowly, relaxing any areas in your body that feel tight. Picture a beautiful scene, like a sandy beach, a bright sunny garden, or a country road.
Drop your chin toward your chest. Slowly rotate your head in a half circle from side to side.
Take another deep breath and exhale slowly. Continue picturing the beautiful scene in your head.
Repeat this exercise until you are in a state of relaxation.
 Heat and cold can help to relieve pain and muscle tension in your neck and head.Apply a moist hot towel or warm compress to the back of your neck or on your forehead. You can also take a long, hot shower, being sure to run water down your head and on the back of your neck.
Wrap an ice pack in a towel and place it on the back of your neck or on your forehead.
 Peppermint can have a nice soothing effect and ease any discomfort or pain.Once you massage in a few drops of oil, you should feel a cooling sensation on area. Breathe deeply and find a quiet place to sit or lie down.
If you have sensitive skin, dilute peppermint oil with a drop or two of olive oil or water before applying it.
 As soon as you feel tension in your head, drink several glasses of water. Or make yourself some herbal tea to put yourself in a relaxed state of mind. Dehydration may trigger headaches.


Avoid consuming caffeine or alcohol as these will only dehydrate you more., Do a targeted mini-massage on your upper body. Use your fingertips to rub the back and sides of your head. Then, gently massage the areas under your eyes.Move your scalp gently back and forth using your fingertips. Don't move it more than a half-inch or so.
You can also run your fingertips along the inside of each of your fingers and rub your palms.
 This is a simple acupressure technique you can do on yourself at home.Place your thumbs near the base of your skull.
Locate the depressions on both sides of where your head meets your neck. They are just outside the thick muscle that runs down the middle of your head, or about 2 inches from the center of your head.
Using your thumbs, press in and upward until you feel a slight sensation on your head.
Keep pressing lightly with your thumbs and move your thumbs in small circles for 1-2 minutes.

