 It’s not always possible to avoid speaking to others, especially at school or work. Try and simulate being deeply involved in a project or email so that others will feel uncomfortable interrupting.Type on your computer. Open an already existing document or email to make it appear as though you are deep into a train of thought.
Find objects around your office to keep you busy. Filing documents or making copies are two simple ways to seem preoccupied.
If you are addressed even though you appear to be busy, simply acknowledge their statement and politely excuse yourself to continue working.
Talking or muttering to yourself while walking often signifies being deep in thought and will deter others from interrupting.
Politely excuse yourself by saying that you have a lot of work to do or that you need to get back to work.
 You may have many reasons to not engage in conversation at school or work. Politely and directly stating that you do not wish to speak with someone can be an effective way of communicating your unavailability.Say that you are very busy and do not feel like having a conversation.
Statements like, “I’m sorry, I am just not in the mood to have a conversation right now,” or “I feel too preoccupied to have a conversation at the moment” are polite ways to excuse yourself from conversation.
 Not speaking to others does not necessarily mean avoiding social or work environments, nor does it mean passively averting conversation. Try finding hobbies or small routines that you enjoy, as this will help fill the time that otherwise might be occupied by unwanted interaction.


Seek out tasks that might be possible individually. Ask your teacher or supervisor to see if it’s possible to work alone if group projects are assigned.
Develop a routine during your breaks or lunch. Seek out the same cafe, go for a quick walk, or browse your favorite bookstore.
Activities like yoga, running, or reading are all done individually, with minimal talking, and have great benefits!

, Avoiding talking or speaking to someone does not necessarily mean avoiding communication altogether. Communication can often be necessary and even expected, especially at school or work.


Instead of approaching a supervisor, teacher, or colleague, send them an email. If introversion and the desire not to speak is common, noting that in an email might also help others maintain a considerate distance without creating any unwanted tension.
Send a short text in lieu of speaking. Texts can be particularly effective in maintaining communication without seeming rude or distant.
If you are receiving a phone call and you would prefer not to talk, let the call go to voicemail, reply via text message or email, and resume communication.

