 Authentic sunglasses come in a branded box. A label with a bar code and manufacturer information should be on the bottom of the box. Some type of guarantee booklet, information booklet, or certificate of authenticity should also be in the box., The sunglasses should be in a branded carrying case. The official logo is on this case. The box should be in pristine condition and have no marks and clean edges. The color and shape of the case may vary if the case is older.All Coach glasses come with a dust cloth that has the "CC" logo all over it.Examine the glasses thoroughly. The brand name of the glasses, the model number, and the letters "CE" should appear on the right temple of the glasses. The model number and lens and frame measurements should appear on the left temple and should match the number on the box label. A metal logo may also be on the left temple of authentic glasses."Made in Italy" appears on the right temple of Dolce & Gabbana glasses instead of the model number.
 A logo is often etched into the right lens of authentic glasses. The logo should be easy to identify and clear. The nose frame dimensions often appear on the nose bud of the glasses.Some glasses may also have an embossed logo on the nose pads of the glasses., The logo, font, and model number should be consistent on your glasses. The numbers on the box label should be identical to the numbers on your glasses. The logo on the glasses, carrying case, and booklet should be exactly the same. If there are any inconsistencies or misspellings, your glasses may not be authentic.
 The sunglasses and the packaging should be of high quality. If the sunglasses are flimsy or lightweight, they may be fake. New authentic sunglasses usually come in nice packaging with tags and casing included. Fake sunglasses may be sold with low quality packaging or with only a slip cover.


Checking the quality of the glasses is particularly important if you are buying previously owned glasses which may not come in their original packaging.

