 Everybody has a skill or interest that they excel in and genuinely enjoy. If you don't think you have a talent, you probably just haven't found it yet. It’s often necessary to be persistent and try many things before you find one that suits you.


Similar types of people may also be attracted to the same activities. For example, adrenaline junkies may not be drawn to the quiet, slow pace of a knitting club, but someone who enjoys other quiet activities might be. Determining who you enjoy being around may help you figure out what you’ll enjoy.
Be patient. Change does not come all at once. It requires practice and time. It can be difficult to break out of old routines and meet new people or try new activities, especially if you’re busy (and who isn’t?). Persistence is the key.
Enroll in a class you're interested in, or pick up a new instrument or sport. Not only will you learn something new, you’ll meet others who are interested in learning too. Trying to learn something new can also be a safe and productive way to push yourself out of your comfort zone.
 No matter how much money you make, you will not be happy if you spend your entire life doing something you hate. While not all of us are lucky enough to make a career out of our favorite hobby, it's important to at least devote some of your time to things that make you happy.


Doing things that are meaningful to you will help you feel more happy and fulfilled. Creative pursuits, such as art or music, can help you express your feelings and thoughts in productive, healthy ways.It’s a common myth that the people who succeed most in life are the most single-minded. They don’t let anything get in the way of their one goal, including taking time for themselves. Unfortunately, that can be a very unhealthy way of living. Try not to allow yourself to focus so much on one aspect of your life that you forget to nurture the other ones.If you’re chronically unhappy at your job, consider why. It’s possible that some changes could change how you feel about it. If the reason you’re unhappy is because you feel like your job isn’t meaningful, or isn’t in line with your values, consider finding another line of work., Life must be a balance between work and play. Focusing exclusively on one or the other will eventually lead to stagnation and monotonous daily routines. Humans adapt very quickly to positive events. Because of that, we can become desensitized to positive experiences, especially if that’s our only experience.Research has shown that when we’re squarely in our comfort zone, we aren’t as productive as we are when we step just beyond it.It’s important to seek out new experiences and interactions with others, even when those are a little scary. Doing so can help you achieve more.
Our desire to avoid discomfort and hurt can lead us to refuse flexibility. However, research shows that embracing vulnerability -- including the possibility that something will go wrong -- is crucial to experiencing all of life.Mindfulness meditation can be a good place to start. One of the goals of mindfulness is to become more aware of any repetitive thought patterns that may be getting in the way of self-awareness and self-acceptance. Find a class or do some research to find out what techniques work best for you.