 Surrounding yourself with people who practice other faiths will make it easier to make diverse friends. Visiting an area that has a diverse religious makeup also allows you to interact with people of other faiths on a daily basis, whether it be at the store, your job, or at social gatherings.


Traveling to different countries can also expand your perspective and increase your knowledge of other religions and cultures.If you can’t afford to move, visit nearby metropolitan areas that have more religious and cultural diversity.
Some of the most culturally diverse cities in the world include Amsterdam, London, and Los Angeles.;
, Being open to talk to other people about a faith that you don’t believe in is important if you want to expand your perspective and appreciate people of different religions. While you may not agree with all their doctrines, you should be open to learning about their customs and beliefs.


Don’t argue and fight with someone of a different faith. Accept the fact that you may both believe different things.
Some people may not want to talk about their faith, and you should accept it and move on.
If someone of a different faith asks you why you are asking him so many questions, or why you are so open to talk about religion say, “I’m trying to expand my knowledge and understanding of different faiths. I don’t know a lot about your faith, and I’m trying to get a better perspective from someone who practices it.”

, There are 5.8 billion people who are affiliated with a religion and for many, it plays an important role in their lives.For that reason, it’s important that you remain respectful at all times when discussing someone’s faith. If you feel the conversation getting tense, just back away from the topic and change the subject.


Clearly communicating and remaining understanding and respectful will help you avoid conflict.Don’t tell people that your religion is superior to theirs.
Never tell someone else that her faith is “wrong.”

, Doing something positive as a community or friends will bring you together, even if people’s religions are different. Planting a community garden, joining a softball team, or taking a class together will create a bond that transcends the differences in your religions.


There are non-denominational community groups that participate in community building.
To find a community group search on Idealist.org for volunteer openings in your area., If you’re not used to mingling with people of different cultures and different faiths, then you may need to go the extra mile and network with people you know come from different backgrounds. Try to create relationships with people you meet at social events, work, or school who practice different religions. Make it a point to hang out with them and become friends with them.


The stronger your friendships become, the more comfortable some people will feel in discussing and explaining their religion.

