 You can do this from the Google Play store.
 MeasureIt allows you to connect two points in space and measure the distance between them, effectively serving as a ruler., If you're measuring edges or distinct lines, MeasureIt's cursor should snap to the nearest section of the line., This should be on one of the edges of your screen. Tapping it will place a marker on your starting point, anchoring your "ruler" in place., Try to place the crosshair in a way that makes the projected line between the last point and your crosshair as straight as possible., This will plant a second marker and draw a line between the two points; you should see a measurement number hovering above this line.MeasureIt's measurements can be displayed in a variety of units, from centimeters to feet.
 This will undo your last action; for example, if you anchored two points and one was incorrectly placed, tapping this arrow will undo the last anchor.

Tap the "undo" arrow multiple times to undo multiple actions.
 Projected volume is a way to measure how much space a two-dimensional geometric shape (e.g., a square) would take up if it were made three-dimensional; this feature is useful for measuring out cabinet space or something similar (e.g., how far a TV will stick out into a room if it is mounted on a wall). To do this, you will need to do a couple of things:

Place a minimum of three connected points over an area. All of the points must be connected to one another to form a geometric shape.
Tap and hold the "A" in the middle of the shape.
Walk backwards--or move the phone--until the shape pulls away from the wall. You should see lines portraying the distance between the wall and the end of your shape that's closest to you. Pull the shape as far out from the wall as you wish to measure.
 This should be on one of the edges of your phone's screen. Tapping the camera will take a screenshot of your measurements for future reference., You can use your screenshots of measurements to build blueprints, calculate repairs, and more., This will open your sidebar menu, from which you can change your settings and access your gallery., This will open the measurements gallery menu., This will open your picture in full-screen mode., The gallery will display the picture as it appeared on your phone's screen when you took it, plus a simple schematic of what you were photographing.

The schematic is particularly helpful if you're taking pictures of volume measurements.
 This will open a menu with an option to download the screenshot.

Depending on your model of Tango device and version of MeasureIt, you may have more options available.

