 The first qualification necessary to become an RSPCA inspector involves passing at least five GCSE (General Certificate of Secondary Education) exams with a grade of C or better. Of these exams, one must be Maths, and one English., In order to qualify for work as an RSPCA inspector you must have a valid UK driver’s license. You must also be able to operate a vehicle with a fully manual transmission., Some of your work as an RSPCA inspector can involve water. As such, strong swimming ability is important. In order to qualify for the role of RSPCA inspector, you must be able to swim 50 meters (164.0 ft) fully clothed within 2.5 minutes., In order to work with the RSPCA, it is required for you to have experience working with animals. You can gain experience by volunteering with an animal welfare charity, animal refuge, or ideally for an RSPCA animal care center., This job can be physically demanding, requiring you to lift heavy objects or animals, run, and/or swim. As such, your physical health and ability will be taken into consideration. Be sure that you are in very strong physical health, and perhaps even begin training, before you apply.Begin swimming daily.
You may want to run and/or lift weights.
Consider your diet. Focus on consuming veggies, fruit, lean meats, and whole grains.
 If you find yourself suitably qualified, the next step is to locate a trainee opening with a local RSPCA chapter. You can visit the RSPCA website to search job openings. When you find an opening near you, submit your application online.To apply you will send a curriculum vitae (or resume) and cover letter, along with a brief application.
In these materials, you will outline the ways in which you meet various minimum qualifications, as well why you are a good fit for the position.
 If you are chosen to move on to the next level, you will be invited to a Selection Board Interview, where you will be asked about your background and criminal history. If you pass this phase (called Preliminary Declaration), you will then be asked to participate in a series of psychometric assessments, as well as a physical examination and fitness assessment. Based on the results of these tests, the selection board will determine whether or not you are suitable for this role., If you are selected to move on as an RSPCA trainee, you will head into your first of 26 training modules. (You must pass all 26 to qualify). Each module will take between one and eight weeks, and you must pass all 26 within one year of registering for your first. Lodging and board is provided during training modules.Training modules will cover subject areas including: investigation skills and interview techniques, court work, media and public speaking, boat rescue techniques, and basic veterinary and animal-handling skills.Typically, training modules must be completed in a consecutive order.
 Near the beginning of your training, you will be asked to undergo a swimming assessment. Some of your time working the RSPCA may be on, in, or around water, so being able to swim well is a crucial component of the job. For this assessment, you will be expected to swim 50 meters (164.0 ft) fully clothed in 2.5 minutes or less., After you have completed your training, you will be given an official job offer by the RSPCA. Be aware that this job may require you to relocate to a new area. Congratulations! You have succeeded in becoming an RSPCA inspector., These hours and dates will not be negotiable, so it is important to consider if you will be happy with the schedule before pursuing this career., A major component of this career is time spent on the road. If you become an RSPCA inspector, understand that you may travel over 25,000 miles (40,234 kilometers) each year. You must operate a manual transmission vehicle, traveling across both urban and rural landscapes., Working as an RSPCA inspector involves periods of very high physical activity. You may need to run and swim. You may need to work at heights, or in confined spaces. You will also be required to lift heavy cages, and carry, haul, and otherwise handle animals., Perhaps even more taxing than the physical demands of working for the RSPCA are the psychological demands. You will experience a great deal of confrontation with other humans, and you must be able to stand your ground. You will encounter animals in poor situations. You may need to restrain or even euthanize an animal. All of this can be hard on the average person., In order to succeed as an RSPCA inspector, you must have exemplary communication skills. You must be able to defuse situations and confrontations. You must be able to talk yourself out of difficult situations. Most of all, you must be able to communicate clearly, concisely and assertively.