 It's the app with a speech bubble that can be found on your Home screen.;
, It's an icon showing a pen and paper at the top-right of your screen.


If you open to an existing conversation, tap the Back button in the upper-left corner of your screen.
 Type in a phone number, and tap Return.


Alternatively, if the recipient is saved in your Contacts, you can tap the + symbol and select them from the list.
 This is located above the on-screen keyboard.


If you're connected to the internet and iMessage is on, messages to other Apple devices will be sent over the internet using iMessage. Otherwise, your cellular network allowance will be used.
If you're not connected to the internet or iMessage is not active, the text field will read Text Message.
 Tap the letters on the on-screen keyboard and they'll appear in the text field above the keyboard.
 Other icons will appear. These icons allow you to do a few things:


To add photos or videos to you message, tap the Camera icon. You can take a new photo, or select a photo or video from your Camera Roll.
To add a Digital Touch sequence to your message, tap the Heart icon. Use the touchpad to draw sketches and other patterns.
Icons for other apps compatible with Messages will also appear, once downloaded.
 If you want your message to include smilies, tap and hold the Globe or Smiley icon in the bottom-left region of your keyboard and select Emoji. Add emojis to the text field by tapping on them.


Swipe left and right on the Emoji menu to see all available emojis.
Emojis are small images that can be used to express emotions and ideas, or refer to objects.
 It's the upward-facing arrow on the right-hand side of the text field. A text bubble with your message will appear above the text field.


If your message was sent using iMessage, the text bubble will be blue. If your cellular network was used, your text bubble will be green.
When an iMessage has been delivered to the recipient(s), the word Delivered will appear below the message.
If a message sent using either your cellular network or iMessage was not successfully delivered, the words Not Delivered will appear in red below the text bubble.

