 Everyone experiences self-talk. It's that little voice inside of your head that can make you feel really good or really bad. Many people don't realize they are speaking negatively to themselves and that can make them feel really depressed. You may be experiencing that right now, so try to change the way you talk to yourself.


Tell yourself you are worthy of happiness. It can be easy to feel guilty. Everyone makes mistakes, though. Tell yourself that you have done a lot of good in your life, and you deserve to be happy.
Look at yourself in the mirror, smile and remind yourself of something you are proud of. This may be different for different people, but ideas include: what a great friend you are, how thoughtful you are during birthdays, etc. You need to see yourself looking happy even if you do not feel that way. Studies have found that people who make themselves smile will end up feeling happier. Telling yourself you are awesome even if you don’t feel that way can also change the way you feel because you may not say that often about yourself.
Tell yourself you have done the best you could do. You cannot do more than your best. Allow yourself to know that by saying, “I have done the best I could do.” This can relieve a lot of the pressure you have placed on yourself.
Change your self-talk from you to I statement. Instead of saying, "You should really start exercising more," you should say, "I'm going to start exercising more.", When you make a list of the things that you're proud of, you'll be able to see how great you really are and whenever you're down in the dumps, you can remind yourself that life isn't all that bad.


Do the same thing with short term and long term goals. Tell yourself that you will achieve them. Think of some good ways you can make progress towards them.
Remind yourself of everything you’ve accomplished over the years. Give yourself a pat on the back for each accomplishment.
 When you care too much, you end up putting too much pressure on yourself. You can tell yourself not to care so much, which can help you release some of that tension. It's being self-compassionate and it can work if you say the right things to yourself.


You can try telling yourself that work will be okay without you for a week. You've set everything up and people will appreciate that about you.
You can tell yourself that you did all you could to save the relationship. It takes two to make it work, and you can't make another person be with you.
Just because someone is mad at you, it doesn't mean you've done something bad. That person may just have an internal struggle that has nothing to do with you. Telling yourself that can help you feel better about the situation.

