 Place the point of the compass in the middle of the bottom edge and draw a half-circle using the attached pencil.

Cut this shape out with scissors after drawing it.



 


The exact size of your hat should vary based on the size of the intended wearer. For a toddler or young child, make the radius 9 or 10 inches (23 or 25 cm) long. For a slightly older child, use a radius of 11 or 12 (28 or 30 cm) inches.





;
, As you shape the paper, keep the bottom edge level with your working surface so that it can rest perfectly flat on that surface. Hold the overlapping edge together using double-sided tape or glue.


If you use glue, you might need to use a stapler to hold the bottom edge of the cone in place as the glue dries.
 Each fringe should be about 1/3 inch (1 cm) long and 1 inch (2.5 cm) apart. Fold these fringes so that they stick out from the bottom of the cone.


You will use these fringes later to attach the brim of your hat to the main conical portion.
 On a new sheet of construction paper, draw a line that is equal in length to the diameter of hat's opening. Draw a circle around this line, then draw a bigger circle around that. Cut out the larger circle and the smaller circle, and use the large ring left behind as your brim.

Measure the inside diameter of your cone several times and at several places. Use the smallest measurement you get when deciding on the diameter of your brim.






When drawing the inner circle of your brim, place the pointed end of the compass on the midpoint of your diameter line and set the compass to half the diameter's length. Draw around the line, making sure that your perimeter touches both ends of the line.






After drawing the inner circle, set the compass so that your new radius is 3 inches (7.6 cm) larger than the radius of your inner circle. Use the same center point and draw a larger circle evenly around the smaller inner circle.






You can discard the inner circle after cutting them both out. You only need the outer ring for your brim.
 Slide the brim over the top of the hat and onto the fringes at the base. Glue or tape the brim to these fringes from the underside.

The brim should fit snugly on the fringes of the cone. If you cannot slide it all the way down to these fringes, however, carefully cut away extra paper from the inside ring of the brim and try again. Repeat as needed until the brim lies flat on top of the flaps.






The easiest way to attach the brim to the fringes of the hat is to apply glue or double-sided tape to the bottom inner ring of the brim before sliding it onto the flaps.
 If you have stickers or other pre-made decorations you plan on using, skip this step. Otherwise, sketch several stars and crescent moons onto a sheet of shiny aluminum foil and cut them out using a sharp pair of scissors.If you do not want to use aluminum foil, you could use plain construction paper, instead. For an added touch, decorate plain paper embellishments with glitter or sparkly paint.






You can also paint decorations directly onto the hat instead of cutting out shapes from other material.
 Apply glue to the back of each decoration and arrange them at random over the cone body of the hat.
 Once all the glue is dry, the wizard hat is ready to wear and show off.

