 Then, pull the colored covering of the paracord to recover the inner cords. Do this on one end of each color.;
, Then melt the edges of the paracord slightly with the lighter, while still maintaining the opening. Be sure to melt all the way around the circle because this will keep the cord strong.
 Pinch together to create a pointed end.
 Make the hole big enough for the second color of paracord to push through. Begin with the smaller awl, then use a larger awl to get the right size. Repeat with the other color of paracord. At this point you should have two colors of paracord that each have one pointed end, and one end with a hole.
 Use the needle nose pliers if you need help pulling it through. Repeat with the opposite ends and pull until both circular ends meet in the middle. You will now have one long piece of paracord.
 Essentially you will be making a double slipknot. First, pull the fused ends through the end of the snaphook. Then, loop it through again. Last, finish the slipknot by threading the rest of the paracord through the loop and pulling tightly to secure. For a smaller dog, one slipknot should be sufficient.
 Hold the spot with your finger, then loop enough paracord to create the core of the leash handle (pictured). This handle is measure to be about 7 inches (17.5cm). The two colors of cord will form the core of the leash. All of the knotting will happen over this core, making the leash strong. Use a twist tie to temporarily secure the handle loop to the leash.
 To do the cobra weave, you will weave (knot) the two colors of paracord over your core. Make a loop with 1 color so that it forms a “D” with the core. The 2nd color will go over the 1st color, under the core and through the “D” so make a knot over the core. Be sure to pull tightly and always begin the knot with the same color to keep your pattern consistent

, Continue pulling tightly until you reach the snaphook.
 Slide down the colored covering of each cord and trim the inner cords as you did in Step 1, then melt the edges and pinch tightly together with the needle nose pliers. Your leash is all finished!

