 Children are able to comprehend things more fully as they get older. The following guidelines may be helpful in deciding what topics you should address:


Pre-schoolers require fairly simple, concrete ideas. Ideas such as saving water, planting flowers, recycling, or cleaning up trash outside works better than more abstract ideas like species extinction or climate change.
Teach children aged 5 to 11 can take on more complex projects. They may still thrive on simple Earth Day activities, they can also go deeper into ideas and do more complex ideas. For instance, they can measure how much water a bath takes versus a shower. Or learn the finer points of gardening. Or calculate how much money they will earn by redeeming 25 soda cans.
Pre-teens and teenagers can get deeper into sciences, activism, and community service projects. They can also be more self-directed, choosing interests and connecting them with the world as a whole. For example, your fashion-savvy teen can look into purchasing summer clothing from companies that use sustainable materials and processes. Or "upcycle" thrift-store finds to reduce waste. Or perhaps take old concert T-shirts and create fun throw pillows, rather than throw them out.
 If a family decides they want to reduce car use, then make sure everyone has a bicycle, scooter or other alternative transportation source. Plan to take shorter showers and time everyone for a week or turn off lights and create a fine jar for any family member who does not.
 Choose a project that is easy to accomplish for the child's skill level. The following are great craft options:


Go through your recycling bins to look for containers, such as tin cans, that can be used as flower planters. Find soil and seeds to plant and grow your own herbs, flowers or vegetables. Egg shells and milk bottles can also be used, when their tops are removed.
Encourage children to bring a little of the outdoors indoors. Have them gather rocks and paint them for paper weights. You can also make ornaments out of pine cones or cover them in peanut butter or seeds for bird feeders.
Make a paper mache globe by gathering newspaper and other paper from the recycling bins. Mix up a batch of paper mache glue with household materials. Use a blown up balloon for the center. Once the project is dry, paint it with land and water using non-toxic paint.
 Find aluminum, plastic and other materials and give each child a bag full of mixed recycling. Give prizes to the fastest and most accurate recyclers.


It is OK to keep it simple, even for teenagers. Picking up trash at the beach is a simple activity, but it is appropriate for nearly all ages. So is gardening, or shopping at a secondhand store, or going for a bicycle ride. In fact, there is a powerful message when families and communities do simple acts together to help the environment!

