 Telling your partner about your addictive disorder is not going to be an easy process. To make this process run smoother, you need to make sure that you tell your partner at the right time and place. Don't choose a public place where you can be interrupted. It will likely not be comfortable talking about such a serious topic in public.


You want to make sure you tell your partner when you both have time to discuss it. Don't tell your partner when either of you need to be somewhere, go to work, or are busy. You want to make sure you have plenty of time to devote to your talk., Depending on what addictive disorder your have, you will have different symptoms, needs, triggers, and recovery plans. When you tell your partner, you should explain what you are addicted to, what that means for your life, and how it affects both your lives.


Make sure you are honest with your partner about your addictive disorder and everything that you are dealing with. You want to start the recovery and healing process with all the information.For example, tell your partner, "I am addicted to gambling. This means that I have a problem stopping myself from betting and other gambling related behaviors."

, When you disclose your addictive disorder to your partner, don't throw around blame. You don't want to start your recovery process with resentment and anger, so don't blame your partner for your problems. You are telling your partner about your addictive disorder so you can move forward, so let any past resentments go and more forward from where you are.


Even if you feel part of what made you turn to addiction is your relationship, this is not the time to play the blame game. You need to start building a new stage in your relationship post-addiction.Tell your partner, "I am addicted to porn. This does not mean that you have done something wrong or that I don't feel attracted to you. It is not your fault that I have this problem."

, When you tell your partner, he will likely have a lot of questions and concerns about what it all means. Listen to your partner's fears, concerns, and questions. Take in what your partner is saying and truly try to understand where he is coming from.


Answer the questions and concerns that you can and work with your partner to figure out a plan for the rest., When you have an addictive disorder, it is likely that you have hurt those around you at some point because of it. Talk to your partner about how your addiction may have harmed her and apologize for the hurt and distrust it has caused.


Don't shy away from things you have done just because it is uncomfortable. Getting it all out in the open early in your recovery process will help you and your partner heal.
This will be hard, but it will help let your partner and you move forward with your relationship.Tell your partner, "I am sorry for the harm my addiction has caused you. If anything I have done in pursuit of my addiction has hurt you, I am sorry for those actions and will strive not to do anything else to hurt you in the future."

, When you tell your partner about your addictive disorder, explain what steps you are taking for treatment. You want your partner to know what you are doing to get better and move past your addiction into a health life.


This will likely be a combination of therapy, lifestyle changes, and support groups; however, depending on your particular kind of addiction, you may also be on medication for your addictive disorder.
Tell your partner, "I have looked into a recovery plan and am seeing a therapist. I am not longer taking part in my addiction and have devoted myself to my recovery."

