 The best jokes are always going to be original jokes. It could be about the president, your parents, or even one of your friends. You can find humor in almost anything if you look hard enough. There's a whole world of topics to choose from.


Mix up the types of jokes you tell. You can't just tell knock-knock jokes all the time if you want to keep getting laughs. Keep your humor fresh by mixing it up. Think of quick one-liners or puns mixed with longer anecdotes funny stories.;
, Adjust the subject matter that you joke about. Since you are with friends, you can tell jokes that may not be appropriate to tell at work or to your parents. You might even have an easier time making your friends laugh if your jokes are somewhat inappropriate.


Your may know your close friends well enough to tell crude jokes, but avoid sensitive topics like race or gender around more casual friends. Be wary of any jokes that might be offensive.
 Decide who or what you are going to joke about. Pick a target that your friends will be able to relate to. For example, if your friends are all older and have kids, then telling them a funny story about your kid will get a laugh. Telling the same joke to kids in junior high would probably not amuse them.
 Most humor involves a reaction to something that bothers us in our lives.It can be politics, romance, money, or even something as trivial as the weather. What makes these topics funny is how you uniquely express your frustration with them.


Be sarcastic. Many funny jokes come from sarcasm. Make a statement that might not seem funny if you take it literally, but use your tone of voice to let your audience know you don't really mean it. For example, you could pepper a conversation with some sarcastic comments like, "You're totally unique and special... just like everyone else in the world.", Things that we find funny tend to reflect some kind of truth about the world. What makes them relatable is often what makes them funny. If your jokes aren't grounded in reality, there is a good chance you won't be able to connect with your friends and the joke will fall flat.
 Contrast realistic topics by blowing them out of proportion and using ridiculous metaphors. For example, if you say "I ate too much pizza," you're not likely to get a laugh. However, it will probably be funny if you say, "I ate like 17 pizzas. I was like a bear getting ready to hibernate. When I was done I stacked the pizza boxes to make myself a cave and went to sleep." By exaggerating a simple idea, you can easily make it into something comical.
 A big part of making anyone laugh is performance. You need to be able to use your words to engage the emotions of your audience and create a bond with them.If you can build up tension, anxiety or sympathy with your words, then you will get a bigger laugh when they finally hear the punchline.
 Humor is best when it comes unexpectedly. Don't telegraph your jokes or they will fall flat. To get a laugh, you need to create some incongruity between the setup and the joke by creating an unexpected twist., The funniest jokes usually seem spontaneous.If you can make it seem like the jokes are just coming to you it will make your friends laugh even harder. Once you immerse yourself in comedy, you will find it becomes easier to tell jokes. Try reciting your joke in a room by yourself and see how it sounds.


Work on your timing. Pace yourself. Don't get nervous if it takes awhile before you get a laugh. Keep your tone at a natural conversation pace. Allow your audience a moment to laugh before hitting them with another line.
Tweak your phrasing. Be blunt and concise. If you can't think of the best words to express and idea, let it marinade awhile longer.
 Sometimes it is better to make yourself the target so your friends don't feel like you are constantly ridiculing everyone else. You don't want to seem like a jerk. Let them know you don't think you're better than everyone else by being self-deprecating every once in a while.


For example, "I love my life, but it thinks of me more like a friend."

, You can mimic someone famous, or just someone that all your friends are familiar with. The key is to study the person you want to impersonate and be impressive with how you replicate their voice, expressions and use of language.


Work on your impression by assessing yourself in a mirror. Only do an impression if you can really pull it off.
Your friends should be able to know who you are impersonating without being told. If they don't see it without being told, it isn't going to make them laugh.

