 Kirby is a perfect example of versatility in regards to movement. Kirby has decent speed on the ground coupled with multiple jumps through the air. To jump with Kirby, direct the analog stick UP and puff your way to where you need to go. Jumping can also be achieved by pressing the "C" buttons. Each press executes one jump. After the analog or "C" button jumps are depleted, Kirby has an UP+B that is his recovery move. Be careful not to rush into a UP+B because once it is activated you will be put into a state called freefall, where you can't move or attack. Once you touch the ground or reach a platform you exit the freefall state, so no worries. Kirby's jump is an incredible asset. Having multiple, puff-like jumps allows you to move great distance, although at a cost to movement speed in the air His air movements are much slower than the dual jump technique of the like of Mario or Captain Falcon. Walking and Running are achieved by directing the analog stick in the direction you need to move. The intensity of the analog motion determines whether Kirby runs or walks.;
, Once movement has been mastered you are ready to explore Kirby's arsenal of ground attacks. There are two main groups of Ground Attacks:

, There are 2 types of "Attack" moves: Tilts, and smashes. Tilts do not cause as much damage nor do they hit your opponent as far as Smash attacks, but they are quicker. Smash attacks are generally your KO moves. They produce high damage and knockback. To execute a tilt point the analog stick in the direction you want to attack lightly and then follow up with pressing "A". For example, you can point the analog stick Up in a way that makes you not jump and repeatedly press "A" to do multiple tilts to rack up damage. Once your opponent is approaching 100% damage, execute a smash attack by directing the analog stick in the direction you wanna strike while pressing "A" at the same time. It takes timing and a more forceful analog movement, but if the direction and "A" are pressed at the same time, it should yield a Smash attack.
 Unlike Attacks, Special moves only have 3 variations: Up Special, Down Special, and Neutral Special. Note that there is no Side Special., this executes the attack in the direction you are facing. Usually Neutral B attacks are weaker yet faster attacks, but Captain Falcon, DK, and Samus have powerful Neutral Specials which either charge or take time to develop. Kirby's Up Special is called the Final Cutter. The Final Cutter is a 3 part attack: an upward sword thrust, a downward sword swing, and a horizontal energy blast upon contact with the ground. Kirby's Down Special is a famous technique known as the Da Brick or Da Rock. Kirby turns into a block of dense material and plummets downward with destructive force. To bail out of the move, simply press "B" and Kirby will re-materialize. Otherwise after a few seconds he will pop out himself.


NOTE: Kirby is the only exception to the Neutral Special formula. Kirby's Neutral Special is an intake of air which engulfs your opponent. Once engulfed there are two courses of action: Press "B" and take their Neutral Special for you own OR Press "A" and shoot them from your mouth in what looks like a star. Both actions have their advantages. Taking their powers allows Kirby to become unpredictable, more powerful, or more durable. For example, If Kirby engulfs Fox and presses "B" then Kirby will release Fox and morph into a Fox-Kirby hybrid which enables Kirby to now use Fox's Blaster as his new Neutral Special. If Kirby engulfs DK, Samus, or Captain Falcon then the new hybrid Kirby will gain either the DK Punch or Samus' Energy Blast or Falcon Punch, respectively. Finally, if Kirby manages to engulf Jigglypuff and press "B" then Kirby will gain the Pound technique, which when done in succession with Kirby's jumps, lengthens Kirby's Recovery distance considerably.
 While Kirby has above par ground attacks, Kirby's arsenal of air maneuvers is what truly makes Kirby especially lethal. There are 5 different air attacks using the "A" button: Up, Down, Forward, Back, and Neutral. These can only be used while suspended in air after a jump or while falling:

, This attack sends Kirby into a spin in which his arms and feet inflict minor damage. Cause around 8-10% damage.
 This attack is a Drill Kick which inflicts some serious damage and knocks the opponent downward. This attack will be revisited later: 15-20% damage.
 This attack does a horizontal Drill Kick motion in the direction Kirby is facing. Useful for entrapping your opponent in a succession of kicks dealing upwards of 10-15% damage.
 This attack is a Back Kick which attack away from Kirby's face. Does around 16% damage but more importantly strongly knocks your opponent toward the side of the screen.
 Neutral Air attacks use no direction and are executed by pressing only the "A" button. Kirby's Neutral Air is a Drift Kick which has an Area of Effect on all sides of Kirby. Another powerful move similar to Kirby's Back Air. Causes around 15% damage.


NOTE: "B" Air Attacks are the same or similar in function as "B" Ground attacks.
 Just like every other player in the game, Kirby has a defensive skill set which involves a shield to block attacks and a roll to make attacks miss or not get a full connection. Shielding and Rolling are both executed by holding the "R/Z" buttons. To shield simply hold "R/Z". Shielding does not protect against grabs. Also shields deteriorate over time and grow smaller. Shields also grow smaller as they are subjected to forces and attacks. If your shield breaks you become unconscious. NOTE: Kirby has one advantage in defense that no one else can match. Kirby's Down B has Super Armor, meaning you won't receive knockback, although you'll still take damage., So Kirby will still pop out soon enough. But to Roll it takes "R/Z"+Analog horizontal motion. To Roll left flick the analog to the left while holding "R/Z"; and to roll right flick the analog to the right while holding "R/Z".
 Throwing can be used as a defensive as well as an offensive maneuver depending on your motives. The action of throwing simply requires pressing the "R" or "Z+A" buttons while in close proximity to an opponent. Throwing can definitely be useful but unfortunately Kirby's weakest attribute is definitely his ineffective throwing techniques. His Forward Throw, done by grabbing with "R" then pointing the analog stick the direction Kirby is facing, is the Pile Driver. He picks up the opponent, flashes upward off the screen, and then slams the opponent explosively on the ground. This move looks flashy but only has one one practical use. On maps like Hyrule or Planet Zebes, Kirby can start throwing on the bottom level but explode them on the top most level which can be somewhat effective if your opponent has sufficient damage. However Kirby's Back Throw, done by grabbing and pointing the analog stick in the opposite direction you're facing, is pretty useless. It throws your opponent at an upward-outward-diagonal direction. It rarely produces a KO, and throws them too high to reach consistently. As a defensive device, throwing can get your opponent away from you which could allow you to retreat from the edge and find more suitable fighting ground. Throws are useful tools to change the tempo of a fight, but they are not main attacks. Using throws as your main offense is a true sign of a beginner. As you gain experience you will see that combos and Smash attacks are more efficient at KO'ing your opponent.
 Once you have mastered Kirby's jump and are comfortable with his Air Attacks, Meteor Smashing is the final step at maximizing Kirby's lethal potential. Several characters in the game have Meteor Smash capabilities: Kirby, DK, Yoshi, Mario, Samus, Captain Falcon, Ness. However, Kirby and DK are the only special ones that have TWO techniques which apply downward force sufficient enough to send an airborne opponent to Super Smash Heaven. Kirby's Down Air Attack, the Drill Kick, is one. And the other is Kirby's Up Special also known as the Final Cutter. Here is the proper technique:

, When an opponent is making a desperate attempt to safely get back to the stage, demoralize them by hovering over them in such a manner as to be directly on top of them in the air. This is especially crucial when smashing the likes of Link and DK because their up Specials are also horizontal attacks. Therefore in order to flawlessly KO them you have to be directly above their head. Once in position, Drill Kick them. Warning: That is the basic technique, but there are consequences of the Meteor action. If you Down Air too violently you can actually self destruct yourself because you will be exerting too much downward force. Luckily Kirby has the best jumps in the game, especially when merged with Jigglypuff powers, and can recover easily. The better way to Drill Kick them downward is to do the Down Air command while Kirby's momentum is still in the upward direction. This causes Kirby to do a hover-like motion in place while Drill Kicking. It provides the same lethal downward force without plummeting you to your death as well. This is the safest and most efficient way to Meteor your opponent. It is also useful in edge guarding. If you do the Hover Drill Kick while above the edge of the stage, then you make it so they cannot grab the ledge and have to go over you or through you.
 This technique is lethal, flashy, demoralizing and risky. When Kirby's blade in the Up Special attack is on its downward motion it provides the sufficient downward force to Meteor your opponent off the stage. Just like the "Hover" Drill Kick technique, this attack is designed to jump and execute a downward strike while covering the ledge's access point. If the blades bottom edge catch them they are doomed. But if the point of the sword hits them they only experience the horizontal energy blast, not the downward force. The risky part is that the Final Cutter can sometimes have a horizontal motion as well as vertical. If you are covering the edge and execute the Final Cutter but move off the edge, it will KO you super quick. It's an advanced move, but WICKED if executed.
 Have fun exploring Kirby's skill set and go dominate your friends!

