 Sex and love are two separate, complicated issues that often get confused for being the same thing. You and your partner can be in a loving relationship without having sex. Sex does not need to be involved in order to prove or validate your love. Understanding that sex and love are two separate issues can help you feel confident in saying no to sex if you don't feel ready for it.Simply dating a person does not mean you should feel pressured to have sex.A loving partner will understand your choice to wait for sex and won't pressure you into it.;
, Some teens might have already had sex with their partner and may feel that they can no longer say "No" in the future. You should understand that you can say no to sex — or other sexual activity — at any time. Even if you have already had sex, either with a former partner or your current partner, you can still say no at any point.Having sex in the past does not require you to say “Yes” in the future. If you had sex with a previous partner, it does not mean you should be expected to have sex with your current partner.
 Practicing saying “No” in a way that you feel comfortable with can help make it easier for you to say it when the issue presents itself. Think about how you want to say “No” and then say it out-loud a few times. This can help you get familiar with how it feels to say “No” and allow you to make your position clear in a way that is right for you.Think about how you would feel comfortable saying no.
You can say “No” as simply or as detailed as you would like.
You don't need to explain yourself or offer excuses. Saying “No” is enough.Practice statements like, “No, I don't want to have sex,” or, “I'm not ready to have sex.”

, You may not fully understand exactly why you don't want to have sex. This is fine; you don't need to have reasons or explain your stance. However, understanding why you might want to avoid sex can help you be more confident in that decision. Take a look at some of the following reasons why you might want to wait before having sex:You don't feel comfortable or ready to have sex.
You understand the risks of pregnancy and what that would mean for your future.
You know that contracting a sexually transmitted infection is a risk.
You might worry about how you will feel after.
You don't want to feel pressured into having sex.
You just know it's not the right time.
It conflicts with your religious beliefs.

