 Because your allergy is a result of a certain food, remove any products in your home that contain the food. This may minimize your risk of eating foods that cause allergic reactions.The most common foods that trigger allergies are:


Eggs
Milk
Peanuts and tree nuts like walnuts
Wheat
Soy
Shellfish
Fish
Throw away foods if you’re unsure of their ingredients. Food Allergy Research & Education (FARE) offers a long list of foods containing common allergens.;
, Many triggers are common ingredients in food and even some vitamins, so it’s important to identify products that may cause an allergic reaction.Read food and product labels to determine if your product contains a trigger food. Be aware that US law requires that American food manufacturers list the top eight allergenic foods in plain language on packaging. You may also want to look for common code names for allergens including:Casein, lactalbumin, lactose, rennet casein, whey, and tagatose for milk
Flour, einkorn, seitan, triticale, vital wheat gluten, durum for wheat
Albumin, globulin, livetin, lysozyme, surimi, and vitellin for egg
Edamame, miso, natto, shoyu, tamari, tempeh, tofu for soy
Glucosamine or surimi for shellfish
Peanut protein hydrolysate for peanuts
Fish gelatin, nuoc mam, roe, sashimi, surimi for fish

, Even if you remove many of your favorite foods because of an allergy, you can restock your pantry and enjoy alternative foods that do not contain any of your triggers. Using trigger-free foods and alternatives can minimize the risk of preparing a dish that will cause a reaction.


If you live in a home with others who consume your trigger foods, consider storing your food separately to minimize the risk of contamination. Keep in mind that cross-contamination can occur, so it is likely in your best interest to ensure that no allergy food triggers are in the environment.
Ask stores if they offer products for people with allergies. For example, many stores now have a section for wheat-free foods.
Use alternatives for common allergens. Some examples you can use instead of triggers are: rice or oat milk products for dairy, rice flours or corn-based products for wheat allergies, xanthan gum for eggs, roasted pumpkin or sunflower seeds for peanuts or tree nuts.Remember to read food labels to see if your triggers or common code names for them are listed. Avoid any food or product that isn’t labeled., Preparing your meals is a safe way to minimize the risk of eating trigger foods. Planning your meals may not only prevent allergic reactions, but also ensure you’re getting enough vitamins and nutrients to maintain your well-being.Write a meal plan each week. Pay special attention to meals that you don’t eat at home such like lunch. Pack a lunch or alternative meal if you like. If you’re going to a restaurant, you may want to check out the menu before you go to figure out what you could eat.
If your allergy is severe, you may need to take special precautions to make sure none of your foods are prepared with or near your trigger foods. For some people, just being in the same vicinity as a trigger food can cause a reaction.
 Having food allergies can make it difficult to eat at restaurants. Many places use products containing triggers and may prepare dishes on surfaces with allergens. Call ahead and ask questions about the menu and preparation to minimize your risk of an allergic reaction.Ask the manager, server, or chef if the restaurant can accommodate your allergy. You may want to explain your triggers.Inquire if the staff is trained about food allergies, if food for persons with allergies is prepared in a separate area with separate utensils, and if they offer any specialty products for people with allergies.Always be prepared if a restaurant doesn’t have your first choice., It’s common to accidentally expose yourself to trigger foods through cross-contamination. Keeping vigilant about what you buy and how you store and prepare it may prevent allergic reactions.Use different utensils and preparation surfaces to prevent cross-contamination in your home.Consider having your own appliances, like toasters or blenders.
Wash your hands with soap and water before preparing food. This can often clear your hands of any contaminants.
 If you find you’re your food allergies or symptoms are getting worse or you are having trouble coping with them, schedule an appointment with your doctor.They can run tests for you, speak to you about how to cope, or suggest a psychiatrist to help you.


Your doctor may suggest running additional allergy tests including blood or skin tests, an elimination diet, a food diary, or an oral food challenge to figure out what is making you sick.Your doctor may also test for other conditions related to food allergies such as: anxiety, depression, or exercise.Ask your doctor if there is any medication that may help you. Make sure to take any medication they suggest or prescribe.The best treatment is often avoidance if possible. If you cannot avoid the food, ensure that you have a plan in case you are exposed. Depending on the severity, you may need to carry an epinephrine pen at all times if an anaphylactic reaction may result from exposure.
Consider seeing a counselor if you are having a hard time coping with your food allergies.
 Ask your doctor to refer you to a certified dietitian if you are having a hard time with your diet. A dietitian can help you learn to recognize triggers, identify and prepare nutritious alternative foods, and develop a meal plan that promotes your health.


Find a dietitian or health professional that specializes food allergies. They can give you information on safe food choices, hidden triggers, and figuring out alternative meals when eating out.
If you can’t find a dietician or health professional that specializes in food allergies, the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics lists registered dietitians in your area., Letting others know about your food allergies can be an important part of dealing with the condition. Being open about your triggers may prevent uncomfortable situations or questions, and it also may alert people to your condition in the event of an allergy attack.


Let friends, family members, co-workers, caregivers, and other important individuals know about your allergies. They may be able to help you in an emergency.Wear a medical alert bracelet or necklace, which can explain how to help you in an emergency., You will likely find that most people understand your food allergies and needs. Social pressure or stigmatizing from others may be a result of misinformation. Learning to ignore negative reactions can help you maintain a full and active life.You might feel embarrassed having to ask for special meals and considerations when you’re out. Explain your condition and don’t worry about how other people may react. Ignore any negative reactions, which may help you cope you’re your allergies.

Positive affirmations can help you become more confident and empowered when taking control of your health and preventing allergy side effects. Repeat the phrase, “What other people think about me doesn’t matter.” This may minimize your embarrassment or feelings of guilt.Reframe any negative energy you feel by taking a deep breath, repeat the manta and thinking of something positive, like being on the top of a beautiful mountain.Love and accept yourself. For example, say “I may have food allergies, but they don’t control. I can go out for dinner and enjoy my time with friends and acquaintances.”, Join a support group and attend events for individuals with food allergies. Not only can both provide you unconditional support from others with the same condition, but they may have idea for dealing with various aspects of the condition.There are many support groups who meet online. If getting to a physical location is tough, this may be an option.
Attend events or conferences about food allergies in your area. These may provide you contacts and information to help you with your specific allergies.For example, FARE offers the Food Allergy awareness week.Inform yourself by watching programs for people who have food allergies. For example, FARE and the Discovery Channel produced a recent documentary about food allergies.FARE offers a service to locate a food allergy support group in your local area., It may ease your mind to prepare yourself for possible allergy attacks from unintended exposure.Keep people you’re with informed about your allergy or carrying emergency medication.Know the signs of anaphylaxis and how to treat it. Every reaction can be different depending in your sensitivity to the allergen and the size of the exposure.
Ask your doctor to prescribe emergency epinephrine if you are prone to severe allergic reactions.Carry over-the-counter anti-histamines if you have mild allergic reactions.Diphenhydramine (Benadryl) is a very effective treatment. Understand that the side effects may include drowsiness, dizziness or extreme confusion.
Let servers at restaurants know about your allergies.Compose an action plan for attacks and place it in your purse or wallet. Include information on how to care for you and who to call in the event of an emergency.