 Because we are making an easier version of duct tape fabric, thirty minutes, or less, is how long this project should take.
 Choose two different colors of duct tape, to create a striped look for your bag; or you can choose a single print, like the anchor print, to make your bag. Reference method one, above, for instructions on the best way to purchase duct tape. Consider choosing one darker color and one lighter color for contrast.
If you want to add a shape onto the bag, buy tape to make the shape. For example, if you want to make the anchor stencil, buy red or white duct tape and use the steps in method two add the shape to your finished product. , In addition to the standard materials detailed in method one, sharp scissors and cutting mat, for this craft you will need a:


13 gallon, white trash bag
Yard stick or measuring tape
Permanent marker
Long ribbon or cord to make the strap of your bag

, This sheet of plastic will be one side of your the duct tape fabric.









If need be, you can use a black trash bag if you do not have a white trash bag. The black doesn’t match the beach bag look as well, but it will still work in a pinch. The white trash bag is also preferable because you can mark the outline with a sharpie that is more visible.
 This will keep it from moving when you are working with the duct tape. Reference method one to learn about how to prepare your surface for crafting.









Tape each of the four sides of your bag to your cleared off surface.
 Using your yardstick or measuring tape, draw a rectangle twenty eight inches by twelve inches.
 Start with your first color of duct tape, and cut a piece, twenty eight inches long, and lay it, left to right, on the top of the long side of the plastic.









Lay the next strip of tape down (your other color, if you are making stripes), slightly overlapping the first piece of tape. Don’t worry about the tape being the perfect length, you will cut off the excess later.
Repeat the process until the rectangle is covered.
 Use the marker outline to help guide you, and remove the excess duct tape and plastic. Throw away the excess you remove.
 Make sure not to cut the cord too short. Two and a half feet for each cord should be sufficient.


The cords in this bag will work like drawstrings that tie at the two ends of the bag. You will pull up on the tied off cords from both sides of the bag and it will tighten the opening of the bag.
 Place the fabric on table with the plastic side facing up. Position the cord along the edge of the short side of your fabric. Fold a couple of inches of fabric over the cord. Cut a long piece of tape and tape down the fold, pressing to smooth the tape down. Cut off any excess.









Now the cord is encased in the bag. When the bag is made, if you pull the cord, the bag will bunch tighter.
Repeat this process with the opposite, also short, side of the fabric. Once both cords are encased, fold your bag in half, so that the cords meet at the top of the bag.
 Cut a long piece of tape, and make sure it matches the color on the bag. Place the half of the tape, vertically, down one side of the bag, and then fold the other half of the tape onto the other side of the bag, and seal the bag shut. Trim off the excess tape.
 On each side of the bag your cords lie on top of each other. Tie them in a double knot. Trim off the excess cord. Pull up on the ties, and your new beach bag is ready to go!








