 Although it may not always be easy, trying to keep a conversation going is a great way to pass the time and enjoy the party. You'll want to avoid topics that are considered “dead ends,” opting for subjects that can easily flow into another area. By discussing topics that are open-ended, you'll be able to keep a conversation going and help make the party a bit more interesting. Try to avoid topics like the weather, money or traffic. Instead, ask people about their hobbies and interests, what music they like, if they've seen any good movies, and so on.
Keep topics broad at first and then narrow the subject down if the other person is interested.
Asking questions is a great way to keep a conversation open and flowing.
Pay attention to what the other person is saying. You'll likely find they have mentioned a few things that would be a good topic to focus on.
 Even if you think the party isn't as fun as it could be, you'll likely find someone that you can connect and chat with. Try talking to a few different people or approaching someone you think you'd enjoy a conversation with. Once you find someone you can easily talk with, the party should be a lot more fun for both of you.If you've already got a friend at the party, try sticking by her.
Finding someone to talk with at a dull party can help make it much more enjoyable.
 Inevitably, there will come a time when a certain topic or conversational thread will start to come to an end. Knowing how to jump form one topic to another can help keep a conversation going strong. Keep some of these tips in mind whenever you need to change topics during a conversation:Generally, you'll want the new topic to be somewhat related to the last one. For example, a discussion about libraries could easily transition into a talk about e-readers and then onto new technology.
Don't be afraid to abruptly change a topic if the old one should fizzle out.
Feel free to explore topics that go beyond the usual small talk. For example, you might ask someone what he would do if he were trapped on a desert island.
 There are some conversational habits that can make a person lose interest in whatever it is you are saying. If a person gets bored or feels like she can't contribute to the conversation, she will likely look for something else to do at the party. Keep some of these tips in mind to keep a conversation going and avoid boredom at a lackluster party: Try not to drone on or speak in a monotone voice. Allow your personality to shine through in your conversation and express yourself.
Avoid ranting or dominating the conversation. Always let the other person have a turn to speak. Don't interrupt.
Talking too abstractly or too generally can cause people to tune out.
Don't talk exclusively about yourself.

