 If your eye pain is coming from allergies, your best bet is to remove the allergens or remove yourself from environments in which the allergens are present.


If you do not know what this allergen is, consult a doctor. They will be able to conduct a skin test which will accurately tell them what your body is allergic to.
Seasonal allergies are common and usually are at their worst during springtime when many plants bloom and release pollen. Look up the pollen count for your area online and stay inside as much as possible on days when the pollen count is high. Avoid mowing the lawn or other yard chores that stir up more pollen.Cat and dog allergies are another common allergen. Direct contact with cats or dogs will affect people with these allergies and can continue to affect them days after initial contact.
Food allergies are less common but can cause severe swelling and itchiness of the eyes. Food allergies tend to be more severe so this will also be accompanied by an upset stomach or itchiness of the skin or throat.
 This can help to bring down swelling and pain in the eye. Hypertonic sodium chloride is available over-the-counter and comes in the form of ophthalmic solutions or ointment and it is a good alternative to ophthalmic decongestants. This medication can help to decrease pain, and can also absorb excess fluid in your eye because it contains a high level of salt. Good options include:Muro 128 5% ophthalmic solution: Apply one to two drops to the affected eye every four hours, but do not use it for more than 72 hours in a row.

Muro 128 5% ointment: To use this ointment, pull down the lower lid of the affected eye and apply a small ribbon of the ointment to the inside of the eyelid, once daily or as directed by physician.
 Ophthalmic lubricants are most used for corneal ulcerations that occur because your body does not produce enough tear fluid. These lubricants help to moisten and refresh the eye. Most of these lubricants are OTC medications, including Visine Tears Dry Eye Relief, Visine Tears Long Lasting Dry Eye Relief, Tears Naturale Forte, and Tears Plus.Consult the instructions on the packaging of any ophthalmic lubricant before use. Follow the appropriate amount and frequency of dosing.
If you can avoid choosing a lubricant with preservatives as some people are sensitive to these preservatives and experience increased redness, burning or itching., Your doctor will be able to pinpoint the cause of the allergic reaction and can prescribe more powerful medicine to help lessen your symptoms.


If your doctor discovers signs of allergies, he will likely refer you to an allergist. Allergists specialize in treating patients suffering from allergies.

