 Chest pain by itself should be a red flag that something may be wrong with your heart, but take it even more seriously when it occurs with dizziness. Chest pain, shortness of breath, and dizziness or lightheadedness are some of the most common symptoms of a heart attack – caused when your heart isn’t getting enough blood to your brain. If this occurs, call for help immediately.You might also experience an irregular heart rate, which may or may not cause chest pain. Get help if you’re dizzy and your heart is beating out of sync.;
, It’s normal to feel a little off-balance or fatigued when you’re dizzy, but if you experience a quick onset of weakness – especially on only one side of your body – this could signal that you’re having a stroke. Pay attention to whether your speech is more difficult or if your face is drooping on one side. Call for help as quickly as possible if you experience any of these symptoms.Other symptoms of a stroke include your face, arms, or legs feeling numb and difficulty walking.
 Even if you get minor headaches regularly, pay attention if you feel dizziness and have a new headache, a severely painful headache, or a headache that differs from what you usually experience. If this occurs, have someone drive you to the emergency department or call for emergency services., Take a trip to the emergency department if you lose consciousness, or if you lose your immediate memory.Sometimes people pass out because they’re dehydrated or anxious, but it can also indicate a serious problem that warrants immediate attention.
 If you become so dizzy that you fall – even if you do not lose consciousness – go to the hospital if you hit your head. Head injuries can be very serious, and symptoms of damage may not occur until later. You need to be tested for a concussion and, possibly, for bleeding inside or around your skull.
 Meningitis can be a serious and potentially deadly cause of dizziness. It often occurs with a high fever of 102°F (39°C) and up and/or a stiff neck.Nausea, vomiting, confusion, a skin rash, or seizures may also occur. Get help right away to begin treating the infection., Vomiting and dizziness may go hand-in-hand.These may be symptoms of vertigo, Meniere’s disease, meningitis, or other illnesses. Persistent vomiting can make you dehydrated quickly – which is both dangerous, and will exacerbate your dizziness. Seek medical care if you’re vomiting regularly for longer than a day.

