 One of the easiest ways to save time so you can fit an exercise and a meal into your lunch break is to pack your lunch at home the night before. Include food for lunch plus a few healthy snacks.Stay away from prepared meals that you'll need to heat up in the microwave. Waiting for your lunch to cook will eat up precious minutes.
Additionally, you may have difficulty digesting prepared meals after an intense workout session.
Rather, prepare simple foods that are ready-to-eat, such as a salad, a sandwich, or whole fruits and vegetables.
 Pack a protein or energy bar or shake to eat about a half hour before lunch. It will give your body the fuel it needs to complete a workout that's brief, but intense.You also want to make sure you have a complete, protein-filled breakfast. Try cereal with almonds, yogurt, or eggs.
Your snack should be small, especially if part of the reason you're exercising is to lose weight. If you consume too many calories before your workout, you won't burn as much fat.
Check the ingredient labels of protein or energy bars carefully before you buy them. You don't want something that has too many calories, or has significant amounts of sugar or chemical preservatives.
 You want to make sure you're eating lunch soon after you finish your workout. Exercising during your lunch break is not an excuse to skip a meal. Instead, eat something with plenty of protein and complex carbohydrates to help your body recover.A sandwich with lean meat such as chicken or turkey can be a good option, and the bread will supply carbs your body needs to recover from your workout and rebuild muscles. Choose whole grains which digest more slowly. The extra fiber and protein will sustain your energy better.
A salad also provides good nutrition, and can be prepared relatively quickly. Use olive oil, or a light vinaigrette instead of heavier salad dressings such as ranch.
Many people have difficulty processing dairy immediately after exercise, so keep cheese or creamy dressings or sauces to a minimum.
 Particularly if your lunch was low in carbs, you may want to try a post-workout recovery bar or shake that provides your body with the energy it needs to fully recover and get you through the rest of the day.As with your pre-workout snack, read ingredient labels carefully before you buy a pre-packaged product. Avoid snacks that are overly processed or high in sugar.
If you prefer to graze, keep a healthy snack such as almonds around your work area for when you feel the need to snack.

