


Complete educational requirements. Most shop owners will want you to have a minimum of a high school diploma. There are often floral design courses offered at community centers and junior colleges.
Gain experience in a retail environment. In a flower shop, you will be required to use a cash register and computer, work with customers and place orders. You can gain these skills working in any store.
Be sure to have a valid driver's license. Delivering flowers may be part of your job description, so maintain a good driving record.
Demonstrate your passion for flowers and willingness to learn. A flower shop will be more likely to hire you if you enjoy being around flowers, and want to know more about them.
Look for opportunities in your local flower shops or the floral sections of grocery stores. Start with the stores that you visit most often when you need to buy flowers.;
, You do not have to be an expert on every flower type to work in a flower shop, but you need to learn everything you can to help customers and answer questions.


Read floral books and magazines. The flower shop you work in will likely subscribe to regular periodicals and keep books on flowers and plants.
Ask questions. Talk to the floral designers you work with, and ask questions about the flowers they arrange. This will help you learn, and you will prove that you are interested in your work.
 Even local and small flower shops will often have a website where customers can place orders.


Study the shop's website. Learn how orders are placed, and what the procedure is to fill and deliver the orders.
Ask for training if you are unfamiliar with the Internet.
 Most flower shops are busy, and you will move around a lot arranging flowers, accepting deliveries, preparing orders for customers and helping shoppers.
 Holidays will also be workdays, especially those that often involve flowers, such as Mother's Day and Valentine's Day.


Wear comfortable shoes. They should have a sole that will support your feet, and prevent you from slipping if you are in areas where flowers are being watered.
 Some flower shop associates wear an apron over their clothing.

