 Creating a blog is the best way to get noticed by potential editors and hiring managers at popular recipe websites and food magazines. It will also give you a working portfolio if potential employers want to see samples of your work. You can either hire a professional to design and code your site for you, or you can try to create it yourself. Determine the design and aesthetic you'd like for your personal site and implement your idea.Popular places to build your website include Wordpress, Wix, and SquareSpace.Come up with a catchy name for your blog that incorporates your style or name in some way.
Top food blogs include The Kitchn, The Full Helping, Honest Cooking, and smitten kitchen.;
, Join social media platforms that can visually show off your work. Photos often get more user engagement and can help build your following online.Pinterest is one of the best places to post your recipes if you want it to trend online. Interact, comment, repost, and like other people's posts. Try to gain followers through delicious and visually appealing images.


Other social media platforms include Tumblr, Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook.
A good way to gain a following is to write recipes in a niche that isn't oversaturated with competition, such as recipes for those with celiac disease.
To learn more about how to be a social media guru, read how to use social media to market your business.
 Some food websites and magazines will occasionally post open freelance positions for recipe developers. Take advantage of opportunities that you find and apply to these jobs. Follow your favorite sites on social media to learn about new opportunities to work at these companies.


The top recipe websites include AllRecipes, Food Network, TheKitchn, Epicurious, and SimplyRecipes.Top food magazines include Martha Stewart Living, Taste of Home, Bon Appetit, and Southern Living., A pitch is a detailed summary of an article that you'd like to write for a website or publication. Some companies may accept pitches to write articles on their site or in their publication if they are interesting enough. Start by sending pitches to local websites or magazines. The more interesting and relevant your pitch is, the more likely it will be accepted and assigned by an editor.Some websites will have pitch requirements and guidelines that you should read before submitting your pitches.
If the company gets back to you, write and submit the article by the deadline.

