 The second you notice yourself reaching for your phone to check a text message or opening a webpage unrelated to work, stop and cut the distraction off at the pass. In order to combat the most common distractions, you must be able to recognize when they're stealing your attention away. Practice staying mindful of resisting distractions by repeating a phrase like "be here now" or "this is not what I need to be doing" when you catch your attention drifting. Being vigilant of your mind state can help snap you back to reality.Many distractions simply have to be ignored. The brain is well-equipped to block out smaller, less intrusive distractions, but with a little practice you can learn to build up your focus and attention like a muscle.
Most people lose so much time to extraneous activities because they fail to notice when they're getting distracted, and only become aware of their mistake once the damage has been done., Be disciplined about making yourself start working. Procrastination is a major distraction because it allows you to convince yourself that you’ll be better off performing a task when you feel more prepared. Once you realize that you’ll never get anything done unless you do it now, you won’t feel so tempted to put things off.Procrastination is a childish mentality. It can cause you to avoid responsibility in favor of feeling good right now.
Research has shown that people rarely meet with more success when they put things off until later as opposed to doing them right away.
 Sometimes you have to remind yourself to actively focus. Many people never truly learn how to stay focused and find it difficult to keep their minds from wandering when there’s work to be done. Try to shut off your own mental distractions so that you can zero in on checking items off your to-do list. It’s not enough to simply know that you need to focus; you have to apply yourself to the action you’re performing in the moment.It can help to remember that the best way to get everything done is to put all your effort toward one thing at a time. Start by seeing a specific task or project through to completion, then move onto another, then another, until you’ve met your goal for the day.
 Physically remove yourself from a certain set of distractions that's leaching your mental power. Pack the materials you need for work or a creative project and head down to the library or a quiet cafe where you can peacefully resume your labors. By isolating yourself, you'll be able to literally escape the distractions that you just can't ignore. If you're powerless before a certain distraction, sometimes you just have to cut and run.Even if you're unable to literally leave the worst of your distractions behind, there are still things you can do to rid them from your mind. Leave your phone at home, turn off your wi-fi and close every tab you have open that isn't helping you with your current task.An ideal working environment is one where there are as few distractions present as possible. This can mean persistent annoyances like cell phones, computers and social media, but it can also include anything that reminds you of what you'd rather be doing.

