 It sounds cheesy to say, but no one will love you if you don't first love yourself. Give yourself permission to love yourself, if you haven't already. You'll feel better about the fact that you're alone and about your chances of eventually smashing your loneliness.


Say something encouraging to yourself every day. Don't get too proud, but compliment yourself about something you do well. If you can't find a reason to compliment yourself, say something like "I love myself all by myself" and really believe it. It can be pretty uplifting.
 Whatever your hobbies are, lose yourself in them. They give you lasting happiness and pleasure. As long as they aren't illegal and don't hurt people, they're perfectly acceptable. Having a social hobby gives you an opportunity to meet new people, as well. Seize every opportunity you get to turn your hobby into a social occasion.
 This is a lesson that applies to every single person, but it's true here especially. And it's not true that you don't have friends because you're a bad person. It just means that you probably have more time on your hands, which means you have the opportunity to use that time productively:


Treat your body well. Take long walks, preferably in nature. Run and swim and bike to your destinations. Join an intramural sports team so that you can be competitive and build a bit of muscle while you're at it.
Think about developing a new skill. This is purely for yourself, not to impress other people. Maybe you know C++ and you want to learn Java; maybe you're an ace on the balance beams and still need to master the pommel horse; maybe you know how to play guitar but still could learn the banjo. The world is your oyster!

, There's a chance your lack of friends is purely circumstances or bad luck. In that case, you'll probably end up with friends in no time flat. But there's also a chance your lack of friends is because you haven't been picking up on social cues, and could learn a little bit in that department.


Pay attention to:
People's body language. Do smiles turn into smirks? Does getting too close to another person cause them to take a couple steps back? Your words and your body will have a visible effect on other people's bodies, if you learn to look.
What people tell you without actually saying it. "Yesterday I went to Coachella" is really just an invitation for you to ask them how awesome it was.
Not dominating the conversation. Let other people talk once in a while; on the other hand, don't be a mute. Learn to ask questions of people and volunteer information so that you keep the conversation going.
 Internet communities are excellent places for you to find people who may be unusually shy in person, but who are unusually forthcoming online. Maybe it sounds weird to you, but try it out. You could find a treasure-trove of like-minded individuals who are fun and exciting to be around.
 Nothing is ever a sure bet, but life rewards people who reward themselves. If you're never putting yourself in situations where you could fail socially, you're probably being too shy. Go and talk to a friendly-looking person. Invite an old friend over for tea. Introduce yourself to a group of strangers and ask a provoking question. Fortune favors the bold.

