 They should be comfortable with it and definitely want a new coloring. A hair color they are not comfortable with could cause them to lose confidence, while a well done color change can also boost their confidence. Sit with them and get a picture of a model that has a hair color they want, if they haven't chosen already. Better yet, go shopping together and make the decision in the store.;
, Since you are doing it the faster and cheaper way, whether you're at your house or the model's house, put covering on the floor where you're standing to dye the model's hair. Also cover nearby furniture, for example by placing old tablecloths, bedding, newspaper, etc. over it. Dye is certain to go on such items without noticing, through such actions as dripping and squirting everywhere. Dyeing is a messy activity and dye will stain and ruin any are of floors or furniture that it touches.
 Get them to wear an old top and wear old clothes yourself. Don't forget to wear old shoes too, or cover your feet/shoes with plastic bags.


Apply Vaseline or lip balm to their forehead and sides of their face. This is to avoid having to get out the stains on their skin, caused by the dye.
 Most hair dyes have a pair of gloves for you to wear. If they don't, then use your own rubber gloves. Getting dye on your skin might not only be hard to get off, but can cause an irritation if you're sensitive to it.
 Get an old bowl and a brush. Follow the instructions on the hair dye packaging. It will tell you exactly what to do by way of mixing and such.
 Again, follow the instructions on the packaging.
 Do this a few times, making sure that there are no tangles in the hair.
 Use a clip to hold the sections in; this makes it simpler and you know you won't miss any pieces of the hair.
 Start this from the roots, then work downwards.
 It will say how long you need to keep the hair dye on for. Be sure to look at the time once the hair has the dye added to it, then set a timer to remind you when to rinse the dye off.
 If left there, it will irritate their skin.
 Once the time is up according to the timer, rinse the dye off. Check that no hair dye is left on the model's hair after rinsing; it should either be in the hair strands or washed away, not sitting on the hair.
, Ten blow dry and style if the model requests.

