 The 25 meringue blocks take up a lot of space on the Candy Crush level 30 game board, so it’s important to remove those blocks first to give you more candies and free up exit routes for the ingredients.You can’t use a color bomb to remove meringue, but you can:Make candy combinations adjacent to the meringue to destroy it.
Make special candy combinations with striped and wrapped candies.;
, Once the meringue is out of the way, you can focus on clearing the first ingredient (a cherry or chestnut) from the board. In the column where the ingredient is, make candy combinations below the ingredient to remove candies and free up spaces. As you clear the board beneath the ingredient, it will drop into the free spaces.


Clear ingredients from the board by getting them all the way to the bottom where the green arrows are, and they will be removed from the board.
In level 30, there are green arrows at the bottom of every column, meaning you can remove ingredients from the board in any column, as long as they are free of meringue.
 As each ingredient drops, continue making combinations under it to remove it. In level 30, ingredients can drop in any column and at any time (even if there’s still one on the board), but a new one will always drop when you remove the last one from the board.


Removing all six ingredients over the course of your 60 moves will give you at least 60,000 points and three stars for the level.
 In Candy Crush, special candies are candies that get created when you make certain combinations on the board. Special candies can be combined with regular candies or other special candies to clear more of the board with a single move. Since you don’t have to worry about positioning your ingredients in the right columns (because they’re all exit routes) in level 30, you can focus more on making special candies and combinations.


Striped candies are created by combining four candies of the same kind.Color bombs (the sprinkled candies) are generated by combining five of the same candies in a row or column.
Wrapped candies are created when you match five or more candies that form an L-shape or a T-shape.
 By combining your special candies with regular candies, you can accomplish a lot more with fewer moves. The special candy uses or combinations are: A color bomb, when combined with any regular candy, will remove all the candies of that color or kind
A candy with vertical stripes will clear all the candies in that column when it’s activated
A candy with horizontal stripes will clear all the candies in that row when it’s activated

, Combining special candies with special candies will remove large numbers of candies from the board at once. Combinations are especially helpful if you’ve only got a few moves left and still have more ingredients to drop.Two striped candies with either vertical or horizontal stripes (the direction doesn’t matter) can be combined to remove all the candies in the row and column where the match was made.A striped candy and a wrapped candy will have the same effect as the striped candy combination, but this combination will remove three rows and three columns of candies.
Two wrapped candies combined will create a two-candy-wide square of destruction around the combination site.
A wrapped candy plus a color bomb will destroy all the candies that are the same color as the wrapped candy, plus another set of candies of a random color.
When you combine a color bomb and a striped candy, all the candies on the board that are the same color as the striped candy will be turned to striped candies, which will all then be activated.
Two color bombs together essentially destroys all the candies on the screen; however, be warned that this doesn’t necessarily mean you are going to beat whatever level you’re on.

