 If you use an all-over liquid foundation as part of your makeup routine, you should apply this before beginning the baking process. Do not apply any sort of powder foundation. Baking will only set any liquid products on your face. Use your liquid foundation to even out your skin tone, creating a smooth base., Use a hydrating eye cream or serum, which you can find at beauty supply stores or your local pharmacy. By applying this, you’ll hydrate the delicate skin underneath your eyes, prepping them for makeup application. If you struggle with dark circles or bags under your eyes, a good eye product will help make your eyes look brighter and more awake.Applying an eye cream or serum will also help to firm up your skin and smooth out any lines or wrinkles, which can cause makeup to crease up and look very unnatural.
Gently dab the eye cream underneath your eyes and allow it to absorb into your skin for a couple of minutes.
 After the eye cream has fully absorbed into your skin, it’s time to begin applying makeup. To bake your makeup, it’s great to use a thick, full-coverage concealer. If you already have a go-to favorite, you can use that. Using your finger or a concealer brush, begin dotting the concealer underneath your eyes.Rather than bringing the concealer all the way up to your eye, start a couple of centimeters underneath your eye.
Apply the concealer underneath your eye, along the apples of your cheeks, and upwards toward your temple., First, dampen a makeup sponge or Beautyblender. Then, use quick patting motions to blend out your concealer. As you blend, bring the concealer up to your eye. By applying it this way, you will get lighter and more natural looking coverage closest to your eye.You can purchase a Beauty blender online or at a beauty supply store, but most drug stores offer generic versions of the foam, tear-dropped shape makeup sponge.
 A second coat can help to lock in the first coat, ensuring full-coverage all day.This time, don’t apply the concealer as heavily. Gently apply it with a concealer brush or your fingertip, again leaving a tiny bit of space between the concealer and your eye. Grab your damp makeup sponge and blend it out once again., While the skin under your eyes is typically the central focus of “baking,” you can and should apply concealer to any other area where you want a bright, flawless finish. Put concealer on your chin, the center of the forehead, the bridge of your nose, and underneath the hollows of your cheeks.


These are the “highlight” areas, and you can add dimension to your face by baking these areas as well.
 Translucent powders are color-free and are used to set makeup. They even out your makeup and make sure that it will stay put through long days and nights.You can purchase a translucent powder at your local drugstore or beauty supply store.Using a blending brush, lightly apply the translucent powder everywhere that you applied concealer. Use minimal powder – just enough to set your makeup into place.
 This is the step that is referred to as “baking,” although the application of the concealer is just as important. You can use your blending brush, your damp makeup sponge, or a clean makeup sponge or wedge. Spray your applicator of choice with a bit of makeup setting spray.


Dip the brush, sponge, or wedge into the same translucent powder you used previously. Apply it thickly under your eyes, as well as any other areas of your face where you applied concealer.
Apply the translucent powder extremely generously to underneath your eyes, as well as the concealer on your chin, under the hollows of your cheeks, the bridge of your nose, and your forehead.
Continue dipping the brush into the translucent powder to pack plenty of product over your concealer.
 After you’re done applying the translucent powder, you will look silly. Don’t worry – that’s simply part of the baking process! It should look thick and clownish as it “bakes.” The translucent powder allows the heat from your face to set your liquid foundation and concealer firmly into place, so give it about five or ten minutes to bake fully., You can use the blending brush that you used to apply the translucent powder. Swirl your brush into the powder, and tap off any excess product. Don’t worry, this powder will not be applied as generously as the translucent powder., Using the brush with foundation, brush away the translucent powder in light, gentle strokes. Do this to all of the areas you “baked”: under your eyes, your chin, underneath your cheek hollows, and your forehead. As you brush away the packed on translucent powder, the foundation on the brush will give you a little bit of extra coverage.As you brush away the translucent powder, you will reveal smooth, even skin.
 After you’ve brushed away the excess translucent powder, double check that there are no harsh, unnatural edges anywhere on your face. If there are, use your blending brush and a bit of your powder foundation to correct this. Use a light hand to gently blend out any uneven spots without removing any product.