 If you have a have a shirt that’s lost a button, you don’t need to discard it. You can sew on a matching button to make the shirt new again. You’ll need a matching button, a needle, thread, and scissors.Double thread the needle and knot the end.
Bring the needle up through the wrong side of the fabric and one hole of the button.
Bring the needle back down through an opposite hole, and repeat this process of going up through one hole and down through an opposite hole six times with the same two holes.
Do the same thing with the other two holes that you haven’t used yet. You will end up with the thread making an equals sign on your button.
Tie a secure knot in the thread by passing the needle through the stitches on the wrong side of the fabric stopping short to create a loop. Then pass the needle through the loop and pull tightly to create a knot. Repeat this twice to make a secure knot.;
, You can update an old pair of jeans by dying them with RIT dye and gaining a fresh new pair of dark denim jeans. All you need is a 5 gallon bucket, navy RIT dye, gloves, a stirrer, and a pair of old jeans.Mix the dye with boiling water in a 5 gallon bucket. Follow the directions for the dye to find out the ratio of water to dye powder. Make sure you wear gloves while dying your jeans.
Put the jeans into the dye, and stir them around with the stirrer.
After about 5 minutes of stirring, pull the jeans out and wring out the excess dye.
Rinse the jeans in a sink or bathtub until the water runs clear.
Lay the jeans out flat to dry, or put them in a dryer.
 Sweaters often stretch out as they age and end up looking old. You can fix an old, stretched out sweater by resizing it to fit you again.Put on the sweater inside out and pin it where you want to resize it. Pinch the sleeves and pin them to know where to sew. Pin down either side of the sweater to make the sweater smaller.
Carefully take the sweater off and lay it flat to make sure all the pins are straight.
Use a sewing machine or hand sew the sweater in a line where the pins are.
Cut the excess fabric after sewing it.
Turn the sweater right side out and wear your new fitting sweater.

