 Calamine lotion, which includes products like lanolin or Aquaphor, is designed to treat and prevent dry, rough, scaly, and itchy skin. Calamine lotion contains emollients, which help to soften and moisturize the skin while decreasing itching and flaking.Check the contents of calamine lotion or creams before buying. Do not use these products if you are allergic to one of the ingredients found in the lotion.;
, Check the product label for instruction and the correct usage. In general, to use calamine lotion you should shake it well before using it. Put a dab of the lotion on a soft, clean cloth for easy application. Apply the lotion to the affected ares of your skin as often as you need to, or as directed by your doctor.Apply the product after bathing or showering, while the skin is still damp.
Such creams and lotions are for external use only. Avoid contact with your eyes and other mucous membranes.
Ask your pediatrician before using calamine lotion on children younger than six months old.
 Some of the chemicals found in calamine lotion may not be safe to use during pregnancy, or may interfere with conception.


Additionally consult your doctor if you are taking any prescription or nonprescription medicine, herbal preparation, or dietary supplements because the lotion could cause an interaction with the drugs you are already taking.
 Tacrolimus ointment seems to be a safe and highly effective short‐term treatment option for patients suffering from severe itchy skin caused by dialysis. However, considering the potentially carcinogenic effect of systemically administered tacrolimus, you should not use this lotion over long periods of time.Consult your physician if you have existing skin infections (eg, chickenpox, herpes, shingles) at the application site, or certain skin problems (such as a precancerous skin condition, skin cancer, or Netherton syndrome).
There are certain medications that interact with this kind of cream, so consult your doctor before use. Certain calcium channel blockers (eg, diltiazem), cimetidine, erythromycin, fluconazole, itraconazole, or ketoconazole may increase the risk of tacrolimus ointment's side effects in certain patients.
Like other creams and lotions ask your physician if you should use Tacrolimus ointment if you are pregnant, planning to become pregnant, or breast-feeding.
 Read the instructions that come with the ointment. You will most likely be prompted to dry your skin completely after a bath or shower before applying tacrolimus ointment. Wash your hands before using tacrolimus ointment. Apply a thin layer of the ointment to the affected area or your skin; do not apply it to any other parts of your skin. Gently rub the medicine in until it is evenly distributed. Wash your hands after applying tacrolimus ointment (if your hands are not an area of treatment).Do not bathe, shower, or swim right after applying tacrolimus ointment. Doing these activities could wash off the ointment. Do not cover the treated area with bandages or other dressings or wraps, unless otherwise directed by your doctor.
Tacrolimus ointment is for external use only. Do not get tacrolimus ointment in your eyes, nose, or mouth.
If you miss a dose of tacrolimus ointment, use it as soon as possible. If it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your regular dosing schedule. Do not use two doses at once.

