 This place should be clean, quiet, well-lit, a cool temperature and away from all distractions, such as friends , television or the computer.


Studying in a place similar to your exam environment might make you more comfortable during the test itself, as familiarity will help to reduce the fearsome feeling of testing.
Always be certain to take everything with you that you will need to work, including books, lecture notes, past assignments, pens and pencils.;
, This is possible, if you list down all the activities you are performing from the time you wake up to the time you go to sleep. List the activity done in each slot of 30 minutes.Thus, arrive at the total number of hours available for studies. Work out the time available during week days as well as weekends.
 Make the list of the subjects with descending order of time.
 Make separate list for week days and weekends.


Wastage of time should be minimum and maximum time should be used for studies. Eliminate/minimize any wastage of time. Keep around 30 or 60 minutes in week days for entertainment, sports and games etc.,which are not productive.
 Revise the previous lessons. Redo past assignment problems and sample problems from the text, noting how techniques are used. If you cannot explain the reasoning behind a mathematical process, then you likely don't understand it fully.
 Be honest in doing the planned work.
 If you become stuck on a problem, clarify it .(You may take the help of your tutor).You might go over your allotted time and need to schedule more time for later. This is fine; your study plan is just a guideline, not an absolute. Catch up as soon as possible, and continue as planned.
 As you study, jot down items that you need to memorize and carry the list with you throughout the day. Review this material when you are caught standing in line or with time to spare between classes.
 Do not re-read your textbook; you have already done it once and to do so again would overload you. Review sections you have highlighted(underlined), any notes you made in the margins, formulae, definitions and chapter summaries.
 Begin your studies with the material from the first class and move forward in chronological order, spending only small amounts of time in low priority areas and more time in higher priority areas. This review will give you a stronger basis from which to master the more important material when you get to it. If you choose to study in chronological order, be careful to pace yourself so that you do not leave a critical study part to do the night before the exam

, Check for anything you might have missed.

