 Open a 19 ounce (538 g) can of kidney beans, and drain the liquid from the beans into a measuring cup. Leave the beans in the can, and set aside.To drain the liquid from the beans, you can hold the top of the can that you’ve removed across the opening so only the liquid falls out when you tip it over or place a small wire strainer over the opening as you pour.
Use a measuring cup that is at least 4 cups (946 ml) in size, so it can hold all of the liquid that you'll need for the recipe.
You can use dried kidney beans for the rice and peas recipe, but you must soak them overnight in water before using them. You’ll also need to add more water to the coconut milk so you have 4 cups (946 ml) of liquid when you’re cooking the rice.;
, Add 1 14-ounce (414 ml) can of coconut milk to the liquid from the beans. Next, add approximately 1 to 1 ½ cups (236 to 355 ml) of water to the bean liquid and coconut milk in the measuring cup. You want to have a total of 4 cups (946 ml) of liquid, so add as much water as necessary.You can substitute coconut cream for the coconut milk if you want the finished dish to have a richer, creamier taste.
 In a large pot, add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of vegetable oil. Turn the burner to medium, and allow the oil to heat until hot or it starts to shimmer. It usually takes 3 to 5 minutes.You can substitute canola oil for the vegetable oil if you prefer.
If you aren’t concerned about making a vegetarian dish, you can substitute bacon drippings for the oil to give the dish a smoky, rich flavor., When the oil is hot, stir 2 garlic cloves that have been chopped and 1 small onion that’s been chopped into the pan. Let the garlic and onion cook on medium heat until they become translucent, which should take approximately 3 minutes.You can substitute 2 scallion stalks that have been chopped for the onions if you prefer.
 Once the garlic and onion have cooked for a few minutes, add the liquid mixture, the beans, and 1 teaspoon (5 g) of dried thyme to the pot. Stir the ingredients to ensure that they’re well mixed.You can incorporate additional spices and seasonings to the dish to suit your tastes. For example, some recipes call for ginger, while others make use of allspice.
 When the garlic, onion, liquid, beans, and thyme are combined, mix in 1 ½ to 2 teaspoons (8.5 to 11 g) of salt according to your taste and 1 teaspoon (5 g) of black pepper. Raise the heat to medium, and bring the mixture to a boil., After the pot reaches a boil, stir in 2 cups (400 g) of white rice that’s been rinsed and drained. Turn the heat up to high, and let the mixture boil for another 2 minutes.Long grain is traditionally used in the dish, but you can use medium or short grain rice if you prefer.
 Once you’ve allowed the rice mixture to boil for a couple of minutes, turn the heat to low and place a lid on the pot. Allow the mixture to cook until all of the liquid is absorbed, which typically takes between 15 and 20 minutes.If you don’t have a lid for your pot, you can place a baking sheet across the top or fold a piece of foil over it.
 When the rice and bean mixture has cooked long enough that the liquid has been absorbed, use a fork to fluff the rice. Next, remove the pot from the heat, place the lid back on top, and let it sit for 5 minutes., Taste the dish, and add more salt and pepper if necessary. Transfer the rice and bean mixture to a bowl, and serve alongside your favorite main course.