 Our personal values greatly define the experience of our lives. They drive us forward and help us make decisions. Reacquaint yourself with your personal values. Then, take daily actions that align with your personal values.For example, you might determine that your highest values are honesty, loyalty, and charity. Create a collage of images (sort of like a vision board) that relate to these values. Place it somewhere you can see it every day.
Then, as you start and finish each day make a commitment to behave in a way that demonstrates these values. If you want to be honest, avoid telling lies. If you want to be charitable, volunteer or give back in some way.
 The simplest way to reflect is by tuning in to the present moment. Set aside 5 to 10 minutes daily to sit in silence. This helps train your mind to slow down and engage with the here and now. Mindfulness meditation also raises your self-awareness.As you sit in silence, focus on a place in the room in front of you or merely pay attention to your breathing. Competing thoughts will arrive, but don’t judge yourself about this. Simply return your focus to the room or your breath. Breathe in and out calmly and deeply.
You can set a timer for your time-frame. When the buzzer sounds, go about your daily activities like usual.
 A powerful aspect of reflection is its capacity to show your good fortune. This doesn’t necessarily mean money or power. Instead it refers to the simple details that come together to make a life well-lived. Start a daily gratitude practice, and within a matter of time you will start to feel much more positive about your life.Write down three things each day that you are thankful for. For example, you might write “a quick telephone chat with my best friend,” “getting everything on my to-do list completed,” or “a beautiful, sunny day.”

, A gratitude journal helps you define all that you have to be grateful for. However, this is a private experience. You can use your reflection to acknowledge the people who have influenced your life. Then, take out the time to personally thank them.


You may want to acknowledge your parents, friends, teachers, supervisors, and even exes who impacted your life in some way. Consider inviting them out to lunch, writing a thank you note, or simply calling them to say "You have been a constant source of support in my life. Thank you."

, Reflection can help you connect with the activities you engage in daily. Keep a notebook with you and make a few notes about the thoughts, feelings, and ideas that came to you after significant experiences. Over time, you may learn to spot patterns in your mood or even figure out the causes of negative and positive thoughts.


For example, you finish an important presentation at work. You might jot down something like “Nervous at first, but as I got started, I felt exhilarated. Really liked commanding the attention of an audience. Think I might agree to more public speaking responsibilities.”
Such a reflection may inspire you to take on more challenges and projects that you previously thought you didn’t like.