


For profiteroles, hold the bag in an upright position and apply pressure from the top of the bag by twisting the top of the bag to increase pressure. When the paste starts to emerge, place the bag just above the baking paper so the paste touches the paper.
Increase pressure by squeezing the bag (ensuring the twisted top does not open) and raise the bag gradually to pipe a ball approx 3cm across (1.25 inches) up to 4cm (1.6 inches) for large puffs. Reduce pressure and using a swift circular movement, cut off the dough. If a small spike remains, it can be patted down with a wet finger. Ensure you leave space for the balls to double in size before you pipe the next one.
For beginners, it is very common to have the spike which reduces the more you practice, but is also a sign the dough was not beaten enough so it was a weaker paste. A wet finger gently patting the top will smooth the surface.

For éclairs, Pipe long lines approx 10cm to 4 inches long, but the trick is to ensure you have even pressure to give the best quality result. To cease piping, pull the bag swiftly back in the opposite direction, so if you were piping left to right, with a smooth movement reduce pressure and move the bag to the left.

To make a swan, pipe a wide and short éclair approx 2.5cm / 1 inch wide and 5cm / 2 inches long to make the body. On another tray, pipe an "S" shape in the same way as an éclair using a 1cm or 0.4 inch nozzle to make the neck.
The piping bag should be even pressure and then cut off, leaving a short narrow end which will make the beak. For a beginner this is tricky so it is easiest to pipe a normal éclair as described and using wet fingers pinch the end to shape. It is best to bake the base of the swan first, then the necks in a separate batch. When cooled, split the body of the swan open and fill with cream, then place the neck in position.

Similar to eclairs, you can then pipe an array of shapes such as rings, letters, or any shape that you prefer. A large donut ring using a wide nozzle is often known as a Paris Brest, which is filled and often topped with chocolate sauce and praline.

To make a large base, or to create a Gateau Saint Honoré, make a paper template to place under your baking parchment. Using a piping bag, Pipe over the shape, either from the middle out in widening spirals, or the outside in, depending on your preferences. The Gâteau Saint-Honoré, is usually such a circle base and then topped with cream and individual puffs. The same method may be used to make squares, pillows and other shapes.

To make a Croquembouche, you will need a large batch of individual puffs. Fill them with whipped cream or pastry cream and create a large pyramidic stack. This is usually built around a cone-hat like frame, or the puffs are stacked and joined in layer with a little caramel as a glue. If you use a frame, it should be covered neatly with the puffs so its invisible.
After the stack has been finished drizzle molten caramel over the cone, this is best done by dipping several metal skewers into the caramel and drizzling the caramel with a light waving movement to create fine strands.


