 Hands-free mode is not available on earlier iOS versions.


To check your version of iOS, tap on the Gear (Settings) icon, tap “About,” then scroll down to “Version.” If the version listed is 8.0 or above, your operating system can support hands-free mode.;
, If you don’t see the Settings icon on the initial Home screen, the number of apps on your initial Home screen may exceed the amount of space available. If that is the case, your iPhone may contain multiple Home screens.


The Settings icon may be grouped with other apps within an app folder. An app folder has the same outline as an app, but it is translucent and contains smaller app icons. Tap on an app folder to view its contents.
 The General Settings menu contains a list of various iPhone settings options, primarily concerning software, accessibility, and language.
 Siri’s settings menu contains a list of various options related to Siri’s functionality, including language and voice gender.
 Confirm that hands-free mode is activated. The button to the right of “Allow ‘Hey Siri’” will slide to the right and turn green when hands-free mode is activated.
 Your iPhone must be connected to power in order for Siri’s hands-free mode to work. You can connect your iPhone to either a computer via USB or directly into an outlet via power adapter. You can also use a car adapter to plug your device in while driving

, Try asking Siri for recipes if your hands are busy in the kitchen. Or find out what the day’s weather will be like while you are brushing your teeth. As long as your iPhone is within hearing range, hands-free Siri can help make your life easier.
 Your handsfree settings may have been reverted during an update. Confirm that the “Allow ‘Hey Siri’” button is green in the Siri settings menu.


Turn off “Allow ‘Hey Siri’” and then back on again. This reset may fix the problem.
 Resetting Siri may fix the issues it is having.


Open the Settings app.
Select “General” and then “Siri”
Tap the “Siri” slider to disable Siri.
Tap the slider again to turn Siri back on.
 Restarting your device is often the quickest way to fix most issues you are having.


Press and hold the Power button on your iPhone.
Slide the Power slider from left to right when it appears on the screen.
Power your iPhone back on after it shuts down completely.

