 Begin the process by researching a topic you have chosen. Take notes as you find interesting points and follow what interests you.


The research you find will be used as your sources, so make sure they're legitimate and can be shown to your teacher.
Utilize the internet, books, and various academic databases to find solid primary and secondary sources.

If you've chosen a topic that isn't quite amounting up to what you thought it would, it's still early. Pick something else that you may find easier to write about.
 This paper is all about you. As you do your research, what questions do you find yourself asking? What patterns are you noticing? What are you own reactions and observations? Delve into yourself to find your thesis--the string that ties it all together.


A good thesis will succinctly express the main idea of your paper in one or two sentences. It should also:

Touch on all the points made in your paper
Explain the significance of your argument
Be logically sound
Appear at the end of the introductory paragraph



, This should organize your thoughts and be a skeleton of your points. Don't worry about citing examples now, simply plan out how you want your paper to flow. It'll save you loads of time in the long run.


Write down what points come from where. Finding information a second time can be like finding a needle in a haystack.
Organize your outline to address the introduction, body, and conclusion. Bring in the reader and state your thesis in the intro, support your reasoning in the body, and wrap it all up at the end.
 Think of your paper as a sandwich--the introduction is the first piece of bread. In the first paragraph, the reader's attention should be grabbed and your thesis made.


Introduce the topic in which you will be talking about. Start with a relevant quotation, intriguing question, or by addressing the counterargument.
Make sure that your thesis statement is clearly stated and leads into your paper. The reader should have a fairly good idea by the end of this first paragraph what they are about to be a part of.
 This is the "meat" of the sandwich: the part where the true argument and taste of your paper lies. It should be three paragraphs long, all addressing a different, yet related, point.


Make sure each point is logically sound and adds weight to your thesis. A topic sentence (generally the first sentence, but not always) should clearly say what this point is. Be sure to attack it from all sides--in the sentences that follow, have you given clear evidence from a number of views? Back up your assertions with multiple sources.
Follow the same format for each paragraph. The spotlight should dote on each point separately, allowing you time to argue in favor of it. How does it relate to your thesis? Are you leaving anything out?

Three paragraphs is standard for the traditional 5-paragraph paper. If your paper is longer, support your points as need be.
If your points aren't all equally strong, sandwich your weakest point in the middle.
 This is the "bottom bun," the last paragraph in your paper. All you need to do in this paragraph is bring your paper to a close, restate what you have already mentioned in the opening statement, and leave the reader feeling satisfied.


End on a memorable thought, quotation, or call to action. Or, if your paper calls for it, allude to the consequences of your thesis if left unaddressed. What should the reader walk away thinking or wanting to do?

, They've probably said it in class 5 different times, but if anything is foggy, ask.


Do they want your paper in MLA or APA format?
Are they a stickler for third person?
What's their take on page numbers and margins?
How many sources do they require? Are there sources that are unacceptable?

, You've been going over this paper for so long it may be difficult to truly see it in all its glory. Take a break for a bit, go back, and read it twice.


It's a good idea to get someone else to go over it for you. Your writing may be clear to you but difficult to understand for someone else. What's more, have them go over punctuation and grammar as well--you may have read it so many times you stopped noticing.
 An easy way to make your paper flow is to incorporate transitions even within points. Show the logical connections between your ideas.


Transitions make it clear that one paragraph flows into the other. What's more, your topic sentences should ease into the evidence effortlessly.

There are dozens to chose from, but here is a short list: in the first place, comparatively, likewise, coupled with, in addition, in the light of, by the same token, etc.
 Though once in a while a certain teacher will tell you it's appropriate not to, the majority of papers should be written in present day third-person. This means never using the word "I."


Use the present tense regardless of the time period you are referring to. Your paper is making a point that is relevant now. Instead of, "Ralph and Piggy struggled for order and democracy," it should be, "Ralph and Piggy struggle for order and democracy."
If you feel weight could be added to your argument by using "I" statements, ask your teacher if he/she is okay with it. They very well may be.
 The first will result in a fail and the second will result in a fail. Whatever you do, avoid these two things.


A paper that summarizes is not your own work. Your teacher is looking for something coming from you--some idea that would not be found in another reader. Because of that, you cannot (within reason) be wrong. Stand by your opinion and use it to create a unique thesis all your own.
If you plagiarize, your teacher will know. Each person writes differently and your paper will be interrupted by the change of style. If you're thinking about plagiarizing the entire thing, know that all teachers have access to sources that identify this in addition to being able to recognize when it's not your style of writing.

