 Cocopeat is very high in Potassium, but low in Calcium. It is therefore necessary to charge the bag with high levels of Calcium to bring these levels in proper balance. To do this, charge solution is changed so that the amount of Potassium used is replaced by the same amount of Calcium Nitrate. For example, if your solution required 200kg of Potassium Nitrate and 250kg of Calcium Nitrate, you would replace the 200kg of Potassium Nitrate with Calcium Nitrate. This would give you a total of 450kg of Calcium Nitrate and no Potassium Nitrate., 48 hours or longer, if possible. Cut at the bottom of the bag as per your drain holes., Once planted, the feed solution will return to normal, however, it is recommended that the calcium level of the solution is increased by 20% for the first three weeks.

The recommended levels for pH and E.C. are as follows:
pH = 5.8 as the coconut has a tendency to be more acidic
E.C. = 3.5 – 4.0
Recommended Nutrient Levels for Cucumbers in Coconut (in ppm):

Chloride: 20 – 40
Nitrate: 250 – 350
Ammonium: 0.1 – 3
Sulfate: 300 – 500
Phosphorus: 50 – 75
Calcium: 350 – 450
Potassium: 350 – 450
Sodium: 10 – 40
Boron: 0.8
Iron: 1.2
Manganese: 0.5
Magnesium: 50 – 80
Copper: 0.05
Zinc: 0.4
Molybdenum: 0.05


These levels may vary based on your level of conductivity particularly in the major elements. Initially, the pH in the bags may fall to levels below 5.0. This occurs as the organic matter in the bag begins to break down. Low pH has shown no adverse effects on the crop, but it is recommended that the feed pH be held on the higher side just below 6.0. as watering amounts increase the pH in the bag will also increase.
 The watering strategy for cocopeat growbag differs from that of rockwool growing medium. Due to the nature of Coconut Coir and its capillary action the bags should be watered at low frequency and higher duration times. Total water volumes will remain the same or slightly lower but delivery of the solution will be in larger volumes per watering.

In early crop plantings it is recommended that moisture levels in the Cocopeat Growbags be kept low as root development in Coconut Coir can be quite rapid and large. This may result in Odeima if water levels are allowed to remain high in low light conditions. After the plant is put on the bag it is recommended that watering should occur only until the roots are established in the Growbag. Watering should then stop until the roots are thoroughly established in the Growbag, reaching the bottom of the bag.
Once this has occurred, normal watering may commence but with little leachate, about 10% maximum. When fruit development begins, water can then be increased to a 20% leachate. Water quantities per Growbag will depend on environment and plant development.

