;
,


Click Play in the main menu to enter the play window.
Click the Add icon to browse your hard disc. Select the format and then add the file you want to convert.
Click Open button.



Click Trim in the main menu to enter the trim window.
Click the Start icon to open the trimming window and do as follows to capture a clip from the selected file:

Preview video: Preview the selected video file in the preview window and estimate what part of the video you want to convert.
Set start time: You can set starting time by clicking the up and down button in the Set Start Time box and click OK. Remember that you can just change the time where the cursor is. Or you could click the first icon under the preview window and the start time will be shown in the Set Start Time box automatically.
Set end time: You can set ending time by clicking the up and down button in the Set End Time box and click OK. Remember that you can just change the time where the cursor is. Or you could click the second icon under the preview window and the end time will be shown in the Set End Time box automatically.
The length of the captured clip will be shown in the selected length box for your reference.
 Click to enter the effect window. You can set brightness, contrast and saturation. You could select play effects such as Gray, Emboss or Old films. There are also other two icons: left-right and up-down.


Click the first button, you will find the image changed from right to left.
The up-down button is for you to turn over the image and enjoy the funny.
If it is necessary, click “Reset” to cancel the settings.
 Click Crop in the main menu to go to the crop window. The video you select will be displayed automatically. You may click Suspend button to stop it. There are four crop values on the lower left part of the crop window: Up, Down, Left and right.


Set each value to crop your video and the crop frame will video accordingly.
Before you start to crop your video, you can select an output aspect ratio from the Zoom list. There are four choices available: Original, Full screen, 16:9 and 4:3. Click default to cancel the schedule as necessary.
When you finish the cropping, you can see the effect in the previewing window.
 When you finish all the necessary settings, you can click the Convert icon at the bottom of the window to start converting the file.


Click the Stop button to cancel the process as required.
View the conversion progress from the progress bar.

