 Because the cognitive therapy trick is usually tasked with exploring the unconscious memory centers of the mind, and potentially removing unwanted memories/thoughts, this tends to require a deeper trance-like state.


In addition to the techniques to put the subject into the relaxed state, eliminating all potential noise pollution may be a good idea.
Take extra precautions that the session will not be disturbed externally.
 For experimental sessions, make sure your subject is okay with you probing around their subconscious. For therapeutic sessions, it is possible the subject may not know specifically what thought or memory they want or need to have removed, but clear up as much as possible.In experimental sessions, it will be up to the hypnotist if they want to go in with foreknowledge of the subject's background or enter in blind--and not risk preconceptions as this is entirely exploratory for both parties.
Whether dealing with a traumatic memory or source of pain, getting context information may help when searching for the memory during the session.
Be as reasonably accommodating as you can to make the subject comfortable in communicating these preliminary details to you.
 During the session, the hypnotist will be having a discussion with the subject's thoughts.The trance-like state bypasses the conscious mind, so the hypnotist is directly talking to the subconscious.
This allows the subject to talk about things they may not normally disclose to another person.
As a person is still aware during a hypnosis session, they will remember they are disclosing this memory to the hypnotist.
In a experimental session, the hypnotist could try a few techniques on the subject's memories. The hypnotist could start with something basic such as childhood or more recent--perhaps at a job and talk the subject through their emotional state during those experience.
During the experimental session, the hypnotist will listen to the subject's associations with these memories and can bridge from memory to memory and form a picture of sorts of how the subject's mind is working at the subconscious level.
Other experimental techniques could include having the subject revisit old memories to discover new things they had not realized themselves about the event.
In a therapeutic session--the hypnotist should lead the discussion to find the source of the unwanted memory, ask questions to drive the patient in that direction, and calmly ascertain the reason the memory is causing the subject trauma and/or pain.
In the therapeutic session, when the hypnotist brings the patient out of the trance, ideally, the patient will be able to now consciously confront and/or overcome the problem memories.
 As this is a deep dive into the psyche of a subject, the benefits of this method are numerous, but should be carefully targeted as with the other techniques.In the experimental trick version of this technique, this can be a very intimate experience with accompanying risks and rewards. The subject may be exploring unknown areas of their own mind with the hypnotist as their guide. Both parties should establish that looking into the subject's unknown memories is acceptable, and in fact a desired outcome.
Among this therapy's uses are to alleviate long standing fears, anxiety, insomnia, depression, stress, grief (from personal loss), weight loss, bad habits, and even some physical ailments like skin conditions.
If you are attempting multiple experiments or addressing multiple traumatic problems, it may be advisable to just take on one or two per session.
If the subject's condition ever worsens significantly and/or becomes dangerous to the point of inflicting injury--seek emergency medical care immediately.
 As this technique can be less precise than the others, it may take several attempts to understand how to access your subject's memories for the cognitive trick and get used to the associations they typically make. For trauma situations, it can take time to first identify the problem memories in a subject and then deal with them.


For experimental situations, as this is exploratory, you and the subject should not feel required to stay on one particular theme or track of memories.
In trauma cases, if the sessions are sorting through particularly unpleasant memories/pain, consider longer intervals between sessions.
Discuss if a journal/record of some sort should be kept about what is covered in each session. This will help keep track of the various paths your experimental tricks might lead your subject. A journal, in trauma situations, will help so unrelated memories are not unnecessarily brought up again. Though keep in mind any memory may associate in unexpected ways.
As this technique requires a deeper trance, make sure the subject has ample time to rest before and after sessions.
 Make sure the subject is responding to this deep dive trick, or should be considering other approaches.


If the cognitive approach isn't working, the analytical or suggestion tricks may be more successful.
The subject's case, if too severe for any of these methods, may need referral to a more specialized psychiatrist or doctor.