 If you have the time, you could cook or bake something for someone. And if you are going out, you could bring cookies that you have baked for someone on the way! You could also make a nice, fast meal for someone at home. Try looking some interesting recipes up at the at the internet, something that you maybe haven't tried before, and something that doesn't take more than an hour. Also, check of you have the ingredients at home. Check out these wikiHow articles for some ideas:


Make cupcakes. This will cheer anyone up.
Make an omelette. A great recipe to learn for breakfast.
Make a tasty burrito. This is also a great thing to know if you are cooking for yourself frequently.
 There's a lot of fun games you can play online, and it's a fast, fun way to spend an hour. There's just about every type of game, including shooting, dancing, strategy, adventure and many more. Some good sites are:


Newgrounds
Miniclip
Armor Games

, Of course, this only applies if you are home. There's always somewhere you can clean up, do the dishes, or the laundry, or wash the floors or the bathroom. Make everything shine in one hour, and have fun with it!


Try listening to good music while you clean your house. It can make the process much more exciting than cleaning in silence.
 Do you like to play guitar, knit, draw or something similar? If you have a whole hour to spend, you could spend some time on a new project or at least plan one. Even if you do not have the materials handy, you can still plan a new project.


Take advantage of any free time you have to practice your hobby. You will only improve if you put in the effort. If you have a busy life, a free hour likely does not come around too often.
You can even try pursuing a new hobby like a new instrument or a programming language.
 While not as active as others, reading is a great way to stimulate your mind and imagination. There are so many good books to read that it can initially seem overwhelming.Try to commit to a book and you will likely gain something from it. Try these suggestions to start:



Dune by Frank Herbert. This novel takes you to another planet far into humanity's future. This book helped kickstart the sci-fi genre and continues to be an inspiration for modern sci-fi writers. Be aware that it is more about politics than action, though.

Ready Player One by Ernest Cline. Set in the near future, this sci-fi book is an adventure through a world ravaged by overpopulation, water shortages, and crime. The majority of the population spends most of their time living in a virtual world. Great for any video game lovers.
 Go for a walk or a run. Go to the gym. Go for a swim. Bike or skate around your neighborhood. Just go out and be active! It is important to get your blood pumping and your body moving, so take advantage of the free hour you have in your day.
 Writing is a great way to exercise your mind and to engage your creative side. It is also incredibly satisfying to transfer abstract thoughts into concrete ideas. You can write anything you want, including short stories, scripts, movie reviews, or song lyrics.


Try to just let the ideas flow through you onto the paper when you first get started. You can edit later if you are serious about producing something powerful.
 Sitting and listening to music can really help you relax and clear your mind. Try listening to something you enjoyed in the past for a nostalgia trip or find new bands on Spotify or Pandora. Knowing about bands can also help you find common ground with other people, which is always a good thing.

