 Understanding vocabulary and grammar rules will prove vital to learning English, and will require you to emphasize memorization practices when first starting out. Flashcards are a great way to increase your vocabulary and improve your understanding of English grammar, no matter your level of experience. You can either make your own flashcards or purchase a set.



Making flash cards will provide you with a visual and physical memory of words and phrases. Carry a set of cards with you wherever you go and run through the deck when you have a free minute.;
, You can also use sticky notes to label items in your home with their English names to help build your vocabulary. Label a few household items with sticky notes every day to help you remember what these items are called.For example, you could put a sticky note on your lamp, refrigerator, desk, computer, and dining room table.
 Duolingo is a free online language learning application that is based on interactive, adaptive games that can help you learn vocabulary, grammar, and more.Try to use the app for a little while every day to improve your vocabulary.


You can make an account for free and use the app on your phone, computer, or tablet to help you practice your English.
 The Guardian is an English language news source that makes learning materials available for free. They’ve done the research and compilation of English learning materials for you! Use these materials to get a handle on the basics, starting with the English alphabet.The Big Grammar Book includes 101 printable grammar worksheets. It is useful for both beginners and more established English pupils. The worksheets were provided by EnglishBanana, a website that offers free worksheets and language-learning guides.
The aptly titled Big Resource Book and Big Activity Book are additional compilations of worksheets and lessons to help you learn English.
Take advantages of one of several “toolkits” made available by the Guardian. These are provided by independent language professionals and include illustrated, specific lessons to help you learn English.
 Keep a disciplined routine of daily study sessions, during which you eliminate distractions and focus entirely on the materials you're currently working with. Park yourself somewhere away from a television, turn of your phone (unless you’re using it to help you study), and commit. Aside from traditional methods of studying, there a plenty of ways to study language, especially English.If you’re in a class, revise any worksheets and other assignments when they are returned. Going back over previous homework is always worth your while. This will help keep knowledge fresh in your mind. Take note of anywhere you lost points, and adjust your answer to make it correct.
Take free online quizzes. You can find unlimited vocab quizzes online, as well as quizzes and games that will test your English grammar comprehension, sentence construction, and more.Use audio lessons. Especially if you spend a portion of each day in transit, get in the habit of listening to English lessons. This will help with all around language skills, including pronunciation.
 If you have a friend who is also learning English, make of point of studying together. Even if they are more advanced, you can learn a lot from a peer who already went through experiences and struggles that you’re having.


Languages can be challenging to learn. Having the comradery of a friend to join you in the learning process can help even if you don’t formally work on coursework or materials together.
Simply maintaining a basic conversation with a friend is one of the best ways to study a new language.
If you’re in a class together, check each other’s homework. Not only will this improve your scores, it will also improve your comprehension.
Quiz each other. Even if you’re studying different specific material, you can help one another with flash cards, and pick up new knowledge as you do so.
Having quick access to someone who may be able to answer questions will speed up your studying and make it more enjoyable. Sooner than later, they’ll have questions for you too!

, English arguably has the most words of any language, which means that there are often multiple words that give almost the same meaning. Even if a word is a synonym for another word, that does not mean the two words are interchangeable. Subtle differences in word meanings can make a big difference when you use the words.


For example, the words emaciated and thin have similar meanings, but you would not use them interchangeably. Emaciated indicates that someone looks so thin that she seems unhealthy, while slim implies that one looks thin, yet still attractive and healthy.Check the definition of synonyms before you decide to use them. This will help you to deepen your understanding of the English language while expanding your vocabulary as well.
 Inconsistent ways of spelling certain sounds can make learning English a bit frustrating. When you’re having trouble with a certain word, look at how it's spelled in other forms. This may even frustrate you further for a moment – but it will remind you that there are plenty of exceptions to English spelling rules, and you need to recognize this to master English.


For example, some words feature silent letters, such as "knife" and "honor.”There are also rules for vowel order in some cases, such as “i” before “e” most of the time- (but not always!) and replace the “y” and add “ies” for plural words.
 Verbs can also be challenging when you are trying to learn English. There are many verbs in the English language that have similar meanings, but the meaning of a sentence can be quite different depending on the one you choose.For example, “May I?” and “Can I?” have different (yet similar) meanings. “May” indicates that you are politely asking permission to do something, while “can” indicates that you are inquiring about whether or not something is possible.
Make sure that you familiarize yourself with common verbs to avoid making these types of mistakes.
 In spoken English, many words are not pronounced the same way even if they are spelled the same way. This means that you may end up making some mistakes with pronunciation now and then.


For example, the words “bough,” “tough,” and “cough” all end in the same four letters, but each word is pronounced differently.