 Turmeric, also known as Curcuma longa, is an herb that may be helpful in treating sarcoidosis.


Turmeric is a potent antioxidant and anti-inflammatory herb that may be helpful in treating various inflammatory disorders.
Turmeric, a member of the ginger family, has been used for hundreds of years in both Ayurvedic medicine and traditional Chinese medicine as an anti-inflammatory to help treat numerous health problems.
Turmeric has a bitter, pungent taste and cooling and stimulating properties.The rhizome, or underground stem of the plant, is used medicinally.
A standardized extract, 300 mg three times a day, may help reduce inflammation.
Also, adding about 5 grams of the root to milk, boiling it, and consuming it twice daily may help relieve some symptoms.
 Cat's claw may be useful in treating sarcoidosis, because it has shown positive effects in treatment of other autoimmune disorders.


The exact mode of action of this popular herbal remedy is unclear.
A standardized extract, 20 mg three times a day, may help reduce inflammation., Chamomile, also known as Matricaria recutita, has anti-inflammatory, analgesic (painkiller), and antipyretic (fever-reducing) properties.


Chamomile may reduce the amount of arachidonic acid in your body, which in turn could reduce your levels of inflammation and sarcoidosis-related symptoms.
Prepare your tea with 3-5 fresh or dried flowers of chamomile plant, brewed for 15 minutes in hot water.
This tea should be consumed twice daily for 6 months.
 Goldenseal, also known as Hydrastis canadensis, possesses cooling and drying properties.


The root of the plant is used for medicinal purposes.
Goldenseal is an alternative, or an herb that helps cleanse, revitalize, and nourish the lymphatic fluids and cleanse the blood, which may be helpful in combating lymphatic system problems that lead to sarcoidosis symptoms.Goldenseal contains alkaloids like hydrastine and berberine that provide its anti-bacterial, anti-inflammatory, and anti-diabetic properties.
Goldenseal can be used in tincture or powder form.
The dried root of the goldenseal may be consumed orally, 3 times per day, in the form of 1 gram tablets or 1 gram of decoction.
It should avoided during pregnancy and lactation.

