 The evening before you will need them, take the rolls out of the freezer and leave them on the counter to come to room temperature. If they are covered with foil, go ahead and loosen it to allow some air to circulate.If the rolls were frozen in a pan, it is fine to leave them that way, just make sure to give them ample time to warm prior to baking.;
, If you’ve stored your rolls in the refrigerator, then you can shorten the thawing time quite a bit. Usually 10 minutes is sufficient to thaw rolls not encased in a container. You may need to go up to 30 minutes if the rolls are packaged., If the rolls are individually wrapped, then unwrap each of them before setting them out to thaw. It is best if the rolls are not touching. If the rolls are wrapped as part of a package, loosen the covering or remove it entirely to prepare for baking., After the rolls are fully thawed, get out a baking sheet and place them on it at least one inch apart. Place them in a 400 degree Fahrenheit (204 degree Celsius) oven for 10-25 minutes until they are completely reheated. You can gauge the doneness of the rolls by looking for a golden appearance and by breaking open a test roll to see if the interior is warm.You can also place the rolls into a brown paper bag with a few sprinkles of water on top. Close the bag tightly. Place this bag within a 350 degree Fahrenheit (176 degree Celsius) oven and bake for 10 minutes., Set your toaster oven to preheat to 350 degrees. Place the rolls within the oven, evenly spaced out and not touching the sides. Bake for between two to ten minutes, depending on the oven’s temperature performance., Wrap each individual rolls in a moistened paper towel. Place a single roll at a time in the microwave. Cook for 10 seconds or so per roll. Carefully remove the roll and continue the process, being careful not to burn your hands.You can also do a combination method where you start by microwaving the rolls and then move them into the toaster oven to get the crispiness on the outside. This works especially well with French bread rolls., In the period between reheating and serving, keep the temperature of your rolls steady by putting them in a basket or other container with a kitchen towel placed over them. If you keep this towel in place, it will hold in the warmth., This is the best option when serving reheated rolls. Take them directly from the heating element onto the serving dish for the table. This will make it possible for any butter applied to the rolls to melt immediately and evenly. It will also prevent the rolls from becoming dried out as they cool in temperature., If any of your rolls that were reheated remain uneaten, then you can usually place them in a sealed container for up to two days. You can even try to reheat them once more, but it will likely dry them out and negatively impact the taste.Of course, you will also want to keep an eye on the appearance of the rolls. Don’t eat a roll if you see any signs of mold or discoloration.
 Either directly before or after warming, get out a pastry brush and apply melted butter to the tops of the rolls. This will help the rolls to retain some moisture and will also add taste to the final product., If you are concerned that the rolls will have a plain flavor, then select a number of fresh herbs. Chop them up finely. Sprinkle them on top of the rolls prior to baking. Some of the best herb options are oregano, rosemary, and sage.You can also choose herbs that will complement the rest of the meal. For example, if you are eating potatoes as well then dill might be a good option.
 The reheating process can leave some rolls tasting stale. To counteract this, get a pinch of sea salt and place it on top of each roll. This will add a bit of texture and flavor to the roll. It may also make it possible for the rolls to last longer after reheating.