 The food you eat has a big effect on your mood. Whole, unprocessed foods will make you feel better by providing your body adequate nutrition and a steady supply of energy. Processed and high-sugar foods, on the other hand, can make your blood sugar crash, tanking your mood along with your energy levels.Focus on getting enough omega-6 and omega-3 fatty acids in your diet. These nutrients may be able to ease the symptoms of depression. Vegetable oils are a good source of omega-6 fatty acids, while fish oil and flaxseed oil are rich in omega-3 fatty acids.
Avoid caffeine and alcohol, which can cause mood swings.
 Physical activity is well known for its ability to make you feel better mentally. When you get your body moving, it releases feel-good chemicals known as endorphins. Plus, you don’t have to spend hours at the gym to feel the results.


A quick walk around the block or a few minutes playing with your dog can be enough to lift your mood. You can even try several small sessions of exercise such as a morning walk and a brief evening yoga session to relax each night before bed., Stop expecting perfection from yourself. For that matter, don’t expect yourself to be able to do what you could if you were well. Demanding too much of yourself will lead to unnecessary guilt, which might make your depression worse.Set small, appropriate goals and do as much as you are able to. Avoid beating yourself up if you make a mistake or don’t finish everything you wanted to.
In fact, it can help to applaud yourself for even the smallest successes. You might say, Way to go, Becca! You got out of bed before noon today!" Every little victory counts.
 Sunshine boosts your serotonin and vitamin D levels, both of which can make you feel better. Go outside for at least 15 minutes every day and soak up the natural light.If it’s warm enough, wear a T-shirt and shorts so more of your skin is exposed to the sunlight. But, remember to use sunscreen if you’re prone to sunburns.
Open your blinds to get more natural light indoors.
 Forcing yourself to think about something other than your depression can make you feel better. If it’s hard for you to work up the initiative to stay busy, commit yourself to an activity ahead of time so you’ll be more likely to follow through.Consider volunteering, spending time with friends, or picking up a part-time job.
Avoid committing to demanding or high-pressure activities. For instance, you might not want to try going back to school when you’re dealing with depression.
 Depression gives you a gloomy outlook on life, but you can change your mindset by challenging your negative thoughts. When you catch yourself mentally criticizing yourself, ask, “Is that really true?” Look for counterexamples. Make a point of reminding yourself of your positive attributes, even if it feels unnatural to do so.For instance, if you notice yourself thinking “I might as well not exist,” challenge yourself by thinking, “My pets need me, and my volunteer work helps other people.”

