 Your leggings should be tight enough to snugly cover your legs, but not so tight that people can see every dimple in your legs. Make sure that they aren't so loose that they start to bunch over your legs, because that isn't very flattering either. You'll find ones that fit well not only look better, but feel more comfortable.


Though anyone can wear leather leggings, they tend to be unforgiving and can bunch and cause unflattering lines on some body types.;
, Some believe this not to be the case, and they are entitled to their opinion. You can comfortably step out of the house wearing pants and a shirt, as you can do the same with leggings, if you like. As long as you won't be revealing too much, wear what you wish.


Pair leggings with a longer top or jacket. Even if the shirt hits below your butt, you'll still look like you stepped out of the house without putting everything on.
Wear your leggings with a dress, a skirt, or even shorts.
 Leggings look great with knee-high boots, sandals, flip-flops, or even low-cut boots. If you wear your leggings with heels or pumps, make sure that they match your shirt and that you don't look too trashy.


Leggings can also look good with ballet flats or moccasins, as long as the shoes go with the rest of the outfit.
 You may have looked great in your perfect black leggings once upon a time, but after you've run them through the wash about a hundred times, you may notice that they rise a few inches above your ankles or they've gone saggy at the knee.


When you notice this unpleasant phenomenon, it's time to save those leggings for days when you won't be stepping out of the house, or for wearing under trousers or pants on very cold days

, Jeggings are jean leggings, which is a cross between jeans usually, or other pants and leggings. Tight, sleek jeggings can help spice up an ordinary outfit, and you can wear them as you could wear pants. Denim blue ones with a 'boyfriend' cream sweater and loafers is a classic look.


While leggings and a top that falls to your waist is a big no-no in many people's opinions, you can pair a short shirt with jeggings.
Just make sure you can rock the jeggings. They're really tight and not for everybody.

