 These range from inexpensive to very pricey. Most mounts come with all the nuts and bolts needed to install them. You can find mounts at sporting goods stores or online.
 You can find ceiling joists or support beams by using a stud finder. Make sure that you find ceiling joists in an area that allows movement. Your bag will be mounted on a middle joist.


Joists are usually placed 16" apart. If you don't have a stud finder, you can use a measuring tape to measure from the edge of the wall, marking every 16". In some houses, the joists may run up to 24" apart. Use the knock test to double check. If you knock on the ceiling and hear a hollow sound, there is no joist. If the sound is not hollow, you are knocking against a ceiling joist.
Choose a place in the ceiling where the joist meets with a cross beam if possible. You can center the mount to the crossbeam for added support.
 Use a level to make sure that the holes you are drilling are straight across the joists. When you drill the holes, make sure to drill them into the center of the joist.


You will need 3-inch wood screws. The threads on the screw need to catch and thread into the ceiling joist.
Choose a drill bit so that the holes in the ceiling are sized so that the drilled hole is slightly larger than the shank of the wood screw, not the threads.
 This is going to be the base for the mount. The 2x6 should be long enough to span all the ceiling joists and support the screws. Attach the board to the ceiling using the newly drilled holes and wood screws. You want to connect the board to the ceiling at each joist.


If you have a crossbeam, center the wood along the crossbeam. This will be where you will hang the bag.
You can use a 2x4, but a 2x6 or higher will provide more support for your heavy bag.
 Most mounts include all hardware needed to attach the mount to the ceiling. You may need a screwdriver, drill, or other tool to attach the mount. You should attach the legs of the mount in the center of the middle ceiling joist.


Make sure to never install the mount into drywall.
Try sticking a heavy bag chain or spring between the mount and the chains. This reduces vibration, and can possibly save your drywall.