 This will help you determine how long to make the dress and sleeves. It will also help you determine how much fabric to buy. Here are the areas you should measure:

Shoulder to floor. This is your "height" measurement.
Wrist to center of chest. This is your "arm" measurement.
Nape to waist. This is your "back" measurement.;
, It needs to be twice your height measurement, and twice your arm measurement. The best fabric to use is polyester with a knit-like weave. Cotton is too light and will not drape properly.
 Put the fabric down on the floor so that it looks like a vertical rectangle. Fold it in half horizontally so that you end up with a square. Then, with the folded part on top, fold the fabric in half vertically. You should end up with a rectangle shape, two folded parts: one on the top, and one to the side., Align the top of your arm with the top, horizontal fold. Align the center of your back with the side, vertical fold. Trace around your side and underarm. You should end up with something that looks like a 7. You want to trace several inches away from your body so that the dress is loose-fitting. Here are some other things to keep in mind:

The dress tapers outward towards the bottom.
The sleeves taper outward towards the wrists.
 Hem the sleeves and the bottom of the dress by 0.5 inches (1.3 cm) first. Then, unfold the dress so you end up with a T shape. Make sure that folded part of the hem is on the outside. Sew along the cut edges. Use a 0.5 inches (1.3 cm) seam allowance. Tie the ends of the threads into tight knots and snip off any excess. When you are done, flip the dress right-side-out.

The dress has slits up the sides. Sew the sides down just a little bit past your knees. Press the raw edges in by 0.5 inches (1.3 cm) and topstitch them down.Press the hems flat with an iron for a nice, crisp edge.
 The neck hole needs to be just a little bit smaller than the circumference of your neck. It will become larger as you add the seam allowance. Make the front part a little bit lower than the back part.

Cut a slit into the center back of the neck hole. Make the slit 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 cm) long, and hem the edges inward. This will allow you to fit the costume over your head when you put it on.
 Cut a rectangle that is twice as long as your back measurement up to 19 inches (48 cm) tall. Hem both of the long sides by 0.5 inches (1.3 cm) and gather the narrow ends.

Princess Leia's hood is open in the back and in the front.
Children may require a shorter hood. Keep in mind, however, that Leia's hood is very large to begin with.
 Pin the gathered edges to the back of the dress; align the raw edge with the raw edge of the neck hole. The gathered part of the hood should not extend past the shoulder part of the dress. When you are done, remove the pins and tie the ends of the threads into knots. Snip any excess thread off.If the gathered edges are too long, tighten the gathering. If the gathered edges are too short, loosen the gathering.
 Cut out a rectangle that is 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 cm) tall. The rectangle needs to be long enough to go around your neck hole, plus an additional 1 inch (2.5 cm) for seam allowance. Fold the rectangle in half, lengthwise, and sew up the narrow sides using a 0.5 inches (1.3 cm) seam allowance. Flip the rectangle inside out and press it flat., Pin the collar to the neck hole. Make sure that the narrow edges are aligned with the back slit. Use a 0.5 inches (1.3 cm) seam allowance. Press the hem down towards the dress (away from the collar) with an iron and top-stitch it down as close to the seam as you can. When you reach the hood, make sure that you topstitch under the hood; you should not topstitch on top of the hood.

Add two hook and eye closures to the back of the collar so that you can close it.
 You can buy one from a costume shop or a party supply store. Keep in mind that the quality of these costumes is not always the best. Despite this, you can always use the dress part, and use a different belt., Princess Leia wore a white, loose-fitting gown with a hood and long, flowing sleeves. Try to find a white tunic dress that has long, loose sleeves. Get a white pillowcase and cut open the side seam. Hem the cut part inward by 0.5 inches (1.3 cm). Gather the two narrow edges with a running stitch, then sew them to the neck part of your dress, using a 0.5 inches (1.3 cm) seam allowance.
 If you want a Princess Leia-inspired outfit, consider going for a simple, white dress, tall white boots, and a silver belt. Finish off the look with Princess Leia makeup and buns., Try to keep the pigtails as centered as possible, about 1 inch (2.5 cm) above your ear.

This method is great for those who have very long hair—at least elbow-length.
 You can also braid it instead. If you choose to braid it, be sure to tie the end off with a hair tie., Princess Leia's buns are not like regular buns. Rather, they are coiled, like cinnamon buns. This is the effect you are going for., Once you reach the end of your hair, tuck the ends under your bun and secure them with a bobby pin., Space the bobby pins 0.5 to 1 inch (1.3 to 2.5 cm) apart. How many bobby pins you use depends on how thick and heavy your hair is.

If necessary, you can also use bobby pins inside the bun to hold it together.
 Try to coil your bun in the same direction as you coiled the first one. This way they will match. For example, if you coiled the first bun away from your face, coil the second one away from your face as well., Use a hair spray with the strongest hold you can find., Try to choose a pair whose color matches your hair color. For example, if you have brown hair, choose brown socks, if you have blond hair choose beige or tan socks, and so forth. You will be using these socks to make sock buns.

This method is great for those who have at least shoulder-length hair.
 Take a sock and fold the cut each down outward by 0.5 inches (1.3 cm). Continue rolling the sock until you have a doughnut shape. Repeat the process for the other socks., Try to make each pigtail as centered as possible. They should rest about 1 inch (2.5 cm) above your ears. They should not be at the base of your neck or at the top of your head., Set the other sock ring aside for later. It will be easier to do one sock bun at a time., Pull the sock bun all the way down to the end of your hair. Wrap the hair ends around the sock bun. Try to keep them as even as possible., Using both hands, start rolling the sock ring towards your head. Feed new hair through the center of the sock ring. Don't worry if your bun is a little messy at first; it will become smoother the more you roll it., Once you have rolled the sock bun all the way to the base of the pigtail, you will need to pin it in place. Take up to four bobby pins, and use them to pin your sock bun to your head. Plan on using a bobby pin on the top, bottom, and both sides of the sock bun.,, Once you have the sock buns rolled and pinned, you can use your fingers to gently fluff the buns up further. You can also smooth any stray hairs down using a bit of water. Once you are done, spray your hair with strong-holding hair spray., Start with washing your face using a facial cleaner suitable for your skin type. Pat your face dry, then wipe some toner over it to tighten your pores. Spread some moisturizer over your face.

If you want, you can apply a face primer once the moisturizer dries. Face primer will help fill in pores and tiny lines, making your face look smoother.
 Choose a color that matches your skin tone. You can use any type of foundation you want: liquid, cream, or powder. You can even use a tinted moisturizer if you don't like wearing too much makeup., If you have a warm skin tone, choose something that is more peach or coral tinted. If you have a cool skin tone, choose something that is more berry tinted., Princess Leia has very rosey lips; not quite pink, but not striking red either. If you have a warm skin tone, choose something that is more coral-red. If you have a cool skin tone, choose something that is more berry-red.

If you have very dark skin, you can get away with using red lipstick.
 Use a cream or ivory color on your brow bone, and a neutral brown on your eyelid and crease. Finish off with a touch of ivory or cream on the inner corners of your eyes. Apply the eye shadow with makeup brushes. Be sure to blend them in.

If you have very ark skin, these colors might be too light for you. Instead, choose a color that is several shades lighter than your skin tone for the brow bone and inner corners. Choose a color that is several shades darker than your skin tone for the eyelid and crease.
 Choose an eyeliner pencil, and apply a thin line of eyeliner along your top and bottom lashes. Do not add a cat eye or wingtip., You can do this by brushing on some brown or dark brown eye shadow over the eyeliner. You can also just smudge the eyeliner using a Q-tip or eyeliner smudger., Brush it onto both the upper and lower lashes., You can use a setting spray o a setting powder., You can also try using black boots instead. They are not quite what Princess Leia wore, but they will match the costume well.


Try to get boots that are about knee-high.
 If you can't find the right boots, get a pair that are about knee-high and fit you well. Paint them white using white fabric paint or spray paint., If you can't find one, try getting a wide white belt and drawing octagons or rectangles on it using silver paint or permanent marker. You can also go for a silver belt instead.
 Find some wide, grey satin ribbon. Cut the ribbon 2 inches (5.1 cm) longer than your waist measurement. Glue a 1 inch (2.5 cm) wide strip of Velcro to each end of the ribbon. Put the ribbon on at your wait, and close it in the back., Wear the belt with the pointed part facing downward. The belt closes at the back. You will need white vinyl or craft foam and silver or grey vinyl or craft foam. Here is how to make the belt:Cut a piece of white vinyl or craft foam long enough to circle your waist with a 1 inch (2.5 cm) overlap. The belt is 2 to 3 inches (5.1 to 7.6 cm) high, with a v-shaped point down the center.
Cut one pentagon out of silver/grey vinyl or craft foam. Glue it down in the center of the belt. Align the point of the pentagon with the point of the belt.
Cut seven elongated octagons out of silver/grey vinyl or craft foam. Glue three to one side of the pentagon, and four to the other. Make sure that they are evenly spaced, and that you are not covering the Velcro.
Glue a 1 inch (2.5 cm) wide strip of Velcro to the narrow ends of the belt to close it.
Cut eight circles out of silver/grey vinyl or craft foam. Glue each one on top of each pentagon and octagon.
 Many conventions will not allow un-holstered guns, unless they have the tip painted safety orange. Also, most movie theaters will not allow any prop guns of any sort, even if they are toys.

When buying a Star Wars blaster, look for a one that is black, and at least arm-length.
 Find a water gun or a Nerf gun that has the right shape. Take it outside and spray paint it black using a matte, black spray paint. Apply the paint in a light, even coat. Wait for the paint to dry, then apply a second coat, if necessary. Once the paint dries, flip the gun over and spray the other side.

Most spray paint will stick to plastic, but it won't be very durable. To make your paint job durable, make sure you are using a spray paint that is intended for plastic. Also, you might want to coat the gun with a layer of spray paint primer first. This will help the paint stick better.
It is better to apply many thin coats rather than one thick coat. If you apply the paint too thickly, you may get drips and puddles. Also, the paint may not dry properly.
Know that not all places allow any prop guns. Before you make your blaster, it might be a good idea to check the prop rules of the event you are attending.

