 You may find that some of your early pregnancy signs include nausea or indigestion on top of the nausea you may experience during a flare. To manage your morning sickness or a flare, try to eat 5 or 6 small meals during the day instead of 3 large meals.Your digestive system won't have to work as hard to break down and absorb larger meals when you eat smaller meals.
 If you're experiencing a flare or have early pregnancy indigestion, try to eat bland or low-residue foods. These foods are low in fiber which will keep you from passing stools frequently. Include these foods in your diet:White bread.
Refined (processed) breakfast cereals.
White rice, refined pasta and noodles.
Cooked and peeled vegetables.
Lean meat and fish.
Eggs.
 If you experience a flare and have diarrhea, it's important to drink a lot of water. Diarrhea can lead to dehydration, which can cause pregnancy complications. Aim to drink at least 6 to 8 glasses of water every day. While juices, milk, and tea count towards your water intake, avoid drinks that irritate your digestive system (like carbonated drinks).Avoid drinking beverages that contain caffeine and alcohol. You should always avoid alcohol during pregnancy and limit the amount of caffeine you consume.
 Prenatal vitamins are an important part of proper nutrition during pregnancy. They're even more important when you have ulcerative colitis since many medications for the condition lower your folic acid levels. Ensure that you take a daily prenatal vitamin that contains 2 mg of folic acid.If you have trouble taking a large capsule or tablet prenatal, gummy prenatal vitamins are available. These may be easier to take.
 Relaxing during a flare may reduce the symptoms. It's also a good skill to have for the upcoming labor and delivery of your baby. You can practice yoga, meditation, or deep breathing exercises to manage stress.For example, make yourself comfortable and practice breathing in deeply through your nose. Breathe out through your mouth. Continue to breathe in and out deeply until you feel more relaxed.
 Exercise is an important part of any pregnancy, especially if you have ulcerative colitis. Exercise can prevent pregnancy back pain, help you manage stress, and improve your mood. Talk with your doctor about what exercises you can do during pregnancy. In general, try to choose exercises depending on your trimester.For example, walking, jogging, swimming, and yoga are good choices for most of your pregnancy. But many doctors recommend stopping cycling, diving, and gymnastics after the second trimester.