 Eggs have lots of B vitamins that are essential for proper brain functioning. They are also a great source of high-quality protein, which will give you a lot of energy for the day.In addition, a diet rich in fruits and vegetables will help you elevate your mood. Try adding spinach or broccoli to your eggs and enjoy with a side of whole grain toast. Whole grains contain selenium, which may decrease symptoms of depression., Bananas have important B vitamins as well as potassium, which are both essential for the health of your brain. They also give you balanced energy for the morning.They also have lots of carbohydrates, which help with the production of the mood enhancing chemical serotonin.


Eating a low-carbohydrate diet may have a negative effect on your mood. Carbohydrates help with the production of serotonin, which is key for cognitive health. , A cup of hot tea or coffee in the morning can boost your mood and give you comfort for those first few hours of the day.


Drink a cup of tea in the morning. Black and green teas not only have caffeine, which can help you focus, but also the amino acid theanine. Theanine may be good for your mood.Researchers have studied theanine for it's ability to help with anxiety and mood and had conflicting results. More studies are needed.
Enjoy a cup of coffee in the morning. Coffee is great for both mood and focus in the morning.However, should avoid excessive caffeine intake and especially later in the day so that you can sleep well.Try not to put too much sugar in your coffee, since sugar can give you mood swings., Herring has lots of DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) and EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid), which are fatty acids that help the brain function well. Herring also contains vitamin D.Vitamin D can be hard to get in the winter when you people typically don’t get enough sunlight, which is the main source of vitamin D for most people. Getting enough vitamin D can help you ward off seasonal affective disorder and major depressive disorder.