 A great way to stay busy while you are grieving is to engage in a creative hobby. Expressing yourself creatively can help you channel your feelings into something powerful that others may be able to relate to as well.


Maybe you have an artistic outlet you already enjoy. Stay busy expressing yourself through your painting, dancing, or poetry.
You could also take this opportunity to try something new. Maybe you have always wanted to learn to sculpt. Consider signing up for an art class next semester to help you learn how.
Find a friend who is artistic and ask for advice. You could say, “I’d like to learn to paint. Do you think you could show me some pointers?”

, Helping someone in need can make your own problems seem much more trivial by comparison. Find a local organization whose cause you support and find out how you can get involved.


You can get just as many benefits from volunteering as the organization you are helping. You can feel good about doing good and feel valued for the work that you are doing.You may also have the opportunity to learn some new skills that can benefit you in school or the workplace. Volunteering also looks great on resumes and college applications.
 Having something to do can take your focus off losing your friend while allowing you to make new friends. Think about a club at school you’ve always wanted to join, or decide to try out for a play or athletic team. Sharing a common interest or goal with someone is a great way to begin a new friendship.


Maybe your ex-friend discouraged you from pursuing some of your interests. Now is the perfect opportunity to try them out. If they were always disdainful of sports, while you secretly imagined what it would be like to join the track team, consider this your opportunity to try something they never liked.
Ask some people in your new activity if they would like to hang out sometime. You could say, “Hey, I’m starving! Do you want to get some dinner after rehearsal?”

, Take the opportunity to make some changes in your life. Whether it’s trying something new or changing your appearance, decide to shake off some the old energy that your ex-friend left behind and embrace a new beginning.You could decide to finally get that major haircut you’ve been thinking about for months, or buy a few new pieces of clothing to revitalize your wardrobe.
You could teach yourself a new skill or hang out with a new group of people you’ve been wanting to get to know.

