 In early stages of menopause transition, many women can still become pregnant. Double check that your erratic periods aren’t the result of an unexpected pregnancy. For extra peace of mind, check with your doctor as well, especially if you’ve been on a reliable form of birth control for a long time.
 When you can’t predict when or if your period will arrive, it’s important to be prepared. Be sure to carry tampons, pads, or a menstrual cup in your handbag so you aren’t caught in an uncomfortable situation.
 The Apple Appstore and Google Play Store for Android have a wide variety of apps that help you track your periods and associated symptoms. If your periods become erratic because you’re entering menopause, these apps will help you know when your last period was and what symptoms you typically have at particular points in your cycle.These apps are especially helpful to document your symptoms so you can report specifics to your doctor. For example, if before each erratic period you tend to get migraines, a tracking app will help you pinpoint the specific dates you’re suffering each month so you can easily show these trends to your doctor.
 If menopause-related headaches or migraines are common for you, it’s important to be proactive with your pain management, as these symptoms can be debilitating for many women. Acetaminophen, ibuprofen, and naproxen are good choices for over-the-counter pain management.For stronger pain relief options, talk to your doctor about the extent to which your pain is affecting your everyday activities. Prescription treatments for migraines might be appropriate for you if over the counter treatments aren’t working, and you’re missing work or social events because of your pain.
 Your doctor can’t help you and give you the most accurate diagnosis if you withhold information from them. Some symptoms like vaginal pain or dryness can be uncomfortable to talk about, but remember your gynecologist is a healthcare professional who specializes in women’s health, so don’t feel embarrassed.

