 Your complexion can help you determine the best color for your hairstyle. Choose a color that flatters your complexion. A good color will make your skin appear bright and healthy; it will not wash your complexion out or make you look tired.


If you have an olive or dark complexion, you can choose from brown, burgundy, and blond colors.
Lighter shades are often recommended for women over fifty, unless you have a pale complexion. In that case, you might want to go slightly darker.If you already dye your hair, you might try going just one shade lighter to see how it looks on you., Highlights add definition to your hair color, and they make your hair color look more natural. Choose natural highlights that pair well with your chosen hair color. A hairstylist can help you decide on the right color.


Highlights should only be one to two shades lighter than your main color.
Warm and golden highlights may be better suited for older women than cool or bright tones.Babylights, which are fine strands of highlighted hair, give your hair a natural and youthful dimension. They’re a good choice for those who do not want to draw attention to their highlights, and they can work for a variety of hair colors.
If you are dying your own hair, look for hair dyes that offer natural highlights or that provide highlighting tools in the kit.
 Just because you are getting older does not mean that you have to stick to natural colors. Bold, bright colors can express your personality and still look great.


An ombre hair color can add definition to your hair while making you look younger.If your hair is graying, you have the perfect base for a pastel color, such as lavender or light pink. These are very trendy looks that can give you a pop of color., Gray or white hair can appear sophisticated. If your hair is graying, don’t be afraid to rock your new color. Instead of dying your hair, you can make it sleek and shiny by conditioning it often.


Gray hair looks great with sharp and sleek hairstyles, such as a straight bob.
Wash your hair at least every other day to keep it clean and shiny.
Use a shine spray instead of heavy pomade or oils to style your hair without making it look greasy or dull.