 Work four chain stitches from the slipknot loop on your hook. Slip stitch the first and last stitches of this chain together to form a ring.









Check the “Tips” section for instructions on how to make a slipknot, chain stitch, and slip stitch.
 Work this secondary chain directly from the loop already on your hook.









These six stitches will count as your first double crochet , as well as the first corner of your first triangle round.
 Work three double crochets into the center of your ring. Chain three times to separate this set from the next.









Check the “Tips” section if you need further detail on working double crochets.
 Work another three double crochets into the center of the ring, then chain three more times off the final double crochet in the set.
 Make two more double crochets into the center of the ring. Slip stitch final loop of the second double crochet into the third chain stitch of the six-chain series you worked when advancing to this round.









This step completes the first triangle round. You can end the triangle here, or you can keep working additional rounds to expand it outward.
 Work six chain stitches off the loop on your hook.









As before, these chains will act as the first double crochet and the first corner of this round.
 Work these double crochets into the first "chain three" space of your previous round. Chain once to separate this set from the next.
 In the next corner gap, double crochet three times, chain three times, and double crochet another three times. End this double set by chaining once.
 You will need to repeat the previous step in the next corner space. Once you return to the first corner space, work two double crochets into the space. Use a slip stitch to join this final double crochet to the third chain of your original six-stitch chain from this round.
 Work six chain stitches off the loop on your hook.









This chain serves as both the first double crochet and the first corner of your third round.
 You will need to follow the same steps used on the previous round to complete this round. The only difference is that you will have chain spaces to work with as well as corner spaces.









In the first corner space, work three double crochets, then chain once.
In each corner space, double crochet three times, chain three times, then double crochet another three times. Chain one at the end of the set.
In each non-corner gap, double crochet three times, then chain once.
When you reach the first corner space of this round, double crochet twice into the space. Join this set with the third chain of your six-stitch chain using a slip stitch.
 The triangle can be used as is, but if you want to make it bigger, you only need to follow the previous step until you reach your desired size. Make sure that the final stitch you make is a slip stitch.









Cut the yarn, leaving a 2 to 3 inch (5 to 7.6 cm) tail. To knot off the triangle, pull this tail through the loop on your hook as tight as possible. You can weave the remainder of the excess tail into the back of the triangle to hide it.

