 Aloe contains a compound called aloesin, which also helps inhibit tyrosinase activity. The application of aloe vera will provide your skin with a smooth, soft, and brighter skin tone. Open up raw leaves of aloe with a knife to extract the beneficial gel inside. You could also purchase aloe vera gel, if you don't want to manually extract the gel.


Apply to your skin up to four times a day for about 15 days. After this time period, reduce the amount you apply to your skin., Kojic acid is a natural derivative of mushrooms and other types of fungus. This became a popular whitening technique that originated in Japan. It is another way of inhibiting the tyrosinase activity, which helps lighten the skin naturally.


Wash your face before application.
Mix kojic acid with favorite type of lotion. Be sure not to use too much kojic acid in your mixture. Follow the recommended use on the packaging. It is very important that you do not go over the recommended amount because it can become toxic.
Apply to your skin up to twice a day.
There is a possibility of this solution to cause skin irritation. Test the mixture on a small patch of skin before using a larger application. If you have cuts or open wounds, do not apply this solution., Indian gooseberry is another plant that contains a lot of natural vitamin C.You can either find raw Indian gooseberry, which could be difficult depending on where you are, or you can purchase an extract from a health store. You can either consume it orally, in the form of a pill, or apply as a topical cream.


Follow the recommended dosage on the packaging if you buy an extract.
 This is a popular skin lightening method that's been used for centuries in Asia. Gram flour acts as a natural exfoliate, which helps promote the growth of new skin cells. Mix these ingredients in a bowl: 1 tablespoon of gram flower or chickpea flower, 1/2 teaspoon of honey, 1 tablespoon of milk cream, and 2-5 drops of lemon juice.Stir the ingredients till they congeal into a paste.
Apply the mask to your skin and wait 10-15 minutes, or until it dries completely.
Wash off the paste with lukewarm water afterwards.
For best results repeat this process daily for about a month.