 Injuries to the feet, toes, ankles, head, or spine can cause numbness to occur. An orthopedist, neurologist, or chiropractor may be able to treat your injury to relieve numbness., Chemotherapy drugs often cause numbness in the extremities, as do many other prescription drugs for a wide variety of conditions. If you begin experiencing numbness after you begin a new medication, discuss it with your doctor to determine if the benefits of the medication outweigh the side effects. There may be another medication available to treat your condition that will not have the same side effects.Never stop taking your medications without first discussing it with your doctor. For some medications, you will need to reduce your dosage slowly.
 A lack of vitamin B12 or other vitamins may be causing your numbness. Get a blood test to check for vitamin deficiencies, and begin taking the recommended supplements if you have any deficiencies., Persistent numbness in your feet and toes may be a symptom of any number of underlying conditions, including multiple sclerosis, arthritis, Lyme disease, and many more. Taking medications to treat the underlying condition may help reduce the numbness in your feet.If you have not been diagnosed with any chronic conditions, numbness in your feet and toes might be the first sign. Be sure to discuss all of your symptoms with your doctor so she will know what tests to run.
If you already have a diagnosis, but the numbness is a new symptom, be sure to bring it up at your next doctor's appointment to find out if there are additional medications you should take or other treatments you should pursue.
 Heavy alcohol consumption can cause a numbing sensations in the limbs, including feet and toes. Reducing your regular intake of alcohol can help to prevent numbness., If you are already taking all the necessary steps to treat the underlying cause of the numbness in your feet, but the numbness does not subside, try following the steps to relieve occasional numbness. While these methods will not cure your condition, doing things like elevating your feet, applying warm compresses, massaging the feet, and moving around may help alleviate the symptoms temporarily.

