 A kaolin clay-based repellent is made of naturally occurring ingredients and can help repel animals and insects from eating the fruit off your tree. You can purchase the repellent at some nurseries or find it online. This repellent will leave a white film on your fruit and tastes bad to most animals and insects. Kaolin clay repellents are not useful for fuzzy fruits like peaches or apricots or smaller fruits like cherries or plums.Kaolin clay repellents are hard to get off, so make sure that you wash your fruit thoroughly before consuming it.;
, Some chemical repellents are not healthy for human consumption. Make sure to find a chemical based critter repellent that is safe for your fruits. Before spraying the area with the solution, make sure to read the label for any special details or instructions that you should know.Some fruit-friendly natural repellents will include ingredients like pepper, peppermint, tarragon, garlic, castor oil, and putrescent egg solids.
 Animal repellents like predator urine or musk may ward animals off of your fruit trees. Read the instructions on the bottle of the repellent before using it. In general, you can usually spray these repellents two feet away from the trunk of your trees to discourage animals from eating your fruit.
 Fake animals like hawks, owls, and snakes can act as scarecrows to the critters infesting your fruit garden. Place these props around your garden to ward off animals.You can also attract real predators by making roosting spots for real hawks and owls by placing crossbeams six to eight feet off the ground., Playing a radio is a great way to scare away potential predators from your garden. You can also opt to buy a more specialized ultrasonic repellent that sends ultrasonic sound waves to ward off rodents and other garden critters.It's important to note that eventually the animals may become accustomed to the noise, and ignore the source of the sound.If your radio has an alarm or timer, playing the noise intermittently may work better to ward off critters.

