 What style do you want to go for? Don't go for styles that everyone wears but doesn't even suit you. Preppy? Punk? Girly? Decide what you want to be and make a list of all the clothes and accessories you will need: skirts, studded belts, more black clothing, smaller clothes...etc However, be sure to have some wardrobe essentials (solid colored shirts, jeans...) in case you don't want to dress the same way every day.;
, The easiest way is to watch TV shows and/or movies with characters with styles that you like. For instance, if you want to be a rocker, watch Degrassi's Eli (the goth boy), if you want to be preppy watch Paige or Manny. Note their outfits, the way they talk and act... However, don't go as far as pretending to be someone you aren't. It's not about WHAT you say (you should always be firm about your beliefs), but about HOW you say it!

, If you're going for a rocker, you may want to listen and get to know some classic rock artists and learn their music. You can also choose sports, fashion, books, movies... Take up new hobbies which you enjoy and give off the vibe you want.
 Experiment with different make-up styles and(or) hairstyles. Eyeliner and mascara go with just about every look. Try getting a natural looking eyeshadow.
 You don't want to go in a full fledged preppy or rocker look. Go for just a few key things to show your look has changed. If you choose an outfit that is too showy it will look like you just decided to change your look the week before, but if it's simpler, it'll look more natural. Most preps don't come to school in a mini, polo, sunglasses, heels everyday. Change should be gradual, and never too dramatic.
 If you're with your friends, ask them to help you find the clothes or accessories which look better on you according to the image you have in mind. However, try to buy things which are versatile: a plain black shirt can help you look rocker-like, but can also be used in other looks depending on how you combine it. That way you will have more clothes in case you decide to change your style or try out another image for a day.

