 A commercial water filter is the easiest and most effective way to filter sediment, pathogens, metals, and other pollutants from water. These filters contain special materials like charcoal, carbon, ceramic, sand, and cloth that are specially designed to filter out dangerous pollutants.There are many different types of filters you can use, including:

Whole-home filters that filter all the water that comes into your house
Point-of-use filters that get installed on specific taps and filter water that comes out of the faucetCountertop filters that you fill manually with water
Water bottles and straws with built-in water filtersHandheld UV water purifiers that kill bacteria, viruses, and other contaminants from small quantities of water

, Certain plants are effective at removing pathogens from water, and pine trees are among the best. To remove viruses and bacteria from your water, remove a small branch from a pine tree. Strip the bark from the stick and place the bare stick into a bucket. Slowly pour the water, letting it trickle onto the stick and into the bucket.As the water flows over the sap inside the stick, the sap will trap and collect pathogens in the water.
 Just as pine trees are effective at removing pathogens, so too is cilantro excellent at removing heavy metals from water. Fill a pitcher with water and place a handful of cilantro leaves into the pitcher. Stir the water and let the leaves sit in the water for at least an hour. Remove and discard the cilantro before drinking the water.Cilantro has been shown to be effective at removing lead and nickel from water, but it has not been tested for other heavy metals like arsenic and mercury.
 Clay and ceramic are porous materials that allow water to drain through, but they trap bacteria, protozoa, and sediment. Because they trap these contaminants, clay pots can be used to purify water, especially water contaminated with E. coli.To purify water with a clay pot:Place the bottom of a clay pot on top of a jar or bucket with a similar sized opening
Fill the clay pot with water
Allow the water to soak the pot and trickle through the clay, filling the jar below

