 The symptoms of a blood clot vary depending on the clot’s location in the body. If the artery affected is responsible for supplying blood in the bowel, symptoms typically include sharp, excruciating abdominal pain. In addition, you may notice the following symptoms:


Vomiting. Abdominal blood clots irritate the stomach lining, and the body responds by vomiting.
Diarrhea. Lack of blood supply alters the function of the digestive system and often leads to diarrhea.
Bloody stool. Any irritation to the linings of the digestive system can cause bleeding. You may therefore notice blood in your bowel movements.;
, Blood clot formation in the arms or legs can block the blood flow returning to the heart. It will cause inflammation of the vein as well. You may notice a sudden, sharp pain, caused by deprivation of oxygen due to loss of blood supply. In addition, you may have the following symptoms:


Swelling. When a vein is blocked, it will cause fluid retention and swelling in the area of the clot.
Tenderness. In addition (or instead of) sharp pain, you may have a general discomfort or tenderness in the area. This happens because of the inflammation in the area.
Discoloration. The clot blocks blood supply to the area, so the skin of your arm or leg may become pale.
A sense of warmth. When inflammation occurs, the body increases blood flow to the damaged area. The blood carries body heat from the core of the body, causing a warm sensation in the affected area.
 The brain controls almost all of the body’s functions. If a clot impedes the flow of blood to the brain, it can affect sight, speech, and virtually all other functions of the body. As a result, you may experience:


Visual disturbances.
Weakness.
Paralysis.
Seizures.
Speech impairment.
Stroke.
 When clots develop in the heart, it can cause an irregular rhythm and block the flow of blood. This leads to chest pain (which may radiate to the left arm), shortness of breath, and sweating.


Clots in the heart can lead to life-threatening problems, such as a heart attack.
 As with clots in the heart, clots in the lungs may cause severe, sharp chest pain. In addition, you may experience:


Rapid pulse. The heart compensates by beating fast in order to supply sufficient blood to the body. As a result, your pulse rises.
Bloody cough. A clot can irritate your lungs, causing bleeding. You may cough up blood.
Shortness of breath. A clot can block the passage of air in your lungs, leading to difficulty breathing.

