 Mechanical Turk is an Amazon service where you complete simple Human Intelligent Tasks in exchange for a small fee. Some of the tasks ask you to look at a picture and describe it for $0.08. Others might ask you to complete a survey for $2. You can transfer money into your account when you have made $10.To make money through Mechanical Turk, you have to do multiple tasks. In an hour, you might only make $6. However, if you are persistent and keep at it, the money may start to add up.Try doing Mechanical Turk during your down time. When you have five free minutes, log on and complete a few.
Don't bother with the extremely low paying tasks. They probably aren't worth your time.
 Research companies use online surveys to get consumer feedback. In the last few years, these surveys have become more legitimate and reliable. Most of them are connected to PayPal accounts and will dispense money into your account after completing surveys. This is not a way to get rich quick, but you might be able to earn $50 here and there for a few hours of your time.


Make sure you don't fall for scam surveys. These surveys will lure you into inputting your credit card information, or try to get you to buy their credit card or materials.Sign up for multiple survey sites to maximize your survey opportunities. Some sites will only send out 1-2 surveys a month.Try Pinecone Research, My Survey, iPoll, or Toluna to start., Some sites pay you for using their search engine. You accumulate points by clicking on ads, playing games, taking surveys, and simply browsing.Some of these sites pay you in gift cards instead of money, so if that is not what you are looking for, this might not be the site for you.


Try Swagbucks and Gift Hulk. Both sites offer search engines that allow you to accumulate points while surfing the internet, and also provide places for you to complete surveys and do other tasks.
Be careful not to get addicted to these sites. You can waste away a lot of time completing surveys and clicking on the next ad. Use it for everyday searches, or when you are bored and want to kill some time., Most quick money-making schemes are suspect and few will deliver what they promise. Most of these options will yield pocket money, and nothing more. Know how to spot the frauds:


Don't send off your own money to make money. If the site is legitimate, they'll pay you for your services, not the other way round.
Do your homework and background research before joining any "get- ich quick" scheme online. The same scams are online that have already thrived offline.
Beware pyramid selling schemes and MLM (multi-level marketing). Most of these are ways to take your money, not make you money.

