 The blurred lipstick look can emphasize lip flaws and dryness, especially if you use matte lipstick, so exfoliate them first with a gentle lip scrub. Dry and peeling skin will be removed, leaving your lips smooth and soft – the perfect canvas for applying lipstick.









If you don’t own a lip scrub product, whip one up at home. Mix a small amount of sugar with equal parts olive oil and honey, then gently massage your lips with the mixture for about 60 seconds.The lips are very delicate, so use a light touch when applying a scrub.;
, Dab a small amount of concealer around your lip line. Use a makeup brush or your finger to gently blend the concealer into your skin. Work the makeup slightly above your lip line, and then blend it right below the lip line, so that the majority of your natural lip color is obscured.








For those with dry lips, it may help to apply lip balm or a tiny dab of coconut oil to your lips for moisture before you add concealer, which can be drying.
If you don’t have concealer on hand, a nude lipstick is a great substitute. This will be a little more moisturizing, as well.
 Popular hues are deep berry or bright red, but you can use any highly pigmented lipstick color you like. Use the fleshy part of your index finger or a lip brush to dab the lipstick right in the center of your bottom lip. Make sure you apply it so that it reaches the very inside edge of your lips.








Do not apply the lipstick close to your lip line or bring it out to the corners of your mouth.
To get an intensely blurry result, use a lipstick with a matte finish. However, any finish you like will work for this look.
 This will transfer some of the bright color to the center of your top lip. Do not rub your lips together or smack them. Press them together once or twice with a small amount of pressure. Then use your finger or a lip brush to pat a small amount of lipstick in the center of your bottom lip again, to play up the contrast and add depth.








For a more intense result, tap a loose pigment in a similar or slightly amped up color right in the center of the bottom lip., Working with a lip brush or cotton swab will give you the most precision and control, but your finger also works well. Pat the lipstick gently, blending it out toward your lip line on the bottom lip. Do the same for your upper lip. Try to blend so that the hue appears as a gradient, with the brightest color right in the center, and growing increasingly fainter as it gets closer to the lip line.








Keep blending until the lipstick appears to fade into your skin., Dip a clean cotton swab into translucent face powder, then tap it against the edge of your compact or sink so that the excess falls off. Dab the end of the cotton swap around the outermost edges of your lips, following your lip line. Flip the swab over to the clean end and gently blur the powder into your mouth.









Imagine that you’re trying to “erase” the appearance of your lip line. Blend it gently, taking care to preserve the gradient effect you created with the lipstick., A matte finish will have a more blurred effect, but adding gloss will intensify the bright color in the center and create more dimension. Dab the lip gloss on lightly, taking care not to smudge or change the work you’ve done with your lipstick. Use your finger to pat the gloss all over your lips.
 This is very similar to the blurred look, but less pigmented. It creates more of a washed out effect and the illusion of thinner lips. Apply a matte lipstick in a bright color all over your lips, as you normally would. Pat a small amount of translucent powder on top and then blot your lips on a tissue to mute the color. Pat concealer around the other edges of your mouth to remove the definition of your lip line.








Do not apply lip gloss or balm on top of the lipstick, since this will ruin the faded effect.This look is meant to de-emphasize the fullness and color of the lips.
 This is a very subtle look and the technique involves working backwards, applying pigment and then removing most of it. Apply your favorite lipstick to your lips, as usual. Use only a thin layer, or use your finger or lip brush to control the amount of lipstick you use. Hold a tissue over your lips and use your fingers to press down several times, which will blot away pigment.









Lift the tissue to check your progress. If necessary, keep blotting until your lips have achieved a barely there “stained” appearance., Apply a lip balm that has a subtle hint of color, such as a berry hue, all over your lips. Then apply a highly pigmented lipstick in a dark wine or berry color to the center of both lips. Dab the lipstick, but do not rub or blend it in. Avoid bringing the color out to the corners of your mouth.









If the result looks too dramatic for you, blend out the lipstick slightly. However, the effect is intended to be obvious and unnatural.