 Color is the top indication of quality in an emerald.The rarer and finer the color is, the less importance clarity, carat and cut have on the gem’s value. To the contrary, the more common the color is, the more clarity, carat and cut matter. High quality emeralds have intense saturation.The color should be distributed evenly, without zones of different color visible to the naked eye.In general, the purer the green hue, the better the color is considered to be. All natural gemstones will have some undertone of other hues, but the blueness or yellowness in the emerald should be slight as well as beautiful.The emerald should be bright in its hue, like a spring green. If the appearance is more of a dark green “sleepy” hue, it isn’t an investment grade emerald., Emeralds with many flaws and cracks aren’t good candidates for setting in jewelry. Even if they can be set without damage, they aren’t likely to last long in the setting. Check the emerald with a loupe using reflected light to check for cracks and inclusions. Cracks look like little hairs or threads on the plane of a facet.Natural emeralds usually have inclusions, and they are typically invisible to the unaided eye.If the gem is priced well and appears flawless under a loupe or microscope, it is probably fake.Most emeralds have some cracks or fissures, but they should not be numerous, penetrate the stone deeply, or be large and near or breaking the surface.
 An emerald cut with skill will have facets that are positioned perfectly. As you move the stone, light should ripple sharply over them. The whole surface should be richly green without specific areas lighter or darker.A high quality emerald is alluring and has a lively sparkle.There are many cuts of emeralds. The most popular is the “emerald cut,” which is square or rectangular with a step cut.Emeralds are fragile, and this cut was designed to prevent breakage by placing facets in the four corners.Lower quality stones allow light to come through the back of the stone enough that you could read text through the crown of the gem (called “windowing”). On the other hand, gems with pavilions too deep have dark areas you can see face-up, which is a loss of light (called “extinction”).
 A high quality emerald may be a bit cloudy, but should possess a significant amount of transparency. Opaque and semi-opaque emeralds are a lot more common and aren’t worth as much., The price of a quality emerald will rise with its carat weight.When two to three carats or more, emeralds outweigh diamonds in cost by far.There are various gemstone weight charts and calculators available online that you can use to find out more about measuring emeralds.

