 When it's time to eat, make sure that you're away from distractions. Studies have shown that people who were distracted while eating felt less full satisfied and consumed more food than people who practiced mindful eating.People who have healthy weights enjoy their meals and snacks to the fullest and have limited distractions while they eat. Remember, skinny people may not be the same.Focus on each bite that you take: What are the tastes? What is the texture like? Is it hot or cold?
Make sure that you chew your food thoroughly before you swallow. Try putting your fork down in between bites and chewing 20–30 times per bite.;
, Do not eat large portions regularly or eat until you are full; instead, listen to what your body is telling you about the appropriate amount of food to eat.This ability may come naturally for some, but may take practice and concentration for others.


Stopping when you're satisfied can be difficult. It's easy to eat until we feel "full" or have had a little too much. However, if you eat mindfully and pay attention, your body should tell you when you're satisfied.
Satisfied may feel different to everyone. Typically signs include: a lack of hunger, a feeling that you will not get hungry again for 3–4 hours, or a disinterest in your food. You may feel a slight presence of food in your stomach. Many times satisfaction is a lack of a feeling.If you feel full, you might have eaten too much. Fullness may feel like: a stretching of your stomach, bloated or uncomfortable. When you're full, you may think "that was a few bites too many."

, Another hallmark of people who stay thin, rather than skinny people, is that they typically do not emotionally eat on a regular basis. Ask any skinny bulimic people you know about emotional eating.Those that have trouble managing their weight may cope with stress or other emotions with food.


Come up with a list of activities that can help you de-stress, calm down or self-soothe. This could be: listening to music, taking a hot shower, reading a good book or going for a walk.
Journaling may also help manage emotional eating as well. Spend some time journaling your thoughts and feelings down a few times a week.If emotional eating is something you struggle with significantly, try seeing a life coach or behavior therapist for additional support.
 All skinny people avoid skipping meals. By having an eating schedule your body will be more likely to stick to your eating plans. Having three meals a day with one or two healthy snacks can help regulate your eating and make you less likely to snack throughout the day. Remember, three proper balanced meals a day should mean you don't need to snack. Don't eat a snack because it's snack time, snack if you are hungry.Eating for a healthy weight does not mean eating less food or skipping meals. No skinny person, healthy or unhealthy, eats less food than they want to, apparently. You need to eat regularly and healthily so that you are able to maintain a healthy weight and metabolism.


Always eat breakfast like every skinny person on the planet does. You might think that skipping meals would make you skinny, but many times the exact opposite is true.
Also, skipping meals slows down your metabolism so you end up storing more of those calories because you're body was in "starvation mode" If you eat breakfast, it gets your metabolism going, then you eat smaller meals throughout the day.For the two snacks it's a good idea to have higher protein (like a hard-boiled egg and an apple) to help keep your energy up.
 Exercising isn't eating, obviously, but it ties in very closely with it, especially if you're looking to eat like a skinny person. Skinny drug addicts, cancer sufferers and anorexic exercise, probably. As do those with worms and the starving. Exercising may help keep your appetite under control and it will help you burn those extra calories that you intake.Studies have shown that people who are thin and easily manage their weight move more often than others.Exercise can be anything you like: a 30 minute walk, going for a run, doing yoga or dance, doing martial arts, etc.
Also try to include more lifestyle activity. These are activities that you do everyday — walking to and from your car, taking the stairs at work, or mowing the lawn. Increase how much you move and walk throughout the day to help increase your calorie burn.The important thing is that you exercise most days. Once you've incorporated that into your daily schedule, it will work with the healthy eating to make you healthy and help to shed any excess pounds you don't want.
 All skinny people eat enough protein. Protein takes care of things like body tissue, internal organs, and muscle as well as your immune system and hormones. People who are naturally thin consume adequate protein daily to help them maintain satisfaction throughout the day.Try to eat more lean meat rather than fatty meat since leaner proteins are lower in calories. All skinny people eat lean meat, unless they are vegetarian.The best sources of lean protein are fish, meat, poultry, eggs and low-fat dairy. You can also get protein from soy, nuts, seeds, legumes, and whole grains.
Protein might be able to better satisfy hunger and to leave you feeling more satisfied for a longer period of time compared to other foods. It can also help you control your appetite and calorie intake.The way to calculate how much protein you should be getting in your diet is 0.8 grams per kilogram of body weight. In general, this is about 46 g daily for women and 56 g daily for men. However, the amount will differ based upon age, gender, weight and activity levels.
 At minimum you want at least five to nine servings of fruits and vegetables every day in common with skinny people.Those people who manage their weight easily, base large quantities of their diet on fruits and vegetables.More of those servings should be veggies than fruit. This will help you get the nutrients you need to be healthy, with fewer calories.Fruits and vegetables are a frequent choice in diets eaten by thin people. These foods are high in vitamins, minerals, antioxidants and fiber. They can add bulk to meals and snacks and help make meals more satisfying.Choose whole fruits and vegetables over juice. Juices do not provide the healthy fiber found in whole, unprocessed fruits and vegetables.
 Many dieters limit or cut out carbohydrates, especially from the grain group. However, those who do not struggle with weight include grains on a daily basis. However, their choices are healthy, nutrient-dense grains.


Grains are a healthy food group that provides your body with a variety of vitamins, minerals and some fiber. In general, include five to six ounces of grains daily. This amount may be different for your age, gender or activity level.One ounce of a grain would be: one slice of bread, 1/2 of an English muffin or 1/2 cup of brown rice or pasta.It's also recommend to make half of your grain choices whole grains. Whole grains are generally higher in fiber and other nutrients compared to refined grains., People who maintain a healthy weight easily include regular sources of healthy fats in their diet. These types of fats help support your cardiovascular system and may keep you feeling satisfied longer.Get Omega-3 fats daily. These are found in fatty fish like salmon, trout, catfish, mackerel, as well as flaxseed and walnuts. It is recommended to get at least two servings of fatty fish each week.You also want monounsaturated fats such as those found in olives, avocados, hazelnuts, almonds, Brazil nuts, cashews, sesame seeds, pumpkin seeds, and olive oil.While you definitely do want to have certain fats as part of your diet, there are others that you should try to avoid as much as possible. Trans fats and saturated fats are considered the unhealthiest and should be limited.These are found in fatty cuts of meat, fried foods, and processed meats.
 Eating like a thin person does not mean being overly concerned with calories or never eating any of your favorite foods. Those who do not struggle with their weight eat a healthy diet that includes the occasional treat.Don't make certain foods "off-limits." This may cause you to start obsessing over and craving those foods more frequently.By eating your favorite foods more mindfully you'll find that you're enjoying those foods and you'll be less likely to immediately go back for more.
If you end up eating a meal that's higher in calories (like you went out to eat, or had a bigger dessert), don't stress. Try balancing that meal or snack by eating smaller portions for the rest of the day or hit the gym a little harder.

