 Walking is one of the easiest exercises you can do. You don’t need any special equipment aside from walking shoes and time. Walking can be good for menopause since it can help prevent osteoporosis.Try walking three to four days a week for at least 15 minutes. Eventually, you want to get up to 45 to 60 minutes four to five days a week.
You can also try jogging and running if your fitness level permits.;
, Sports such as tennis, basketball, or softball can be a great way to get activity into your daily life. Studies have found team sports beneficial to women in menopause because it helps increase cardiovascular health, which can be at risk with the lower levels of estrogen due to menopause.Find a friend to play partner tennis, or gather the whole family together for a game of basketball or softball.


If you don’t want to exercise with others, try playing basketball alone or swimming.
 There are many different aerobic activities you can do. If you are part of a gym, you can take part in any of their aerobic classes. These include things like high-intensity cardio, mixed martial arts (MMA), and spin. You can also try aerobic machines, such as a treadmill, elliptical, or stationary bike.If you aren’t part of a gym or uncomfortable doing gym classes, you can find many different aerobic activities on DVD or YouTube.
 Dancing is one of the best physical activities. You can just turn on your favorite songs and dance around your house. It not only gets you moving, but also relieves symptoms.


You can try gym classes like Zumba if you are interested in dance.
You can also try taking dance classes at a dance studio, like ballroom dance, Latin dance, or swing dance.
 Since menopause can be a stressful time, an exercise that relieves stress could make a big difference.Tai chi, qigong, or yoga are great stress-relieving activities.Not only do these activities reduce stress, but they also help reduce insomnia, which can be a problem during menopause.
 Weight training is an extremely effective exercise for menopause. Not only will it potentially reduce hot flashes, but it also helps strengthen bones. This can help prevent osteoporosis. You can join a gym and use their weighted machines and free weights, or take a group strength training class.Good weight training exercises to start with include wall squats or regular squats, lat pull downs, leg presses, seated rows, and back extensions.
If you have never done any strength training before, ask a member of the gym to go through the machines and weights with you to teach you proper technique.
When you strength train during menopause, you want to make sure to exercise the major muscle groups: back, chest, buttocks, legs, arms, and core.
For each exercise, do 10 to 15 repetitions. Your muscles should feel tired after those reps. Each week, increase your weight by 10%. Make sure not to start off too heavy because that can lead to injury.

