 Before you come out to your family, inform your friends or other sources of support. You might tell a mentor, teacher, friend or other family member who knows. Have them check-in with you on the day of as well as after the conversation. You will need some support during this time, especially depending upon your parents’ reaction., Your parents might be happy that you have finally told them, they might embrace you, or they might not. If you grew up in a home with homophobic parents, know that their reaction might not be ideal. Make a plan for the worst case scenario so that you can be better prepared.For instance, if you are worried about potential violence, you might opt to tell them on the phone. If they begin to yell or curse at you, you could say “I’m sorry, but I cannot be yelled at Mom. I would love to talk about this more when emotions aren’t so high. Can you call me tomorrow?”

, Perhaps your parents are generally pretty calm and mild mannered. You may have never heard them even make a homophobic comment. Regardless of these facts, still make a plan in the event that violence could erupt. You truly never know how your parents will react to the news. Have a friend check in on you every 20 minutes or so. Keep your phone on you. Sit closely to the exit of your home.


Though these suggestions might seem scary, it’s better to be safe than sorry.
 Know that going into this conversation, you have to be strong and resolute in your sexuality. Some parents will make comments like “But, you’ve had a girlfriend before” in attempts to try to challenge your identity. However, you can combat this by being firm and knowing who you are.If you feel any doubt about your sexuality, do not come out to your parents at this time.
 Be aware of all of the emotions that your parents might feel in the course of this discussion. Some might feel guilt and will wonder where they “went wrong”, others might feel confusion or anger, and others might express shock. Think about your parents and what emotions they might have so that you can be better prepared.For instance, if you think they might be angry, you might want to have someone with you when you tell them or you might want to do it over the phone.
If you think they will be confused, you might want to be prepared to talk to them about when you first thought that you might be gay.
 Know that many parents can take from six months to two years to accept this news. Some may never accept it and others might accept right away or may tell you that they already knew. Be prepared to give your parents the time they need to make peace with this news, but also be prepared if they never do., Before you talk to your parents, you might want to practice in the mirror. Consider what you want to say to your parents, how you want to say it, and what emotions you want to convey. Though you do not want to seem rehearsed, you will want to use the right words with them.

