 If you’re on the eastern coast of Italy and you want to go to Greece, the first thing you’d probably think of is taking a ferry. Ports in Italy that are departure points for Greece are Bari, Brindisi, Ancona, and Venice – but your choices don’t end there.


There are a few different ports in Greece that you can sail to, and a few different ferry companies you can pick as well. Here’s an outline of the options (ferry company names are listed after the Greek destinations):The prices for ferries are going to vary widely depending on your departure and arrival points, the duration of the trip, the kind of ticket you buy (deck only, seat only, dorm bed, or cabin), as well as the company you choose, so you’ll need to think about your own travel budget (not to mention your comfort level) in order to pick the ferry that’s right for you.
Some ferry companies offer an option called “Camping on Board,” especially on the longer ferry trips, which is designed for people traveling with a camper or motorhome (and only available during better weather, usually April-October). This option lets you use the ship’s showers, bathrooms, and electricity for free – it just means that you’re staying in your camper during the trip, rather than taking a seat on the ship upstairs.
Now, as for how fast these ferry trips are, remember what I said about them being for travelers with time to spare? Even the company called “Superfast” has to deal with the fact that they’re boats, not jet planes, so you’re still talking about a potentially long ferry journey. The Brindisi-Corfu trip can run between 5-15 hours, and the quickest Ancona-Patras trip could take 21 hours long (and that’s on the “Superfast” ferry).>> 
The options for taking ferries from Italy to Greece are quite complicated, so your best bet is probably to compare schedules and rates at this Greek ferry booking site – you can plug in your specific travel itinerary, dates and needs, and the system tells you what your ticket options are.
Those travelers with lots of time to travel are the ones more likely to think that a 21-hour ferry trip from Italy to Greece is a good option for a little under €100 for a dorm bed on board. Anyone with less vacation time to spare, and especially anyone near a major Italian airport, will likely find that flying is still the best option.
Ferries from Brindisi to Greece:>> to Igoumenitsa, Patras, & Corfu – Agoudimos, or Endeavor>> to Cephalonia/Kefalonia – Endeavor
Ferries from Bari to Greece:>> to Igoumenitsa & Patras – Superfast, Agoudimos, or Ventouris>> to Corfu – Ventouris, or Super fast
Ferries from Ancona to Greece:>> to Igoumenitsa & Patras – Superfast, Anek, or Minoan
Ferries from Venice to Greece:>> to Igoumenitsa, Patras, & Corfu – Anek, or Minoan;
, The quickest (and sometimes cheapest) option for getting from Italy to Greece is going to be to fly. This is especially true if you’re close to a relatively major Italian airport, but even some of Italy’s smaller airports will have regular flights to Greece because the two countries are so close.A few of the points in Greece you might be flying to, and what Italian airports have flights to them, are listed below.


Flights to Athens from – Bologna, Milan Malpensa, Naples, Rome Fiumicino, Verona
Flights to Mykonos from – Milan Malpensa, Rome Fiumicino, Verona
Flights to Crete from – Milan Malpensa
Flights to Rhodes from – Milan Malpensa, Rome Fiumicino
Flights to Santorini from – Milan Malpensa
Flights to Thessaloniki from – Milan Malpensa

, Taking a train from Italy to Greece would mean riding a train through Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia-Hercegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, and then – finally – into Greece. And really, once you get to Greece, the usefulness of that country’s rail system (or lack thereof) will likely mean that you’re taking buses or ferries to the places you want to go. In other words, unless your trip involves stopping along the way on a leisurely journey through each of the countries between the Italian and Greek borders, don’t take the train. one step here and then click "Add Step"

, Just as taking the train from Italy to Greece requires several border crossings, so does driving. What driving to Greece from Italy also demands that the train does not, however, is your attention. This is a time-consuming trip, and one that’s going to add many miles to your car’s odometer.Driving from Rome to Athens is a journey of roughly 2,400 kilometers (1,500 mi), and if you were to drive straight through it’d still take you about 24 hours to make the trip.


And, according to Michelin’s online route calculations, it’d also cost you more than €300 in tolls and gasoline (as of this writing). From Venice to Athens is roughly 1,870 kilometers (1,160 mi), a 20-hour trip, and costs more than €220.
If you’re on an open-ended road trip and you’re planning to stop along the way wherever the mood strikes you (which sounds excellent), the better option is probably either to fly (and rent a car in Greece if you like) or take a ferry (upon which you can take your car). 

