 There are a lot of sweeping generalizations about dog gender, some of which are only partially true. One of the most commonly-held beliefs about male dogs is that they’re more likely to chase other dogs and that they are always more aggressive than females. While there is some truth to this, neutering your dog will dramatically reduce the likelihood of these incidents.Male dogs are more likely to challenge other male dogs, and statistically they may be more likely to show some aggression towards humans.Neutering a dog eliminates most behavioral differences between male and female dogs.This includes reducing or eliminating aggressive behavior towards humans, such as biting.;
, One of the most noticeable differences between male and female dogs within a single breed is the size difference. Male dogs tend (though not always) to be slightly larger, though this is most noticeable in dog breeds that tend to be larger in general.Of course, the most dramatic size differences are still going to be between different dog breeds, but there is still some variance within the same breed between males and females.


Generally speaking, male dogs tend to be slightly larger than females.Male dogs are often more active and exuberant when it comes to jumping, running, and chewing. The slightly larger size of males can make them physically stronger than females and more suited to endurance, but the effect is marginal.
 Though it’s not necessarily true that male dogs are always more aggressive than female dogs, the additional testosterone present in male dogs (especially male dogs that haven’t been neutered) can lead to more aggression when in tandem with low levels of socialization and obedience training.Testosterone can also cause other behavioral problems in unneutered male dogs, and it is best to neuter your dog to prevent these problems from escalating.


Many unneutered male dogs engage in urine marking (including indoor marking) and attempt to leave home while they are in heat. Some dogs will also engage in inappropriate mounting on humans, other dogs, and inanimate objects due to high testosterone levels.Neutering a male dog typically solves most of these behavioral problems, although some neutered dogs may continue to mount other dogs in an attempt to establish social dominance., Unaltered male dogs can additionally have health complications that do not as readily affect neutered dogs. Some of the most common of these complications include:


Testicular cancer - Unaltered males may develop testicular cancer in later life. However, the good news is that this is a non-aggressive form of cancer that is usually cured by surgical castration. Neutering can prevent this from occurring.Prostate disease - Unaltered males are prone to inflammation of the prostate gland. This can cause difficulty when urinating or passing feces. It is treatable either with castration or a hormone injection. Neutering a dog does not guarantee that he will not develop prostate cancer at some point in his life, but it does prevent the prostrate from enlarging and reduces the chance of prostate infection.