 Some self-cleaning litter boxes are only safe for cats of a certain age. Often, your kitten must be at least six months old. Check the instructions on your model to see if the litter box is safe for your cat.Automatic litter boxes can also be dangerous for extremely elderly or handicapped cats that would have trouble getting in and out of the box.
If you don’t have the instructions, search with model name and number online. Often instruction manuals are posted online.;
, Do not place the litter box on an incline. Do not place it where it could fall. You will probably want to place it near a power outlet.Some automatic litter boxes have power cords, others use batteries, and some use both. Check the specifications on your model to determine if yours requires a power outlet to operate.
 Read the instructions on how to put the litter box together. Usually there are only a few component parts that fit together easily.
 Using anything other than the recommended litter can cause the litter box to malfunction or break. Sometimes litter boxes recommended a type of grain like crystals or clumping litter, other times the litter box has its own specific brand of litter., Overfilling the litter box can cause malfunctions. Often the litter box will have a line that indicates how high to fill the litter. Otherwise, check the instructions for directions.Some automatic litter boxes come with trays that are prefilled with litter. Leave the litter at the level it is at. Remove and replace the whole tray when the litter is empty.
 Though the litter box will automatically remove waste, the waste bin will slowly fill up and the litter in the box will get low. You will need to replace the litter in the tray as directed, or replace the tray itself. You will also need to toss out the waste. For a single cat, you might not need to do this more than once a month. For several cats, you might need to do it about once a week.Instructions can provide a general guideline for how often to clean, but if you see evidence that the litter box is not working correctly, you should remove the old litter. If, for example, waste is being emptied out of the litter box on the floor, the waste basket is probably full.
 You will occasionally need to clean the rake and electronic components of the litter box. When you do, unplug the box and use a wet rag and mild soap to wipe down everything. Do not try to submerge the litter box in water. This can cause it to malfunction. , Turn your litter box off and place a little bit of urine and/or feces in it. Leave it there for about a day to signal to your cat what the litter box is for. If your cat does not respond, turn the litter box on and allow it to clean itself.Some cats prefer not to use a self-cleaning litter box, because they don’t like the sound that it makes when it cleans. However, some cats will get accustomed to it with time.
 If you already have a litter box, place the two of them near each other. This will help your cat recognize what the litter box is for.Once your cat starts using the automatic litter box, you can start moving it slowly away from the other litter box every day. This will get them accustomed to going in a new location.
 Self-cleaning litter boxes generally require a specific type of litter. Put a couple scoops of the litter from your automatic litter box in the original litter box. This will help your cat get accustomed to the new litter.If you can use your original litter in the new litter box, that is ideal, because your cat will already be accustomed to it.
 Cats prefer to use a clean litter box. If you allow the other litter box to go uncleaned for a couple of days, your cat is more likely to use the automatic litter box.Try not to go too long without cleaning the litter box or your cat might decide to go elsewhere in your home. Two days without cleaning should give your cat a bit of a nudge toward the automatic litter box. More than that creates the risk of bad behavior.
 Since many cats are deterred by the sound of the litter box cleaning, it can help if the litter box does not begin the cleaning process immediately after your cat steps out. On some models, you can set the timer on the litter box, so that it doesn’t begin cleaning until 20 minutes after your cat uses it.The timer will be located at a different spot on each model. However, it should usually be somewhere on the exterior of the litter box, where it will be easy to spot. Usually there will only be two or three settings and you will press a button to alternate between them.

