 The head unit is the navigation system located on your dash with a touch screen display which acts as the interface for your phone, GPS and radio functions. Toyota provides a list of different head units that are compatible with several brands and carriers of smart phones. If your phone is not listed or if your phone shows issues with compatibility, you may need to check with the phone manufacturer or Toyota support for more information., Accessory mode will let you make changes to your car’s systems without turning on the car. To activate Accessory mode, make sure the car is turned off first. Press on the “Ignition” or “Start” button with your foot off of the brake pedal.
 You can connect your phone by using a direct USB connection or using a wireless bluetooth connection.


Connect your phone via the USB port and allow your car to detect your device to sync up. Your phone may come with a cable that will plug into the phone on one end and a standard USB cable on the other. You may also be able to obtain The USB port location to your car may vary. Try looking in the front storage box located under the arm rest.
Depending on your phone, setting up a bluetooth connection may differ. On your head unit, tap on the Setup button indicated with a gear icon on the home screen. Go to Bluetooth>Add to broadcast your vehicle to your phone.
For iPhone users, navigate to Settings on the home screen and tap the icon. On the settings page choose bluetooth and make sure it is enabled. Choose TOYOTA VEHICLE in the bluetooth list when it appears. You may be prompted to enter the bluetooth pin shown on the head unit to continue. Tap on the info icon to ensure that “SHOW NOTIFICATIONS” and “SYNC CONTACTS” are enabled.
For Android users, navigate to your App Drawer by tapping the grid icon then activate the “Settings” app. Under connections tap on “Bluetooth” and ensure the “Bluetooth” is on. Make your phone device discoverable by tapping on the name of your phone at the top of the screen. Choose TOYOTA VEHICLE in the bluetooth list when it appears. You may receive a prompt on your phone titled “Contacts request” for your Prius to obtain your list of contacts. Tap OK to continue.
 A few seconds after being turned on, the car will emit a beeping sound. Depending on your connection type, you will see an icon on the display that will show a connection made between your phone and your Prius by a bluetooth icon for a bluetooth connection or a USB icon to indicate a wired USB connection.
 Press the “Phone” or “Off-hook” icon on the faceplate. Tap Settings>Contact>Call History Setting>Automatic Contact or History Transfer for your vehicle to download the list of contacts from your phone. Your phone may receive a prompt for a contact request. Follow the on-screen prompts to allow the phone to transfer contacts to your vehicle. The head unit will show the progress of the transfer until it is complete.The head unit may immediately request to transfer contacts from your phone if its list is empty.
Your phone may differ on how it is able to transfer contacts. Verify with the user manual of your phone to see how to transfer contacts via bluetooth.
 On the navigation system, press the “Phone” or “Off-hook” button then select “Contacts.” Your contacts should now be stored and listed on your Prius’ head unit.

