 Self-tanning lotions contain the compound dihydroxyacetone (DHA), which is approved by the Food and Drug Administration to add pigment to the skin. It is a three-carbon sugar molecule that reacts with amino groups in skin proteins. When they react, the form what is called a Maillard reaction, which is similar in its operation to the process of browning bread and caramelizing sugar., Self-tanning products come in lotions, creams, gels, foams, sprays, and oils. Several companies such as Neutrogena, L'Oreal, Jergens, Aveeno, Bath & Body Works, Banana Boat, Clarins, and Lorac all make self-tanners that have gotten good ratings from beauty magazines and websites.As per the instructions, apply the lotion or spray evenly, taking care to get all skin covered.
Choose a noncomedogenic lotion to avoid clogging your pores.
 Since you'll be spreading the lotion all around your body with your hands, they will absorb much more of the lotion or oil than the rest of your body. Buy disposable medical gloves and wear them when applying self-tanner to avoid having hands darker than the rest of your body.


Throw the gloves away after use and use a new pair each time you apply.
Make sure to rub some lotion or oil into your hands after you finish applying it to the rest of your body. You want them to be the same color of the rest of your body, just not darker.
 One of the biggest challenges posed by self-tanning lotion is the ability to spread it evenly around your body. You may need to ask a friend to get those hard to reach places like the middle of your back to avoid blotchy, discolored skin.


Move your hand in a circular motion when applying self-tanner to avoid a streaky appearance.
Take it slow. Don't rush to put on self-tanner, or odds are you will end up with blotchy areas or you'll miss areas altogether. Take the time to rub it in completely.
Don't forget those areas that are normally hidden from public view, including your armpits.
 Once in the morning should be enough to reach your desired color, but you may apply once in the morning and once at night to speed up the process. Be aware that self tanners can stain your clothing and bedding.

