 You’ll need about a cup of very strong coffee to make your tanning lotion, so only put enough water in to brew that amount. If you brew an entire pot of coffee, then it will not be strong enough because a standard coffee maker will not hold enough coffee grounds to brew a pot that strong.


If you usually use another type of coffee maker, such as a French Press, you can still use it to brew your tanning coffee as long as you can add enough coffee grounds to brew extra strong coffee.;
, You can add more coffee if you want to brew a stronger cup of coffee. The stronger your coffee, the richer the color.Choose caffeinated coffee so that your lotion will also improve the look of your cellulite.
You can use a medium or dark roast, though dark roast will result in a darker color.
If you don’t feel like measuring, you can fill the filter with enough coffee to make a whole pot, but only add enough water to brew one cup.
 Turn on your coffee maker and allow it to process. As soon as the drip finishes, turn off your machine so that the warming plate under the pot will not keep your coffee hot. Before you can make your lotion, you’ll have to wait for your coffee to cool., Once your coffee reaches room temperature, you’ll be ready to make your lotion. Leave it in the coffee pot until you’re ready to mix it into your lotion., You can use any type of lotion, as long as it’s white. For best results, choose a heavy lotion because it will be diluted by the coffee.If you choose an all-natural lotion, then your coffee tanning lotion will be a great chemical free replacement for commercial self-tanners.
 Pour the coffee into the mixing bowl and stir. Continue stirring until the color of the lotion reaches an even consistency. It should reach a dark beige or light brown color, depending on how strong your coffee was., Great storage options include the bottle that the lotion came in, a bottle that you’ve saved, a jar, or a food storage container. To make it easier to use, choose a container that allows you to easily dispense the lotion.


Make sure that your container is clean.
If you don’t have a container that holds all of the tanning lotion, you can split it into multiple containers.
 Use the lotion as you would a self-tanner or body lotion. Allow it to completely dry before getting dressed again. Your tan should immediately show on your skin.Quickly wash your hands after you use your lotion so that they aren’t darker than the rest of your body. Since they are in contact with more of the lotion, they may absorb more color.
Your tan may wash off the next time you shower or go swimming.
 To maintain your tan, use the lotion every day after you take your shower.


You can store your tanning lotion in the bathroom if you go through it quickly. If you’re concerned about shelf-life, store your lotion in the fridge.
If you’re unhappy with the color, you can adjust the amount of coffee you use the next time you make tanning lotion.

