 Crate training will keep your pug protected from household hazards, help with house training, and give him a place to retreat when he's overly excited.Picking the right crate size is important. If it’s too big, your pug will create a space to urinate and defecate; if it’s too small, he won’t be able to get comfortable in it.


Your pug is little, so he won’t need a huge crate. An ideal crate size is 24 inches long x 18 inches wide x 21 inches high (61 cm x 46 cm x 53cm).;
, Your pug’s crate should be a place of safety and comfort for him. Add some ‘creature comforts’ to the crate, including favorite toys and a comfortable blanket. Place a blanket on top of the crate so it feels like a cozy den to your pug.Put a spill-proof water bowl in the crate to keep him from making a watery mess.Food is a great way to lure your pug into the crate. If he’s hesitant to enter the crate, place some bits of food near the crate initially, then gradually put the food further inside the crate.Do the same with his food bowl when he’s ready for eating meals in the crate.
Leave the crate door open at all times during this part of crate training. This will allow your pug to explore the crate at his leisure, without fear of you closing the door behind him.
 For crate training to be effective, your pug must learn to be comfortable in the crate when its door is closed. When your pug is eating a meal in the crate, close the door and open it as soon as he’s finished. Gradually, have your pug wait up to 10 minutes after a meal before you open the door.If he whines, wait until he quiets down before opening the door.
 You may need to leave your pug crated for hours at a time during the day, and maybe overnight. To get him used to this stretch of time, give your pug a verbal command (‘kennel up’ or ‘crate’) to enter the crate (not at meal time). Sit with him briefly, leave the room for few minutes, then return to the crate. Work up to leaving the room for 30 minutes.It may take several repetitions before your pug learns the verbal command to enter the crate. Reward him with a treat each time he responds to it correctly.
Practice leaving the house when you crate him. Do not get your pug worked up when you leave home or return; this could build up a lot of anxiety and anticipation in your pug.Don’t forget to take your pug outside to potty during crate training. This is especially important for puppies, since they can’t hold their bladders for very long (month of age + 1 hour)., A common concern with crate training is whether to respond to whining, especially with overnight crating. You don’t want to ignore your pug’s whining if he really needs to potty, but you also don’t want to teach him that whining gets positive attention from you. If he doesn’t stop whining after a few minutes, let him outside, but do not play or talk with him—let him eliminate and that’s it.If your pug is whining just to get attention, he’ll stop whining after he realizes it’s not working. Just be prepared for the whining to get worse before it gets better.
 If you cannot stay with your pug all day and take him outside frequently, gate off an area in your home for him to stay during the day. Place some pee pads in the corner of this space where he can eliminate.In addition to the pee pads, put some puzzle toys and other toys in the area to keep him busy.An alternative to a pee pad is a doggie litter box, which has artificial grass. When your pug urinates, the urine would go through the grass into the underlying tray.These are available at your local pet store.
Place his water bowl and bed in the gated area.
 Without knowing when he should eliminate, your pug may have accidents in your home more often. A consistent bathroom routine is very important for puppies, since they cannot hold their bladders for very long. If you have a pug puppy, take him out first thing in the morning, 15 to 20 minutes after eating, after naps, and before bedtime.Give your pug puppy his final meal around 7pm and take his water away by 10 or 11pm. This will reduce the chances of him having to eliminate frequently overnight.If you have an adult pug, he won’t need to go out as frequently as a puppy, but should still go out about 3 times a day.The indoor gated area lessens the need for frequent outings during the day. However, it may take longer to house train your pug if he gets used to eliminating on pee pads or in the litter box.
 Your pug should learn to eliminate in the same area each time you take him outside. If you have a backyard, take him out on a 6-foot (2-meter) leash, stand in one area of your yard, and let him pick a specific spot within a 6-foot radius of the leash.He will leave his scent in that spot and go back there each time.
 Your pug’s body language will let you know when he needs to eliminate, allowing you to get him outside before he has an accident in the house. Examples of this body language are sniffing around, looking for a private place, going to the door, and whining.When you see this body language, immediately put your pug’s leash on him and take him outside. Give him a treat and verbal praise when he eliminates so he makes a positive association with eliminating outside.
Consider giving your pug a command, such as ‘go potty,’ when you take him out.When you reward him for eliminating, he will also be learning how to respond to your command.
 It can take time—up to 20 minutes—for your pug to relax enough to eliminate outside. If you become impatient, you may experience what many other dog owners have experienced: elimination as soon as the dog gets back inside. Twenty minutes can feel like an eternity, so bring something with you (e.g., book, magazine, phone) to keep you busy as your wait for your pug to eliminate.Don’t forget to reward him as soon as he eliminates.
 If you pug has an accident (and he probably will) clean it up promptly with an enzymatic cleaner that will erase the urine smell.If your pug smells the urine, he will likely go back to that spot to eliminate. Do not punish your pug, whether you catch him in the act or not. Doing so will make him fear you, rather than teach him not to have another accident., Pugs aim to please, but can get sidetracked by a short attention span. To keep your own pug focused, teach him the ‘focus’ command. Put your finger on his nose, say ‘focus,’ then place this finger on your own nose. When your pug stays focused on your finger on your nose, immediately give him a treat. Lengthen the time he watches your finger before you reward him. When he’s mastered it, use it each time he gets distracted during training sessions.Because of the short attention span, keep your training sessions short (about 15 minutes or less) and repeat the lessons frequently., When your pug learns the basic commands, he will have the proper foundation to behave well and learn even more commands. Basic commands include sit, stay, come, and heel. If his short attention span is making training difficult, consider enrolling him in a local dog obedience class.


Use plenty of positive reinforcement (verbal praise, treats, extra petting) each time your pug correctly follows a command. The more excited and positive you are, the more your pug will try to please you and behave properly.
 Pugs love to chew. Teaching your pug to 'leave it' will help keep him from chewing something inappropriate (e.g., furniture, shoes). The 'drop it' command will teach him to drop whatever is in mouth, particularly if it's something he’s not supposed to chew on.
 Training an adult pug requires a different approach than what you’d use with a puppy. Your adult pug may have had some previous training, but it may not have been completed or consistently reinforced. Ask the rescue group or animal shelter from where you adopted your pug about what types of additional training he will need.Older dogs are calmer and tend to have longer attention spans than puppies.Adult dogs are more set in their ways (including bad habits) and may take longer to train. Be patient with your adult pug during the training process., If your adult pug was mistreated by his previous owner, he may be extra sensitive to yelling or harsh punishment.As you train your adult pug, always keep a calm temper, including when he has an accident or doesn’t follow a command.
 If you have other household members, have them all train your adult pug. By involving everyone, your pug will feel like he’s part of your pack, which will help him feel safe and loved.To prevent him from getting confused from working with different people, make sure everyone uses the same commands, says the commands in the same tone of voice, and does not deviate from the training process (e.g., letting him get away with bad behavior).

