 These stalls sell various items, however, the most delicious food is "dou-jiang" or sweet soybean milk. Another crowd-pleaser is "dan-bing", or an egg wrapped with a tortilla like wrapper.;
, This will be your first stop. To get there, take the Taipei Metro on the Muzha line to the final stop, Taipei Zoo. Once there, there will be signs (in English also) of which direction to go. The gondola has 4 stations, climbing its way up slowly a mountain from the zoo all the way up to the famed Mao Kong station. Fares can vary from 30 to 50 NT for a one way trip, depending on which station you choose to depart from. Once in Maokong, there are various tea stations to choose from. The most delicious are hidden away in little forest nooks, so go on and look around!

, From there, you must take the brown Muzha Line to the blue Zhong Xiao Fuxing Station. There you can exit directly into the SOGO department store. Shop around! This store is 12 stories high and carries everything from Juicy Couture to Taiwanese delicacies!

, After he starts to leave, get ready to pay a fare of at least 90 NT or above. No tipping is needed. (You can also more easily and inexpensively take the MRT to the Main Station. Just follow the signs in SOGO to the blue line, and once on the platform, board the train below the sign that points in the direction of Taipei Main Station. The fare will be around 20nt).
 Find a staircase or escalator to go up to the second level. On your way, you might have seen a few 7-11 stores, which are similar to a drugstore/market combo. come here for snacks and toiletries. Once you get to the upper floor, it should have big signs stating "Breeze" or something containing the word. THIS IS IT! Go around and look at the food! Choices are a plenty!

, At this stop, you will find the ShiLin night market, which doesn't get going until after 5pm. Follow the crowd and the exit signs to the ShiLin night market! Deals and delicacies team here! ShiLin nightmarket is the largest nightmarket in Taiwan and can become extremely crowded during the weekends., Do this if you wish. If you want to take the MRT back, make sure to find out when the last train leaves (usually around 11:30pm). What a long, fun day!