 Art isn’t necessarily about money. But it is a lot easier to devote the time to developing your craft when you don’t have to work a full time job at the same time. Think of the money you earn from art as liberating you to pursue what you love. A career can cascade; as you earn the money to support yourself, you can spend more time developing skill and a reputation as an artist., You should build a portfolio of your own work and then do everything you can so that other people find and purchase it. Today that is normally done online. Post your work on social media and build a website that features your best images.If you want to be old fashioned, find a coffee shop that looks like it needs some extra decoration. Bring your portfolio and show the owner your work. Ask if she would be willing to put it on display and refer interested customers to you. She will get a better the ambience out of the deal and you will get to advertise your work.
 Subscribe to local art papers and be aware of art shows, festivals, or seminars. When you attend events, be yourself and be sociable. Try to meet people who could connect you to clients or galleries where you can sell you work.


Perfect an elevator speech. The principle of the elevator speech is that you can give it to someone on a short elevator ride and by the end they be interested in exchanging information with you. In a few sentences you should be able to tell someone what makes your work interesting. If it doesn’t seem to work, keep on revising it until you find something that grabs people.
Bring a lot of business cards so that when you meet people who are interested in you work, you can easily share your contact information. Include a website that features your work on the business card. Keep track of all of the business cards you receive and set up appointments to meet with people after the event., Become known in your art community as a supportive person with a genuine interest in the progress of your fellow artists. When you make comments, be constructive, not destructive. Help people to learn through guidance and constructive feedback. Use this community to get feedback on your work and meet potential clients.Don’t be jealous of other people. If you develop a reputation of helping out other artists, they, in turn, will help you.Consider forming a collective to pool your resources. You can rent out a space to display your art or even share the expenses of a studio collectively. In the end, you won’t just be saving money, you’ll be introducing one another to new customers., Ultimately, most artists don’t make ends meet by doing just one thing. They have multiple sources of revenue so that when one disappears, backup jobs are still on the table. Sell works online, put others in galleries, look for public art contracts, apply for grants, and teach. Not only is this a good way to make ends meet, you’ll also learn about what the most lucrative business models are.