 Hold down the main button when you select your song, and an options screen will be displayed. If you like your songs fast, do 2X. If you like your songs average/fast, do 1.5X. Although speed mods make the arrows move faster, they add space between arrows so crossovers and other complicated patterns are easier to read and react to. Some players frown on speed mods just as some players frown on using the bar for support. It is important to remember that speed mods and the bar are there for your assistance; there is no right or wrong for DDR, so do what works best for you.
 1/8 steps are twice as fast as the "normal" beat of the song (say to yourself, "one and two and three and four and..."). A common step pattern on Standard is three notes at double speed (think, "one and two, three and four."). You'll definitely need to be off the middle of the pad to get these steps (see #5 above). Try to listen to and use the rhythm of the song, and gradually you'll master it.
 These are even faster than 1/8th notes and are usually packed tightly together on the screen. Using Speed Multipliers to spread them out will greatly help your ability to "read" their rhythm (a straight run of 1/16th notes is counted "ONE-ie and ah TWO-ie and ah THREE-ie and ah FOUR-ie and ah," although you'll rarely see this pattern on standard; usually, what appears are groups of three 1/16th notes in a row. Count this pattern as, "ONE-ie and, TWO-ie and," etc.).
 Crossovers are steps where you either have to turn your body sideways or cross one leg over the other to successfully "walk" along the steps. For instance, if you must hit "Left Down Right Down Left Down Right Down Left ..." then you should switch feet, using your left foot to hit the left and right arrows and your right foot to hit the down arrow (or vice versa). This will require either crossing your legs or turning your whole body 90 degrees to the right (making the steps analogous to "Down Right Up Right Down Right Up Right Down..."). Crossovers are the first of the more sophisticated stances.
 It's rather like skipping forward. These are technically 1/16th notes grouped 2 at a time. (Think, "ONE, ah TWO, ah THREE, ah FOUR." You only have to step on the beat and the "ah", like "RIGHT - - Right LEFT - - Left RIGHT ...") #*You jump in the air and once you land one foot, you land the other on the opposite arrow immediately afterward. TSUGARU APPLE MIX (DDR Extreme US, DDR MAX 2 and DDR EXTREME arcade) and also COWGIRL (DDR MAX, MAX2, Extreme arcade) are great songs to master this. Japan on heavy is great to learn Galloping because it often has long rows of gallops using only 2 arrows and in some parts more advanced galloping with the arrows going all over the place. However it doesn't have any forced crossover gallops or forced spinning gallops so it should be all good.
 Using speed mods will make them easier to read, as will changing the note-skin to solo. The home version also has an option to use different colored note-skins, called Type2. These different colors making picking out gallops trivial.
 For example, Burning Heat, and the end of Afronova. If you don't know triplets, search YouTube for those songs, and it should be fairly clear which notes they are. Practice them.
Other songs, such as Healing Vision (Angelic Mix), sometimes use a fermata. This means that the arrows pause for a beat.They literally stop on the screen for a half second or so.
If that wasn't tough enough, some songs change speed in the middle. Sometimes you might see arrows closer together or farther apart and learn to ignore it, it's the same tempo, the arrows just change speed on the screen.

