 One of the best ways to make sure you are getting everything you can out of the money you have is to create budget. By keeping track of how much money you are bringing in and what you are spending it on, you can eliminate the uncertainty that comes with not knowing if you can afford something, and also identify areas where you can cut costs.Keep records of every dollar you earn and spend.
Classify your expenditures as fixed essentials (things you need and will always cost about the same amount, like your phone bill), variable essentials (things you need but which vary in cost from month to month, such as gas or food), and non-essentials (things you want but don't necessarily need).
There are many ways to keep track of your budget. While numerous computer programs and smartphone apps exist that can make this process simple, an ordinary Excel spreadsheet will also work fine, as will an old-fashioned ledger book or ordinary lined paper.;
, Once you've created a budget, it's easier to identify areas where you might be able to cut back on spending. Identify non-essential expenditures in your budget, and think about ways to make them cheaper or if you might be able to eliminate some of them altogether. Here are a few suggestions:


You can spend less on utilities if you use less energy. Make sure to turn off all appliances when not in use, and unplug them when they won't be used for an extended period of time. Every degree you reduce your thermostat will also save you between one and three percent on your heating bill.The average person spends about $600 dollars a year on phone service. Especially if you are paying more than that, you may want to look into finding a less expensive plan.If you subscribe to cable television, consider going without for a while. Many of the shows you're watching are probably available for free on-line.
Drive less, if you can. If you live somewhere with a decent public transportation system, you'll probably find that it's cheaper than gas and parking. You can also save thousands of dollars a year by carpooling., With the cost of medical treatment increasing all the time, anything you can do to reduce your bills in this area without sacrificing your health is a good idea.


Switch to generics. Most generic medications do exactly the same thing as the name brand versions, but at a fraction of the cost.Visit in-store pharmacy clinics. For minor ailments, this can be a cheaper alternative to a regular doctor, especially if you don't have insurance.Get a free checkup at your local dental school. Many dental schools will give you a free checkup and cleaning as a way to train their students., You can spend less on housing by moving to a smaller house or apartment, renting out any spare rooms you have (if you own your house), or getting a roommate.Depending on where you live, you may also be able to save a lot of money by moving to a different neighborhood. You may even want to consider moving to a different part of the country (i.e. one where the cost of living is lower and/or job opportunities are more plentiful) if this is an option.
 Although 99 cent hamburgers from fast food restaurants seem like a bargain, you can prepare meals at home that are often equally economical, healthier for you, and create leftovers for your lunch the next day.


Planning meals in advance so you can use what you already have in your kitchen and take advantage of sales at the grocery store makes cooking at home even cheaper., It can be hard to live within your means when you don't earn much, but buying things using credit or rent-to-own plans makes them cost more in the long run and is a significant factor in keeping many people poor.In particular, try to avoid getting a "pay day" loan. These small loans come at a high cost. Often, the amount you will have to pay back will be nearly three times the amount of the loan. These loans should be used only as a last resort.