 Without an optometrist or impartial observer around, you need to pay close attention to the frames’ specifications. In addition to looking at its special features, material, and size, look at the weight. Without the ability to try on glasses you find online, you will have to compare their specifications with glasses lying around the house. Weigh your old glasses using a mini scale and use it to gauge the relative weight of frames you find online.
 It is important to get frames that will fit the anatomical features of your face. Even a pair of glasses that is the right total width and height may still not fit your face. Make sure all the measurements are right for your face by taking a pair of glasses you have on-hand and using its measurements to determine the relative size of a pair online. These measurements are generally in millimeters.Eye. This is the width of each lens, from its outermost points.
Bridge. This is how far apart each lens is.
Temple. This is the length of the piece that tucks behind your ear.
B measurement. This is the height of each lens, measured from its highest and lowest points.
 This is the distance between your pupils. Since it is difficult to measure on your own, the way to get the most accurate PD is to have your optometrist measure it for you. However, there are ways you can ‘do it yourself’ at home. This might save yourself time and get a general idea of what range of PD sizes you fall into. This number is generally measured in millimeters.


The easiest way to measure PD at home is with a picture. Hold an item you know the dimensions of (like a pen) directly under your chin. Take a picture in the mirror and get out a ruler. For example, if the pen was 5” (or 127 mm) long, and appears 1” (25.4 mm) long in the photo, you know the ratio of photo measurements to actual measurements is 1:5. So, if your pupil distance was a half inch in the photo, we multiply that by 5. This number gives us the pupillary distance – 2.5”, or 60mm.
 You want to be able to try the glasses on and return or exchange them for free. Also take into consideration how this will affect your bottom line price, especially with shipping charges. You should look for a seller that offers some kind of warranty, insurance, and maintenance guarantee., This is the most important aspect of buying glasses online. It is impossible to be as accurate with your own measurements choosing a pair online as a pair tailored for you by your optometrist. The online seller may also have misleading or inaccurate pictures or specifications. Wear them for a day or so, and think about your levels of comfort and vision.

