 Losing patience with your dog can cause them to be confused. Your dog may not know what you want or how you will react if they do something. By being consistently patient, you help keep your dog from getting confused.For example, if you are patient one day while doing something with them, but then yell and get frustrated the next day, the dog will be confused and not know how to act.;
, Dogs don’t always accept change easily. Sometimes they are resistant to new things or new commands. Don’t give up or get frustrated. Instead, introduce new things slowly. This can help get your dog adjusted to the new item or command.For example, if you want your dog to wear a collar, let the dog wear it for a few minutes if they resist it. If your dog doesn’t like you brushing their teeth, rub your finger along their teeth for a few seconds. After they get used to wearing the collar or having you rub their teeth, you can let them continue the activity longer.
Just remember, your dog may not adjust overnight. Be patient and after a few weeks, your dog will be more accommodating.
 Dogs mostly want to do what their owners want them to do. However, they don’t automatically know what that is. You have to help your dog learn what they are expected to do. Since this takes time, you need to be patient as your dog figures out what you want from it.Don’t get mad if your dog does something wrong. Instead, calmly correct the behavior to help show the dog what is expected. Being patient helps your dog understand what you want from them instead of yelling at them or getting mad.
 Another way to help you remain patient with your dog is to keep the tasks you are working on small. You may also want to work on one thing at a time. This keeps you from trying to do too much, which can frustrate you. Sticking with short tasks or lessons helps you see improvement instead of just reasons to get frustrated.For example, don’t try to house train your dog while teaching them to sit and stay off the furniture. Instead, work on all these things separately.
 To teach your dog anything, you need to show them exactly what you want. This takes a lot of patience on your part. You may have to put your dog in a specific position, correct a behavior, or give them a treat when they do the right thing.Taking the time to show your dog exactly what you want makes it clear for them.

