 While it is an essential treatment after vomiting, small but frequent sips of liquids can help calm nausea before vomiting as well.Have your child drink small amounts of clear liquids. Because drinks that contain sugar can help soothe an upset stomach, offer sweetened liquids such as flat soda or fruit juices. Popsicles also work well. The sugar in these drinks can help to calm the stomach better than water alone.
Electrolyte solutions such as Pedialyte can be helpful if your child will drink them.
Let sodas like cola or ginger ale go flat before giving it to ease nausea, as the carbonation can further upset the stomach.Stay away from juices that are too acidic like grapefruit and orange juice, as these juices can make the stomach feel worse.
Pediatricians generally prefer focusing on hydration with nausea (or after vomiting) over the use of anti-emetic (anti-vomiting) medications because of the risk of side effects with the latter.However, if nausea or vomiting are severe or continuing, anti-nausea and vomiting medications may be recommended and can be very effective.
 It can be a tall task to get an active child to calm down, even when he is feeling ill, but appropriate rest and relaxation are some of the best tools to prevent vomiting.Resting can help to calm your stomach. Sitting or lying in a propped up position is preferable.
Any physical activity can make nausea worse. Encourage your child to stop playing until the nausea passes.
Try not to let your child eat while he is playing. Encourage your child to sit down and have his snack. If he runs around while eating, this motion can lead to sickness. (It is also a choking hazard.)
If you suspect overeating may be contributing to vomiting episodes, try offering smaller, more frequent meals. Replace fatty, heavy foods with more fruits and vegetables.
 If your child’s vomiting is caused by a persistent cough, getting rid of the cough should also get rid of the risk of vomiting.See your doctor if the cough is severe or not improving after one week to see if medical treatment may be needed.


Always follow dosing recommendations for over-the-counter cough medications. Check with the pediatrician before giving any medicine to small children, especially medicines not intended for that age group. Most pediatricians don't recommend cough medicines for children, especially under age eight. If your child is older than one, talk to your doctor about giving honey for coughs.
If your child is old enough to safely suck on lozenges or hard candy, these may also help soothe a cough. Err on the side of caution with young children, especially if they are under four, to prevent choking.
 A little planning beforehand, and some quick action if motion sickness symptoms appear, can prevent major delays (and clean-up operations) later.Schedule plenty of stops during your trips. This will help give your child a chance to get some fresh air and will calm her stomach. If car sickness develops, stop immediately and allow the child to get out of the car and either walk around or lie on her back with her eyes closed.
It can help if your child has something in her stomach, especially for a longer trip. Try giving her a small snack before the car ride. Be sure to give her something that is not too sweet or fatty, though. Crackers, bananas, and applesauce make a good snack to help prevent nausea.
Be sure to give your child plenty of fluids before and during a car ride. This will also help calm her stomach by keeping her hydrated.
Seat your child so that she faces the front windshield when riding in the car. Watching movement out of the side windows can worsen nausea. But always follow proper car seat usage, even if this means your child must face backwards.
Distract your child from any feelings of car sickness by listening to or singing songs, or just talking. Books and video screens can exacerbate motion sickness.
There are also several medications for motion sickness. However, before giving your child any over-the-counter medicine, it is advisable to consult your doctor. Motion sickness medications can also cause side effects like drowsiness that may last long after the car trip ends.

