, You can do this in one of two ways:


Go to the website: http://www.google.ca/advanced_search

If you're already searching through Google, you can click on the gear on the right hand side of the search page. Select "Advanced search," the second option from the top.
 This requires you to fill out as much as you can of the first half of the new page. You don't have to fill in every box; just focus on the categories you need to improve your search. Here is the information you'll need to provide:


Under "all of these words" type in any of the important words in your search.
Under "exact word or phrase" type in the word or phrase you're looking for.
Under "any of these words" type in any of the words that you want.
Under "none of these words" type in any words you don't want.
Under "numbers ranging from" type in any numbers in a range you want.
Notice that Google gives you tips for how to perform these same searches while using signs in the actual Google search box. You can find these tips to the right of the search tools.
 Now you can provide even more information about what you're looking for to narrow your results even further. You don't have to select all of the options -- just focus on the ones you need to help narrow your search. Here are your options for further refining your search:


Language. Select the language of your search results.
Region. Find pages published in a particular region.
Last update. Find pages that were updated after a certain date.
Site or domain. If you'd like to narrow down your search for something within a certain website, type in the name of the site.
Terms appearing. Select where you want the terms to have appeared, whether it's in the title of the web page or in the text of the article.
Safe Search. It should be set to "show most relevant results." If you'd like to remove any potentially inappropriate articles from your search, select "filter explicit results."
Reading level. Modify your search to fit your reading level.
File type. Find pages that are in the format you prefer, whether a PDF or a Word Doc (.doc).
Usage rights. Select one of the options to choose pages you are free to use yourself.


, Look through your options to see if you've found an article, or many articles, that fit your needs. If you're still not finding what you're looking for, then you can go back to Google Advanced Search and make your search more or less specific.

