 Sports are obviously good for you, but more specifically speaking, most team sports are good for your cardiovascular health, since they require running or sprinting on a regular basis. Team sports are also good for hand-eye coordination. In many cases, when you join a league (even a casual league), you will find resources available for you and your teammates to do some weightlifting, as well.
 Not all team sports are equal in terms of health benefits. At the top of the heap are sports like soccer, basketball, and hockey, that require most players to stay in motion constantly. Less common sports such as crew (rowing on a team), racquetball, and doubles tennis are also excellent in this regard. Below that are sports like baseball, curling, and cricket. Though these sports are very physical and still provide great exercise, they provide it in smaller segments, with downtime in between.


Given that all sports are good for you, it's probably best to choose one you personally enjoy over one that seems to be healthier.
 If you're in school, this is easy: even outside of varsity sports, there are often intramural leagues, casual games during lunch, or after-school programs available. As a working adult, the task of finding a team can be a bit more daunting. Check local fitness centers, such as your neighborhood YMCA, and ask about what leagues they offer or know about.


You'll usually have to sign up in advance to join an adult sports league before the season begins. Have more sports or other exercises in mind for when the season ends.
 Referees and umpires are usually on hand to settle disputes, but it's still to your advantage to brush up on the rules of your chosen sport, even if you've played it recently. WikiHow is a great source for abbreviated rules of many popular team sports.
 Like any form of exercise, you'll get the most out of playing a sport if you keep at it regularly. In addition to practice sessions and games, try to find a partner or a group to exercise with on off days. This will help you get in even better shape while building bonds with your teammates.

