 They have safe legal purposes but can be deadly if used incorrectly. Among them are whipped cream containers, toxic dry erase/permanent markers, paint, glues, and even bath salts. Then there are much worse ones such as gasoline, propane, freon and butane.;
, Therefore don't be surprised if almost none of your friends are engaging in this habit in order to seem "cool".
 You can die the first time or any time after in which you abuse an inhalant, as a result of sudden sniffing death syndrome. This is where your brain gets a message where it needs to somehow make much more oxygen than normal to keep you alive. Your veins will work the hardest to try to deliver oxygen filled blood to your heart but will eventually shut down suddenly.


Even if you do not die, the risk of irreversible damage to the brain, heart, kidneys, and lungs are inevitable. You can cut as much as twenty years or more off your life. Is this a chance you want to take?

, Do a common activity like learning to play an instrument, engaging in a conversation with a friend, or taking a bike ride. This will often keep your mind preoccupied with the task at hand so you can't think about other things.
 Dispose of the substances somewhere that is a distance from your house (for example, another neighbourhood's dumpster) to ensure that you won't be tempted to get it back out again. If this is too difficult for you, have a friend or family member dispose of the substance for you so you won't have trouble "letting go" or create excuses to change your mind.
 If they are mature enough, they will listen and offer to help discreetly without telling the whole world or freaking out.
 It's always better to have somebody such as a professional to help you with your problems and struggles with addiction. You can talk about these things with your therapist/counselor; What is it that makes you want to do this? A loss of a family member? Job loss? General dissatisfaction with life? Talking with someone is very helpful and will help you to keep you out of those dark moments and away from future temptations to use again.

