 Like text messages but they don't cost money. It's also possible to send files over instant messaging, though you still need to know who to contact. If you use Linux, then you might have an IM client like Pidgin or Thunderbird already installed. On Windows, you're probably out of luck.
 BitTorrent is a peer-to-peer file-sharing program. Instead of way to communicating with a central server, BitTorrent reaches out to your peers (people just like you!). It's a great way to download files quickly. Although it has earned its reputation as a piracy tool, there are many files that can be legally torrented, including some browsers. You'll need to find it first, though – which might be hard without a browser.
 Despite its name, telnet has nothing to do with telephone lines. It's just a simple, two-way text communications protocol, mostly used for command-line applications. While it's technically possible to download stuff over telnet, it's not common to actually do this., The Network News Transfer Protocol (NNTP) is an application protocol that moves Usenet news articles—net news—between news servers. People also use it to read and post articles by end user client applications. Web forums effectively replaced Usenet. You can explore all the Newsgroups without needed to "know the right people," like you would with all the above protocols, and you can probably find a browser if you look hard enough. However, it may be difficult to get access to a server at first. Many servers charge money to access Usenet.
 There are many non-browser tools that use the Web. Some file explorers will download files if given a Web address. Curl and wget are command-line tools that can access files from FTP, HTTP, and HTTPS.They will download a file from the Web, but they can't render pages. On a system with the curl or wget installed, one of these commands will download Firefox for Linux:


wget: 'https://download.mozilla.org/?product=firefox-40.0-SSL&os=linux64&lang=en-US'

curl: 'https://download.mozilla.org/?product=firefox-40.0-SSL&os=linux64&lang=en-US'


, If you use Linux, these applications are very powerful: package managers will allow you to download applications, libraries, manuals, window manager themes, device drivers, browser addons/extensions, OS kernals, command-line programs, and practically anything your computer might need to function. If you use Windows 8+ or a Mac, however, you can only get applications this way. Just search for "Firefox," then install it, and soon you'll be online!


This doesn't apply to people who use an operating system earlier than Windows 8. Pre-8 Windows users are out of luck. In fairness, 8+ users are too – the Windows store doesn't have much content.

