 An abscess is a bacterial infection at the nerve site, which is usually caused by a cavity that has gone without treatment for a prolonged period of time.Symptoms include:


Prolonged throbbing pain in the toothSensitivity to temperature fluctuations, such as hot or cold food or beveragesPain during chewing, eating, or drinkingSwelling of the face on the side of the abscessSwollen or inflamed lymph nodes around the jaw, If you believe you have a tooth abscess, it is imperative that you see a dentist immediately. Depending on how severe your abscess is, your dentist may recommend a number of options to treat the abscess and prevent the infection from spreading. All of these procedures should only be performed by a licensed, experienced dentist.


Draining the abscess may be possible. Your dentist may be able to drain the pus out at the site of the infection, using sterilized tools in a controlled medical setting. Again, do not attempt to perform any of these procedures at home.Having a root canal might be the best option. A root canal involves surgically removing the diseased tissue in your gums and draining the abscess. This allows your dentist to treat the infection while still managing to save your tooth.Your dentist may recommend extracting the infected tooth. This is usually done if the infection has rendered the tooth unsalvageable. After extracting the tooth, your dentist will then drain the abscess to treat the infection.Antibiotics may be prescribed to prevent the infection from spreading to other teeth or to your jaw. These may be prescribed in conjunction with other treatments.It's important to practice good dental hygiene to prevent future abscesses. This includes flossing every day, brushing your teeth twice daily, limiting sugary snacks, and going in for regular dental checkups., After seeing your dentist to treat the infection, there are a number of things you can do at home to help manage the pain associated with an abscessed tooth.


Mix one teaspoon of salt into an eight-ounce glass of warm water. Use this rinse after every meal and before bed to help reduce inflammation and prevent infection.Use pain relievers. Over-the-counter medications like acetaminophen and ibuprofen can be taken to reduce inflammation and manage pain.Take only the recommended dosage listed on the label, as taking too much of a pain reliever may cause liver damage and other health problems.Use a cold compress. Apply a cold compress wrapped in cloth to the affected side of your face for 20 minutes on, 20 minutes off, to manage the pain and inflammation in the jaw and mouth. Do not use a hot compress with an abscessed tooth, as heat may allow the infection to spread.