 Wipe the bowl down using window cleaner, household cleaner, or rubbing alcohol. You can also wash it with soap and water. Focus on the outside of the bowl, as that is the part you will be painting. You want the bowl to be free of any residual oils.You can also use a wooden bowl instead., This will give the bowl some tooth and help the paint stick better. You want to lightly buff the bowl without scratching it.When you are done, wipe away any dust with a damp cloth.
 Flip the bowl over so that the bottom is facing you. Use a drill to make two holes in the center of the bowl. You will be using these to attach the bowl later.The holes need to be the same size as your screws.
 Red is the most popular and recognizable color, but you can use another color for your mushroom if you prefer.You only need to paint the outside of the bowl, since you won't see the inside when you are done.
Don't forget to paint the tops of the screws as well.
 Apply the spots using a paint brush or a round, foam pouncer. If you need to apply a second coat, let the paint dry first before doing so., Just because the paint feels dry does not necessarily mean that it is ready. Check the label on your can of paint, and see if there is a curing time. Once the paint has fully dried and cured. apply a coat of clear, outdoor-quality sealer.The sealer can be glossy or matte; this is up to you!
You need to let the paint dry completely before sealing it. If you don't, the paint may warp.
 The log should be about twice the height of your bowl. It needs to be about the same width as the base of you bowl. Birch logs wok especially well for this because of their white bark. If you are using a different type of log, consider painting it white, and then sealing it with your clear sealer.
 Place the bowl on top of the log so that the bottom is facing you. Use a pen or pencil to make marks in the middle of each screw hole. Lift the bowl away when you are done., Make sure that the holes are wide and deep enough for your screws to fit into. When you are done, gently blow away any sawdust.
 Place the lid back onto the log so that the bottom is facing you. Insert the screws through the holes in the lid. Screw them into the log using your drill. Try to get the screws as tight as you can so that the bowl doesn't bottle., If the drilling ruined the paintwork, touch it up with a small paintbrush and a matching paint color.

