 There is an effective vaccine against canine coronavirus. Because infection is not usually life-threatening, your vet may not consider coronavirus vaccination to be a core or essential vaccination. The need will be assessed on an individual basis.The vaccine is usually given on a risk assessment basis. The factors your vet will take into consideration are how many dogs your dog mixes with on a regular basis and the prevalence of coronavirus infection in your area. Your vet will also determine if your dog is in an at risk group because of a health problem or their age.The vaccination involves two injections, three weeks apart, and a yearly booster injection. This vaccine can also be combined with other annual shots.
The vaccine is most often given to dogs that mix with lots of others, such as show dogs, or those with general poor health.
You might want to consider vaccination for puppies or elderly dogs.;
, If one of your dogs has the coronavirus, or you think a kennel, grooming, or other area has been compromised, you can kill the virus with household disinfectants. Try Lysol or diluted bleach solutions.The virus can survive in the environment for six months and act as a reservoir of infection for dogs that come into contact with contamination. However, coronavirus is not a hardy virus and is readily destroyed by most household disinfectants
Strong sunlight and lack of moisture will also help destroy the virus. To reduce the moisture in your home, use a dehumidifier. You should also make sure the area the dog is staying and the bedding remains dry. To increase sunlight, open all curtains and doors to allow the sun to shine inside. Take your dog's bedding outside and place in the sun for a few hours.
 When you take your dog into public areas, make sure to pick up after him when he goes to the bathroom. This not only helps reduce the risk of spreading the coronavirus, but also any other disease that is transmitted through feces.Make sure to pick up your dog’s feces as soon as he goes to the bathroom. Diseases can be transmitted from feces to the soil and live there for months afterwards. The longer you leave feces on the ground, the more likely it will contaminate the soil, and therefore, other dogs.
Wash your hands after handling your dog's feces or cleaning up urine. The virus can be transmitted through waste, so if your dog is shedding the virus still after he's been treating, you may reinfect him.
 Since the coronavirus can be transmitted through bodily fluids, be careful where you take your dog to exercise. Don’t walk or exercise your dog in an area heavily contaminated with dog feces, especially diarrhea.Be mindful of your dog on public trails, parks, or in dog parks. Keep him away from dog feces to reduce the risk of picking up infection.
 Infected dogs can shed the virus for months after contracting and getting over coronavirus. Even if a dog is well, you can't rule out it being a health risk to your pet. If you have been handling someone else’s dog, wash your hands after touching it and before handling your puppy.If your dog has had the coronavirus in the last few months, make sure to wash your hands before and after touching your dog or touching his water or food. This helps reduce the risk of accidentally transmitting any shedding virus.
 Since coronavirus can be spread through respiratory aerosols, like coughs and sneezes, you shouldn’t take your sick dog around other dogs. Keep him at home until he is well again so you prevent spreading the infection.