 Use a good, strong piece of wood about 2 feet (0.6 m) by 2 feet (0.6 m). This will be what everything else is built on.;
, Attach this to the top center of the 2 by 2 foot board with the end of the 2 by 4 matching up with the opposite side of the board so now it sticks out. This will be the boom that controls the aim of the piece.
 You can get them at any home improvement store, but make sure they're the ones that come pre-assembled so that you can just screw them on. (I drilled pilot holes first and then used a screwdriver.)

, Make sure they are both on the 2 by 4. When you look down the barrel of your artillery piece, they should be in line with each other because they are going to be the things holding the barrel up.
 This will be what your barrel sits on top of.
 A THICK PVC tube anywhere between 4 to 6 feet (1.2 to 1.8 m) long is required at about 2-2 1/2 inches in internal diameter (caliber, really.) If the barrel is not thick, the barrel may melt and deform.
 Instead, use string and wrap it around the barrel and the 2 by 4 it's laying on. This, or you could use brackets, but string is easier, simpler, and less expensive. Really any thing that does not interfere with the inside of the barrel could be accepted.
 You may be wondering how you're going to be protected from incoming fire. The answer: build a chickenplate. They are often used on the tops of Humvees to protect the gunner from incoming rounds. Yours could either be made from cardboard or wood. Cardboard is more fair, but I would recommend wood because it holds up better to the elements. Make sure it's something light, like pine, or it'll be too heavy to move around. Get yourself a nice big sheet and cut it down to the size you think is suitable. Remember, this is what's saving yourself from going "out" in a firefight.
 Soda bottles work perfectly for this role. Anything under 20 oz should just fit right in the breach. Don't use water bottles because they are too flimsy. Get about 6 "shells." You will need them.
 Put your team emblem or name on it. You could add a holster to your side of the Chicken Plate just in case, or even cut a hole in the chicken plate and mount a high capacity AEG (Like a cheap $30 P-90) for use as an "MG" so you can rain down fire on a location in two ways. It's up to you, make it what you think is best for your situation.
 I would recommend the tiny ones that whistle and pop for a flashbang effect without the flash. Those deafen the people it detonates next to and could cause them to be combat ineffective for a few seconds while somebody runs for cover or to a flanking maneuver. Bottle rockets do very little in shrapnel damage, but should still never be pointed intentionally at the enemy, just near them is enough.


Another suggestion for ammunition is roman candles. Stick them in the bottles and tape where the stick part comes out so it does not fall out of the bottle. These have some kick and do not stop firing until they are completely done, so make sure you push it securely into the breach, even up the barrel a bit. Either that, or tape it. Trust me, you do not want one blasting its way out of the breach and exploding behind the piece. They can burn quite a bit if one of the balls hit you. Again, this is an area-effect weapon, not to be used for direct fire. Shoot above or to the sides of your intended target so you don't leave your enemy with burns.

