 Schools are legally required to provide accommodations to students struggling with physical or mental conditions that impact their ability to learn due to the Americans With Disabilities Act.Depression, anxiety, and other mental health concerns qualify a student for academic accommodations. Getting accommodations in place helps you protect your academic career while you are working on your depression.


Visit your university's Student Services or Disability Services department to ask about the accommodations process.There is usually some paperwork involved, so if your energy level is not up to it, enlist a family member or friend to help. If you are currently seeing a counselor or have seen one in the past, then you can sign a release to give them permission to communicate with disability services.
If you are concerned about your professors knowing about your depression, look into the confidentiality rules within your school about accommodations. It is possible that due to confidentiality, the department may not be allowed to disclose what the accommodations are for, only that you qualify for them.;
, Even though it can be uncomfortable, it is important your instructors know about your situation.One of the challenges for providing care for students is that the teachers or university are often not aware of the students' struggles.If you successfully apply for accommodations, your professor will be notified of your status and you won't need to discuss it with them past asking if they were notified. Once your professors are aware of you accommodations they may be able to help by giving you more time on assignments or extra help along the way.


If you choose to talk to your professor about it, set up an appointment with them.
Start the conversation by stating why you are there. “I know I have been struggling in your class and I wanted to talk about it with you.”
Mention your accommodations status. "I am in the process of applying for accommodations," or "I've received accommodations. Have you been notified?"
Explain as much as you are comfortable with and detail what you are struggling with specifically (assignments, physically getting to class, focusing while you are there, etc.).
Your teacher may ask how they can help, so have an idea of what might help you be more successful in the class. Try making a list of things that would be helpful for you, such as audio recordings of lectures, more time to complete tests or assignments, or copies of notes or PowerPoints.
 Make an appointment to talk to someone. Counseling or therapy can help you manage your depression, and can be extremely effective to help students who are struggling with mental health concerns while in school. They will be able to talk with you to help navigate the process. Counselors or therapists will also be able to work with you in overcoming embarrassment or emotional hangups or with telling staff and professors. In addition to individual therapy, college counseling centers can also provide:


Group therapy programs for students struggling with depression.
Peer counseling with other students who understand what you are going through.Additional coping skills to use to help manage your depressive symptoms.
Advocacy help with the school especially during the accommodations process.

