 Having sex with a partner can help release prostaglandins, which are similar to hormones in your body. Prostaglandins can bring on labor. Sperm from an ejaculation inside the vagina can help to soften and dilate the cervix, also readying the body for labor.Having an orgasm stimulates prostaglandins, so if you don’t feel comfortable having sex, you can still have an orgasm on your own.
Do not have sex if your water has already broken, as this can put you at risk for infection.
 Nipple stimulation is another way to induce uterine contractions. Use your thumb and forefinger to roll the nipple for 2 minutes. Give it a rest for 3 minutes. Continue this process for about 20 minutes. If you don’t feel any contractions, increase the rolling part to 3 minutes, with the rests lasting 2 minutes.


Use olive oil on your fingers to prevent irritation.
 Acupressure is similar to acupuncture, a traditional Chinese bodywork technique that promotes relaxation and healing. According to this healing technique, the body has acupoints through which energy flows.Applying direct, firm pressure to two of these points may help induce labor.To use acupressure:


Locate the pressure points, which are in the webbing between your thumb and your index finger and on your lower leg about 3 inches (8 cm) above the inside of your ankle bone.
Pinch the webbing of your hand. Rub for 30-60 seconds by moving in a circular motion.Press firmly with the tip of a finger or two fingers on the spot on your leg. Rub in a circular motion.
With either of these pressure points, stop rubbing when you have a contraction. Start rubbing again when the contraction stops.
 Reflexology is a method of using pressure points in the feet to trigger labor within 24-48 hours.Use the pressure points that correspond to the pituitary, bladder, solar plexus, and ovaries and uterus to activate your body into labor. Put direct, firm pressure on one of these points, or rub in a circular motion with firm pressure.Pituitary: Located on the big toe, this pressure point will activate the pituitary gland, which releases hormones like oxytocin.

Bladder: Located on the bottom of the foot near the instep, this pressure point can help the muscles around your uterus contract, which can in turn start uterine contractions.

Solar plexus: Located in the center of your foot sole, this point will help you relax and feel more balanced.

Ovaries and uterus: Located on your inner ankle, just below the malleolus (the bony part of the ankle that sticks out), this pressure point may be tender. This can jumpstart uterine contractions.
Do not attempt reflexology before you reach 38 weeks, which can put you at risk for preterm labor. Definitely do not try it in the first trimester of pregnancy, as it can put you at risk for a miscarriage., Inducing labor by ingesting castor oil happens by causing intestinal cramps and stimulating the bowels. By contracting intestinal and bowel muscles, you can cause uterine contractions. These methods will cause diarrhea, which can be extremely uncomfortable.Mix 2 ounces of castor oil in a glass of juice. Drink it all at once.
Alternately, you can try an in-home enema. However, use this method only once, and proceed with extreme caution. It can clear out your bowels and leave you quite dehydrated and uncomfortable.

