 To start making this easy booklet, grab an ordinary piece of 8 1/2 x 11" paper (the size used in most printers) and a pair of scissors. Fold the paper in half with a "hamburger" fold — in other words, your fold should make the paper shorter and fatter, not longer and skinnier.;
, Undo the fold you just made. Use a "hotdog" fold to fold the paper in half again the other way. Your piece of paper should be long and skinny after making this fold.
 Undo the fold you just made. Your paper should be divided into four equal quarters. If your folds aren't super sharp, take this opportunity to re-crease your folds before proceeding.
 Lay the paper sideways in front of you so that one of its long edges is facing you. Grab the right edge of the paper and fold it halfway across the paper so that the edge meets the center crease. Repeat for the other side. If done correctly, your folds should look like a set of double doors.
 Lay your piece of paper flat in front of you. It should now be folded into equal eighths. Once again, you'll want to take this opportunity to make sharp creases if any of your folds seem "weak" or shallow.
 Make the same hamburger (short and fat) fold as you did at the beginning. Next, grab a pair of scissors and make a straight cut along the crease that divides the paper horizontally. Stop at the midpoint of this crease.


To be perfectly clear, you want to make a cut from halfway up the folded side of the paper to the exact center of the paper. In other words, since your folded paper is divided into four quarters, your cut should go between the two quarters on the right side of the folded paper.
 Unfold the paper completely and lay it flat in front of you. Make the same hotdog-style (long and skinny) fold that you made near the beginning of the project. You should be folding along the cut you just made, which should be centered on the midpoint of the fold.
 Arrange your paper so that the folded edge with the cut in the middle is pointing up and the edges of the paper are facing down toward the floor or table. Carefully grab each end of the folded paper and push them together toward the center. The inside sections should fold outward in a rough diamond shape. Continue pushing until your diamond collapses and forms a cross shape. Strengthen any of the central creases as needed.
 You're nearly done! All you need to do is grab the left end of your folded paper and fold it across to the right end of the paper. The central folds should "accordion" to form eight pages, while the backsides of the outer sections should form the front and back covers. Press the left edge (the "spine") of your new booklet to make a strong crease.
 Now that you've made your new booklet, it's up to you to decide how to personalize it. Use any pens, markers, or other craft tools at your disposal to make your booklet uniquely your own! Below are just a few ideas for how you might want to decorate your new booklet:


Add flowery, old-fashioned trim work around the edges of the front and back covers.
Add page numbers and/or the booklet's title at the tops of each page.
Use stickers or glue-on decorations to give your booklet flair.
Keep things plain and dignified by simply writing your name and the title of the booklet on the front cover.

