 Fred Rogers (children's TV host) said that the beautiful thing about an imagination is that it allows you consider potential futures and then decide if that's a future that you want. Before you write your mission statement, take a few moments (or a few days) and really listen to those "whispers of the soul." If all potential restrictions were removed, what would you want in a romantic partner?;
, Remember the movie "Thelma and Louise"? Some of the best advice for romantic partners can be found in that movie. Thelma told Louise, "Remember, you get what you settle for." When you're imagining your potential future, think big. You'll have time and opportunity for minor course corrections later on.
 The large passenger airplanes that criss-cross our skies are guided by computers and satellites and other gee-whiz gadgets, but the fact is, they're off course 90% of the time. Constant minor course corrections and adjustments insure the planes end up precisely where they're supposed to be. Your mission statement is not going to be written in stone. Most likely, you'll revise it every month or even every day.
 "What is his best quality?" is a question that will make a wife beam with joy. What is it that you want in a man? What is it that you love most about your nearest and dearest friends? What are your own best qualities? Think about these qualities and then make a list of what you want in a romantic partner.
 Instead of saying, "I want a husband who earns $138,000 a year," you might say, "I want a spouse who has achieved some financial stability and demonstrates wisdom, patience and intelligence in all his financial affairs."

, Writing is a skill and an art form and the practice of writing will help solidify some of these ideas that have been taking up space on your mental hard drive. Writing is also a discipline and writing your ideas on paper will force you to hone them down a bit. Think of it as a mental housecleaning. You're taking everything out of your mental home and putting it in the front yard where you can see the bigger picture and make some choices about what to keep and what to ditch. The mission statement starts in your imagination. There are no limits. None. Proceed from that basis and do your fine tuning later on.
 Create a new file called, "Mission Statement" and label each file with a date. For instance, MSN_STMT_1.23.2010. This will help you keep track of revisions, and it's fun to go back a few weeks or months later, and look at the changes you've made.
 This is vital. Your mind is a powerful resource and this mission statement needs to be something that you see and read at least once a day. Prepare yourself to be changed. Dig into your mental garden and see if there are any impediments to your mission statement becoming your reality. For instance, are you envious of others? Stop. When you see a happy couple, ditch the envy and replace it with gratitude. Tell yourself, "If it happened for them, that's a sign that it'll happen for me too."

, You might have a column of "can't live with" and another column of "Can't live without."

, If you think you're not lovable, change the way you think about yourself. If you think *anyone* is too good for you, ask yourself why you're harboring such thoughts.
 Enjoy the process. You *can* get there from here, but you need a road map and a compass. The mission statement is both the map and the compass. It's a good starting point, that will get you where you need (and want) to be.

