 Read the label inside the jacket. The manufacturer will have provided specifications according to the type and grain of leather, and any important warnings. In most cases, the manufacturer will suggest a preferred cleaning method. It’s a good idea to stick to this in order to avoid ruining your jacket., No matter what kind of leather jacket you own, you should spray it periodically with a waterproofing agent. This seals the pores in the leather. Water will simply bead and roll off the leather, and the jacket will be no worse for wear.Ideally, you should waterproof a leather jacket as soon as you get it.
Wear a different jacket if the forecast calls for rain. Too much moisture can shorten the life of your leather jacket., Once a year or so, apply a leather conditioning cream to the entire outer surface of your jacket. Conditioning your jacket defends it from moisture, leaves it soft and flexible, and prevents cracking and splitting.You can also try giving it a good rub down with a bar of saddle soap. This may be too harsh for soft or thin leather, but will work like a charm on sturdy, rugged jackets., To avoid damaging them, do not clean jackets made of soft or textured leathers like lamb or suede at home. A qualified leather expert will have the knowledge and equipment to rid your jacket of even the most stubborn stains, and you won’t have to worry about tearing or shrinking the leather.Dry cleaning leather isn’t cheap, but under most circumstances you won’t need to have it done more than once a year or so.
Suede jackets can be kept clean by dusting them regularly with a hand brush.
 Keep your jacket laid out or draped on a hanger when you’re not wearing it. Put it in a cool, dry place. Clean and condition the jacket once a year. As long as you take good care of your leather jacket, it will stay in top condition for years and years, and may even outlast you.If you don’t wear your leather jacket very often, put it in a garment bag.
If your jacket is wrinkled from storage, place a towel over it and iron it on a medium heat, or hang it up in the bathroom with you when you take a hot shower. The heat and moisture will relax the wrinkles naturally.