 If your computer doesn’t have a Chrome browser yet, you can visit google.com/chrome to download it.
 Do this by clicking the blue “Sign In” button on the top right and entering your Google username, or email address, and password into the given boxes. Click “Sign in” to proceed.


If you don’t have a Google account, create one since you will be needing it to access your computer later.
 Chrome Remote Desktop is completely free to use; however, it runs as an extension of the Chrome browser. Chrome Remote Desktop runs both on Windows and Mac computers. You must install the Chrome Remote Desktop on all computers you’d like to control with your iPhone.


On the Chrome browser, open its Web Store and search for Chrome Remote Desktop.Click the “Add to Chrome” button, which is located near the top right of your computer screen, and then click “Add App” on the pop-up window.
 Launch Chrome Remote Desktop by clicking the green “Launch App” button near the upper right of your screen. Click the “Authorize” button at the lower part of the next pop-up window, and then click “Allow” on the following screen.


Click the “Get Started” button under the My Computers heading, and then click the “Enable Remote Connections” button.
Create a PIN of 6 digits or more. This will be used each time you log into your remote computer.
Click “Yes” on the popup window that asks if you want to allow this program to make changes to your computer.
Click “OK” to confirm that remote connections have been enabled.
 This step is the same as installing any other app on your iPhone. Open the App Store app, and search for Chrome Remote Desktop using the search bar. Click the “Get” button to the right of the app’s icon, then click “Install.”

, With Google Remote Desktop configured and installed on both your iPhone and all computers you’d like to control, it’s time to access those computers with your iPhone. You will be able to perform all computer functions as if sitting at your computer.Open the Chrome Remote Desktop app on your iPhone, and log into your Google account. Select any of the computers you configured for remote access; they will be listed by their computer name. Once you’ve selected a computer, enter its 6 digit PIN, then click “Connect.”
Now you can control your computer with your iPhone using touch commands.
Tap the command buttons at the top right of your screen. There are icons and buttons for a virtual mouse, a virtual keyboard, full screen mode, and Help & Feedback.
Access programs, files, and functions as if you are sitting in front of your computer.
Disconnect from the remote connection by clicking the X on the top left, and minimize the app on your iPhone by pressing the Home button when finished.

