 Although things changed in 2013 for the parade route, the newest parade route tends to be to march from the corner of 77th St and Central Park West to the southern edge of the park near Columbus Circle, then walk East to 6th Avenue/Avenue of the Americas and continue South to 34th Street, making an appearance at 42nd Street, and continuing on till they reach Herald Square and the big Macy's New York Headquarters area at 151 West 34th Street.The total length of the Macy's Parade Route is around 2.5-mile and it takes around 90 minutes for the parade to walk the this route., Hotels here are a little light, and where they exist, it's "mom and pop" hotels that you would never have guessed in a million years could have been a hotel to exist at the location. Bigger hotel chains do exist, but are a few blocks from most of the famous sites in New York City near the parade route including a Quality Inn within 10 blocks from New York's Penn Station train station and about 10-12 blocks from Macy's. You'll have to do a little more searching by Macy's address to find major hotel brands nearest the street address on the major hotel brands' websites to find spots to relax.
, There are masses of people that line the sidewalks along both sides of the parade route, and getting to there super-early is crucial to seeing the parade.


Don't pick a fight, if you don't get to your predetermined area at the same time as that of others that have reached to your spot first. Tensions always grow, and sometimes walking a few parade route light-poles down/up from your predetermined spot can help you achieve what you need to achieve to ensure that you get the same results as that of your predetermined spot the day before, before hair flies.
Don't look like you are lurking around just waiting for your spot to become free. If a police spots you, it's hard to explain to them what you are doing and explain that you were waiting for the parade to begin.
 Find out the forecast for the next day. End of November temperatures for New York City (borough of Manhattan) tend to be quite chilly, and sometimes even some snow begins to fall. Although few snowfalls tend to graduate to more than a general dusting (or half an inch in spots), it's crucial that you know what to expect during your few days of camping out.


Bundle up in several layers of warmth. Don't expect warm weather. Your time spent there will be super-chilly. Use at least 3 additional layers of jackets and sweaters as you would have otherwise used during other camping sessions. Dress children in 2 or more footed blanket sleepers along with 1-2 winter-weight jackets and at least one pair of "bib-style" snow pants.
 The parade lasts about 2-3 hours, but it's an exciting few hours that is well needed for most.


You'll know later, that it's over when you see Santa arrive on his annual float into the Square.
