 Set up your desk and office chair. A wall clock can help you stay on task and keep track of time. Tuck a couch or comfortable chair into a corner or along a wall of your attic to make your office more homey and so you’ll have a place to rest if you get tired.If you don’t have water in your attic, a mini-fridge stocked with water bottles or a water cooler will prevent you from running downstairs and up again when you’re thirsty.
The temperature of some attics can be finicky. You might want to have a fan and space heater in your office for when it’s too warm or cold.
 Shelves can be built into the walls of your attic to give you plenty of storage for your library. If that sounds like too much trouble, many kinds of shelves can be bought at general retailers or furniture stores. Bookshelves can be made to fit your attic if you have an especially large collection.


Books are sensitive to humidity. You might want to buy and keep a dehumidifier in your library to prevent damage.
Include a comfortable armchair and a reading lamp to make your library into a reading room as well., If your attic receives good light, this can be an excellent space for a painting or photography studio. Since attics are usually somewhat isolated from the rest of the house, yours might be suited to being used as a music studio.Painting and photography supplies can be stored along a low part of the attic ceiling or in a corner. Arrange your work area in the spot with the best light.
If you intend on using the space for making music, you might want to improve sound insulation with things like thick carpets and wall hangings., Even if you don’t have any fancy plans for your attic, using it as extra storage space can be a lifesaver. Freestanding racks can be bought from most general retailers to make your attic into a closet space. Install adhesive hooks or wall hangers for hanging articles of clothing.


Bedrooms are often on higher floors. If one of these rooms is cramped, you might keep large items, like a dresser, in the attic. This way, there’ll be more space in the cramped room.