 Walk to the beat of your own drum, don't let people walk all over you and don't be afraid to fly solo sometimes. Cats don't need posses. They need friends but not groupies. If you want to take a class or go somewhere (perhaps an art exhibit, or musical) but your friends don't, then take the chance to have some alone time, or learn to say no to the popular crowd, or learn to walk down the hall alone without feeling at all insecure. Don't worry about what anyone else is doing. You don't have to be part of the in crowd to be popular, and you don't have to be popular to be cat like.;
, If you are blessed with a pool there are pool toys that run around the bottom so you can enjoy the eye, stalk, chase, pounce, kill rush. Or, if you're cursed with flies in your house, hunt them down and pounce with the wrath of your fly swatter in hand; it truly is more fun than it should be. You can even take small stuffed animals and have somebody hide them around the house and hunt for them that way. Allow yourself to think "I am fierce. I am the tigress!" Find a way to enjoy the instinct to kill and catch.
 Cats spend many hours a day grooming themselves so they look as stunning as they can. So take pride in your appearance and care for it: Steam your face over hot water (lean over a sink full of hot water and drape a towel over your head for a sauna effect), wash it with a cleanser for your skin type, then pat dry and apply lotion twice a day. Brush your teeth, clean your tongue, floss, and rinse with minty mouthwash after every meal and before bed. Brush and style your hair every morning. Pumice down your heels, and lotion your entire body twice daily. Always have a clean shave, dandruff free hair, deodorant on, and clean your ears. Shave your legs and armpits, wash your hair every other day, apply conditioner daily, apply a nice perfume, and take a (quick) shower every morning.
 Use a strengthening nail polish base coat and raise your calcium intake. Paint them a nude, light pink or brown and add french tips for good measure. Make sure they are always clean and file them when necessary. Grow them long like claws but not so long you can't hold a pencil normally. If you are cursed with short nails, you can be a de-clawed cat.
 (If you didn't catch that joke: female cats are called queens.)Wake up each morning with yoga (cats usually stretch when they wake up!) using some good yoga DVDs that increase flexibility, beauty, and energy. Do yoga for 20 minutes. Then follow it up with a 15 minute morning jog. Learn to breathe deeply without panting like a dog while you jog, but don't overdo it. The yoga should help with this. Also, when you jog step very lightly, as you should not be heard. It will take some practice. Once you come home drink plenty of water and enjoy a lean breakfast. ABSOLUTELY NO: white bread toast (breaks down into sugars too easily), bacon (too fatty, not enough protein), bagels (high calorie carbs, bloating, especially with cream cheese!), or breakfast sandwiches (crap stacked between white bread! NO!). Instead have an omelet with a small amount of low fat cheese and maybe some light yogurt or fruit. (Excellent source of protein and calcium!) Then groom yourself for the day.
 Cats eat lots of meat and fish, so try to have some with every meal. Also, they eat vegetables that are in their cat food, so eat those too. Cats love milk. But, you also need some fruits and vegetables. Cats don't naturally eat wheat so stay away from it as much as you can. Make sure to have some of each food group in every meal you eat. Eat 3 meals and 1 snack daily. Never eat too much and never eat too little.
 Take ballet classes a few to several times a week, take pilates, do yoga, run track, archery, fencing, hunting, dancing, martial arts, or just go to the gym! Make sure to do at least two of these activities, but you can do others. You need to learn at least some moves in martial arts, the basics of fencing, running fast, doing yoga and pilates at home with DVDs, some basic dance moves, and exercise daily.
 Some think cats show no emotions but you can tell their emotion by their body language and the tone in their meow some say their cats meows differently when they want food than they do when they want to play or go outside. Express your emotions through tone of voice and body language.
 If you hide something from a cat and it doesn't know about it it's quite easy to stop it from getting it. If a cat figures out it likes something and decides to get it, It's almost impossible. They are NOT lazy! They will work for what they want! So find the dream and live it!

, Stretch, flop over, and relax anywhere you like. Even fall asleep. But, don't fall asleep at school. Cats are extremely smart and would get straight A's.

