 Another way to set limits for your dog is to place physical boundaries. This helps the dog see that there are places it cannot get to. Some dogs may eventually learn not to go past the barriers even when you remove them, but many dogs will see no boundary as a free pass into the restricted part of the house.For example, you can place baby gates, chairs, or other barriers in front of doors or stairs so your dog can’t enter those places. You may also just close doors to rooms the dog is not allowed in.
Some dogs may be able to jump over barriers or push them over. In this case, using multiple barriers or buying a higher barrier may help.
 Another method for placing limits on where your dog goes is with an electronic collar. This collar will give a small electric pulse to the dog if it goes into an area that is off-limits. This method works inside the house and out in the yard. Your dog will need to be trained in this type of system so there are clear expectations of his behavior. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions on the system to ensure safe use.This system uses warning sounds like beeps when the dog gets close to the limit. If the dog starts to cross the boundary line, the collar will give it a small electric pulse.
 Another way to enforce the limits you are placing on your dog is to use loud noises to correct unwanted behaviors. When the dog does the unwanted behavior, do something that will cause a loud noise. Try to make the dog not see you. This helps the dog associate the noise with the unwanted action instead of you.For example, you can use a can filled with coins or marbles. When the dog does something you don’t want it to do, like jump on the couch or venture into a room, you can shake the can, creating a loud noise. You may also toss the can near the dog without touching it. This scares the dog so it doesn’t do the behavior.
If you cannot do this without your dog seeing you, do not do it. You want the dog to have fear of the action, like getting on the couch, and not you.
 Even if your new dog is house-trained, you should treat it as if it is not when you bring it home. Put your dog on a leash and show it where it can eliminate outside the house. You can take it to this area first thing in the morning, before bed, and 15 to 30 minutes after each meal.You may need to keep your dog on a leash when it is with you in the house until you are positive it won’t potty in the house. Never leave a dog on a leash unattended. #*If you cannot be around your dog, place it in a crate or confine it to a room. Be sure to crate train your dog and familiarize it with the crate before using this method. A frightened dog can injure itself in a crate if it is not used to being confined.
 To help make the transition smoother for you and your dog, you should take your dog to a trainer to learn basic commands. This helps your dog learn to obey your commands so if you say “Stay” or “Sit,” it will be able to obey you.Basic commands and obedience helps you be able to reinforce the limits you set with your dog. You can use treats or affection to reinforce the behavior you desire until your dog has mastered the new skill.

