 Surely, the most simple thing. You need to know what's coming in order to know how to react to it. Knowing when it is will help you set your pace and even save a lot of panic!;
, Collect all the notes you need (or think you need) and organise them neatly, according to subject and maybe even by topic. This will save you a lot of time and trouble. No excuses to run around looking for missing notes. Get them ready before the next step.
 Know your exam schedule well. Study first the subjects that you're not very good at, take a lot of time, or are nearing. This also depends on how much time you have. If time is on your side, great. Pace yourself and conquer subject by subject. But if time is not on your side, go through the important parts and think summary!

, Sit down on a chair. Make sure you have good lighting. Fluorescent light flickers, although you don't notice it: it makes your eyes tired faster. Have a good table light by your side. Occasionally, get up and stretch, have a glass of water and take a toilet break. Your body has an optimum hour. For some, it's in the morning, afternoon or even night. Whatever it is, make use of the time to absorb as much as you can.
 Sometimes people find that mind mapping helps them have a clearer view of the topic they are studying. However if you find this a hassle, you can take notes. Post-it notes can be useful in highlighting certain sections of an article you find useful or important.
 It does work. Take in some fresh air but don't spend an eternity outside! Your mind needs a break as well. Pushing in too much won't work either.
 Although your optimum study time might be at night, it won't work if you're up till the early hours of the morning studying as well. Set a time and tell yourself that after a certain hour, you need to go to bed. Don't overdo things. Make sure you finish what you're supposed to finish e.g. homework in the afternoon before you study.
 For example, for every hour take ten minutes. After your break, make sure you study and don't slack off as the momentum has to keep going.
 Do old exam papers and then repeat them as most exams only change the words but the answers are very similar, so you may have a glimpse of what is coming in the exam and you don't need to panic if you see a difficult question - you've already done it before!

, Always ask because the information that the teachers give you will definitely help you.
 Every day, study a new section of it and write summaries at the end.
 If you don't want to write them out, you can always use flashcards on different websites. www.dictionary.com has flashcards on different topics and you can also make your own. Cue cards may also help for last-minute revision.
 If you don't, then you will not know what the teacher is talking about and you can't study/revise when you go home. Some teachers will give extra information that might be in your examination, and if you miss it, you might not earn a good grade in the exams.
 They must be willing and able. You can ask teachers, parents or a school counsellor, as long as they are willing to help.
 Leave your phone or any devices away from you to avoid distractions like text messages, email, etc.

