 Be proactive about who you can be and are. The less you have to prove yourself to others, the more you can honor God. When you experience conflict with others, own your responsibilities. Knowing your faults and accepting them will also allow you to learn from your mistakes and grow. This kind of behavior helps build strong social bonds For example, if your friend is angry at you for being late, do not become defensive. Tell them, "I apologize, I want to become more mindful of my time."
Seeing and owning your problems can make them seem less fearful and more possible to overcome. This positive attitude can help you make positive changes in your habits.
 Accept and do not dwell on your or another's mistake, but concentrate on specific things you can do to give God's saving grace and be improving lives in concrete ways, as much as you have opportunity.
 Armor yourself with kindness, rightness, humility, grace and peace, not tricking or cheating but loving others advancement and their good marks. Worrying about oneself less, makes one better able to be more connected with others. Putting off the self for the others benefit and not demanding perfection from yourself, either, honors God's through serving his creation. , Gratitude creates a sense that you have benefited from other people and from things they do and say. When you become more aware of your own dependence on the people. Thank people and accept their importance and share all the hope, peace and other resources that you have, the more you will be able to realize that it is not all about you.


Keep a gratitude journal; this practice can improve your psychological well being. Write down at least three things that you are thankful for. And do your gratitude writing on the daily. , When you are free from being center of attention, you can work to empower others, denying yourself some prerogatives/perks. Strengthening others creates a stronger community better able to work toward a common good. You can become a powerful leader when you know how to effectively build up others sense of achievement.


Some of the most impactful people who have lived have been spiritual leaders, for example Buddha, Gandhi, Jesus Christ, Martin Luther King and Muhammad.
 Acting entitled means that one indicates he or she should get certain things for doing well. Feeling as if deserving of things but not getting them, one will end up being resentful or bitter. It is difficult to have a good attitude and love others while bitter, because of being stuck thinking about things one doesn't have.


If you don't feel like you are owed things, then you can work more freely for others without expecting things in return.
 Do not worry about your failures but make them temporary and continue your achievements immediately. Instead of grooming and sharing irritations, aim at working well and worrying less about yourself. So, concentrate more on the bigger-picture and assisting one another, through service -- and worship God by service to the common or poor people. , Often people who are humble are more tolerant of others. Humble people do not need to be aggressive or defensive about their beliefs. Being patient and listening to other beliefs and ideas, even when you experience hardships can honor God by peace and kindness. This will allow you to grow stronger and learn more about God and yourself.



Get out of the way of the work of God by working for voluntary community including through individual efforts and in groups such as at places of worship.



Honor God by rewarding good faith and goodwill by graciousness and sincere condolences in grief and congratulations in good times.
Honor God by giving credit to other people, by accepting who and what they are and can offer, enjoying time spent with others in fellowship.

