 You’ll be able to spot lawn weeds if you notice flowers (especially dandelions) growing out of your lawn. You might also see the lawn has slightly inconsistent patches where the color or texture looks different than the rest of the lawn.


Both of these appearances suggest that weeds are growing.
Keep in mind that it is easier to spot weeds if the lawn hasn’t been mowed recently.
 If you decide to use a chemical weed killer, summer is the best time to apply it to your lawn as this is the main growing season for weeds.Try to avoid applying weedkiller right at the end of summer as weeds may be going dormant and it may be less effective.
You may need to apply weed killer once in early summer and once later in the summer.
 When you choose a branded weed killer, consider choosing a ‘weed and feed’ lawn treatment that both fights weeds and nourishes your lawn.


Alternately you can try targeting the individual weeds you spot. This targeted weed killer usually comes in a spray or gel form.
 Using a spray bottle can make applying weed killer more efficient. In particular, using a spray bottle works well when you are only spraying patches weeds on your lawn.


If the spray bottle nozzle is too wide, roll a piece of cardstock around the nozzle. The cardstock will create a funnel that will keep the spray from getting all over your lawn.
 If using a targeted weed killer, make the job easier for yourself by applying it when the lawn hasn’t been mowed in a while. Doing this will help you to spot the problem areas, as weeds are easier to see when the lawn has been allowed to grow out a bit.


At the same time, try to avoid mowing right after you have spread your weedkiller. Wait a day or two to allow the weed killer to spread through the entire weed.
 Before applying your weed killer, you can consider feeding your lawn and then holding off on moving for two weeks. The lawn fertilizer will help the weeds to grow, which in turn will make it easier for you to spot them and kill them.
 Try to apply a weed killing chemical when the soil isn’t too dry. Consider applying the weedkiller a few days after a rainfall.


Likewise, try to avoid spraying weed killer on your lawn if it is supposed to rain that day or the following day.
 Two applications of feed or weed killing chemical per year should suffice.


Try to avoid feeding your lawn or using weed killer during the first year after you have laid your new lawn.
 If you prefer to avoid using chemicals then you can try digging weeds. To do this, you can use a variety of tools, including a hori hori blade or a weed puller.

