 When your vet diagnoses your dog with kidney disease, they will talk with you about dietary options for your dog. Commercial dog food formulated specifically for dogs with kidney disease are available.You could also prepare a homemade diet for your dog.


Feeding a homemade diet requires a large time commitment and careful attention to nutrient balance. If you would like to make a homemade diet, work with your vet or a veterinary nutritionist to develop the diet.Ask your vet questions about your dog’s new diet: What nutrients will my dog need? Will my dog need to eat less food? Which brands of dog food should I consider? Will this diet be the only food my dog can eat?;
, Restricting protein is key to feeding an older dog with kidney disease. Feeding less protein will keep the kidneys from working so hard.Look for diets that have a high-quality protein source, such as chicken.Kidney diets usually have about 1/3 to 1/2 less protein than normal dog diets.Low-protein diets tend to be less flavorful and more expensive than normal dog diets.Severe protein restriction can lead to other health complications, such as protein malnutrition, and make your dog feel worse.Your vet can advise you on how much protein your dog will need.
Low-protein commercial diets also contain other important nutrients, including fats, carbohydrates, and vitamins and minerals.
 Your dog, and its kidneys, will need time to adjust to the new diet. Transition your dog to the new diet over at least one to two weeks.Start by mixing in a small amount of the new diet with the old diet.


Every few days, increase the amount of new diet until your dog is eating only the new diet.
 Your dog may not be thrilled with the low-protein diet. However, your dog will need to eat the diet so it gets all the nutrients it needs. If your dog doesn’t like one low-protein diet, try feeding it a different one.You can also try a few other strategies to encourage eating:Serve several small meals a day, rather than two large meals.
Warm the food in the microwave to make the food smell better.
Add some tasty food, such as a small dollop of cottage cheese or yogurt, on top of the diet.
If nothing works, talk to your vet about giving your dog an appetite stimulant.
 If your dog stops eating, or starts eating less, contact your vet right away. Your vet may need to place a feeding tube in your dog, which will allow your dog to receive nutrients directly into its gastrointestinal (GI) tract.Kidney disease can cause digestive upset (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea) that will make a dog not feel like eating., When your dog eats a low-protein diet, your vet will need to keep a close watch on your dog’s blood protein levels.If your dog’s blood protein levels are too low, the protein restriction may be too severe. If they’re too high, you may need to feed your dog a diet containing even less protein.
 Certain minerals (phosphorus, sodium, potassium, calcium) need to be kept at proper levels to slow kidney disease progression in older dogs. Excess phosphorus can cause other health problems, so phosphorus restriction is important in a kidney disease diet. Phosphate binders ‘trap’ phosphorus in the GI tract, preventing absorption.Commercial kidney diets usually contain reduced amounts of phosphorus.Your vet will monitor your dog’s phosphorus levels and let you know if your dog needs a phosphate binder.
 Too much sodium can be bad for the kidneys, especially when they are already damaged. Commercial kidney diets are low in sodium.Sodium shouldn’t be restricted too much, though, since too little sodium can lead to dehydration, which can worsen your dog’s kidney disease.Do not feed your dog table scraps, because they can be high in sodium., Potassium levels are usually low in older dogs with kidney disease, in part because a lot of potassium is lost through the urine.If your dog’s potassium levels are too low, your vet will recommend giving your dog a potassium supplement.Low potassium is more common in cats with kidney disease than dogs with the disease., In older dogs with kidney disease, calcium levels can change in response to changes in phosphorus levels. Calcium levels can increase, decrease, or stay the same. Your vet will keep a close watch on your dog’s calcium levels and determine if you need to make any dietary adjustments for your dog.Calcitriol has been recommended as a calcium supplement for dogs with kidney disease. However, there is no consensus among veterinarians that calcitriol is beneficial for dogs with this disease., Because dogs with kidney disease urinate more often, they can lose a lot of vitamins B and C in their urine. Fortunately, commercial kidney diets contain extra amounts of these vitamins.However, if your dog is not eating very well, it may need vitamin supplements.Talk with your vet to determine if your dog needs vitamin supplements.
 As your dog’s kidney disease progresses, its nutritional needs will change.By monitoring your dog’s blood work over time, your vet will be able to determine if any nutrient levels are too high or too low and recommend necessary dietary changes.


Monitoring blood work is very important if you are feeding your dog a homemade diet.
 In addition to feeding your dog a good diet, you will also need to keep it well hydrated. Adequate hydration is essential to caring for an older dog with kidney disease. Give your dog a constant supply of fresh, clean water.As your dog's kidney disease progresses, your dog may be unable to drink enough water on its own to stay hydrated. At this point, you may need give your dog subcutaneous fluids, which are injected under the skin., Kidney disease can make a dog feel so sick that it doesn’t want to drink. However, dehydration can worsen kidney disease. To encourage your dog to drink, give it some flavored broth. Before doing this, talk with your vet so you can choose a broth that’s low in sodium and doesn’t contain ingredients that would be hard on your dog’s kidneys., Sometimes, a dog with kidney disease will stand in front of its water bowl, but not drink any water.If you notice your dog is drinking less water, or not drinking any water, contact your vet. Your vet will likely recommend giving your dog subcutaneous fluids.

