 After giving birth, your hemorrhoids often resolve using home care treatments; however, if you experience severe pain or notice more than just a few drops of blood from the area, see your physician immediately. You may believe that your hemorrhoid is bleeding, but the blood may originate from bleeding inside the colon, which is a symptom of another, more serious condition such as colon cancer.


It is also necessary to figure out if the blood might be coming from the uterus after delivering your baby. If you are having difficulty distinguishing this, place a maternity pad against your vagina and a towelette at the anus. If there is more than just a few drops of blood from the hemorrhoid, talk to your physician. , A complication that arises from having hemorrhoids that chronically bleeds is anemia. Although rare, chronic blood loss will cause not enough blood to transport oxygen to the cells. You will then develop fatigue and a strain on the heart muscle. If you experience chronic fatigue not related to lack of sleep, talk to your doctor about blood testing to check the oxygen carrying capacity of your blood.


You may also experience some mild anemia following the birth of your baby. This is due to the discharges of the blood and tissue from the uterus., A strangulated hemorrhoid is formed when the blood supply to the hemorrhoid has been cut off. It can cause extreme pain, ulceration, tissue death, or gangrene. This is a medical emergency and requires immediate medical care. You doctor will have to re-establish the blood supply to the area to prevent infection in the dead tissue. , A hemorrhoid can also develop a clot inside the vein. This causes extreme pain and is typically excruciating. When this happens, you have a thrombosed hemorrhoid. See you doctor immediately for treatment of the clot. It may need to be surgically removed or withdrawn from the vein in an out-patient procedure.


Your physician can also help you control the pain and prevent of further complications.