 During your ceremony, support and comfort are more important that sexiness. The last thing you need on your big day is to worry about sagging or falling out of your gown, and you probably want to avoid wires that stab into your side or lace that chafes your breasts.;
, Look for seamless bras, especially if you have a gown made of lightweight fabric. You might be able to get away with a standard bra if your gown is made of heavier material, but you must make sure that no straps or other lines show through.
 Not many gowns have a convenient neckline that works with a standard t-shirt bra. Find a bra specifically designed to work with your neckline.


Choose a strapless bra or bandeau if you have a strapless gown. A strapless bra offers minimal support, while a bandeau offers plenty of support but may flatten your chest some.
Look for a backless bra that hooks at the waist if you have a backless gown.
Try stick cups if you have a smaller chest. These cups adhere to your skin, offer basic support and coverage. They do lack the same sort of support an actual bra would provide, however, so they are not recommended for women who are heavily endowed.
 If you buy your bridal bra before your gown, look for a convertible bra with adjustable straps. Basic convertible bras may convert into strapless bras or crisscross backs, but more advanced convertibles can be turned into halters, backless, t-shaped, and more.
 A good push-up bra can enhance your bust without looking too unnatural. Bras with cotton, gel, or water-filled pads can also create extra cleavage. Make sure whatever you choose looks and feels natural.
 Ribbons, lace, and other seductive details may ruin your smooth silhouette during the ceremony. Save these details for when you and your new husband can enjoy each other privately.
 Lace can be a sultry feature to have for your wedding night. A bra with a few scallops of lace along the border creates a sweet appeal, but a full lace bra that allows your skin to show through looks more naughty than nice.
 Match the color of your bra to the color of your skin or the color of the dress. Otherwise, it may show through the fabric.
 Once you no longer need to worry about the gown or the crowd, feel free to expand your color choices. White or ivory have sweet, traditional appeal, while black looks ultra-sexy. Pastel colors can also create a demure look for your new husband to enjoy, while bolder colors can look a little more powerful.

