 Build up your confidence by going on day trips or weekend trips before you attempt a longer trip. Drive over to a nearby town for a picnic, or take the bus to a city several hours away.A big trip will be less stressful when you’re already used to going new places.
Be sure to work with your therapist to get back to traveling as soon as possible after a traumatic event. Avoiding travel for too long can make it harder to do in the future.
 If crowds make your PTSD symptoms worse, avoid them by traveling during the off season. You’ll have a calmer experience, and you might save money as well.Another stress-reducing benefit of traveling off-peak is that hotels are usually not full, so if something goes wrong with your reservation, you can easily find another place to stay.
If you are traveling to a popular tourist destination, such as a theme park, then you can call and ask about their seasonal traffic. The city’s chamber of commerce may also have this information available.
 If you’re traveling in the U.S., you can submit a TSA notification card to let security staff know you have PTSD. You can also request a private security screening.Many airlines will let passengers with PTSD pre-board the plane to reduce anxiety. If you want to pre-board, ask your airline in advance.
Keep in mind that people with PTSD also qualify to bring emotional support animals with them on flights. See the National Service Animal Registry for more information: https://www.nsarco.com/


, Get at least eight hours of sleep every night, and make time every day to do something quiet and relaxing. Avoid wearing yourself out, even if you’re enjoying your destination.A few travel-friendly ways to relax include meditating, listening to music, and writing in a journal.
 Carry a small item that reminds you of safety or home, and hold it when you start to feel anxious. Alternatively, bring a comfortable article of clothing like a sweater that helps you feel secure., Taking a guided tour is usually easier and less stressful than trying to plan a sightseeing tour yourself. Look for a tour group or a sightseeing bus that will let you enjoy the highlights of your destination without getting overwhelmed by the details.