 You can use a chair and many work better with the use of one, however the height is important, as is how far away the Kasina is. This is relative, but choose a chair that is fairly low and will not strain the neck and the kasina should be close enough to be able to focus firmly on it, so neither too close nor too far.
 You can use any word that appeals or feels relevant, but English only has limited words for things like light, the colours, water etc.


Repeating its characteristic helps focus solely on the subject rather than getting distracted with thoughts.
 Problematically for many is that the image most often appears when we aren't paying it too much attention, such as when in day to day life we're gazing into space a shadow image just happens. People who have been good at hidden picture puzzles or other optical puzzles have a head start as they are already familiar with persistent focus.


Eventually an image will arise from it, it might appear floating in front of the disc, or be the reverse image of it. It might move, or it might be still. This can take some time so it is best not to practice this style of meditation if you cannot dedicate some real time to it. Common history tells the story of a man who spent 40 days in the desert and developed the earth kasina and some monks spend many months on the subject. It might not happen immediately or quickly, so giving fair time is important to find out and to develop what does arise.






Refrain from forcing it to do something, or trying to change it as that becomes the new focus of attention, not the kasina you've been studying. They arise easier if you don't try to make it happen but just relax into it. This is why they happen on their own sometimes in day to day life.
 Select a comfortable posture and the Do Mindful Meditation page has a look at the four styles to help you select one, although sitting, standing or reclining are the best types. Observe the counterpart image once it is visible (sometimes you will need the eyes shut, sometimes you don't). It depends how well you focused on the original to how well it stays. Sometimes the image might last a few seconds, or a minute, or a fair while. If it fades away, go back and focus on the original again until the symbol appears again.
When the image arises, avoid speaking to other people, or using words mentally as that's the easiest way to make the image go away. Its recommended you protect the image as something most precious and to observe it silently with word-less awareness.
 Develop it, enrich it, make it your total focus of attention which does require gentle but consistent and persistent concentration. Some images you can enlarge, some won't - it depends on the type and the person.


Let everything fade away so there is just the image and relax into it. Eventually the mind becomes fully absorbed into the image, which you can then use to develop insight.

