 This will be one of the first questions a veterinary insurance company will ask. They will not accept an answer of "somewhere around 8 or 9" for example. If you don't know the exact birth date, then come up with the closest date you can.


Owners with pets that have been rescued from shelters or rescue groups may not have accurate information about their pet’s age. Using the information that you do have, you can ask your veterinarian to give their expert opinion on your dog’s age.;
, This is especially important if your pet has a pre-existing or chronic condition. Some pet insurance companies will not cover pre-existing conditions, which may limit your selection of policies. Policies may or may not cover chronic illnesses, like diabetes or allergies. Talk to your veterinarian and ask for copies of your dog’s medical records so you can send a copy to the pet insurance company.


There are some policies that do cover chronic, congenital, or hereditary conditions. The policy may or may not cover these conditions after your dog is diagnosed if they consider these to be pre-existing conditions. Be sure to check with the insurance company to make sure you know exactly what is and isn't covered., Age is going to be your primary concern when looking at policies. When you identify plans that either have no age restriction, or those that have a limit that your pet falls under, there still may be other restrictions in place. Some insurance companies will not cover certain breeds or charge higher premiums. Pre-existing conditions will also be a considerable concern.


No pet insurance company will cover a pre-existing condition. However, some may cover a percentage of treatment costs, although this is increasingly rare.The breed of your senior dog will matter as well. Mutts, or mixed breed, dogs are generally the cheapest to cover. Large breeds, like Great Danes, short nosed dogs, like a pug, and purebred dogs are more expensive to cover., Full coverage plans cover preventative care, routine care, and treatments for accidents and injuries. Accident and injury plans, as the name suggests, only cover treatment and procedure costs for accidents and injuries.These policies do not cover routine care, or costs associated with illnesses and diseases.


Pet insurance companies that only offer accident and injury plans to senior pets are more likely to not have age restrictions. However, your dog will likely be diagnosed with a chronic condition as they age and these plans will not cover those expenses., Get quotes from at least 3 different companies, and compare the benefits that each offers. Many pet insurance companies will offer quotes online, but you will receive a more individualized quote when you request it in writing. Request as many quotes as you’d like, but try to gather at least three so you can compare the policies on a wider scale.
 After a certain amount of money, the pet insurance company will not reimburse you for medical costs. This could either be a per-incident limit, or a lifetime limit. Your limits will be determined by the amount you pay each year in premiums. The higher your premium, the higher your limit will be. These may also be called maximum payouts in your quotes.


Say your policy limit is $2,000. If this is a per-incident limit, you will continue to be reimbursed for your dog’s medical expenses as long as treatment costs for each specific illness or injury do not exceed $2,000. If you have a lifetime limit, this is the maximum amount of money that the insurance company will pay out during your dog’s lifetime., Senior dogs are at higher risks for diseases and illnesses as they age. Many congenital and hereditary conditions only begin to manifest as a dog ages, and some diseases, like cancer, are much more prevalent in senior pets than young dogs. By comparing the size of your policy limit to the average costs of some common treatments, you can better assess the policy limit.


Average claims for renal failure procedures, which are related to kidney conditions, cost around $500. Cancer treatments cost upwards of $700 for treatment procedures., While many pet insurance providers do not have networks, which means you can see any veterinarian you choose, others require that veterinarians accept their policies.This may or may not apply to your case, and will depend upon the companies you are comparing.


If the policies you are comparing do have networks, speak with your veterinarian to see if they accept this insurance. If they do not, you can look for a different policy.
 For example, the insurance policy may require that your dog be seen for an annual health exam, or require that your dog is current on all vaccinations, or seen by a vet within the first 30 days that your policy is effective. If you don't fulfill what the policy requires it could render your policy invalid and benefits may not be paid.


Make sure you read and understand each part of the policy. Failure to do so may result in a lapse of coverage, or your claims being denied.
 The deductible is the amount of money you will pay out of pocket for veterinarian visits, exams and procedures. Once you reach your deductible, the pet insurance company will begin to reimburse all, or a portion, of your bill. So if you have a $500 deductible, you will pay for $500 of the veterinary bills during the year, but as soon as your bills become higher, like $1,000, the insurance company will begin to reimburse you.Lower deductibles are ideal, as long as there are comparable scopes of coverage.
 The premium is the amount that you will pay for the policy. You will pay either monthly, quarterly, or annually. Some pet insurance companies offer different premium levels that correspond to different deductibles. Generally, the higher your premium is, the lower your deductible will be.If you fail to pay your premium, your policy will expire and your coverage will lapse.
 Unlike with human insurance, where the doctor’s office bills the insurance company directly, you will pay out of pocket for any veterinarian care. After you have paid out of pocket, you will submit a claim to the pet insurance company. They will either deny your claim, or issue you a reimbursement. Depending on your policy, they may cover anywhere from 25% to 100% of the bill.Ask the pet insurance company what the average claim response time is. You don’t want to be stuck with an ongoing claim for months without receiving reimbursement. You can also search online for reviews about the company’s customer service.
Different pet insurance companies will have slightly different claims procedures, like requiring an online form or a copy of the veterinarian’s notes.

