 Minimizing bras are specialty bras which specifically add no bulk. They help a little and may be enough for your purposes, especially if you're just wanting to fit into particular clothes. Sports bras, however, not only provide support but also flatten your chest. These originally served the purpose of stopping breasts from moving during exercise, causing pain. If large, painful movements are a concern (for both physical and superficial reasons), sports bras may be the solution for you.;
, You probably have heard of Spanx or other shapers. These are items you wear under your clothes that suck everything in. You can buy ones which cover all sorts of different areas of your body but for you, one which covers the chest will be the most helpful. You might find these sold online under the word shaper or chest binder, but they will usually both be roughly the same thing.
 If you're desperate and none of the other options have worked for you, you can use chest binding as a temporary solution and last ditch effort. It only is really helpful for those with breasts in the US C-DD cup range, but you can use it outside of the range as well. Keep in mind that this may not be comfortable but it will get the job done if you just want to have some nice pictures taken or fit into a special dress.
 You can buy good, safe binders from many different sources online. Make sure any binder you wear is safe and will not cause any physical problems. Only bind with a specialized binder, do not use Ace bandages or any similar product. Ace bandages are meant to compress, and can cause breathing problems, bruises, rib fractures, or otherwise damage breasts if when worn for frequent and extended periods of time.
 Wearing baggy clothes will only make you look larger all over and increase the problem. Wear clothes that aren’t tight, but fitted, and cover the breasts entirely to look good without attracting excessive attention. You'll want to do the same with your bra. Just wearing a bra that fits makes a huge difference in how your breasts feel.
 Avoid cowl-neck sweaters and shirts, turtle neck shirts and sweaters, tops with puckers or gathers around the chest, ruffle-front shirts, and any other items which add volume to your chest. These will only make your chest look bigger. Instead, wear tops which are very minimal around the breasts.
 This naturally attracts the line of vision downward, leading eyes away from your breasts. For example, wear a black fitted tee shirt and a teal jersey skirt. Or wear a navy blue blouse and bright white pants.
 If you want to naturally make your body look more balanced and draw attention away from your breasts, draw attention to your hips instead. Use pants with horizontal lines and full circle shirts to create the illusion of more volume in your hips, while also wearing tops that are plain and do not add bulk. This will make your breasts look smaller.

