 Nothing looks worse in a bedroom than a messy bed! So before you start anything else, make your bed. It's simple and easy: pull up your covers, straighten them out, and fluff your pillows. If you have teddy bears or stuffed animals, lay them outside by side on the end of your bed. Voila, your room is that much closer to becoming clean, with just one easy step!;
, If you have any area rugs that can be picked up, take them outside and brush them off. Otherwise, vacuum the rugs to keep them clean.
 These are the hooks behind your door or on your closet filled with clothes!


Take all your clothes off of the hook.
Pick the clothes you are going to wear as pajamas tonight and the clothes you are going to wear for tomorrow, and place those clothes back on the hook. Those should be the only things you should leave on the hooks.
Take all of the other clothes that were on the hooks and sort them. The dirty clothes should be placed in the hamper for cleaning and the clean clothes should be folded and placed in your closet or drawers. Get rid of any old clothes that you don't like or fit. This will give your closet a more tidier look.
 Most kids rooms are overdone with maps, posters, and pictures! The walls and doors become overcrowded and the posters deteriorate over time. Some of the tape may be peeling off, posters may be overlapping, and the pictures may be outdated.


Decide whether or not you need the posters and pictures.
Take all of your posters down and throw the tape in the garbage.
If you want to keep your posters, roll em up and store them away. If you want to keep them up on your walls, fix the posters as needed to get rid of tears or rips and place them back on the wall with new tape.
Otherwise, throw them in the trash.
 Cleaning out your closet can be a difficult process but is one that must be done.


Remove any clothes that are on the floors. Fold them up and place them in a drawer or on a shelf. Alternatively, place them on a hanger and hang them in your closet.
If you have toys, board games, notebooks, and other accessories in your closet, gather them up. Place all of the objects in groups based on their function (all of the games together, all of the toys together) and find a specific spot for them. Not only will the closet look less cluttered, you will also be able to find things you need at any time!
One more thing: never put junk in the closet as a quick way to put it away!

, Are there candy wrappers, pieces of paper, small knickknacks, or food scattered throughout the desk and dressers? Clean those up!


Throw any candy wrappers, used paper and notes, and anything you no longer want in the garbage.
If you find anything important, place it in a safe spot where you won't forget it!
Any knickknacks that you find should be placed in one box that is easy to access.
If you find any old food or drinks, throw them away. They may no longer be safe to eat or drink.
 Many rooms have a small pile of junk that needs to be cleaned up but it seems like it will take forever. It can actually be simple to organize!


For girls:

Sort through the large group of objects and sort them.
Create sections in your room for the objects you find: hair accessories, knickknacks, notebooks, and so on.
Find a proper place for each section of objects that your grouped. Anything left over should be put in their own space.


For boys:

Follow the steps above for the girls, but instead of organizing your hair accessories, group any similar objects that you may have, such as Pokémon cards or mini cars.



Possessions are always pushed or placed under the bed, especially when they aren't always needed. You never know what might be under there!
Pull everything out from under your bed and organize it as necessary.
Vacuum and dust under your bed to create a clean floor surface.
If you have anything left (that was under your bed) which you haven't placed elsewhere, leave it out until you complete the next step.



Put a basket beside your bed, or wherever else you want to keep it.
Whenever you come home and you're holding onto something that doesn't have a place, put it in your basket.
Take anything that you left out (from under your bed) and place it in here if there is no other spot for it yet.
Choose one day out of each week to be your clean-up day.
On this clean-up day, take the time to sort through the basket, taking one thing at a time and placing it in it's proper spot. If you find anything that is old or that you no longer need, throw it out.

