 Layout the game board. Give each player a Passport, pen and wipe cloth. Shuffle the Go for Greatness cards and place face down on the designated space on the game board. The Picture card box contains 365 large cards so is impractical to be passing around each turn, so open the box and find a central position on the table for it to sit for the entire game. The game comes with 20 different tokens featuring a wide variety of historical figures. Each player needs to select their preferred historical figure and place it on a token base. All tokens start the game in the Stone Age square.
 All the player choose one player to be the initial dealer. The dealer selects a Picture card from the front of the deck and reads the questions to all the players, careful not to show the back of the card with the answers to any of the players. The dealer also tells the players what each question is worth. Blue question is 1 point, Red question is 2 points and Green question is special with point value described on the card., All the players write the question number and their answer(s) to the question in their Passport. Players should put a dash next to the question number if they don’t have an answer., All players show their answers at the same time. The dealer reads the answers and checks the scoring of each player. All other players check the dealers score., The player to the left of the dealer moves first. The number of spaces moved is equal to the points scored. If the last square a player lands on is a blue or red arrow then they move to the square the arrow points., If the last square a player lands on is labeled with Go for Greatness then the player picks up a Go for Greatness card and follows its instructions. Sometimes the card refers to another player explicitly, sometimes in terms of manager, henchman, partner, accomplice, etc. All of these terms mean another player needs to be selected to share in the benefit or failure of taking the risk and going for greatness in life. Note if another player’s token is repositioned to an arrow or Go for Greatness space they are not moved again., The turn finishes once everyone has moved their own token and the dealer has read the text on the back of the Picture card and returned the Picture card to the back of the deck., The player to the left of the dealer now becomes the dealer and the turn proceeds as before., The objective of the game is to be the player to travel through the ages and finish in the Knowledge Age at the end of a game turn. Note even if you make it into the Knowledge Age before everyone else finishes there movement does not guarantee you victory as the other plays may pick up a Go for Greatness Card and use it to move you back out. If more than one player finishes the game turn in the Knowledge Age they will need to have a Picture Card Playoff to break the tie., All players remaining in the Knowledge Age now playoff to decide the winner. All other players become the judges. A new Picture card is selected from the front of the box and the payers remaining answer the questions. The winner is the player with the most points as judged by the other players. If the highest score is equal among multiple players then those players with the highest score playoff again until there is only one play with the highest score.