 Move the analog stick to make Link move:


the A button to do primary actions
the B button to swing the sword
the C-pad for the items
the Start/Pause button for menus
the L button for targeting; and the R button for secondary targeting;
, This will help you in the long run for saving the game, looking at the map, using your items, knowing the objectives, and other important stuff. Though dumb, it can save you in the future (pun intended).
 In order to master any Zelda game, one must utilize the items properly as items are one of the franchise's most important mechanics. Practice using them for different purposes and know how the controls for each.
 The Great Deku Tree and Navi will order you to get a sword and shield hidden in the forest, meet with the Great Deku Tree, complete the first dungeon, kill Gohma (the first boss), and collect the Kokiri Emerald.
 You must do this by collecting three sacred gems (you already have one) and the Ocarina of Time to enter the Temple of Time to obtain the Master Sword to kill Ganondorf. To do that, you must meet with Zelda, go to the gems' respective locations, find access to the dungeon, and beat the dungeon and boss to get them.
 Looks like Ganondorf rebelled against the King, followed Link to the Temple of Time, and got the Triforce to rule Hyrule for 7 long years. Go to 6 different dungeons to meet new people, unlock new areas, beat bosses, get Sage Medallions, and find the 6 Sages.
 With all medallions and sages united, go to his evil base and let the sages do their magic to let you enter. Conquer the base and fight with Ganondorf with all you got!

, The eye usually protects an item or pathway by blocking off a door with a barrier, whether it's metal bars, wall, or Camouflage . Use a shooting item like the Sling-Shot and Hero's Bow to shoot the eye down.
 The switch is on the floor and must be stepped on to activate a mechanism or unlock a door. But here is the catch: as soon as you step off, it reactivates itself. Find and push a heavy box or crate to the switch so that it stays on.
 The torches must be lit in order for an item to be accessed or a door to be unlocked. Use a Deku Stick and light it up with fire and go to the torches to light them up.
 The puzzle is actually not a puzzle at all; it is just a group of powerful enemies appearing in a locked room to fight you. In order to get back out, continue on, or get an item, you must fight and defeat all the enemies to do so.
 The blockage can be blocking a door, path, item, and so on. Use strong items to destroy the barrier such as bombs, gauntlets, and hammers.
 The Ocarina of Time is the only item that can solve these puzzles; they usually have musical notes or the Ocarina carved into the object. Play a certain song in order to solve the Puzzle (i.e., move, teleport, or change the object).
 Use your sword and slash away at the enemy until they die. Dodge, roll, side-step, and defend to prevent yourself from getting hurt.
 Some enemies can only die if they are hurt by certain items (or die much faster). Find out what item they are weakest to and then kill them with it.
 Sometimes you may have to do a combination of sword fighting and using special items to defeat enemies. Almost all bosses are also defeated this way as well.
 This gives you a better choice when fighting or solving puzzles, or even for bragging rights. Some collectibles can also be used for other uses, such as health and magic.
 Playing them allows you to relax, mess around a bit, and win cool prizes. Some items can only be collected by trying to win these mini-games.
 You are to go back and forth to different places and different people, giving them and receiving items. But at the end it is all worth it!

, These items usually are hidden throughout Hyrule and you must do certain things before earning that item.