 If you're not interested in applying a complicated formula to your students' grades, but you still want to offer them a chance to improve their score on a certain assignment, consider offering students an opportunity to re-do sections of an assignment they did poorly on. Give the assignment back to students and allow them to re-do problems they missed. Then, grade the problems they re-did. Offer the students some percentage of the points they earned on their re-do attempt, and add these to their first score to get their final grades.


Let's say that a student scored 60 points out of 100 on a test. We give the test back to the student, offering half-credit for any problems she re-does. She re-works the problems she missed, scoring 30 more points. We then give her 30/2 = 15 more points, making her final score 60 + 15 = 75 points.

Don't allow students to merely correct the work they've done. Instead, to ensure they fully understand how to do the problems from start to finish, have them completely rewrite the items they missed.
 Even the best teachers occasionally put unfair or misleading questions on their tests. If, after grading, you find that there are one or two particular items that most of the students seemed to struggle on, you may want to disregard these questions and grade the assignment as if they weren't included. This is an especially good idea if a certain question used concepts that you haven't taught your students yet or if it falls outside the reasonable expectations for student performance. In these cases, re-grade assignments as if the problematic sections don't exist.


Note, however, that this method gives extra weight to the questions you do choose to include. It may also anger students who did well on the questions you chose to eliminate - you may want to offer them some form of extra credit.
 This is one of the oldest tricks in the book. After an assignment that went poorly for some (or all) of your students, offer your students a special problem, project or task that, if completed, will raise their scores. This may be an extra problem that requires creative thinking, an extra assignment, or even a presentation - be creative!


However, use caution with this method - the students who probably need the most help are also the least-likely to be able to answer super-hard extra credit questions. You may find that your extra credit assignments are more effective if they allow students to incorporate classroom concepts into outside-the-box projects and assignments. For instance, if you're teaching a class on poetry, you may want to offer an extra-credit assignment that requires students to analyze the rhyme scheme of their favorite pop song.

