 It's not very long and it's packed with useful information that will not only help you pass, but will also make you a safer driver. Yes, it's dry as a bone and can be preachy, but if you devote an hour to go through it and highlight all the important parts—especially speed limits, following distances, and right-of-way rules—you'll pass your test with flying colors.;
, Before a state will let you slip behind the wheel, they want to know you're not going to be a menace to society. If you read the manual, you'll do fine. If you fail the test, there is usually a waiting period before you can retake the test. Use that time to dig into that manual and commit to learning what you missed on the exam.


Check your state's DMV website—they often have sample written tests so that you can practice before you set foot inside the DMV.
 Most states require you to have a permit before you practice driving. Getting a permit takes some planning. The requirements vary, and your state's DMV website will spell them out, but there are some general qualifications to know:


Be sure you reached the minimum age. Depending on what state you live in, you must be 14, 15 or 16 to drive and to get your license, but law enforcement recommends drivers be at least 16.
Provide your Social Security number. Some states require your actual SS card.
Proof of identity. This can come from a state-issued birth certificate, state-issued ID card, adoption papers, marriage certificate, or other official documentation.
Proof of citizenship or lawful residence—which can include an official birth certificate, passport, tribal ID card, or DHS documents.
Proof of residential address—this includes any of the above documents, or may simply be the statement or authorization of somebody who lives with you.
Some states require that you prove you are attending school, if you are under 18.
For applicants under the age of 18, the signature of the parent/legal guardian, along with the license number or SSN of the responsible person, must be listed on the application.
Pass a vision screening test. If you wear glasses, bring them. If you need them, or contact lenses, to drive, that will be noted on your licence.
Have your picture taken. Looking good!
Pay the testing and permit fees. Note that DMV's don't generally take credit cards, so bring your checkbook (or have your parents bring their checkbook)

, The best way to become a safe driver is to get plenty of practice. Keep in mind that as long as you have a permit, you must drive along with a licensed driver in the front seat of the car.Most states have a minimum number of months you must have a learner's permit, plus a number of hours you must be behind the wheel before you can actually get your first driver's license. This number may be lowered if you take an accredited driver's education course.
 While you may not be able to pick who your passenger or instructor is (especially if you take a driver's education course), try to drive with someone you're comfortable with. If you drive with a friend in the car, make sure she has had her license for the legally required amount of time and is old enough, according to your state's laws.


Be patient with your friend/parent/driving instructor. Sure, their panicked squealing is annoying, but they'll get over it as you get more practice.
 If you've never driven before, it will probably start awkwardly as you learn to coordinate your feet, hands, and eyes. Some prefer an empty parking lot for those first few few lurching starts and stops—especially if you are learning with a standard transmission.


Build confidence and driving skills before practicing in advanced driving situations, such as on highways or heavily trafficked city centers.

