 There are city laws, state laws, and federal laws. Questions such as “Am I required to obtain a business license for my job?” This depends on your city, but to be a legal business you will need to find the answer.
 Should I incorporate, should I become a LLC, or operate as a sole proprietor? Find out about why becoming a corporation or an LLC is a good thing.
 Will the places where I speak require me to have liability insurance? It so, how much will I need?  Will they want me to have $1Million or will they require $5Million.
 You may have different laws to follow in different states. So if you work in several states you may be required to have different licenses.
 A representation acting as an agent for individuals in negotiating engagements. Many say to you,that you have to make a lot of money to work with them. Many times there are laws regarding the maximum percentage of the money you are paid that they can take for their fee. It is usually not more than 12 to 20 percent tops.
 The type of jobs you get will determine if the company needs to be a talent agent.  Remember that a post office box is never accepted for business locations for licenses. Post office boxes are usually a sign that the company is not legal.
 The IRS has strict laws about who books you; there is always the problem of working you so it constitutes you being an employee, in which case they would have to follow the laws for employees.
 If so that is easy to do. Now your foundation is set to learn how to become a public speaker. You cannot do the second half without doing the first. Anyone who tells you different is setting you up for a fall. All laws must be looked into to avoid big problems.
 Tell them your topic at the beginning.  Never be loud but be full of enthusiasm. Avoid loud laughter as well. Do not mumble or speak too quietly. This is the opposite extreme.;
, Be sure to pace your talk so people can easily understand you. Do not talk in a monotone and never be boring. 

, Avoid slang and dirty language is not professional.
 Movements such as leaning, fidgeting, tapping your pen and pacing are all distracting. Also avoid chewing gum.
 Make sure you know the material so you don’t end up reading it.
 Use this in case you freeze up and forget. An outline is different than   detailed notes. Don’t let fear stop you. Speaking helps the fear go away.
 By watching their eyes you can see how you are being accepted. Do not pull on your hair, your clothes or bra straps.
 Do not talk more than 25 minutes or you will bore them. A short pause of silence is OK.
 You told them at the beginning what your topic was, now give them a great presentation and end with a strong close.
 Clothes do make the man. This does not mean you have to wear a suit but be clean and dress how you want them to think of you. P.S do away with the bushy and unkempt beard ,rather have a clean shave and hair cut.
 Most people can spot it a mile away, so keep it real and honest.  In conclusion, public speaking is not as easy as it looks. Make sure you know all the laws and follow them so you can be on a solid path and be respected in your trade.

