









The hairspray alone will not kill the stink bug, but it will immobilize it, preventing the bug from roaming about freely and making it easier to apply a chemical that will kill the bug.
Make sure to use the stickiest hairspray possible. Thankfully, cheap brands are usually stickier than expensive brands.
 Fill a glass jar halfway with one of these chemicals and knock or drop the stink bugs into the jar as you come across them.









Do not mix these chemicals for any reason. Combining these chemicals can produce fumes that are deadly to humans.
Knock the stink bugs into the solution using a popsicle stick or gloved hand, or pick the bugs up with tweezers.
You could also dilute one part rubbing alcohol with three parts water inside a spray bottle. Attack stink bugs with this solution as you see them. The alcohol will wear away at the exterior of the insect, drying it out and eventually destroying it.
 Buy a can of freeze away wart remover and spray it directly on the stink bug. The bug will freeze instantly and all you need to do is flush them down the toilet.
 Fill a spray bottle with hot sauce or liquified hot peppers. Squirt each stink bug with the spicy insecticide as you see it.









Hot peppers are capable of burning human skin and eyes if handled improperly. Similarly, the peppers can burn away the waxy exterior of the stink bug, ultimately destroying it.
Wash your hands after handling hot peppers and hot sauce to avoid accidentally irritating your eyes.
 Place a single drop of candle wax remover on the back of an individual stink bug. The insect should die within one or two minutes.









You might be able to apply the candle wax remover to the stink bug without capturing it, but be aware that accidentally getting the remover onto carpet or other surfaces may create a stain. For best results, immobilize the insect with hair spray or trap it inside a glass jar before applying the remover.
The candle wax remover strips away the waxy coating on the outside of the stink bug's shell, thereby breaking down interior membranes.
 Place a tablespoonful / teaspoonful of white vinegar in a container; use a container that is not too large.









Capture the stink bug using tweezers, an empty medicine container with cap, and/or use gloves.
Put the bug or bugs into the vinegar. They die immediately without releasing their bomb.
Flush the critters down the toilet.

