 Many people are shifting to a gluten-free lifestyle, so there are lots of blogs and cookbooks for you to use to find gluten-free replacements for your favorite foods. Start learning ways to substitute other foods so you can eat gluten-free as you enjoy the foods you love.For example, try zucchini in place of pasta for spaghetti and lasagna. Use gluten-free grain or nut flours to make breads, muffins, and cakes. Make sandwiches and wraps with lettuce, collard leaves, and cabbage instead of bread or tortillas.
You can find many gluten-free brands at the grocery store. You can buy gluten-free bread, cereals, and baked goods., When you go to the grocery store, make sure to read all the labels carefully. Be aware that "wheat-free" is not the same thing as "gluten-free."


Wheat starch, unless it has been processed, can, according to the FDA, still have gluten in it., Another way to protect yourself from gluten if you share a home with people who eat gluten is to have gluten-free appliances. Buy a toaster that is specifically for gluten-free bread, since using the same toaster can contaminate the food. If you are going to eat gluten-free pasta, use different strainers and pots than regular pasta. Use specific cutting boards for gluten-free items.Make sure to wash everything like plates, pots, pans, and silverware extremely carefully to remove any gluten remnants. Think about using different sponges or using washable rags to avoid contamination., When you go out to eat, make sure to ask servers about the gluten content of foods. More and more servers are aware of the needs of gluten-free individuals and will be able to tell you what parts of the menu are gluten-free.
 One of the best ways to be sure that you are eating gluten-free foods is to cook for yourself. You can choose what goes into your food and protect yourself.


The internet has plenty of tasty gluten-free recipes for you to try. There are also gluten-free cookbooks you can purchase.
 In the grocery store, certain food preparation items or food containers may contain gluten-free items, but be at risk for cross-contamination. For example, meats from the deli slicer could contain traces of marinades or seasonings that could contain wheat. Bulk bins of flour, beans, or cereals can also contain traces of wheat products.