 Most local papers and newsletters contain a section devoted to classified listings. Depending on the circulation of the paper and the size of your ad, this can be a cheap way to find possible buyers. The drawback is that your car may take longer to sell because it’s not as visible as other options.


For example, you might write, "Reliable Car for Sale: 2010 Chevrolet Tahoe, Red, 25,0000 miles, One Owner, Maintenance Records and Vehicle History available upon request, Asking Price $7,000 OBO, Call XXX-XXX-XXXX for more details."

, Create a simple flyer that contains a clear picture of your car, the price, any details on the make and model, and your contact information. Attach these flyers to message boards at your office, church, grocery store, library, and even gym. Include rip-off tabs at the bottom of the sheet to make it easy for buyers to get ahold of you.Try printing out your flyers on colored paper to get even more attention. Just make sure that this does not distort the appearance of your car’s photo.
Go around every few days and make sure that your flyers are still in place. If the location has removed them, it is okay to ask if there is an approved area for posting.
 If you have a regular mechanic that you go to, tell them that you are selling your car and would like any advice that they can offer. They might even let you park it on their lot. Or, they may just spread the word to other customers or let you put up a flyer in their waiting room.Your mechanic may be able to tell you which features to emphasize, such as especially good tires or a solid alarm system.
 If you already have another vehicle, park your car off to the side of a main road with "for sale" written in big letters on the windshield. Then, on the other windows, write more details about the car, like the asking price, mileage, and year. If you don’t have another car yet, simply write the same information on one or two side windows and continue to drive it around.After you finish the sign, take a good number of steps back and look at it. Make sure that other people could read it from afar.

