 It’s much easier said than done to change the way you think. That said, it’s possible to push away negative sentiments by reminding yourself that perceptions of personal shortcomings are just that - perceptions. To start doing so, try to be more aware of your cognitive behavior. This means recognizing and identifying your thoughts.For example, when you think negatively about your height, you’re betraying a cognitive bias that is leading you to focus on this single physical attribute. Call your mind out, and redirect your thoughts!
It’s worth seeing a cognitive behavioral therapist to help with being aware of your thoughts. They will help you use mindfulness to catch yourself in negative thought processes and replace them with positive, more worthwhile thoughts.
Try to identify and write down where your ideas about being short came from. Pinpointing the source of your thoughts can help you to question their truthfulness.;
, Though it may not always feel like it, there are some definitive advantages to being a short male. For one, you likely build and retain muscles more easily. There are other potential physical advantages as well, such as quickness and agility that can benefit from a lower center of gravity.And don’t forget, attraction is a purely subjective phenomenon. Some potential partners will absolutely prefer short men, just like some people are attracted to guys with beards or bald guys.
Along with physical advantages, short men tend to have more stable marriages, lower cancer rates, more active sex lives, and longer lives overall., Aside from strength and agility, there are other tangible benefits to being short as well. For instance, you will likely have an easier time staying comfortable in many contexts, including airplane seats and smaller vehicles. While these may not seem like important considerations, it's worth acknowledging the fact that there are always relative advantages for people of any height.
 Think about what you like about other people. In particular, think about what makes you enjoy spending time with certain people, and value the relationships you have with them. Chances are, you didn’t worry too much about their height.On the other hand, think about what others probably like about you. The fact of the matter is that whatever reputation you’ve developed has much more to do with your behavior than your stature.
If you're consistently bummed about your height, it may help to write out all of the attributes you like yourself. Don't limit the list to just physical attributes. As you look the list over, think about which factors are the most important to you.

