 Before addressing your concerns with your supervisor or at a higher level in your organization, take the time to familiarize yourself with the rules, policies, and procedures in place. Come into meetings with higher-ups informed and ready to advocate for yourself.Read over your employee manual, union materials (if you are represented by a union), and employment laws in your state and country.
You may wish to consult an attorney or anyone you know who works in human resources. They should be well-versed on your rights in this area and may help you decide how to proceed.
Bring copies of pertinent policies to share with your supervisor or other management.
 Follow the appropriate chain of command in your organization. Ask to speak to your supervisor privately and in person about your concern.


You could say, “Jim, do you have time to meet this afternoon? I have something I need to discuss with you privately.”
Tell your supervisor about your problem and ask how they will address the situation. You could say, “What will you do to solve this problem with Melanie? Please follow up with me when you’ve taken action. If I don’t hear from you in a few days, I am going to follow up with you about it again.”
Show your supervisor a copy of your harassment record.
If your harasser is your supervisor, go to their supervisor. If you have a human resources representative, you may also wish to talk to them first instead., You may choose to take your concerns to human resources, if your employer has a designated department. You may also feel more comfortable talking to human resources instead of your supervisor. Be sure you following your company’s protocol, unless there are extenuating circumstances that prevent you from following it (for example, your boss is harassing you).


Your HR rep will likely begin by meeting with you confidentially. They may provide you with coping strategies and suggestions for handling the harassment.Describe the situation to your HR rep, making sure you provide a written record of all of the documented instances of harassment. You could say, “For the past few weeks, Bob White in IT has started insulting me whenever he sees me. I started to make a list of all the incidents. I believe his behavior meets the definition of harassment.”
Make a list of any questions you might have and bring them to the meeting. This meeting can be emotional and you may be nervous and forget everything you want to say. Bringing a list of what you'd like to address during the meeting can help ensure that all your questions are answered.
Depending on the severity of what you have described, the HR rep may be compelled by law to open an investigation. If not, they may offer to meet with your harasser alone or with you present.