 Find regular times and places where you can take a break, and take time out to pray. Look for a quiet place in your building at work where you can go to pray during your breaks, for example. Or go into nature to pray, and find a place by a great tree in a park. You can mark off a consistent time in your schedule to go to this place. Set a daily alarm to go off in your phone or make a repeating email reminder for yourself.
Go to the place you do your prayers, and sit there until you are ready to pray.
 For instance kneel, fold your arms in front of you, and close your eyes to pray is a suggested posture.Try different postures depending on where you are. For example, if you are praying in a park you might cross your legs, and lay your hands on your knees.



Don’t make demands, instead ask for help from your father for guidance, peace, and comfort. End the prayer "in the name of Jesus" when you pray to God through Jesus.
 Pray for your family, your teachers, your government officials, the poor, and yourself. The thumb can represent your family and the close relationships that are your supports. It is the most sturdy finger, and that is why it represents the family.
The index finger, as a pointing finger, can be the finger that represents guidance in your life, or it might stand for those who show you the way and help you. For example, this could be bosses, pastors, teachers, mentors, friends, and even those who provide you health care like your doctors and nurses..
The middle finger is the tallest finger on your hand, and it can be used to remind you to pray for the people in power in your country and in the world: government officials, world leaders, politicians, etc.
The ring finger is the weakest finger and therefore may remind you to pray for those who are people who are suffering from poverty and any ailments they do not wish to have.
The last, smallest finger represents yourself. Don't forget to pray for yourself.
 For example, pray while looking at a beautiful painting, if you are a visual person. Or you can read a book on prayer or write in a journal. Don’t try to fit yourself into any container of what you think a prayer should be.


Perhaps you need to be doing something with your hands while you pray. You can use rosary beads and repeat prayers for each bead, or you can doodle flowers in your notebook as you pray. You can also sing your prayers. Singing prayers can be a joyous way to express your feelings in an outward way.

