 Keep in mind that mood stabilizers may not be as safe during pregnancy as other types of medications, such as antipsychotics.However, lithium is considered to be a lower risk than other medications during pregnancy and appears safe during the second and third trimesters.Still, it is not without risk, as there is a slight risk for rare defects during the first trimester. This includes Ebstein’s anomaly, which affects the heart.It’s important to monitor lithium levels closely and perhaps decrease them during pregnancy, as they can fluctuate with changing hormones and become too high.Once your baby is born, breast feeding is not recommended when taking lithium.
 Anticonvulsant medication used to treat bipolar disorder includes carbamazepine, lamotrigine, and valproate. Anticonvulsants include the risk of fetal anticonvulsant syndrome, which is associated with physical abnormalities, delayed development, and an increased need of special support in school.Considerations when taking carbamazepine medications include a higher risk of major congenital malformation during the first trimester. It is not recommended to take carbamazepine during the first trimester.Risks associated with lamotrigine include physical malformations such as cleft palate.However, it appears more favorable than other medications and appears better during lactation. , Valproate has the highest risk out of all mood stabilizers. Using valproate during the first trimester is associated with major malformations, developmental delay, and a higher risk of developing autism spectrum disorder.Other risks include craniofacial abnormalities.Talk to your provider about lowering your dose or switching to a safer medication.
 You might take antidepressants or antianxiety medications in addition to medication for manic episodes. Talk to your prescriber about what medications may be safe during pregnancy.


For antidepressants, any SSRI, such as fluoxetine (Prozac), appear to be the safest choice during pregnancy.
Antianxiety medications have been fiercely debated and may impact development during the first trimester.