 There are generally two power plans in Windows. One is the Balanced Power plan and the other is the Power Saver plan. In addition to this, the user has an option to also create their own power plan based on the requirements.


The Balanced power plan is generally selected as the default power plan in Windows. This power plan puts the computer to sleep if the computer is idle. This is the best power plan because the brightness setting is more comfortable to use. The Balanced Power plan balances the computer's battery based on the usage.
The Power Saver plan works out quite well in cases when one wants to save battery at any cost. The brightness seem to be little dim when compared to the Balanced Power plan. The Power Saver plan also puts the computer to sleep when it's idle for a specified amount of time.;
, Apart from these power plans, you can also create your own power plan (based on the previous ones) and set your own parameters according to the requirements. These user-created power plans must have apt parameters or else the battery may drain out quick.
 Statistics say that display uses a major portion of your battery. Some computers try to adjust the brightness based on the light available in the room. It is best that the user sets the brightness level. Moreover, the brightness level must be set in such a way that the content that is displayed is visible to the user.


The apt brightness level for a computer running on battery is less than 30% and while charging is less than 80%.
 Set the sleep parameter to the minimum time possible, so that the computer need not stay awake while not in use. A minimum of 5 to 10 minutes duration is apt for the computer to be idle and then go to sleep. Completely turn off the laptop if you are planning to leave it for a long time.
 It's best to adjust the brightness level as per one's requirement at that particular point of time. Automatic brightness settings may seem to work out fine, but they can also lead to a drain in the battery level.
 Many people over-charge computers by connecting them to charge always. This is an errant practice. Draining the battery to a minimum of 10% to 5% and then recharging it will save the battery life.
 Certain components such as an optical mouse, external optical disk drive, external hard disk drive or a pen drive ought to be unplugged if not in use. When these devices are connected to a computer, the computer tends to allocate some amount of energy for them.
 Some people think that charging to 100% might drain out battery quickly. They are wrong. When a computer charges, it must be fully charged and then it must begin to discharge from the start. Ideally, charge while the computer is switched off and not in use.
 Nowadays most computers are equipped with a number of wireless component such as bluetooth, wi-fi adapters and so on. These wireless components also draw battery life. Turn off such components when not in use.
 It is recommended to open as few applications at a time as possible for a good battery life and to avoid heavy programs like Photoshop or Sony Vegas Professional on battery power. Hardcore gaming may also drain battery quickly.


Use lighter applications for daily tasks, such as internet browsing and playing music/videos. Waterfox's memory usage can reach up to one gigabyte, whereas Firefox's may peak at half of a gigabyte. Media Player Classic uses less system resources than Windows Media Player, the media player that comes with Windows.
 For example, try to use a track pad, touch pad or a tablet pen instead of going for an external optical mouse.
 If you have an animated screensaver or no screensaver at all, you could be wasting your battery.

