 The LARA will want to see supporting documents related to your complaint; such as contracts, pricing quotes, closing statements, or property reports.


Provide copies of documents that do not contain your personal, sensitive information, such as your Social Security Number. Copies of the documents you provide to the LARA will be reviewed by a wide array of officials, including the realtor you are complaining about.;
, The complaint form can be printed from the Internet or mailed to you from the LARA.


Go to Michigan's LARA website provided in the Sources section of this article.
Click on the link for "Statement of Complaint" on the bottom-right corner of the website. A copy of the complaint form will open in a new window within your Internet browser that you will have the ability to print.
Call the LARA at 517-241-9202 if you do not have Internet access and need to have the Statement of Complaint form mailed to you.
 The LARA will require you to either type your information on the form or use ink to complete the form.


Enter the name and contact information of the realtor you are filing the complaint against below the section entitled, "Your Complaint is Against."
Provide your own name and contact information below the section entitled, "Information About You." This section will also require you to indicate if you are willing to testify against the realtor at a hearing and if you are willing to attend mediation to resolve the complaint.
Place a check mark in the box next to "Real Estate Agent or Company" to indicate your complaint is specifically against a realtor.
Indicate whether you have notified the realtor that you are filing a complaint against them, and if so, provide details about the outcome.
Indicate whether you have filed a claim with any other agency, and provide the details of that claim, if applicable.
Provide an explanation of how you want your complaint resolved by the realtor. The explanation you provide here may potentially be acted upon by the realtor during mediation.
Indicate whether you have sustained any financial losses. If so, you will be required to itemize your financial losses on a separate, blank sheet of paper.
Enter a brief description of your complaint. You must provide factual information that clearly outlines any real estate laws the realtor has violated in regards to the complaint.
Indicate the documents you plan on including with your complaint by placing a check mark in the box next to each document type. You may be asked by the LARA to provide additional types of documents related to your complaint.
Sign and date the Statement of Complaint form.
 Include copies of your relevant documents in the envelope with the complaint form.


Address the envelope to: Michigan Department of Energy, Labor and Economic Growth Bureau of Commercial Services (BCS) - Enforcement Division, P.O. Box 30018, Lansing, Michigan, 48909.
You will be notified by the LARA of your complaint's receipt within 30 days. If the LARA has decided to investigate your complaint, a copy of a "formal complaint" will be sent to both you and the realtor. The realtor will then have 15 days to respond to the LARA in regards to the complaint.







