 If you’ve recorded more than you need, to save editing time, trim your track to only what you intend to keep. Start by making a safety backup in case things go awry, and then proceed as follows:


Choose the Selection Tool from the toolbar. Select the audio you want to keep. Choose Loop Playback (Shift-Space), and listen to your edit a few times to make sure it’s good. Adjust as necessary until it sounds right, then from the Edit menu, select Remove Audio, then select Trim, or simply press Command-T (Control-T on a PC). The audio on either side of the selection is removed from the track.






After trimming, move your audio, if necessary, to the correct location by selecting the Time Shift tool, and dragging the sound to the proper location.
 You can apply a variety of effects, from those built into Audacity, to VST effects, and effects native to your OS.


With the selection tool, select all or part of your track.
From the Effect menu, choose your desired effect. For this example, we’ll use Echo, as applied to a simple click track.
Set any parameters called for by the effect, listen to the preview, and when it’s how you like, press OK. The effect will process, and display the result. The example below is the raw click track on top, and the echoed click track on the bottom.
You can process the same track with many effects, though it’s possible to amplify the waveform too much, resulting in ugly digital distortion. If that happens, undo to the last step before distortion kicked in, and instead of applying your next filter, apply an Amplifier effect, set to -3dB. If your next process still results in distortion, undo the distorting effect and the Amplify effect, then redo the Amplify effect at a stronger level. -6dB would be good.
Note: It’s always a good idea to duplicate a track (Command or Control-D) before doing any editing that changes the waveform.
 Try all the filters, and see what they do and how the sound with your source material.
 When you’re done editing, mixing, trimming, and polishing your sound file into a rare gem of musical beauty, you will want to save it for posterity and possible fame and fortune. From the File menu, select Export..., then choose the desired format—from AIFF to WMA and many others in between.

