 It’s good to check for complete work at the beginning of the year or if your child is having problems turning in assignments, but it’s not good to “check” their work in detail. Kids do better on standardized tests when parents don’t go over their homework every time. Also, their teacher won’t be able to evaluate how well they are learning.


Check the first couple answers on an assignment to make sure your child understood it, but don’t look over the whole assignment for accuracy.Ask if they were able to complete everything or if they have any questions about the assignment you might clarify. If they completed a math assignment and just had trouble with one problem, you might be able to identify any missteps. If they couldn’t do any of them, you and the teacher may need to find another method of teaching them the necessary skills.
If you had to give your child a lot of help on an assignment, make sure the teacher knows. Write “completed with parental help” on the assignment or send an email that evening., How long should assignments take? How do they want you to be involved? Develop a positive relationship with their teacher(s) at the beginning of the year, before any problems come up, so you can work together throughout the year to best help your child.Generally, in K-2, homework should ideally take 10-20 minutes a day (independent of reading practice); for 2-6, 30-60 minutes a night is average; from 7th grade on, the amount should depend on specific assignments and may vary from day to day.Find out if the teacher has open hours for extra help every week.
Make sure you know what materials you need to provide your child. Typically, elementary school kids get a list of supplies on the first day, or even earlier. If not, ask the teacher what your child should bring to class everyday.
Find out their homework and attendance policies. What happens if a student fails to turn in an assignment? How do you arrange to make up a test if your child has to be absent?

, If they have after school hours set-up, make your child attends them and brings specific questions or assignments. If the teacher has a website or forum, help your child compose an email or message with their questions. Don’t speak for them, but assist in figuring out what to ask if needed.


It is important for students to take responsibility for their own learning. If you aren’t sure they will ask for help, send the teacher a message letting them know your child will be approaching them for extra help at the next class, but give your child the responsibility of doing so on their own.
Ask the teacher for advice on other resources your child can use at home—study websites, reference books, a good tutoring app, etc., Attend parent-teacher conferences. Check in on your child’s progress every month or quarter. If you question the value of an assignment or think the teacher might be assigning too much homework, speak up. Teachers may not realize how long an assignment will take.Always come to a parent-teacher meeting with a cooperate spirit and leave with a solution or plan to address the issue.If the teacher is not budging--the workload seems way too high, they don’t understand the problem, they won’t take responsibility for helping your child learn--make an appointment with the school’s principal to discuss it.

