 Most people think that Welsh is very short of vowels. The truth is, the Welsh language has more vowels than the English language, so Welsh speakers, English seems like it has less vowels!

'w' and 'y' are vowels in Welsh, so don't freak out when you see a name without any English vowels!
The vowel 'a' is pronounced like the English 'a' in the middle of 'bat'.
The vowel 'e' is pronounced like the English 'e' in the middle of 'bet'.
The vowel 'i' is pronounced like the English 'i' in the middle of 'bit'.
The vowel 'o' is pronounced like the English 'o' in the middle of 'bot'.
'U' is pronounced differently between the north and south of Wales. In the South, 'u' is pronounced like the Welsh 'i' and the English 'i' in 'bit'. But in the North, it is more like the French 'u' or the German 'ü'. As a beginner, it would be easier to stick with the Southern pronunciation.
'W' is also pronounced differently between the north and south of Wales. The Southern pronunciation is like the middle of 'book', and the Northern pronunciation is like the beginning of 'wit'.
'Y' is similar to the 'er' in 'her', although if there are multiple 'y's in a word, the last 'y' is pronounced like the Welsh 'u' for some reason.
You have now mastered the Welsh vowels! Luckily for you, the Welsh vowels stay the same in every word or phrase, unlike English, except for the last 'y' in every multiple 'y' word!;
, Welsh is a phonetic language; therefore, in order to pronounce two vowels such as 'eu' all you need to do is pronounce the 'e' vowel then the 'u' vowel.

Unlike the English language, vowels do not merge together to make new pronunciations.
 The consonants 'b','d', 'h', 'l', 'm', 'n', 's', 'p', and 't' are the same as they are in English. They are pronounced like the beginning of 'bat', 'dad', 'hat', 'let', 'mat', 'not', 'sad', 'pot', and 'tot'.

'C' and 'g' are pronounced in Welsh like they are pronounced in English, but the hard way, never the soft.
The Welsh 'c' is pronounced like the 'c' in 'cat' and 'g' is pronounced like the 'g' in 'goat'.
'F' is pronounced like the English 'v', like in 'violet'.
'R' is always trilled in Welsh.
 'Ch', 'dd', 'ff', 'ng', 'll', 'ph', 'rh', and 'th' are the double consonants in Welsh and are considered as one letter.

'Ch' is like the 'ch' in the Scottish 'loch', or the sound you make when you have a hair in the back of your throat (kind of).
'Dd' is pronounced like the 'th' in 'the'.
'Ff' is like the 'f' in 'find'.
'Ng' as the 'ng' in 'hang'.
'Ll' is tricky for non-Welsh people. Move your mouth to say an 'l', but instead of using your voice, just blow gently. If you spit everywhere, you're probably overdoing it.
'Ph' is like the Welsh 'ff' but used when mutating letters (which is something you don't need to worry about if you are only trying to pronounce certain words rather than trying to speak the language).
'Rh' has the same logic as 'll'. Pronounce a Welsh 'r' without using your voice, just blow. This letter is particularly hard to pronounce as a beginner, but practice and hoping for the best is all you can do!
'Th' is like the beginning of 'think'.
 It'll take practice to get each name right, but it'll get easier with time.

Remember that you should always put the emphasis on the second-last syllable of the word in Welsh, i.e. Meredith in Welsh will be pronounced like mer-ED-ith, not MEr-ed-ith.
Always remember to pronounce every letter in the word and not skip over them like in English.

