 This will allow you to start buying the foodstuffs and drinks that are on sale and aren't perishable. Write it all out on a list, then list the ingredients separately. From the ingredients list, highlight all the foods that can be bought early, such as canned foods, long life foods and dried foods. All of these can be bought well ahead of Christmas, perhaps in November.


Make storage space. Check the freezer, pantry and refrigerator for space that can be spared to contain all of the Christmas goodies you're purchasing ahead of time.
 Stock up well ahead of the rush. Dealing with drinks early is a great way to buy yourself more time when Christmas Day approaches––no long lines for you.


Store these out of the way in the basement, pantry floor or other area where they won't be disturbed or subject to temperature extremes.
 Many stores stock up additional amounts of dried fruits, flour, spices, etc. and put sales on early to get the stock moving. Since a cake and pudding are best made a month before Christmas to give them time to cure, start looking for the sales on the ingredients early November.
 Having these tucked away in the pantry, refrigerator or freezer in readiness for use will take a great weight off your mind. Non-perishables that can be bought ahead include:


Nuts and Nibbles
Chips, pretzels, and crackers
Canned foods
Frozen foods, including frozen desserts
Candies and candied fruits
Ice cream
Some root vegetables, pumpkins
Gingerbread and other spiced cookies
Commercially made Christmas cake, puddings, mince pies
Long-life milk, bread wraps, cookies, etc.
 Order meats, baked items, cakes, desserts, etc. from the relevant providers at the end of November into early December. Get an emailed or texted confirmation of your order and always call ahead a few days prior to pick-up date to check that the order has not been mislaid and is underway. Collect the day before Christmas or Christmas morning, as relevant. Although you still have to shop at Christmas-time, pre-ordering removes the stress of last-minute thinking and ensures that the provider of the goods has the resources and time to service your order.


Make things easier by having a family member do all the pick-ups. Provide them with a list and locations for pickups, then send them on their way.
 This avoids the pre-Christmas day rush that is usually full of all the people who forgot to be organized. If there is anything that must be bought fresh the day before or on the day, add that to the pre-orders––even many supermarkets will take pre-orders for things such as meats and baked goods.


Store everything in one part of the refrigerator or use a second one if you have another.

