 Ask family, friends, your OB/Gyn, and your primary care doctor about breast cancer surgeons they know.


Many hospitals can give physician referrals, including information about a doctor's background, over the phone or online. Your insurance company can also provide you with a list of in-network breast cancer surgeons and cancer specialists.;
, Hospitals, medical organizations, medical universities, and government websites can also help you locate cancer specialists and surgeons in your area.
 Hospitals or your state's medical licensing board can provide background information on potential breast surgeons.


Find out where the doctor trained and obtained degrees, and if he or she has completed any fellowships that relate to breast cancer.
Check the American Board of Medical Specialties at www.abms.org to find out whether the doctor is board certified, his or her education and field of specialties.
 Contact your state's medical licensing board to obtain information about whether he or she has been sued for medical negligence or faced disciplinary action by the board.


Your rights are limited in this regard, as not all information will be given to a consumer upon request. However, you can ask the breast cancer surgeon all of these background questions at a consultation appointment.
 Consider taking along a family member or friend to help you process the information and render an opinion.


Ask the surgeon how long he or she has been practicing and how often he or she has performed the same type of breast cancer surgery that you need. Preferably, he or she will perform more than 50 surgeries per year. Also ask about his or her surgery success rates.
Evaluate how the breast cancer surgeon responds to your questions. If he or she acts uneasy when answering or makes you feel uncomfortable, take it as a warning sign and find another breast surgeon. You should be comfortable asking him or her any questions you need to ask, and you should get straightforward answers.
 Ask whether the particular breast cancer surgeon you are considering is recognized as an in-network provider under your health care plan.
 The amount of time you will need to travel for treatment as well as lifestyle and family obligations should influence your final choice of a breast cancer surgeon.

