 Opt for a flat iron that is 1 or 1.5 inches wide. Any smaller and the curls may end up tighter than you’d like; if you go wider than 1.5 inches, it may be difficult to get any curls at all.


People with shorter haircuts will require smaller flat irons; larger irons won’t give enough of a curl.
 Make sure your hair is brushed and free of tangles. Add in some texturizing spray or volumizing mousse during this part of the process will help your hair to hold the curls and give it some lift.You may choose to use a heat protector spray since you will be applying heat with the flat iron. This will help to protect your hair from damage.
 Divide your hair into sections small enough to work with, about 1 inch each. Pin the rest of your hair out of the way.


You may find it’s easiest to start with the underside of your hair and work your way toward the crown of your head. To do this, clip your hair on the top of your head, leaving a layer of hair to curl.
 Start about an inch down from the root and place the iron in the hair. Don't clamp down just yet because this will create a crease. Rotate the iron and pull, then close the iron as you finish pulling the iron along the strand of hair. There's no need to twist the iron, just pull down along the section of hair.The flat iron should be vertical when making the curls, with the end towards the ceiling.Bend the iron away from your face as you curl.
Don’t go all the way to the ends of your hair; stopping a half or 3/4 of an inch before you get to the bottom will help you to achieve that messy, just-got-out-of-the-pool look.An alternate way to make a curl with a flat iron is to twist a small strand of hair around your finger until you get to your head. Remove from your finger and take that twist of hair and press it between the flat iron for about 10 seconds. Release for a curl., Continue curling 1 inch sections of hair by rotating the flat iron once and pulling along the strand. You may need to re-curl near the roots if the roots haven't taken to the curl as well as the rest of the hair.


Going in the opposite direction with the next section will keep your hair looking bouncy and ensure that large pieces of hair don’t clump together.Work slowly but smoothly. You want to put enough heat on the hair to get the “curl” into it, but not overheat the hair. Finer hair needs lower heat, while thicker hair needs higher heat.If you started curling in layers, let down a new layer each time you finish one layer until you have completed all of your hair.
 Once your whole head is done, break your curls apart with your fingers to give yourself that loose beachy look. Flip your head upside down and shake them out, comb through them with your fingers - anything you want.


Add some sea salt spray or texturizing spray to your hair to give it texture. You may also want to spray hair spray to help the curls keep their shape.
Don’t worry about messing things up—beachy waves aren’t supposed to look perfect!

