 Hair grows on all parts of the body. Find which parts of the body you would like to remove hair from. This might influence which method you use to remove the hair.;
, For effective hair removal on any part of the body, pores need to be open. This can help reduce irritation of the skin. Soaking the hairs in warm or hot water also makes the hairs soften, resulting in easier hair removal.
 Whether you are shaving, waxing, or using a cream, washing the area and exfoliating before you remove the hair is essential. Proper pre-care is extremely important, especially if you are waxing. Removing dirt, oil, and dead skin cells increases the hair removal process, and helps to prevent irritation, redness, and ingrown hairs.









Do not exfoliate the skin right after you have removed the hair, especially just after you have shaved or waxed. Shaving exfoliates the skin, so you don't need to exfoliate again right away.Exfoliating right after you wax can irritate the skin.
Exfoliate your skin 24 to 48 hours before you wax. Exfoliating right before you wax can cause irritation.
 Shaving is perhaps the easiest and most inexpensive way to get rid of large areas of unwanted hair. This method works well for your legs, bikini line, arms, back, and chest.









Coat the area in a shave gel or cream and let it set for a few minutes before you begin shaving. Never shave dry skin or without a lather. Keeping the skin moist helps reduce irritation by helping the razor glide along the skin instead of dragging, reducing irritation and ingrown hair.Make sure to use a sharp razor; dull razors can cause irritation and cut your skin. Change the razor blades every 5-6 uses.
 Waxing is an inexpensive, effective method because it removes the hair from the roots and gets rid of the hair for longer periods of time.Home wax kits can be purchased online, at major retailers, and at beauty supply shops. They usually come with cloth strips and wooden applicators. Read the directions carefully.
Let the hair grow to about a quarter of an inch before waxing. However, don't let the hair get too long or thick.
Apply the wax on the area in the direction that the hair grows. Place the strip on top. Hold the skin taut, and then quickly pull the strip off in the opposite direction that the hair grows.Don't overheat the wax. Wax must be heated to a hot temperature to melt, and can burn the skin when the hot wax is applied. Follow the directions of your kit carefully to avoid injury.
Waxing can cause redness and irritation to the skin. In some instances, waxing can cause infection.Waxing can also cause acne or darkening of the skin., Hair removal creams contain mildly caustic chemicals made of thioglycolates.These creams dissolve the hair at the skin's surface.








Clean and moisturize the skin before applying the cream. Just like with shaving or tweezing, hairs that have been softened are more easily removed.
Depilatory creams contain chemicals, and some people's skin may have adverse reactions to them. Test a section of your skin before removing the hair to prevent rashes and breakouts.
Read the instructions carefully. Don't leave the cream on the skin longer than the directions state. Don't try to leave on longer to get rid of stubborn hair.
Make sure you buy a depilatory cream intended for the body. The formulas for the body have higher concentrations of the chemicals., Many at-home laser hair removal products are on the market. Many of these products emit light pulses or flashes that help get rid of hair, and can be used on the entire body for a full body hair removal treatment.


Look for a system that is FDA approved. FDA approved systems are generally more expensive than ones offered through private companies whose products have not been FDA approved. These systems can run as expensive as $600.Many of these systems result in 70% hair reduction after 3 months of use.
When using a hair removal system for large areas, like the legs or back, you may have to buy an attachment or larger head for the machine that covers a wider area. These tools have limited numbers of flashes, so using them on large areas of the body may mean you'll have to buy replacement cartridges.
 If you only have a few errant unwanted hairs on your chest, shoulders, or back, use tweezers to remove them. Tweezers are the most effective method for removing small areas of hair.

