 The phone guy was a previous security guard at Freddy Fazbear's Pizza. He will give you useful and important information. Some of the information he gives is to check security cameras often, as well as to close doors and turn on lights only if necessary. He also give some background information on the restaurant itself.


As the nights go on, the Phone Guy's messages will be shorter. Apply what you have learned from him. The movement patterns of the animatronics will be much faster than the first night.
On the fourth night, the Phone Guy has recorded his last message. It is his last message because he is about to be attacked by animatronics, or as many people assume, Golden Freddy (a hallucination you can see on any night).;
, You have a limited power supply for each night. If you run out of power, Freddy may catch you. Your shifts last for six hours, from 12 AM to 6 AM, so keep this in mind while rationing power. The transition from 5 AM to 6 AM can interrupt Freddy's attack if you run out of power, so try to survive until 5 AM at the least.
 While the game will still be tough the first two days, the animatronics will become more active on the third night. Be sure to have most of your power saved. You'll need it much more on nights three, four, and five.
 There are five animatronics in the game: Bonnie the Bunny, Chica the Chicken, Foxy the Pirate Fox, Freddy Fazbear, and Golden Freddy. Bonnie and Chica come from the left and right doors, having a random path. Foxy goes to the left door and is more aggressive depending on how much you check on him. Freddy comes to the right in a single path. Golden Freddy is summoned through a rare appearing poster., The Phone Guy will not have a message for you that night, so you will be on your own. The animatronics will be as active as ever as this is the last main night, and this is the one that you'll need your power the most. On night five you get a strange, garbled phone call that is speculated to come from Freddy. It's quite possible that after Phone Guy's death, the animatronics had access to the phone, which is why you receive this. Don't let it distract you though!

, If this is your first time playing, be prepared. Five Nights at Freddy's is somewhat weird, and very scary. Be prepared for not just the fifth night, but things like jumpscares, animatronics traveling, and much more!


If you have succeeded in surviving the fifth night, you can play night six and seven.
Upon beating Night 6 you can unlock night 7. Here you can set the animatronic's AI difficulty.

