 It is recommended to begin your homework at least one month in advance before the conference date. Doing your homework is the first step towards efficient networking. Homework is preparing yourself on how you will network with the people you want to network with. So when you start thinking about networking, you should first answer the question "WHY?": why is it that you want to network? Then answer the question "WITH WHOM?". This is very critical step when planning your networking strategy.


Possible answers to the question "Why?" could be:

You want to make new connections so that it can open new opportunities for you.
You want to network since you are about to graduate and looking for a job.
You want people to know about you and your expertise.


Possible answers to the question "With whom?" could be:

Professors
Keynote Speakers
Attendees
Students
Organizers


Start your homework by reading the accepted papers on the conference website that every academic conference publishes before a conference.

Identify the papers in your areas of research e.g. computer security.
Narrow this category by making a list of papers that you are really interested in.
Look for the names of authors of those papers.
Try to find the authors' email addresses by searching in Google or visit their website or find their LinkedIn or Facebook profile.
Once you have all this information you are well equipped to begin your networking process.

;
, It is recommended to select a few people from your list and send them emails, saying that you are very interested in their work (which you genuinely should be) and you are looking forward to meet them in the conference. This will give them some preliminary notice and if they feel interested they will be looking forward to meet you too. If that is the case consider that you have been successful at your pre-conference networking stage.


If, however, you do not get a response to your email, don’t get disappointed, many people are too busy and they may or may not reply to your email. If this is the case, don't think your pre-conference networking strategy has failed, just consider that the networking process has started and you should take the opportunity to take this further during the actual conference.
Another thing that may happen is that the person responds to you informing that s/he is not attending the conference, in which case you may initiate an email communication if you are really keen on developing that relationship. In this case you may ask them if they would be happy to be part of your LinkedIn Professional Network. If they agree then send them a request immediately and then follow up on your communication.
 Networking during the actual conference (or event) is very interesting and there are millions of opportunities for you to network. Look at the potential opportunities for networking during the conference. You can:


Network with the person in front (or back) of you when you are in a queue at the registration desk.
Network with the person in front (or back) of you when are in a queue for lunch or dinner.
Network during the evening reception party.
Network during the conference gala dinner or banquet.
Network with the person sitting next to you on either side during the conference sessions.
Network during tea break.
Network during the social event like a tour.
 you should start to speak. This is very important and if you are keen on networking, it is strongly recommended that "you break the ice", i.e. you begin to talk. The best way to go about doing this is looking into their eyes, once they respond, give a smile and introduce yourself. This is the best way to begin the chat.


You can tell your name, and ask them their name, where they are from and the discussion should easily flow from there onwards. After the first few exchange of words, you will feel relaxed and more comfortable talking to them and so would they. If you have done this successfully you have successfully crossed the first hurdle. Congratulate yourself for your achievement.

Ask if this is their first visit to this country or city.
Ask if they are regular attendees at the conference.
Where they are from, university or industry?
What are their areas of research? Do they match with you?
How long they are going to stay in the city?
Do they have any sight-seeing plans, ask if you can join them, if they don't maybe you can invite them to join you.
 Many people would consider the worst part of a conference is being alone and having no one to talk to.


If this person you are talking to is not in your target list, then consider this as an ad hoc networking opportunity, don’t let this go by, you never know who they know, who their friends are. Consider every opportunity to meet new people as the most valuable and cherish it.
Networks built now will create opportunities in the future.
 This further helps in building the relationship and trust.


Keep in mind that networking is not about you, it's about them.
 Targeted networking should be always on your agenda - remember you have done enough homework for this type of networking. When you find the right person with who you want to network, keep a few things in mind:


Firstly, they are here to network too.
So their time is important as well, so try to keep your discussion brief and to the point.
If, however, the person seems to be interested in what you are talking about, then judge how long you want to continue your discussion.
Keep in mind that conference time is limited and you also need to talk to other people on your list.
Once you get an opportunity to talk follow the steps discussed in Step 4. If this person has responded to your email before the conference, then s/he knows that you will be going to see him or her, in which case they may have assigned some time for you. When you get time to talk, ask them if they are available now or would they prefer to talk to you later at some other time.
If s/he is available now then discuss what you wanted to discuss with them. It is better to be well prepared so that you do not miss any important points during the discussion. This should be part of your homework as well. Make a list of questions that you want to ask and arrange that in a logical sequence. It would be good that you do not make it feel like an interview, try to remember what you want to ask and then ask.
Ask them if they would be happy for a more detailed meeting some time later either in person or over Skype or over the phone. Ask them if they would be happy if you contact them later in case you have any other questions. If you have their consent it would be very helpful later on.

