 Hamsters will try to chew them, potentially dying or starting a house fire. Make sure all cables are secured high out of reach, taping them to the wall if necessary. It may also help to install plastic "trunking" around the cables, to slow the hamster's access.;
, Check the entire perimeter of the wall at hamster height. Spackle or block off any holes, even the smallest ones. Hamsters can keep chewing at these gaps until they're large enough to escape through.
 Lilies, Amaryllis, and most plants that emerge from a bulb can be toxic to hamsters. When in doubt about whether the plant is harmful, move the plant to another room.
 Move any fragile or heavy objects that could fall over if the hamster knocked them, or if you bumped the furniture. Gather anything laying on the ground, especially sharp objects and pieces small enough for the hamster to eat.
 If you have cats or dogs in the house, put up a barrier in the doorway so they can't slip in after you.
 Second hand smoke may harm your hamster's health.
 Put a portable animal gate or other barrier at the base of couches and beds. If the hamster does find its way into a crevice, you can usually lure it out with treats — but it saves effort to prepare in advance.
 Hamsters can chew through plastic cage bars, and sometimes can open the doors of a cheap model. A glass or plastic reptile tank with a mesh top could be a good alternative.


If you are using a cage, consider placing it inside a large plastic tub.
 Give the hamster some safe objects to play with, and some tunnels or structures to run around in and hide. You can easily make your own toys out of cardboard tubes and boxes.
 Never use cedar or pine shavings, which are toxic to many small animals. Look up reviews of other bedding products before buying, as heavy bedding intended for a larger pet could suffocate the hamster.
 Protect your escaped hamster by following the precautions above throughout your house. Keep a close eye on cats or dogs, and don't turn on the vacuum until you know he's safe in his cage.


Roll up rugs and set them aside to protect them from shredding.
Move house plants up out of reach.
When leaving the house, look around on the floor before opening the door.
Check behind the appliance before using the oven or stove. If the hamster is hiding behind it when you turn it on, the heat could kill it.
 Turn off all television and radio so you can hear the hamster. Sometimes you can hear them scurrying or even nibbling on some crumbs of food they've found.
 Keep a lightweight towel nearby so you can throw it over the hamster if you see it. You may be able to catch the hamster with your bare hands, but that can be difficult.
 A line of treats leading into the hamster cage can lure some hamsters back. Many hamsters will simply leave again after eating, but it's an easy method to try.
 A shoe box with a hole in it may entice a hamster looking for a hiding spot, especially if there are other animals in the house. Lead the hamster there with a line of treats, and put a little water dish inside. Check back daily to see if the hamster is there.


Put the shoe box in a closet or other out-of-the-way location.
Don't forget to remove the silica gel packet from the box, and from any other boxes within hamster reach.
 Choose the room where you last saw hamster poops, chew marks, or the hamster itself. Stuff gaps under the door with towels or fabric. Keep all windows closed, and cover all heat and air vents.
 Place a few treats in the center of the sealed room and leave them there overnight. If they're gone the next day, the hamster is in that room. If not, seal another room and try again.
 Place a bucket on the floor, with books positioned as stairs for your hamster to climb. Lay down a line of treats going up the "staircase", onto the lip of the bucket, and on the floor of the bucket. With any luck, the hamster will fall in trying to get the treats, and not be able to get out.