 Federal court rules as well as the rules in many state courts require the two parties in a civil case to meet and discuss the issue at the heart of any motion before that motion is filed.Explain to opposing counsel the party you want to add to the lawsuit, and why you want to add that person. If opposing counsel agrees that the person should be added as a party to the lawsuit, you would file a joint motion and the judge typically wouldn't hold a hearing on the matter.
If you believe joinder of the additional party is compulsory under the rules, explain your reasoning. Compulsory joinder means the judge has no discretion, that the case cannot continue without that party.
For example, if you have sued the driver in an auto accident, but the driver is insured, the insurance company should be a party to the suit. If you neglected to include the insurance company as a defendant, you would need to file a motion for joinder.
Similarly, if you were the defendant in the same lawsuit, you also would want to add your insurance company – so if the plaintiff didn't file a motion for joinder, you probably would. In that situation, it typically would be fairly easy to get agreement from the other side because adding the insurance company benefits both parties.
On the other hand, if joinder is permissive, it's much more important to get the other side's agreement because the judge could refuse to add the party – something he or she would be much less likely to do if it was something both sides wanted.;
, As part of your motion, you must file a memorandum of your arguments and the legal authorities – rules and court decisions in other cases – that support your argument that the new party should be joined.Before you draft your motion and supporting documents, you must review the rules that apply to joinder so you can ensure that you have information that demonstrates everything required for the judge to grant your request.
Rules 18 through 21 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure set forth the procedure and requirements for joinder in civil cases in federal court. State rules typically have similar numbers corresponding to the applicable federal rules.
Generally, joinder is compulsory if the new party must be included for the plaintiff to obtain complete relief (as in the example of adding an insurance company to a lawsuit arising out of a car accident) or if the new party has an interest in the lawsuit that won't be represented or protected unless they also are a party to the case.
Permissive joinder, on the other hand, is possible when distinct parties have claims that arise out of the same events and involve the same legal questions.
If you are the plaintiff, this typically is a situation in which you could bring two separate lawsuits against the two individuals, but you'd rather sue them both at the same time.
 The notice, which is intended for the opposing party, and the motion itself are fairly formulaic documents that simply ask the court to permit the new party to be joined. There typically is no argument or discussion of authority in the motion itself.If you're representing yourself, you should be able to find a form or template to use for the motion and notice.
Check with the clerk of the court in which you filed your original lawsuit to find out if the court has a template or fillable form you can use. Even if there isn't a form specifically for joinder, there may be a blank motion form available.
The caption on all documents related to your notice must be the same as the caption on your complaint and all other documents you've filed with the court, and have the same case number.
Keep in mind that even if you've elected to handle your case on your own, you always have the option of consulting an attorney if you have any questions regarding your motion.
You also can get an attorney to draft the documents for you, or to appear in court for you solely to argue the motion if you're facing strong opposition from the other side.
 Using the authorities you found in your research and the outline you created, draft your memorandum which will accompany your motion. The memorandum explains why the court should grant your motion.Your affidavit should contain only facts that support the joinder of the new party. Write these using the same basic format you used for allegations in your complaint (if you are the plaintiff), or to respond to those allegations in your answer (if you are the defendant).
Affidavits typically must be signed in the presence of a notary public. You are attesting that those facts are true under penalty of perjury.
To write and organize your memorandum, you may want to look at similar documents filed in other cases to guide you – just be sure you don't copy the language in them verbatim as they apply to different cases with different facts.
The clerk or the law librarian at the public library in the courthouse can help you find copies of supporting memoranda, and the law librarian can assist you with your research.
 Typically when you file a motion you also must submit an order for the judge to sign. This proposed order grants your motion on the terms for which you've argued. However, submitting the proposed order doesn't mean the judge will grant your motion.Aside from the names of the parties and other specifics, a proposed order of joinder typically looks the same from one case to the next.
To get the language and formatting correct, ask the clerk for a copy of a joinder order signed by the same judge assigned to your case.
 Once you've finalized and signed your documents, you must take the originals and two copies to the clerk's office to file them with the court. You also may be able to file your motion by mailing it to the clerk's office, but keep in mind that this may delay the filing date on the motion.You must pay a filing fee, typically $100 or less, to file your motion unless you've been granted a fee waiver.
If you haven't yet applied for a fee waiver and can't afford the filing fees, ask the clerk for one. You'll have to provide details about your income and assets, but if you fall below the court's financial threshold you won't have to pay any court fees.
When you file your motion, the clerk will stamp all your documents "filed" with the date and give the copies back to you. One copy is for your own records, the other for opposing counsel.
If you file your motion through the mail, the clerk's office will return the copies to you and then you'll have to serve the other side with their copy.
 Typically you must check the calendar of the judge to whom your case has been assigned and select a proposed date for the motion to be heard.Different courts have different procedures for this. In some courts you choose the date yourself, while in others the clerk assigns a hearing date.
Regardless of how the hearing date is chosen, that date should be filed in on your notice of motion form that you send to the other side.
Typically the date will be a month or more out from the date you filed your motion, to provide time for service and response from the opposing counsel.
 Within 24 hours of the date your motion is filed, you must have a copy of your motion and all related documents served on opposing counsel. Service typically can be completed by hand-delivery or by mailing the documents using certified mail with returned receipt requested.If you use certified mail, you'll have to fill out and file a proof of service form with the clerk.
If you choose to have your motion hand-delivered by a sheriff's deputy (a U.S. marshal in federal court) or a private process serving company, they typically will complete the proof of service form and take it to the clerk for you.
 Opposing counsel has a brief period of time – typically about 10 days – to file an opposition memorandum to the motion. If no opposition is filed, the judge may cancel the hearing and grant the motion by default.The deadline to file an opposition may be measured from the date of the hearing rather than the date of service. For example, the court may require opposition by filed no later than 21 days before the date of the hearing.
If opposing counsel files an opposition memorandum, this document will be served on you just as you served the motion. Read it carefully and make sure you understand the arguments raised, because you will have to counter them at the hearing if you want the judge to grant your motion.
You are not required to reply in writing to the opposition memorandum. However, if you wish to do so, make note of the deadline for a timely reply, which typically is only a few days after receipt of the opposition memorandum.
Your reply cannot introduce new facts or issues. It can only contain matter that relates to the opposition memorandum filed by opposing counsel.
 Assuming the judge has not cancelled the hearing, you must appear at court in person to present your argument as to why the new party should be joined in the case.Keep in mind that if you don't show up, the judge typically won't grant your motion. If the hearing is still scheduled, you'd to show up for it.
The judge may cancel the hearing if there is no opposition to your motion, or if he or she reads the documents and decides oral argument isn't necessary.
Make sure you arrive at the courthouse at least a half hour before the time your hearing is scheduled so you have time to go through entry security and find the correct courtroom.
When you get to the courtroom, take a seat in the gallery. Judges typically have "motion days" in which they hear motions in many different cases on the same day, so it may take awhile before your motion is called.
 When your case is called, indicate that you are present and ready to argue your motion. The judge will call you to the front of the courtroom when it's time for you to present.Since it's your motion, you typically will speak first. Outline the points raised in your memorandum to argue in favor of joining the new party.
The points you stress will differ depending on whether you claim the joinder is necessary or permissive.
If you're claiming joinder is necessary and opposing counsel has filed an opposition memorandum, understand that you face the risk the judge may dismiss your case in its entirety. This typically happens if the judge finds that joining the other party is indeed necessary, but that the court does not have jurisdiction over that person.
To save your lawsuit in that instance, you must be able to prove either that the court has jurisdiction over the new party, or that the new party is willing to waive any jurisdictional objections they may have.
 Once you've completed your presentation, opposing counsel will be asked to explain why the other side opposes joining the new party to the action.Pay attention and take notes if there's anything said that you want to counter. The judge may give you an opportunity to respond or "rebut" any evidence or information introduced by opposing counsel.
Avoid disrupting the proceedings or interrupting when the other side is speaking. Give them a chance to make their argument as you had an opportunity to make yours.
 After hearing from both sides, the judge will decide whether to grant your motion. If your motion is granted, the judge typically will sign the proposed order you submitted along with your motion and memorandum.If the new party is added to the case, you may be responsible for getting copies of documents to them that have previously been filed.
Keep in mind that from now on, any documents you file with the court must be served on all parties to the case, including the new party you just had joined.
If the judge decides not to grant your motion, your case may carry on as it was or the judge may decide your case must be dismissed. #*If the judge dismisses your case because a necessary party could not be joined, you typically must refile the lawsuit in a court that has jurisdiction over all the parties to the case. This may mean that, for example, you must take a case originally filed in state court and re-file it in federal court.

