 Whether you’re in a home or commercial kitchen, you need to have access to a fire extinguisher. Fire extinguishers do exactly what their name suggests – they extinguish fires with a chemical foam that prevents fires from obtaining more oxygen. These are an excellent tool and can prevent small fires turning in to big fires, but remember, your food won’t be edible after you use an extinguisher.Commercial kitchens will need to follow their city’s code requirements about how many extinguishers are needed and where they should be located.
Typically an extinguisher is kept below the kitchen sink in a home kitchen.;
, You should have an accessible first-aid kit whether you’re cooking in a commercial or home kitchen. At the minimum, your kit should contain plenty of sterile gauze, bandages, a first-aid burn gel, and scissors to cut away any clothing that might be touching the burned area. Periodically check your kit to make sure that the contents are still there and that they aren’t expired.Cities will have requirements about what your commercial first-aid kit should contain.
 Lower your hot water heater’s thermostat to 120 – 125 degrees so that water from the faucet won’t scald you. Water heated above this temperature can cause scalding burns, and is an unsafe temperature, especially if there are children in the house.Turning down the temperature on your hot water heater will also save you money. The higher the temperature, the more your water heater has to work to keep the water heated at such a high temperature.
Consider installing anti-scald devices on tubs or faucets that children can access.
 Whether you’re in a commercial or home kitchen, it’s a great idea to have someone trained in first aid present at all times. If this is a home kitchen, that person will be you, of course. Being trained in first aid will show you a variety of life-saving techniques, and also teach you how to identify and treat burns., Make sure that your hair is not hanging down, exposed to any sort of flame or heat, and that your clothes fit relatively close to your body. Baggy or loose clothing can ignite easily because it hangs much closer to heat sources than the rest of your body. While clothing fires aren’t typical, they do account for 18% of fire-related fatalities.If you have long hair, consider keeping a head scarf, hair tie, or hair net in the kitchen to use when you cook.

