 Singing classically requires that you are familiar with your voice’s range and type so that you sing parts appropriate for you. Your vocal range refers to the span between the lowest note you can sing and the highest. Explore this with your voice teacher if possible. Sing the lowest note possible followed by the highest note possible, using a keyboard or piano to confirm the notes. Write down each note.
The distance between the lowest note you can sing and the highest note is your vocal range.
 Breathing properly is one of the most important parts of singing classically. Inhale while expanding your breath into your lower ribs and upper abdominal region and then exhale in a slow, controlled manner as you sing the note.


Make sure your head, spine, and pelvis are aligned and your shoulders are relaxed as you sing.
Keep your throat relaxed.
Don’t push or squeeze your abdomen while singing.
 Diction is one of the basic elements of classical singing. It affects the way we sing and how our voices sound to others.While singing, open your mouth as only as far as is necessary and comfortable for your voice to travel unobstructed. Keep it relaxed.
Sing “mah, mee, moo, meh, moh” and focus on singing each vowel clearly and accurately.
Watch the consonants b, p, and f while singing as they can cause a popping sound. To avoid this make sure your breathing is controlled.
If you have a voice instructor, ask him or her for some at-home diction exercises you can practice daily.
 Warm up for 10 minutes with vocal exercises and then spend 10 minutes on the song. Record yourself if possible and then listen to the recording.Pay attention to pitch and diction.
Ask yourself while listening to the recording, “Are my words understandable? Are my vowels and consonants clear?”

, Use your vocal and breathing exercises to warm up for at least 10 minutes. Pay attention to your breathing and diction.


Try a song by Michael Head or John Ireland.
Try singing a piece by Schubert in the English language, like Ave Maria.
 Legato focuses on singing long vowels over steady lines in the song. Coloratura refers to including vocal improvisation in a song such as a trill or arpeggio.Try singing a trill by alternating your voice rapidly between two notes. You are practicing coloratura!
Try practicing legato by singing long vowels and short consonants. Keep your mouth and abdomen relaxed.
 It’s important to be consistent with your training as a classical singer. Make sure you don’t skip voice lessons.


Make your voice lessons a priority each week.
Make sure your voice lessons don’t conflict with other obligations. If they do, work with voice instructor to schedule lessons for a time that works best for both of you.
 Training to become a classical singer takes daily dedication. Set aside a set amount of time to practice each day.


Work with your voice instructor to put together a regular home practice schedule. This will differ for each student.
Ask your voice instructor for singing and breathing exercises you can do at home. Practice these daily.
Make your home practice a priority by sticking to your schedule.
 Performing is a great way to boost your skills as a classical singer and gain important performance experience. Work with your voice instructor on an audition piece and use it to audition for a role.


Check the audition schedule for your local opera. Sign up for an audition and give it your best!
Audition for your school’s next classical music performance.
It’s okay if you don’t get a starring role after your first audition. Chalk it up to experience and start practicing for the next one!

