 Chamomile tea is one of the most common herbal teas, and has relaxing properties that reduce stress and encourage restful sleep. Regularly drinking the tea can even combat chronic sleep problems such as insomnia.While you can enjoy a cup of chamomile tea at any time, it typically is best to drink right before bed.
In high-stress situations or if you have problems with anxiety, however, chamomile tea can help you relax at any time without necessarily putting you to sleep.
You can find chamomile tea in most grocery stores, either in bagged or loose-leaf form.
 Lemon balm tea can be a great option if you're feeling down or having trouble staying motivated during the winter months. If children drink it before bed, it may even keep them from having nightmares.This tea calms your nerves and also can help manage thyroid problems.
Lemon balm tea can be consumed hot or cold.
Lemon balm is easy to grow, so if you're thinking about starting an herb garden you may want to add lemon balm to your list.
If you are on medication for depression or other mental conditions, talk to your doctor or therapist before you add lemon balm tea to your diet. You want to make sure there won't be any negative interactions.
 While green tea also helps you lower your stress levels, white tea has a more significant effect. Less caffeine in white tea might explain why it's better at decreasing stress than green tea.The entire ritual of drinking white tea to calm your nerves and reduce stress has been a part of Chinese and other Asian cultures for centuries.
To drink white tea for relaxation, steep the leaves in hot – not boiling – water for just a few minutes in a closed container.
Drinking your tea hot rather than cold may provide a more relaxing and calming effect.
 Caffeine also improves brain performance, but it's a substance called theanine, found in black tea, that has significant power to enhance your cognitive processes.While caffeine can help you stay alert, theanine also has a calming effect. The two compounds working together may explain why you are better able to think and focus after drinking a cup of tea.
Improved cognitive performance is especially noticeable in people over 70 who drink tea on a regular basis.

