 Villagers, or the funny animals walking around in town and greeting you, are important members of the community. Each one is just dying to befriend you! Simply press A when around them (or tap the villager in Wild World and New Leaf), and select the first dialogue option to get them talking! The more you talk to them, they more they’ll trust you.
 Each and every villager has their own interests and opinions, and while they all fall within 4 personality groups per gender, they all still have their personal interests and unique requests. Make sure you listen to their dialogue closely, and talk to them often.

Sometimes, if you befriend them well enough, they will start handing out furniture for no other reason than friendship! Usually, you can tell if you’re good friends if they always make a surprised animation (exclamation point over the head, cheery “surprise” lines) and immediately walk towards you. The more often this happens, the closer you are to that villager.
 Different villagers have different requests and interests. Some might challenge you to a fishing or bug-catching competition, some might ask you to trade items, and some might just ask you to take a letter or item to another villager. If you’re in the middle of a request or just finished the request, when you talk to the villager who gave or is related to the request, the two options when talking turn into three, with the first option simply either asking about the request or to hand over the requested item. If you hand over the right item, you’ll get a random reward from the villager, usually some furniture!

It sometimes takes a while and some effort to fulfill the requests, like fishing or digging up fossils with your shovel. Other times, you’ll have to give up something from your inventory. But sometimes it’s just as simple as delivering letters or answering them correctly. Don’t be shy when talking to your villagers!

, A Tool would help broaden the scope of your requests, since certain villagers are more into certain hobbies, like bug catching or digging for fossils, than asking you to deliver letters. Tools can be bought for 500 Bells each in the town store, run by Tom Nook or, in New Leaf, Tommy and Timmy. In the previous games, the store is placed randomly in each individual town, but in New Leaf, it’s found in Main Street.

The commonly used Tools you could buy are Shovels, Axes, Nets, and Fishing Rods. Other tools are available in certain games: Watering Cans, Slingshots, and Timers are available from Wild World onwards. Shopping Cards are available only in City Folk, and Tweeters, Megaphones, Hammers and Wet Suits are only currently available in New Leaf.

