 Prior to being taken to the surgical suite a nurse or anesthesiologist will put an intravenous line (IV) into the patient’s arm. The intravenous (IV) line in the patient’s arm will be used during surgery. In many cases a second IV is inserted in the other arm after the patient is under anesthesia.


The patient may receive a sedative in the preoperative area before moving to surgery. The sedative will help the patient to relax.An anesthetist may have to use more medication to achieve general anesthesia if a patient is highly anxious.
Prior to surgery, the patient will go to sleep by receiving general anesthetics through the IV and sometimes through a face mask as well. Delivering the anesthesia through the mask alone is also an option that may be used in some cases. For example, if the patient is a child who is afraid of needles, then a mask may be used to administer medications.This option, called “mask induction,” is not often used in adults or larger children, because it can be less effective and risky to induce general anesthesia without first securing an IV.
 Because many anesthetic medications will prevent patients from breathing adequately on their own, the anesthesiologist will want to secure the patient’s airway, usually with either a laryngeal mask airway or an endotracheal tube. Placement of an endotracheal tube is called intubation. In this procedure, the anesthesiologist will place a tube into the patient’s trachea in order to protect the lungs and help the patient breathe during surgery. This tube will be hooked up to a machine that will help the patient breathe during the procedure.


The endotracheal tube used in intubation is a flexible plastic tube that goes through the patient’s mouth with the help of an instrument called a laryngoscope. This instrument helps the anesthesiologist lift up the tongue and pharynx, or tissues of the mouth, in order to see well enough to pass the tube into the patient’s lungs.
Because intubation usually happens when the patient is asleep, patients may occasionally have a cut lip or chipped tooth if placement of the endotracheal tube was difficult. It is important for patients to notify their anesthesiologist if they have loose teeth, which can increase this risk.
After surgery, some patients will have a sore throat from the endotracheal tube. This can last one to two days and is a normal side effect of intubation

, Complications from placing the tube down the esophagus toward the stomach instead of the lungs will result in inadequate oxygenation, brain damage and possibly death. For this reason a qualified and experienced physician places the endotracheal tube and checks placement before the start of surgery. Other complications from endotracheal intubation include:Knocking out a tooth during insertion of the tube, or intubation
Damage to the lips, teeth or tongue
Low blood pressure from the anesthetic medications
Lung infection, such as pneumonia, more so with prolonged intubation

, Some patients are at a higher risk of complications from intubation, which is why it is so important to review the patient’s medical history and perform a physical exam. Patients that are at high risk for a difficult intubation may require an awake intubation, which can be performed with numbing medicine and sedation. This is done to ensure the patient’s safety, and after the endotracheal tube is in place, the anesthesiologist will then provide anesthesia medications.Factors that increase the risk of difficult intubation include:Neck or cervical spine injury that limits flexion or extension of the neck
Thick neck circumference
Small mouth opening
Small chin or inability to move the jaw forward
Previous head or neck radiation or surgery
Recent meal

, Once the patient is under anesthesia from IV or inhaled induction, with a secure airway and appropriate ventilation, the anesthesiologist will monitor the patient’s vital signs and treat the patient with a variety of medications and fluids to keep her stable throughout surgery. The anesthesiologist will communicate with the surgeon throughout the procedure to ensure the patient’s safety. The vital signs that the anesthesiologist will monitor include:Oxygen saturation levels
Heart rate and rhythm
Blood pressure
Respiratory rate
Body temperature
Blood loss
Urine output, depending on the type of surgery
Central venous pressure, depending on the type of surgery
Cardiac output and other invasive cardiac monitoring, depending on the patient or type of surgery

