 The tool in the illustrations has damage caused by misuse or poor tool maintenance, but the problem isn't always this obvious. You can take the following steps to try to determine where the problem is with your drill:


Make sure the drill is plugged into a receptacle that has the correct voltage. You might plug a similar tool into the same receptacle to test the power, and if the alternate tool works, you can continue.
Inspect the tool and its power cord. Most drills are double insulated, so if you see burnt connectors on the plug, or one is missing, you can assume that this might be causing the problem. Look for damaged insulation or other signs of a problem as well.
Smell the drill's motor where the vents are visible. If the internal parts have overheated, there will be a distinct odor of burnt plastic.
Hold the trigger in the "on" position and tap the drill lightly, making sure the chuck is in a safe position. Loose wires and bad brushes sometimes will allow the drill to run intermittently when you tap the drill.;
, Remove the drill's switch cover so you can test the wires and motor after you have completed the previous steps. If you have already determined the cord is damaged, you can probably skip the testing steps and proceed with repairs.


Test the drill's power cord for continuity with an ohmmeter to determine if the conductors are broken. This can be done by connecting the test leads to the prong on each side and the terminal at the drill's switch.
If you read continuity on each wire, you can test the switch itself. Squeeze the trigger while contacting the terminals on each side to see if the circuit through the switch is making a connection.
 Many drills (and other tools) have screw type connections at the switch; these are removed by simply loosening the screws and removing the wires. For stabbed in connections, you might insert a small diameter sharp instrument next to the wire to depress the locking tag that secures the wire, then pull the wire free from the connector.
, If the power cord has obvious damage near the drill, you may be able to cut the damaged section from the cord and reuse it, although it will be substantially shorter than when it was new.
 If your drill is double insulated, you need to replace the cord with a two-wire cord the same size as the original; if it is grounded, use a three-wire, three pronged cord for a replacement. Do not use a two wire cord for a grounded tool.
,, Tighten the clamps/screws tightly if applicable., Replace the drill switch cover, tightening all of its fasteners snugly.
 If it fails to operate, you may find you need to replace the switch or the brushes, but otherwise, you will need to replace the drill.

