 This is the first major step when it comes to pruning. To ensure the long-term health of the plant, you want to cut back anything that looks dead or discolored. That way, you can prevent the disease from spreading to the rest of the plant. Cut the branches back to a node or flush with the main stem.


Remember to wipe your pruning shears with the disinfectant after pruning diseased branches before pruning healthy branches to prevent disease from spreading.
Remove the diseased branches from the area, so they don't contaminate the plant.
 Pruning should open up the plant and allow it to grow into a healthy shape. If certain branches seem to be threatening the health of the plant, cut them away. Step back to look at the bougainvillea and continue pruning to obtain the shape you desire.Bear in mind that with each cut you make, new branches will emerge. Pruning helps the plant grow thicker and bushier. If you see an area that looks stringy, make a strategic cut to help it branch out there.
Many bougainvillea are trained to grow up a trellis or along a fence. As you prune, you can gently wrap new shoots around the structure to which the plant is being trained, to encourage growth in that direction.
Bougainvillea shrubs can be pruned to achieve all sorts of shapes. If you're growing yours in a pot, you can even prune it to take on the shape of a small tree.
 Trimming different from pruning, in that you're not taking out entire branches, but instead performing smaller cuts designed to maintain the shape of the plant. Use pruning shears to trim the tips of the branches just after the last node. This will encourage a new branch to form there.


You can remove dead wood from the plant by trimming it at any time of year, but save the bigger pruning cuts for early spring, when the plant won't get damaged.
 Perform what is called pinch pruning in between regular prunings. Simply pinch off the tops of the blooms with your fingers once they have faded, then pinch back to the next nearest branch. This will encourage new growth and new blooms.
 You can encourage a flush of new blooms by cutting back the new growth by half at the midpoint of the blooming cycle. Make cuts just above nodes to encourage new branching to occur.Be sure not to wait too late in the season, though, since toward the end of the cycle it will be too late to encourage new blooms.
Don't cut into the old growth until early spring.

