 It is said that first impressions last and usually they do. Answer these basic questions in the introduction:


Who are you?
What do you/your company do?
Who can vouch for you?
What are your achievements?;
, When you start to write or create your business proposal, start with telling your prospect about who you are, as an individual and/or as a company.
 However, do not go into too much detail. If you need to show them your projects, highlight the major accomplishments.If you have yet to accomplish anything, highlight the value you have to offer for their business.
((Remember to ask your clients for permission to disclose or mention them in your proposals first.) This shows them the company you keep and provide them an idea of the kind of service you extend especially if your portfolio includes reputable and good organizations. "Show me who your friends are and I will tell you who you are" - again, as the cliché says.
 To do this, answer the following questions:


Why are you reaching out to them?
What can you offer?
How can you help them?

, Tell the prospect what you know about their business.
 Demonstrate the value that you provide.
 Try to look at those challenges as opportunities.
 The more you grow familiar with each other and establish a relationship with your prospect, the greater the opportunities to do business with them. Remember that it is always easier to do business with a friend than a stranger.
 However, always talk in the context of where you could add value to your prospect's business. The conversations should be customer centered.
 Talk about life, love, the weather, etc. Find a common passion you share and allow this to be the tie that binds you together in friendship. This is part of the reason why golf has been a sport for business people.
 Check the temperature and get their opinion on how they feel about doing business with you.
 Ask the prospect what they thought about your proposal, especially if it did not make a good impression and seal the deal for you. This way you can check where your mistakes were and improve.
 After you have forwarded and sent your business proposal, check on your prospect on a regular basis. Good sales people understand that a sale can be made after three to five "no's". Timing is key.

