 Smiling can help to brighten up your face and let your inner beauty shine through. Smiling also gives an impression of happiness and confidence, while also making your seem more approachable. Smiling often will help you to look your best, regardless of whether or not you are wearing makeup.
 If you are not happy, your unhappiness will certainly show, whether or not you are wearing makeup. Smiling is one part of projecting your happiness. Other ways to show your inner happiness are to spend time with people that make you laugh, do things that you love, and maintain a positive attitude.



Being positive can be a very attractive feature. A pleasant attitude and positive outlook on life and bring good things to your life.
 True beauty shines from within, so try to stop believing that you need your mascara to feel confident and start believing in you. Stand up tall, with your shoulders back and your chin up. Make eye contact with people and smile frequently.


Remember that makeup is simply a tool used to emphasize certain features—your natural beauty has been there all along.
 Getting plenty of sleep can help to improve your overall appearance and make it easier for you to maintain a positive attitude. While everyone needs a different amount of sleep, in general, kids in middle and high school generally need 9 to 11 hours of sleep, while adults over the age of 18 generally need 7 to 8 hours of sleep.If you are unable to get a full night’s sleep for some reason, and wake up with bags under you’re eyes, don’t fret. Put two metal spoons in the freezer for ten minutes. Once the ten minutes are up, press one spoon under each of your eyes, over your under-eye bags. This will help to reduce the puffiness.
 Drinking plenty of water each day can help to flush out toxins in your body, which in turn can help to keep your skin glowing and radiant. In general, the amount of water you need each day depends on how active you are.


Girls that are 9 to 13 years old generally need 2.1 liters (0.6 US gal) of water, while boys of the same age need 2.3.Girls that are 14 to 18 years old generally need 2.3 liters (0.6 US gal) of water, while boys that are the same age need 3.3 liters (0.9 US gal)., Looking and feeling healthy has a lot to do with what you put into your body. Skin, especially, can be affected by a poor diet. Try to cut out as many greasy, fatty, sugary foods as possible and load up on fruits, vegetables, whole grains and lean meats instead.


Take a vitamin supplement if you feel you are not getting all of your daily requirements from your diet alone. Vitamins A, C and E are all particularly beneficial for the skin.
 When you are dealing with stress on a daily basis, you are more likely to form blemishes on your skin. Try to reduce the amount of stress you deal with each day. Some ways to reduce the stress you feel include:


Practicing yoga.

Doing breathing exercise.
Trying mediation.

