 Keeping a big promise every now and again isn’t nearly as meaningful as keeping your end of the bargain on day-to-day stuff. Make honesty a policy. Even white lies can feel like little betrayals. Make sure your actions always reflect your words – and vice versa. If you want to make your parents happy, then one of the best things you can do is to be worthy of their trust.


Your parents may spend a lot of time worrying that you’re not being open with them. The best thing you can do is show them that you want to talk to them about the things that are going on in your life.
If your parents feel like you have an honest relationship and that you don’t hide anything from them, then that will make them very happy.
 Show that you not only care, but also enjoy their company. It doesn’t take much: start by turning off the TV, sitting down, and talking. You can also invite them to get out for a while by going bowling, swimming, or doing something else fun and active. Family time doesn’t have to be boring, and it can be just as fun as you want it to be, whether you go check out a new Italian restaurant or play charades. Your parents will want to spend time with you more than anything else, and being around them more will make them very happy.


Instead of closing the door to your room, leave it open, showing your parents that you want to spend time with them instead of shutting them out of your life.
Pick a weekly night for family time, whether it’s every Sunday or every other Wednesday. Plugging family time into your routine will definitely make your parents happy.
The key thing with spending time with your parents is that you should act like you want to be there, not like you’re just doing it to make them happy and wishing you could be with your friends instead.
 Compliment them sincerely by telling them something you love about them. Make your parents feel like you don’t take them for granted and that you really are grateful for all of the things they do for you. Never let a day go by without saying thank you, and without showing that you couldn’t have done something without them. Your parents will be happier because they’ll see how much you appreciate them.


Let’s face it: it’s all too common for parents to get taken for granted, but that doesn’t mean it’s okay. Step outside the expected mold and make an effort to show them that you care.
Remember that your parents aren’t just parents; they’re people with their own goals and needs. They aren’t “required” to take care of you; they made a choice to care, and you should be appreciative of that.
 One way to make your parents happy is to make an effort to be a happy person yourself, whether it means finding love, a meaningful career, or pursuing a hobby that makes you happy. Studies show that parents are just as invested in the happiness of their adult children as their children when they are younger, so you should always work to be happy and to demonstrate your happiness if you want to make your parents happy themselves.It’s all too easy to call your parents to complain about your job or other annoying aspects of your life. However, you should call them to talk about the things you like, too. It’s important to be honest, but keeping up a good front won’t hurt, either.
 Another way to make your parents happy is to help out as much as you can around the house. This doesn’t mean you should just get your chores done early, but that you should go above and beyond to do what isn’t expected of you, such as doing extra laundry, wiping down the kitchen counters, or even vacuuming the house when your parents are out. Your parents will really appreciate the extra effort you’re making and they’ll be happier as a result.


This will make your parents especially happy when they’ve had a long day and really need someone to take some chores off their hands.
You don’t have to point out what you did; they’ll notice that the work got done, and they’ll feel instantly happier.
 Another thing you can do to make your parents happy is to surprise them with a nice, home-cooked meal. You don’t have to make something too elaborate, and just a simple pasta dish with a salad and chicken or fish will do just fine. The important thing isn’t that you’ve cooked a gourmet meal, but that you’ve taken the time to help out your parents, and have made it so they don’t have to worry about cooking that day.


Surprise them on a night when your parents are used to doing the cooking. Nothing will make them happier than coming home to a nice, home-cooked meal.
You’ll earn bonus points for helping clean up, too.
 Giving your parents a bit more affection can make them happy. Just a hug when you see them, a kiss on the cheek, a pat on the arm or shoulder, or any small affectionate gesture can really help light up their lives. You may be at the age where you think it’s not cool to be affectionate with your parents, but you have to get over that and give them the love and affection they need if you want them to be happy.


Just giving your parents a hug or a kiss before you go to school will make a difference in their days.
When your parents come home from work, don’t just stay in your room and greet them from the other side of the house. Make an effort to come down, give them a big hug, and ask about their day.
 If you want your parents to be happy, then one of the best things you can do is to develop a positive relationship with your sibling or siblings. Taking the time to be nice to your brother or sister can make your parents feel happy that their children are getting along, and it can also just make everything in your household run smoother. If you’re the older sibling, taking over some of the responsibilities of taking care of your younger sibling can also make your parents happier because they’ll have less to worry about.


If your younger sibling needs help with homework, offer to help out if your parents are having a busy day.
If you’re the younger sibling, then making an effort to be nice to your older sibling and to avoid starting fights can make a big difference.
 Your parents are probably used to you calling them when you need something or have a question only they can answer. If you want to make them happy, then you should call them just to say hi and to see how they’re doing. They’ll feel appreciated and cared for, and will be happy because you’ve taken the time to talk to them just because you wanted to, not because you needed something.


If you’re having a busy day, even a text message saying hi and asking how they’re doing can make a huge difference.
If you’re busy at work, sending them a quick email saying hi or sending a link to news article they might like can light up their day.

