 This method of peeling is usually much quicker if you remove the uneven ends containing the stem, resulting in two parallel surfaces instead.In preparation for cutting, hold the apple firmly against a cutting board with your non-dominant hand, curling your fingers inward in a "claw" shape. This keeps the tougher skin on your knuckles closer to the blade, which reduces the chance of a painful or serious injury when the knife slips.
 There are two main types of vegetable peeler. Straight peelers, with the metal section extending straight out of the handle like a knife, is meant to be pushed away from you. Y-shaped peelers have two "arms" forking out from the handle, with the metal blade extended between them. These work with a pulling motion instead. Some people tend to cut themselves more with one type than another, so if you find one peeler difficult to control, try the other type.
 You may have a steadier grip on your peeler, especially a Y-shaped peeler, if you place your thumb and index finger on opposite sides of the handle.Curl your other fingers around the handle to make your grip firm.
 Hold the apple firmly in your non-dominant hand, but keep your fingers on the sides of your apple, not on either end. Leave a wide strip of peel visible running between the two cut ends, with your fingers and knuckles nowhere near this path. Position your apple according to your type of peeler:


If using a straight peeler, hold the apple so this strip is flat, angled so you can move the hand holding the peeler straight across it without bending your arm uncomfortably.
If using a Y-shaped peeler, hold the apple so this strip is almost vertical, angled slightly away from you so you can pull the peeler down over this strip.
 Double check that the apple and your fingers are in the position described above. Slowly draw the blade of the vegetable peeler from one of the cut surfaces to the other, removing the strip of peel. Remember, push a straight peeler away from you, but pull a Y-shaped peeler down toward you.
 Continue to remove short strips of peel until all of the peel has been removed. Consider holding the apple over a cutting board, bowl, sink, or trash can to catch the peel as you remove it.









Practice moving slowly for at least three or four apples before you try to speed up. Even if you become comfortable cutting more quickly, switching to a different type or size of peeler may cause injury if you do not slow down and get used to it first.

