 18 is a huge milestone, so grab some friends and make a night of it. Try to keep your group to a wolf-pack sized crew–no more than five or so, close friends–and hit the town. If you go out, always travel in a group.


Make reservations if you've got a big party to make sure you'll get into the restaurant, club, or other venue you want to get into. If it requires tickets, buy tickets ahead of time. If it requires a cover charge, make sure everyone's got cash.
Depending on when you turn 18, this might be one of the last chances you have to catch up with your close friends before college, or before jobs start. It might be fun to head to a loud dance club, but it might also be fun to just hang out quietly and talk. Do what feels natural.
 If your town has one, finding an 18-and-over club can be a great way to explore the town and have some fun. Theses types of clubs are usually like most dance venues, but without alcohol. Lots of venues will have 18 listed as the minimum age, and if there's an event that happens around your birthday, it can be a great way to celebrate.


While it might be fun for you, also try to plan on underage members of your group. Don't make plans to go anywhere that everyone can't go, or just invite people who are over-18. Do a little planning to make sure nobody will be left out.
 Before you head out, make sure you know how you'll get from place to place and that you've got your rides arranged. Best to let someone else drive, especially if you're going to be drinking at all, but even if you're not. Taking away the stress of driving around can make the whole evening a lot easier and more fun.


Taking a cab is a safe bet, or arranging rides with family members or other close friends, but if you want to make your 18th epic, there's always the possibility of a limo.
If your town has access, using Lyft or Uber is a great way of getting from place to place. You can arrange to have a car meet you somewhere at a specific time.
 In a couple years, you'll definitely want to make sure that you documented your 18th. It's easier than ever these days, but don't forget to snap enough group pictures to keep track of everything you do this night. The pictures will be priceless.
 Your 18th should be a night of freedom and fun, but if you're going out you need to be extremely safe. Always stay in a group, make sure everyone's exchanged numbers before you go out, and let your parents or someone else close to you know where you're planning on going and what you're planning on doing. Make sure you start your birthday out on the right foot.

