 Another exception to attorney-client privilege is the crime-fraud exception. Essentially, this exception prevents a client from using an attorney to gain information that allows them to commit a crime.Keep in mind this doesn't apply to a client who has been charged with a crime and is speaking to a criminal defense attorney.
Any information exchanged between an attorney and their client for the purposes of putting on a defense to criminal charges in court remains privileged.
In that situation, the legal advice is being used in defense against charges that the client committed a crime – not to further the commission of the crime itself.
 It isn't necessary for a client to actually complete a criminal act. Their communications with an attorney still fall within the crime-fraud exception if they wanted to commit a crime at some point in the near future.A vague intention may not be enough. Typically to breach attorney-client privilege and require disclosure of the communication, you must prove that the client specifically intended to commit a particular crime at a definite time in the future.
If the client has already started planning the crime, that might be enough to prove that they intended to follow through with the commission of the crime.
In some states, you must show that the client intended to commit the crime "imminently," meaning within days or even hours of getting the legal advice from the attorney.
Intent is the key issue here. If someone merely asks an attorney if certain actions would be against the law, that isn't enough.
In that situation, you can't determine whether the client actually intends to commit a crime, or is asking because they want to avoid committing a crime.
 To fall within the crime-fraud exception, the client must seek legal advice for the explicit purpose of furthering a criminal act. Legal advice on how to cover up a criminal act that has already been committed also falls within the exception.The client's desires are the important factor here. It isn't necessary to prove that the legal advice the attorney provided actually helped the client achieve their criminal intent.
You only have to show that the client sought information from the attorney that they thought would help them commit the crime, or cover up evidence of the crime so they wouldn't be caught.
Whether the advice provided actually achieved that goal is irrelevant. In fact, it's often the case that the advice didn't help the client avoid getting caught – otherwise finding an exception to attorney-client privilege wouldn't be an issue.
 Attorney-client privilege is held by the client, not the attorney. The attorney isn't the one who needs the protection. Rather, the attorney-client privilege is supposed to protect the client so they can say things that might disadvantage them legally without worry.The protection is most obvious in the criminal defense context. If you've been charged with a crime, it's important for you to feel confident telling your attorney anything. Without full knowledge, your attorney may not be able to craft the strongest defense.
However you wouldn't feel comfortable telling your attorney everything if you were concerned that he or she might tell the prosecutor if you said something incriminating.
A strong attorney-client privilege means you can speak to your attorney without fear that something you say will be used against you. The privilege protects you as the client.
Thus, for the purposes of the crime-fraud exception, it isn't necessary for the attorney to know about the crime. They also don't have to know about their client's intent.
Essentially, you are not entitled to the protection of attorney-client privilege if you are abusing it to further your own criminal goals.
 Even if the communications fall within the crime-fraud exception of the attorney-client privilege, the attorney may still be able to protect documents or written communications under the work-product doctrine.Unlike attorney-client privilege, the work-product privilege is held by the attorney and protects the attorney and his or her work.
Attorneys may examine numerous hypothetical situations and possible options to find the best strategies to use in representing their clients.
If attorneys for the other side could find out details about all this research and analysis, it would give them an unfair advantage.
The work-product doctrine protects attorneys (and by extension, their clients) from this unfairness by not requiring them to disclose documents that were created during a lawsuit, or in anticipation of a lawsuit being filed.

