 Repetitive bad memories can be an indicator of post-traumatic stress disorder.This is a chronic condition that consists of intrusive thoughts or memories about a traumatic event; avoidance of things that make you remember the event; irrational and persistent negative beliefs about the event; and other symptoms such as a startle reflex or sleep disruption. If any of these symptoms describe the way you have been feeling, you need to contact a therapist or psychologist who has experience with trauma patients.Possible treatments for post-traumatic stress disorder include cognitive-behavioral therapy, exposure therapy, stress inoculation training, and medications. If you have PTSD, your mental health provider will discuss with you possible treatment options.
 You may have reached out to friends or family about these distressing memories, and, maybe, they were able to help. Nonetheless, it can be empowering and helpful to join a support group relating to trauma, grief, or anxiety.


Such a group exposes you to others who have encountered and prevailed through distressing situations. You can learn practical coping mechanisms to handle anxiety or stress. You may also make lifelong friends.
 If you truly want to move forward with your life and overcome the fear and anxiety of what happened to you, then your social circle makes a difference. Research shows happiness can be a chain reaction. If others around you are jolly and upbeat, it just might rub off on you.Life is short! Spend it with people whose company you enjoy and who make you feel good about yourself and life.
 How you connect with a higher power or the universe as a whole is up to you. Regardless, spiritual practices including meditation, prayer, and worship can be extremely effective at relieving symptoms of anxiety and depression that may come with painful memories.Having faith in the future and working to understand your purpose in life can be life-changing during distressing times. Consider spirituality as a helpful coping resource to help you manage upsetting memories and thoughts in the future.

