 This may be your living area, bedroom, or out in the middle of the desert or the woods with God's creation.;
, You may bring a hard copy of the Bible, or a digital copy on your notebook, smartphone, or tablet. You can get a free copy of an older version from a number of Internet sites.
 Try to see whether God is talking to you (perhaps, it may be through a still small voice in your conscience). Anything you are impressed that God is saying must agree with the Holy Spirit and the Holy Bible. The Universe and the sounds of nature are "part" of Him. God made the good and the not so good, to build character as we learn to cope with it. The Bible states that "it is better to listen than to talk." This means that it is better to be quiet, listen and agree with what God's Word - the Bible and Spirit has to say -- rather than talking to Him without listening or meditating on the Words of God.


If you don't hear God's voice, realize that "the word is near you, even in your mouth and in your heart (innermost being): that is, the word of faith (The Gospel), which we preach;" (Romans 10:8). So, quote a favorite promise of God's Word: "The Lord is my Shepherd, I shall not want..." (Psalm 23:1), "The Lord sets a table before me, in the presence of my enemies..." (Psalm 23:5), etc. You can read Psalm 23 here, for more remarkable verses.
 See whether God responds to your questions. God talks to His creation through His word and signs, as "the one who can do infinitely more than all we can ask or imagine according to the power that is working among us." (Ephesians 3:20). Write down your prayers, if that helps you to concentrate. Write down what God is telling you as well.
 It doesn't matter whether it is in your head or out loud. The more you talk to him the better you will feel in your heart. Jesus calls us His friends! Remember "God's love is perfect, and perfect love casts out all fear!"


Jesus said, "You are My friends, if you do what I command you. I no longer call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, for all things that I have heard from My Father I have made known to you." (John 15:14 and 15).
 If you can't get away from your work place, business or school, that's okay. You can still try to avoid being distracted from communing -- even if for only a few moments/minutes at a time, on a break for instance.


Don't worry about anything: instead, pray about everything, always. Tell God what you need, and thank him for all he has done, is doing and will do, for His continued blessings on you. (Philippians 4:6 NLT)

, for inspiration and spirituality. Listen to Christian music including southern Gospel singers such as David Phelps of The Gaither Vocal Band, Chris Tomlin, Hawk Nelson, the David Crowder Band, Rend Collective Experiment, Group 1 Crew, Anthem 4 Today, Abandon Kansas, Amy Grant, Audio Adrenaline, Big Daddy Weave, Britt Nicole, Building 429, Jars of Clay, Steven Curtis Chapman, Toby Mac, Jeremy Camp, Hillsong, Aaron Shust, Phil Wickham, To Tell, and Matt Redman. These are just a few of many more Christian music artists.
 See whether you can hear God's Holy Spirit sending you messages through such songs., Find a good time to do it every day!

, The pastor can help answer your questions.
 The pastor can help you realise whether God is talking to you in a way that you didn't realize.

