 For example, if you own a SanDisk micro SD card, you should have a micro SD card adapter that came with it. The adapter looks like a regular SD card with a slot at the bottom where you insert your micro SD card.


Note that most Micro SD cards which are 32 GB or less come formatted as FAT32. Cards above 64 GB are formatted to exFAT file system. If you are formatting your SD for your Android phone or Nintendo DS or 3DS, you will have to format to FAT32. With Android, many of your apps or custom recoveries, if you are rooted, will not read exFAT.
Also note that if you are using Mac OS 10.6.5 (Snow Leopard) or earlier, you won’t be able to use or format an exFAT card as these older versions of Mac OS don’t support this file system. You will have to upgrade your OS.
Formatting to FAT32 is usually your best option, however, FAT32 formatted cards won’t let you transfer or store a file more that 4GB.
You can also purchase a third party micro SD card adapter if you don’t already have one. Just make sure that it is compatible with your micro SD card. Some third party adapters also use a USB component on one end and operate like a flash drive.
 Depending on your computer and type of adapter you will either need to use your SD card slot or a USB port.


If you are using a micro SD card adapter, make sure that the lock toggle is up and in the unlocked position. If it is in the locked position your computer may not read the card or let you make any changes. It may be “Read only”.
It’s a good idea to copy the files currently on the card over to your computer to save. This will allow you to keep your data and files for transferring back after you format.
 Search for “Disk Utility” and click on the “Disk Utility” application.


The Disk Utility application will display on-screen. It will show you all of your available drives and storage systems.
You can also get to “Disk Utility” by going into your “Applications” Folder > “Utilities” > “Disk Utility”.
 You will see a panel on the left that shows your computer’s hard drive, and below it, any partitions and external drives.


Your SD card will show up as a removable disk and display how much space it can hold.
Click on your SD card drive to bring up a page with a list of options.
 This will bring up a page that lets you erase and format your card. You will see three or four radio button options at the top: “First Aid” “Erase” “Partition” “RAID” and “Restore”. You may also see "Unmount" if you are running El Capitan. You want to click “Erase”.
 You will now see a dropdown that has a format option. You will have options for Mac OS Extended (Journaled), Mac OS Extended (Case-Sensitive, Journaled) MS-DOS (FAT), and exFAT. MS-DOS (FAT) is the option that formats your micro SD to FAT32. The exFAT option will format to the exFAT filesystem and allow you to transfer and store files larger than 4 GB.
After you select your desired format, enter a name for your card.
 Once you click erase, you will see a popup that asks you if you are sure you want to erase and format your card. It will warn you that doing so will wipe everything off your card. Click “Erase” on the popup menu.


Once you click “Erase” your computer will format and erase your card. Once it is complete it will show up with the new name. Your micro SD card is now formatted.

