 A number of purple shampoos--literally, the shampoo is purple--are available at salons and drugstores, and they work to counteract brassiness in blonde hair.”Brassiness” is when blonde hair takes on an unflattering yellow or orange tone. It results when the blue molecules in hair begin to fade and leave the yellow and orange molecules to shine through more strongly.
Purple shampoos work by restoring blue tones to the hair, helping to prevent brassiness.;
, The minerals in tap water can contribute to changing blonde’s natural tone into a brassier color (from iron deposits) or into a greenish color (from the chlorine in the water).Installing a filter on your shower head will help prevent those color-changing minerals from being absorbed into your hair and will help keep your hair its natural shade.
 If your hair is taking on a brassy tone, make an appointment at the hair salon to have toner applied or buy toner at a drugstore and apply it yourself.Toner increases the blue and purple tones in your hair and mutes the orange and yellow ones, counteracting brassiness.
You can typically expect to pay about $40 or more for a toning treatment at a salon.
A drugstore toner will typically cost around $10, but may not be as effective as a salon treatment.
 Spraying your hair down with tap or filtered water before going in the pool will help prevent it from soaking up chlorine in the pool water.Be sure the water you’re spraying your hair with isn’t already highly chlorinated, or it will defeat the purpose.
 If your hair begins to take on a greenish cast after swimming in a pool or because your shower water contains higher levels of copper or chlorine, you can help tone down the green by using an acidic hair rinse. An acidic hair rinse will remove the buildup left behind by styling products and mineral deposits that can cause changes in your hair color.Mix 1/2 cup (for shorter hair) to 1 cup (for longer hair) of apple cider vinegar with 16 ounces of water. After shampooing, rinse your hair with the vinegar mixture and let it sit for about 5 minutes. Rinse your hair again and style as usual.
Dissolve 6-8 aspirin tablets in a glass of warm water and rinse your hair with the solution. Let it sit for 10-15 minutes, then rinse out the solution.