 Part of respecting someone is making them a priority in your life. Deciding that they aren’t good enough to devote much of your time to makes them seem like they are an afterthought. It also sends the message that you don’t respect them enough to make them a big part of your life. This can be devastating to your partner.


Look your partner in the eye when they are talking to you, put down your phone or any other distractions when you are spending time together, and set aside time each week—or even each day—for alone time. A person’s time is invaluable. Giving it to someone is a huge sign of respect.;
, Your partner needs to hear what you love about them, even if you’ve been together forever. Don’t assume they already know how you feel. Offering praise can bring you closer together and can strengthen your level of respect for each other.


Complimenting your partner on what they do around the home shows you respect the sacrifice and the hard work they give you and the life you’ve built together. For example, "I really appreciate how you keep our family room clean and organized." Hearing these words of encouragement shows them you appreciate what they do.
Demonstrate respect and appreciation by complimenting your partner on positive traits, too. These may include acts of thoughtfulness or even physical traits like their smile.For example, "I really like how you greet me with a smile when I come home."

, You are likely polite to your parents, friends, and boss because you respect them. You probably wouldn’t think about giving them attitude or criticism. Adopt this same mentality for your partner. Choosing to be kind, gracious, and polite shows you respect them, which can make a world of difference in your relationship.


Make it a point to be happy and encouraging around them, even if they aren’t doing the same. Tell them you love them and how happy they make you. They will likely exhibit the same behavior towards you, which can strengthen your bond., It’s easy to concentrate on what your partner does wrong, particularly if you feel they are lacking in a few areas. Instead, try focusing on what your partner does right or is good at. Hearing positive words instead of negative will encourage them to keep up the good work and shows that you value them.


Look for the best in your partner and realize that they are imperfect, just like you. Speak to them the way you would like to be spoken to and you may see an improvement in your relationship.For example, "Thanks for listening while I talked about my work stress."

, Honesty is at the foundation of a positive, healthy relationship. Being honest strengthens your bond with your partner and shows that you are trustworthy. Tell the truth to your partner, even when it's painful to hear.


Inspire honesty in your relationship by having your actions match your words. For instance, don't say "I'm happy" if you're not. Demonstrate honesty by truly divulging your feelings. You might say, "To be honest, I'm a bit sad that we won't get to spend our anniversary together."
When you exhibit honesty, your partner will feel obliged to do the same., When you love someone, you have to be willing to give them the benefit of the doubt. This may mean forgiving them and expecting them to do the right thing, even after they have hurt you. Holding grudges can create a toxic relationship environment. Practice forgiveness with your partner and you both will benefit from a more positive bond.


The biggest part of forgiveness is being able to let go of the painful emotions that may be associated with the betrayal. Forgiveness comes easier when you employ empathy in your viewpoint of your partner.
Take a step back and try to view the situation from your partner's point-of-view. Can you see some rationale behind their behavior? Maybe they were ashamed or scared to tell the truth. Doing this doesn't excuse the negative behavior, but it does help you see your partner as human and capable of mistakes.Work on not continually bringing up the same issue--even if it is still not corrected. In the meantime, continue to be kind and complimentary in other areas.

