 Denying the fact that you have dysgraphia, or any disability for that matter is simply going to worsen things for you. Know you have a disability, but don't think of it as a necessarily negative thing. Think of yourself as different, think of yourself as unique. Just because you cannot express your thoughts on paper as legibly and coherently as everyone else doesn't mean you are any worse than any other person.Having a disability is not something you can control so it is often helpful to treat it as you would any medical condition. Learn about the symptoms and find ways to address them without negative self judgment. This type of disability has nothing to do with intelligence and should not be seen as a sign of lowered IQ.;
, Devote some time every day to practice forming letters, and writing in a comprehensible manner. This may sound strange, but it is extremely helpful to people with dysgraphia. You wouldn't be able to write in a neat, comprehensible manner overnight, as it obviously takes a lot of time, but you might get there.


Writing practice can help to strengthen the muscles as well and improve the overall writing.Keep in mind that it might be faster to develop alternate methods of expression, such as typing or dictation.
 For dysgraphic people, typing is a much easier task than writing by hand. Become proficient at typing as soon as possible. You can use this at home for yourself and in school if you can get accommodations.


Even for assignments that are required to be hand written you can ask for an accommodation to be allowed to type your work based on the disability. You have the right to reasonable accommodations., Dysgraphia doesn't necessarily just alter your writing skills; it can affect your hand-eye coordination and your motor skills immensely, as well. It can even affect some of your abilities to put things in order and memory as well., If you feel bad about being dysgraphic—and you shouldn’t--express your feelings through communication. This will help to lift your spirits and make you feel as if you aren't any different from anyone else.


Talk to fellow dysgraphics, especially. Ask them how they cope with it. You mind find out something helpful!
Check scores with other people. If you think you are being discriminated against, ask other people what they got points off for on a given assignment, and if they did many of the things you got dinged for without losing anything.

