 Muscle cramps can cause severe pain in your lower legs by causing your muscles to suddenly contract. A sudden, intense cramp or spasm in your lower leg is sometimes called a “charley horse.”While these cramps can be extremely painful, they usually go away on their own or with minimal treatment. The symptoms of a charley horse include:Hard, tight calf muscles
Sudden, sharp pain in the muscles
“Lump” or bulge in the muscles

, Muscle cramps and spasms tend to go away fairly quickly. You can speed this recovery process by stretching and using heat (or cold).Stretch your affected calf muscle. You can do this by putting your weight on the leg that is cramping. Bend your knee slightly. Alternately, you can sit with your affected leg stretched out in front of you. Use a towel to gently pull the top of your foot towards you.Apply heat. Use a heating pad, hot water bottle, or warm towel to relax the cramping calf muscle. Taking a warm bath or shower may also help.Apply ice. Massaging your calf with an ice or cold pack may help relieve the cramp. Apply ice for no longer than 15-20 minutes at a time, and always wrap the ice pack in a towel to prevent frostbite.
 Tendinitis is caused by an inflammation of a tendon, one of the thick, Rope-like “cords” that connects your muscles to your bones.Tendinitis can happen anywhere you have tendons, but it commonly occurs in elbows, knees, and heels. Tendinitis can cause pain in your lower calf or heel. The symptoms of tendinitis include:Dull, aching pain that is worse when you move the joint
A feeling of “crunching” or grating when you move the joint
Tenderness or redness
Swelling or lumps

, Treatment of tendinitis is usually simple: rest, take over-the-counter painkillers, ice the affected area, use compression bandages, and elevate the affected joint., A strained soleus muscle is less severe than a strained or torn gastrocnemius. This injury often happens in athletes such as daily or long-distance runners. Usually, strains to this muscle include the following symptoms:Tightness or stiffness in the calf muscle
Pain that gets worse over the course of a few days, or even weeks
Pain that gets worse after walking or jogging
Mild swelling

, Because it connects your calf muscles to your heel bone, the Achilles tendon can cause calf pain when it is injured. Injury to this tendon can happen when you exercise strenuously, fall, step into a hole, or jump improperly.You should seek medical attention immediately if you believe your Achilles tendon has been ruptured, as it is a serious injury. Symptoms of a ruptured tendon include:an audible “pop” or “snap” in your heel (often, but not always)
pain, often severe, in the heel area that may extend into the calf
swelling
inability to bend your foot downward
inability to use the injured leg to “push off” as you walk
inability to stand on your toes using the injured leg

, Knowing who is most at risk for an Achilles tendon rupture may help you determine whether this is the cause of your pain. People most at risk for tearing or rupturing the Achilles tendon include:Those between 30-40 years of age
Men (5x more likely than women to develop a rupture)
Those who play sports that involve running, jumping, and sudden bursts of movement
Those who use steroid injections
Those who use fluoroquinolone antibiotics, including ciprofloxacin (Cipro) or levofloxacin (Levaquin)

