 Pour 1/2 cup (120 ml) of warm water into a large mixing bowl or one that will fit in a stand mixer. Sprinkle 1 teaspoon of active dry yeast and 1 tablespoon of white sugar over the water. Set the mixture aside for 5 to 10 minutes. You don't need to stir it yet.The yeast, water, and sugar will look cloudy and foamy after it's rested.;
, Use a dough hook attachment or strong beaters to stir in 1 tablespoon of softened unsalted butter, 1/2 cup (120 ml) of milk, and 1 heaping teaspoon of salt. Keep the mixer on low speed and slowly mix in 3 cups (380 g) of bread flour. Keep kneading and mixing the dough for 7 to 10 minutes.The dough will begin to stick to the bottom of the bowl as it forms a sticky ball.
 Melt 4 tablespoons (55 g) of butter in a small bowl and stir in 1 pinch of salt, a handful of finely chopped parsley leaves, and 2 cloves of finely minced garlic. This will be the mixture you dip the bread into.Taste the herbed garlic butter and add more salt, garlic, or parsley according to your liking.
 Scoop the dough out of the mixing bowl and cut it into two portions. Take one portion of dough and cut the dough into round, bite-sized pieces. Dip the pieces in the herbed garlic butter and fill one 5.75x3-inch (14.6x7.6 cm) loaf pan. Repeat this with the other portion of dough and fill another small loaf pan.If you have leftover herbed garlic butter, set it aside to brush over the baked bread.
 Cover each of the pans of dough with plastic wrap and put them in a warm place. Let them rise until they've doubled in volume. This should take about an hour. and let rise until doubled, about 1 hour. Turn on the oven to 350 degrees F (175 C).If you want to prove the dough in the oven with the oven light on, just remove them after 45 minutes so you can preheat the oven.
 Remove the plastic wrap from the loaves and place the loaves in the preheated oven. Bake the bread for 30 minutes. The pull apart bread should turn a dark golden brown once it's finished baking. Brush the leftover herbed garlic butter over the bread before you serve it.Be careful when tipping the bread out of the loaf tins, if you've just brushed hot butter over the loaves.

