 Your content needs to be targeted toward a specific audience, with a specific goal in mind. Otherwise it will end up being wishy-washy and all over the place. If you aren’t even sure what you are writing about on your blog, how are you going to attract visitors? Take a while to plan this step.


For example, if you are writing a blog about health food for families, you'll want to make sure that your content remains targeted. Don't start writing about health food for pro wrestlers - stick to the people you plan on marketing your blog to.
Think about how much content you want on the blog per week, if you want varying types of material, and how this will all be produced. Having a blog is no longer good enough; the content needs to be superior too.
Try answering common questions on your blog or teach your readers something. Above all, write for your customers rather than yourself.
 This can be a good way to start if you’re not sure what to write about in your blog. Basically the ‘Super 7’ is a list of seven ways to use your blog that would be well suited to helping your business. You’ll want to write as an expert, answer questions, talk about potential job openings, share new projects and any story that puts your company in a good light, and of course promote your products. If you ensure that you do all or most of these things on your blog the odds are it will succeed.
 SEO is a system in which search engines organize the websites that show up in particular searches. You want yours to be at the top of the list, and to do that you’ll have to engage in search engine optimization. That means adding strong keywords throughout your blog post to make it more relevant to search engines.


Research popular keywords in whatever industry you are a part of to help. Google Insights is a good resource if you are feeling lost. You also should submit your blog to popular search engines by visiting their search console. Submit to popular internet search sites like Google, Yahoo, and Bing .
 Encourage interaction and feedback between your company and customers. Try to do the same with peers, potential customers, or really anyone who you can get to interact with your blog. The more popular it becomes and the more discourse that appears through the site, the more success your blog will have. It’s all about traffic!

