 Learn how to use technical analysis effectively and profitably. This is simply using past price action to anticipate future results. For instance, if a stock has been going up for the last six months, you can assume it will keep going up unless the chart action tells you otherwise. Technical traders act on what they see, not what they feel will happen next. Arrogance kills. Search "wall street newbie" for more information about technical analysis.


Know that technical analysis differs from fundamental analysis, which is another stock-picking philosophy. Although both philosophies have their putative benefits, neither has been historically shown to outperform simply keeping your money locked up in sound stocks.
 Understand tension, or the concepts of support and resistance. Support and resistance are considered critical indicators for price continuation, stalls, or reversals. These are visual charted tops and bottoms of a stock. For example, say that a stock trades between $55 and $65. Next time the stock is trading at $55 (support), you would expect it to go back up to $65 (resistance), and vice versa.

If this stock goes up to around $68, far beyond resistance of $65, you would no longer expect it to go to its old support at $55. Instead you would expect $65 to be its new support and for the stock to go to new highs. The opposite would be true if the stock broke below $55.
 This is essential for profitability. You must have systemic rules, rules for your trading game, that you must follow. These rules tell you when to get in and when to get out. Follow these rules strictly even if it means taking a loss now and then. For example, if you have a rule to limit losses to 10%, and the stock loses 10%, you sell. Don't argue with the market.
 If you don't feel confident making a trade, wait and watch.
 Find a stock investing game which uses fake money. Take a class on the topic. Do whatever you need to do to get comfortable with analyzing financial situations, making decisions, and going through the motions.
 Over 95% of traders follow the losers as they read obsolete books by old-school systems and indicators of the day without knowing that all this obsolete stuff is used by big money to kill the little guy. Find the latest work from the most successful traders to learn from.
 Start small and increase your trade size as you gain in knowledge and confidence. Don't be discouraged with losses at first. Eventually you too can become a winner, a consistently profitable winner, not on your own this time but with outside support and guidance, actively trading with winners and your own personal and professional coach.
 It's not sexy, but it should make you money. Keeping your stocks invested for the long term will net you a lot more money than short-term trading (for a variety of reasons). Broker fees, market dips and surges, and the general upward trend of the market all contribute toward making the patient investor a rich investor.

