 While you may be embarrassed about your ED, shutting your partner out is not the answer. The problem involves both of you, and your partner will end up feeling distant and neglected if you don't keep her or him involved in your life. Make every effort to talk with your partner about what's going on. The outlook is generally much better for men who involve their partner in the healing process. , Erectile dysfunction is like any other problem in a relationship, and requires both partners to fully fix. You may have to attend doctor's appointments and therapy sessions to treat your ED, and it would be great to have your partner there for you. , Men and women with a partner struggling with ED often blame themselves for not satisfying their partner. Most often, however, it is a physical or mental issue with the man, not his partner. You need to make this clear to your partner, otherwise he or she may internalize the problem and feel like the cause.Reassure your partner that you're committed to the relationship, and this isn't a sign that you aren't interested.
Stress that you're not having an affair or are interested in someone else. Some partners see ED as a sign of an affair, but this is not true an overwhelming majority of the time. Prevent suspicion and negative feelings in your partner by assuring him or her of this.Of course, don't lie to your partner. If there is a problem with the relationship, you need to communicate this. Tell your partner if he or she does something sexually that you don't like, or if you have sexual needs that aren't being met.
 Dissatisfaction with your sex life could be a contributing factor to your ED. Have an honest conversation with your partner about your needs. Keeping your needs to yourself could make the problem worse.Keep this conversation friendly and blame-free. This is a sensitive topic, and your partner may feel like he or she failed you by not meeting a sexual need. Assure your partner that you're committed to the relationship, and that this is a way to strengthen the relationship.
 Erectile dysfunction can put a strain on any relationship, even if you've properly communicated with your partner. If you and your partner are having trouble getting through this, try going to therapy together. A counselor can help you work through your problems and remain strong as a couple.