 What is it that you want to do? Are you aiming to go to college? Do you have an ambition to move to the big city or to patent an invention? Examine your goals. Know what they are and how to achieve them. Try putting your thoughts on paper. What are your exact goals? When do you want to meet them? How do you intend to meet them? Create a reasonable timeline, as well. This will make your plans concrete and give you needed staying power., If you set low expectations, you can usually expect to get a lower return for your efforts. Big payoffs come with bigger expectations, more ambitious dreams, and higher risk. You might be content to get into a mid-level college, for example, but why not aim higher? Could you land a spot at an elite school or even get a scholarship? Try it. The risks are quite minimal compared to the potential payoff. At the same time, keep your expectations within reasonable limits. That childhood dream of becoming president, or a professional athlete, or a famous actress will probably not pan out, for the reason that very few people achieve these things. , Inertia may be keeping you from great things. It is easy to get stuck in a routine, a mental space where you feel comfortable, safe, and unstressed. But it can also stunt you. Risk and stress are two things that can help us to grow. While staying in your comfort zone might mean steady, consistent performance, leaving it gives you the chance to do new and creative things and to reach new heights. Try to change your relationship with “discomfort.” Instead of seeing it as something to avoid, tell yourself that discomfort is a prerequisite for growth. Your comfort, then, may be a sign of a well-worn rut., How much time do you spend learning or improving your mind? Do you realize that this is a habit of successful people? Do you realize that knowledge is power? Try to develop new ideas and skills as another way to avoid becoming complacent in life. Set aside time each day to enrich yourself, even if only an hour – consider it spiritual and mental food. Read good books, read the newspaper, listen to inspiring tapes, take an interest in ideas and be curious about the world.
 Remind yourself of past successes rather than past failures. Use a journal to mark and celebrate things that went your way, so that you can have a tangible record. While you should live in the moment instead of in the past, revisit your triumphs from time to time as a way to stay motivated.