 If you have been drinking heavily in a bar or club, you might be tempted to urinate on the nearest sidewalk or on the side wall of the bar. But you can be arrested and charged with a misdemeanor for doing this in all 50 states..That is why it is imperative you pick a quiet, isolated space to pee in which you won't be seen.


If you are a girl, there is no quick and convenient way to pee outside, especially if you are wearing pants. If you are wearing a skirt, you can try taking off your underwear before you squat. You can also try pulling your underwear to the side of your vagina, although it still might get soiled.;
, If you are out at night, you might be tempted to pee against a street lamp, but this will only make it easier for a police officer to spot you. Instead, pick a dark, shadowy alley or an unlit park.


If you are out with friends, make sure they know you are going into a dark spot to pee. They can make sure you are safe from a distance.
 Peeing against a brick wall or on a concrete sidewalk will sound louder than if you pee onto dirt or grass. If you are near a local park or a dirt road, then you should try to pee here as it is less likely that someone will hear you.
 If you are stuck in a traffic jam, try to find a wooded area near the highway where you can relieve yourself away from the sight of other drivers.


If you are hiking or camping, select a spot that is within an easy walk of your tent or fellow hikers, but that is not within easy sight. Pee behind a tree, away from anyone else on the path or at the site.
If you are stuck on the road and there are no trees to conceal you, get out of the car and open the driver's door and the passenger door behind it. This will block the view of the other cars from you while you pee. If there are cars in the lane next to you, turn away from them and pee toward your car.
If you are a girl and have to squat, try to get a fellow passenger to hold up a blanket or towel to hide you.
 Do not pee near a school, playground or other location with children. This can have serious legal consequences (as discussed below). You could also face the wrath of an irate parent, who will not hesitate to call the police on you.


Understand the consequences of being a sex offender. In 12 states, public urination could require you to register on a public sex offender list.Registering on a sex offender list could cost you everything from your job to your ability to live in a city (most sex offenders cannot live between 500 and 2,500 feet of schools, parks, day cares of school bus stops).
You may also be prohibited from attending any events with children, such as Little League games or school performances. While you might not care about this as a drunken undergrad, you will probably deeply regret never being able to attend your future child's football games or Christmas concerts.
In many states, peeing in public is labelled as "public indecency." Under this categorization, offenders are labelled as flashers., These spaces are technically "public," and you could get arrested and fined for any damage you may cause to a train, bus, or subway. Other people are also highly likely to see you here and possibly turn you in.


Most of these locations also have video surveillance; while you might think no one can see you, you are probably being monitored from a distance.
 After you pee, apply a hand sanitizer (you can find travel sizes in most drug stores) or an antibacterial wipe to clean your hands. Wash your hands in the nearest washroom you come across.
 If at all possible, try to find a place to rest near a public restroom. These can often be found in parks, national monuments and historical sites, civic centers, libraries, bus or train stations, or public plazas..


If you cannot find a public restroom, try to follow some of the tips above. Pee in a quiet, isolated space where you are unlikely to be heard or disturb anyone.
If you cannot afford rent, but have some money saved up, try to buy a membership at a local gym or health center. A year's membership often costs less than a full month's rent and it will give you access to a shower, a locker room and a bathroom while it is open.
 Being homeless means you often have no choice but to break the law and urinate publicly. If you are fined or ticketed for this action, try to defend yourself legally by describing the necessity of your actions.


You may be required to appear in court if you cannot pay a fine or if you are charged with a more serious misdemeanor. If you have a court-appointed attorney to defend you, they must be able to prove that you had a reasonable and good faith necessity for the crime.Research legal resources or lawyers who do pro-bono work for homeless people in your area. Many lawyers and legal advocates for the homeless can help clear charges for low-level misdemeanors like public urination.
Some cities, such as Los Angeles, have offered deals in which minor crimes can be erased from a homeless person's record if that person agrees to accept certain services, such as job training or addiction treatment programs., If you have access to a computer at your public library, you can look up resources available for the homeless in your city and state. The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) provides a state by state guide here: https://www.hudexchange.info/homelessness-assistance/.


Your city or state may offer resources such as shelters, grant programs to help you move into an apartment, job training programs, mental health services, etc., If you're heading to a new bar, just use the bathroom once you arrive there.


You can also generally use the restrooms in fast food restaurants and gas stations without having to buy anything there.
Areas with crowded bars and club will generally be filled with police.
 If you are on a long car ride, plan to stop every 2-3 hours to use the bathroom. Check your map to make sure you have nearby towns or cities where you can stop to use the bathroom.


If you are enjoying a long night out with friends, be sure to use the bathroom before you leave the bar or restaurant you are at.
 If you are in a foreign country, do not pee in public. Local inhabitants will not see it as just a moment of weakness on your part. Instead, they will see it as an act of disrespect from you and a broader reflection of your country.
 It is not worth risking the consequences.


Similarly, do not think that just because your friends have peed in public with no consequences that you will also go unpunished.

