 Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and other social networking sites are effective channels to organize grassroots political activism.Create a profile and follow political candidates and organizations for the latest news. You can also join groups on the site that are involved in political issues. Using social media to can help influence voting patterns. Be active on the platform to engage other users. Make sure to blog, tweet, or post on a consistent basis.
Use social networking to expand your reach when it matters. If you are fundraising or planning a particular event, posting about it on social networking sites can increase interest and attendance when it counts.Use images or video to attract more likes, clicks, and reposts.Tailor your posts based on the kind of social media channel you are using. Snapchat and Instagram are very different platforms than Facebook or LinkedIn. Ensure your posts fit the media.
 Social media networks are a great way to spread the word about one of the most traditional forms of political activism – the petition. Keep petitions short and to the point, and explain to people why they should sign. Make sure it has a clear explanation of the problem to mobilize supporters and propose a direct solution. Choose from a variety of websites that will help you electronically circulate your petition. Sites like Change.org or thepetitionsite.org are easy to use, and can provide a simple link that you can post on your social media profile to reach as many people as possible., Facebook and other sites like it are a great way to invite other social media users to any political events you may organize, including rallies, marches, or demonstrations. Create an invitation and invite the chosen audience, or post it on your personal page to drive traffic and interest.


You can also share real-time updates, post event follow-ups, or use the page to share photos afterward., Social media use is an effective method for boosting fundraising for political causes that you are involved with.By creating an online fundraiser and sharing it across social media sites, you can widely increase the number of potential donors. Ask others to specifically share the campaign on their own pages to reach a larger audience. Give users a “follow-up” after donation.
 Politics can turn inflammatory, so be sure to use best practices, and be respectful of others’ views.


Avoid making polarizing statements or castigating others’ viewpoints. Keep debates friendly and avoid using slurs or offensive language.

