 Giving yourself several months to plan this event will give you more time to shop around for good deals, do your research, and create things like wedding invitations or sew your wedding dress. Booking things or shopping at the last minute may raise the cost of the total event.
 Plan a wedding that takes place before April or after October. Plan a wedding that does not take place on a Saturday.Venues and potentially caterers will be more expensive on Saturdays and in the summertime. If you plan your wedding to occur when weddings are few and far between – such as in the winter – you might find more reasonable rates.


Stay away from holiday weekends, as these are usually more expensive as well, no matter the time of year.
Mid-week weddings will likely be less expensive, but many friends and family members may not be able to participate in a wedding ceremony on a Wednesday. Or a winter storm may possibly mess up your February wedding in Quebec.
 Go for three hours instead of four or five hours. This saves on costs for labor, drinks, food, and so on. It is tempting to draw out the event, but avoiding long drawn-out ceremonies and receptions, you will also save on the overall cost. , Attempting to meet every expectation can quickly add to your overall costs. You may be blessed with a family that is nothing but helpful and supportive. More typically, friends and family will be a combination of support and unhelpful and even selfish. Be careful about "bending over backwards" to try to accommodate every guest to the extent that you blow your budget.


For example, in America many people have Memorial Day in May off and makes it easier to get to a wedding. However, because it is in spring and a major holiday, this is a prime booking time for weddings and usually more expensive. You may have to trade off a more affordable site fee for having more guests be able to come.
More food options often increase catering prices dramatically. For instance, a simple "chicken or vegetarian" menu option will be less expensive than a "chicken, beef, vegetarian, fish, or lamb" array. Also, more choices do not actually make guests happier.

