 Thoroughly wash the entire plate with hot, soapy water, then dry the dish completely with a clean dish towel.


The adhesive may not stick to a plate well enough if there is any dirt, grime, or oil on the back of that plate.
For best results, use a scouring pad on the back of the plate in the general area the disc will be placed on.
Adhesive plate hangers work especially well with plates that are strangely shaped or plates with notably thick rims. You can use them with any shape or size, though.
 Adhesive plate hangers come in five basic sizes. Make sure that you choose a hanger size that will work for your specific plate.


The five sizes are:

1-1/4 inch (3 cm), for plates up to 4 inches (10 cm) in diameter
2 inches (5 cm), for plates up to 6 inches (15 cm) in diameter
3 inches (7.5 cm), for plates up to 8 inches (20 cm) in diameter
4 inches (10 cm), for plates up to 12 inches (30 cm) in diameter
5-1/2 inches (14 cm), for plates up to 6.5 lbs (3 kg) in weight



, Dip your fingertip in a little water, then rub your wet finger over the adhesive side of the disc. Wait three to seven minutes, or until the adhesive becomes sticky.
 Look at the front of the plate to determine how you want the dish to hang. Once you determine where the center top will be, press the adhesive side of the disc firmly onto the back of the plate at the center top.


Press firmly over the entire adhesive disc to ensure a tight seal.
You should let the adhesive dry overnight before you hang the plate.
Test the bond by gently tugging on the hook. If the disc starts to peel away, the bond is not strong enough. If the disc stays firmly attached to the plate, however, it should be safe to use.
 Figure out where you want the plate to hang and lightly mark that spot with pencil. Hammer a nail into that spot. At least half the nail should be inside the wall, but there should be enough nail hanging outside of the wall for the plate hook to rest on.


Make sure that the nail you use has a large head to "catch" the hook on so that the plate will not fall off. Alternatively, use a picture hanger instead of a plain nail.
Determine where you want the plate by holding it against the wall. Mark the top of the plate on the wall using a light pencil mark.

Set the plate down. Measure the distance between the hanger hook and the top of the plate, then mark out that same distance from the mark on your wall.
Hammer the nail into the second mark you made.
 Gently hang the hook on the nail in the wall. Step back and take a look. If you are satisfied with the results, the process is now complete.


If the plate seems crooked, you will need to remove the hanger start over.
If you ever need to remove the hanger, you can do so by soaking the entire contraption--both plate and hanger--in water. After a few minutes, the adhesive should wear away, allowing you to remove it from the back of the plate.

