 A degree that has an emphasis on art or art history from a reputable college is a good place to start. It is not essential that your degree be art history or the fine arts, but you should be able to show that you have studied, memorized and analyzed all the major art movements in your country and around the world.


A business degree or arts administration degree with a minor or emphasis in art history may also be regarded as beneficial, because you can help with sales and management of the business.
Art history is likely to be a preferable degree to a degree in fine arts. An art gallery may be wary of someone who wants to make their career as an artist and use a gallery to further sales of their own work.;
, There are many aspects of art. Try to figure out which ones most appeal to you. Start exploring! Become a member of local museums. You will want to be able to speak to visitors about local exhibitions. Contributions along with your membership may also get you invitations to exclusive events.These events are great ways to meet people.


Go to gallery exhibitions and get to know local artists.
Help organize craft or art-related events. A successful, hands-on experience with marketing and organization in the art world shows you are in tune and able to handle a number of gallery tasks. Art fairs and craft fairs also help you to network with artists and collectors.
 Intern, volunteer or become a docent for local art museums. As well as enriching your art education, this practice can gain you contacts in the art world. It is good to focus your interning and education in the same town in which you want to get a job in an art gallery. This way, your contacts can help you find an appropriate job., In today's competitive job market, it may not be enough to complete your college degree. A post-graduate degree in your chosen field can help you to have an edge when applying for jobs. Consider a Master's degree in Fine Arts or Finance. You might also look into higher education at certain businesses. Some very large art dealers, such as Sotheby's, offer their own higher education programs., Don't just have an obvious love for art--show that you can do other things, too. Develop skills in social media, web programming, graphic design and/or photography. Gallery owners often rely on their employees to work as receptionists, sales people, marketers and bookkeepers. If you are young or inexperienced, these skills help to market your youth as a positive trait.