 Of course, a real tree is standard, but any material will do.









Pine or Cedar is a fun option for a winter gathering.
Palm is ideal for a beach-themed party.
Ficus, grapevines, and miniature arbors all make sturdy pieces.
For a more modern feel, opt for wire.;
, It should be round from all angles.









File all sharp edges. You don't want your philanthropic guests to hurt themselves.
Hot glue any extra branches to add fullness.
 A clay pot is traditional, though any base that holds the tree in place is fine.









Paint your base to match the theme of your event.
Add words, pictures, or a quote, if desired.
 Fill with sand, marbles, floral foam, or any heavy filler.









The branch should be centered and immobile.
If using floral foam, insert the foam into the base before inserting the branch., Go wild with your imagination! It should be subtle, yet intriguing. You could:









Spray paint the branch in a coordinating color
Add ribbons to the smaller branches
Weave strings of beads or lights in and out of the tree
Clip on small pictures

A money tree should not be a solicitation for donations. It should be a centerpiece, not the center of attention.
 Guests will use these to attach their envelopes.









Have extras near the base of the tree for late additions.

Keep pens and notes nearby for guests to clip on well wishes, too.


Attach a few envelopes at random to clarify the purpose of the tree.
 It should not be front and center; guests will simply have this as an alternative to gift-giving.









Have friends or family explain that the tree is used as an option for guests -- no cash gift is mandatory and the smallest amount is appreciated.
 Some guests may be unfamiliar with the concept. Make it clear that giving is optional.
 Enjoy your money tree. Do not call attention to the tree. It should be discreet and elegant, not an expectation of giving.








Have a family member spread the word. This is more polite and respectful. Announcing the process during a toast would be a breach of etiquette.

