 Many parents have practical concerns in regards to cost and monthly bills when it comes to a cellphone. However, parents also worry about the dangers of phones. Many parents are also concerned about their kids spending too much time in front of a screen. Make a list of hesitations your parents may have so you can figure out how to address them., After you've made a list of potential concerns, think about how to approach them.. What can you do or say to ease your parents worries about you getting a phone? For every problem, think of a solution.If money is the issue, offer to pay for some of the phone yourself. You could get a part time job or save up your allowance to help with finances.
Promise to be responsible with the phone. Let your parents know that you'll be upfront with them about what you're doing on the phone and will use it responsibly.
Promise to limit your time on the phone. You can agree to only use the phone for a set number of hours each day.
 Look up the kind of phone you want and see how much it costs. In addition to the basic cost of the phone, figure out any accompanying monthly bills.See if you can find a deal on a phone. For example, look into buying used phones on sites like eBay. This can be very helpful if money is a big concern for your parents.
 Cellphones can have some benefits. If you emphasize how the phone can help you thrive, your parents will be more likely to allow you to have one.

Emphasize any learning possibilities from the phone. For example, you can listen to audiobooks or download apps to help you organize your homework.
Tell your parents unlimited texting can allow you to alert them of your whereabouts if you're ever running late.
 You don't have to have your speech written out word-per-word, but it can help to jot down your thoughts first. Practice what you'll say a few times in front of the mirror. This way, you'll go into the situation feeling a little more prepared.You can start the conversation with something like, "Hey, I'd like to talk to you guys about something that's been on my mind."
To introduce the topic of the cellphone, say something like, "I've been really wanting a cellphone for awhile now."

, The timing of a conversation can make a big impact on its success. Wait until your parents are not busy or stressed out by other things. For example, instead of asking on a Thursday night after your dad got home from work, ask on a Saturday afternoon when everyone is relaxed.You can let your parents know you want to talk by saying something like, "Do you guys have a minute? I wanted to talk something over with you."

, It's always best to be direct. Instead of dropping hints, politely introduce the subject right away. Say something like, "I wanted to discuss me having my own cellphone." You can also try something like, "I wanted to ask if you would let me have my own cellphone.", Remember the information you gathered earlier and use it now. Talk about why you want a phone, how you'll be responsible when using it, and any benefits the phone my have.

For example, say something like, "I would really like to be able to interact with my friends. I'd be using the phone for socializing, so I wouldn't be doing anything irresponsible."
Add any benefits. For example, say, "My friend has this neat app that helps them organize their schedule. That could help me stay on track with homework."

, Showing your parents you appreciate them can help increase the likelihood of a positive outcome. Tell your parents how much you appreciate everything they do. This way, it will not come off like you feel entitled to a cellphone.For example, say something like, "I know how hard you guys work to pay for everything and I really appreciate that."

, Your parents have a right to express themselves and any concerns they have. If your parents have follow up questions or want to make a comment, let them talk. Do not interrupt as your parents respond to you., If your parents say no, it's okay to ask why. However, do so politely to avoid seeming argumentative.Do not say, "But why? Everyone else has one!" Instead, try something like, "Okay, but is there any particular reason you're saying no?"

, It's okay to try to compromise or persuade your parents if they say no. However, do not start complaining, raising your voice, or otherwise behaving in an argumentative fashion. This will only frustrate your parents and will greatly decrease the likelihood they'll change their minds.Avoid phrases like, "It's not fair!" This can come off as argumentative.
Instead, try something like, "Okay, thank you for listening, but I feel like you're not hearing my side."

, If money is a concern, offer to pay for some of the costs yourself. If you already have a job, say you'll save money from that. You can also offer to get a job to help pay for the phone.You can also offer to earn the phone in other ways. For example, ask if you can have a phone in exchange for bringing your math grade up.
Say something like, "I could put $25 of my own money towards the bill each month."

, If your parents seem hesitant, request a delayed response. Say something like, "I can see you guys aren't entirely sure about this. Why don't you take a few days to think about it and then we can discuss it again?", In the event your parents are not at all willing to let you get a cellphone, politely accept this. If you accept a "No" with grace, this shows responsibility. Your parents may be more willing to change their minds down the road.End the conversation by saying something like, "Thank you for your time anyway. I appreciate you guys listening."

