 If you are eager to go back to school, you should be eager to work on a few tests to help you improve on most subjects. Have your child grab a notepad and start taking a few notes about the subject. The more they practice the more they'll feel in school again.;
, or if they're learning on their own. This way, they not only know how to do the subject, but they have examples to back-up their theories, and they will feel like they're doing a lesson with their teacher.
 Give them projects,extra work to pass the time, or show them S.S.R, (Sustained Silent Reading). With a little independent work they'll feel, most likely, in school!

, Like all teachers, homework is given at the end of the day. Help them do the work, and give them some example from today's class to see if they can recollect anything!Not only have you fulfill the child's appetite, you also just taught them a few things. How great!

, It's great they are keen to continue working but now is the best time to catch up on classmates and to polish up any subjects they did poorly in in their summer tests. Look up sites online or ask the teacher what areas need the most support.
 There are a wide variety of summer camps and day courses available for all age groups which particularly cater for languages. This is a fun way of letting your child enjoy themselves and meet new people, as well as polish up their grades. Ideally book a place on the course during the winter or early spring as the best courses will fill up quickly!

, Encourage a lifelong love of self-directed learning by letting your child choose books. Books on history, whether non-fiction or novels based on real events, and on science, baking and other subjects, are available in even the smallest library and may encourage children who do not enjoy studying a subject at school as the books are aimed at developing an interest in the subject, not achieving in exams. It is also a great opportunity to give children who excel in certain subjects the chance to develop their interest and abilities.
 They may have books or websites you could use and can guide you on what you child needs help with, as well as what areas they will be covering next year.
 To give your child a greater chance of doing well academically as they grow older, they will need to be surrounded by like minded peers. This is easier said than done but you can guide them towards making such friends by introducing them to some academic hobbies, such as book groups, speech and drama classes or summer courses. Encourage them to socialise.

