 Maintaining a good, healthy relationship with your girlfriend where you treat her well is important when trying to have a good relationship with her mom. When you make your girlfriend happy, it means that nothing but positive things will be said about you to her mom, which will help the mom get a better sense of how great of a choice you are for her daughter.Show your girlfriend how much you love her on a daily basis by giving her the attention she craves. Designate time to spend with your girlfriend at least once a week and talk to her in some form daily.
Tell her she’s beautiful and compliment her on positive attributes and successes. Let her know that you love her as often as possible through words and through actions.Keep in mind that it is the negative things that stick with people longer. If you do something unforgivable and it gets back to her mom through word of mouth, it will be hard to win back her mother’s affection. So treat her daughter right to live and lead a happy life.
 Making your girlfriend’s mom feel like her words of wisdom matter can help her grow to like you. Ask her for her opinion on things and show her that you respect her thoughts and ideas by giving them consideration. Ask for advice about her daughter or about your life in general to make her feel special and like her opinion and her knowledge matters., Whether you find her to be annoying or amenable, bear in mind that there are always good things that can be associated with people. As the younger person trying to enter her family, you have to be the one who is more flexible in your attitude, meaning you have to see the light at the end of the rainbow and appreciate that light. Show her you value her and encourage gentleness by being appreciative of the contributions she puts forth in you and your girlfriend’s lives., Show her she’s included in your life by making routine calls or routine visits to her home. You don’t have to visit her every week, but factoring face to face interactions in once every couple of weeks or so is a great way to show your consideration and that you’re thinking of her. If you don’t want to do lengthy visits, drop off a cup of her favorite coffee or mention that you’re on your way to run an errand and just wanted to peak your head in for a bit to check in on her.
If you feel like your efforts are being taken for granted, scale things back to a level that you’re comfortable with. Do things for the mother when your girlfriend makes requests specifically or make visits only when you and your girlfriend have plans to go there together. There’s no need to over exert yourself if your efforts are not proving to be fruitful.
 In all honesty, a parent not liking you or approving of you might cause a little strain in your relationship, especially if your girlfriend has a tight bond with her parent. But it can be overcome, even if the issues between you and her mother remain. Show her mom you two are a united front and aren’t going to back down just because she wants to be petty.


Continue to be respectful so that the girlfriend doesn’t feel like she has to make a choice between you and her mother. As long as she views the mother as a problem in the both of you guys’ dynamic, your relationship will survive.
Don’t feel pressured to feel that you have to keep a closed mouth if you feel disrespected by her mother. There is a way to confront someone older in a respectful matter. For example, say something like, “With all due respect, I don’t appreciate the way you speak about me to your daughter. I would appreciate it if you didn’t do that again.”

