 Sit with your fiancée and talk about what ideas you want to have, want, and do not need. It is important to know how much you can afford before you start planning. Cheap and unique weddings are doable; but you have to be aware of the numbers.;
, Some public parks are available without charge if you are not inviting many guests and you reserve well ahead of time. If you are a member of a church, chances are you can use it for the ceremony at no cost. Save money by having the ceremony and reception at the same place.
 You will save money in the end, and chances are you were going to have to hire a caterer anyway. Perhaps a relative has a place you can use for your guests, a large yard with a tent. It's all about planning and possibilities.
 Most caterers are willing to work within your budget, even if that means avoiding the 3-course meal and focusing more on hors d'oeuvres. Also, if you are having an open bar, serve just beer and wine instead of hard liquor.

Plan your wedding cake the same way: check for local schools with cooking programs or relatives or friends who work at bakeries.
 The florist is one of the most expensive characteristics of a wedding and there are many faux-flower alternatives. Also, consider non-floral centerpieces, like using candles that you can buy in bulk or placing board games in the middle of all the tables as both a centerpiece and a conversation starter.
 Sometimes the cheapest and unique way to do something for your wedding is to make it yourself. Do the calligraphy for your own place cards, make your own favors, and create your own ceremony programs.
 You probably already know someone who can take the photos the day of the wedding or someone who can help you design invitations. Most of your loved ones would love to help you create your unique wedding, so all you have to do is ask.
 The play list will be what you want instead of concerns of paying someone else.
 Look for your wedding dress at a second-hand shop. Shop around Etsy for bridesmaid gifts. You can find old vases to use for centerpieces at thrift stores, as well as other fun and unique elements to include on your big day.

