 These are milder oils—olive oil, coconut oil, and sunflower oil—which make a great base for the skin cleansing process.
Active oils like castor oil, hazelnut oil, and tea tree oil should not be used at full strength. Instead, they are the active astringents needed to get clear, healthy skin.;
, Try an olive oil base with a hazelnut boost, or a coconut base with a castor oil boost. Choose a combination based on which oils are locally available in a natural, unrefined state. You should take care to use only the highest quality oils on your skin.
 Skin type is usually defined as normal, combination, or oily. You should have a basic understanding of how much oil your skin produces.
 Try these recommendations:



Oily skin - 1 part castor or hazelnut oil and 2 parts olive, sunflower, or other carrier oil.

Combination skin - 1 part castor or hazelnut oil and 3 parts olive, sunflower, or other carrier oil.

Dry skin - A few drops of castor or hazelnut oil in olive, sunflower, or other carrier oil.
 Transitioning from  your old product(s) to using oil may take a couple of weeks. Use that time to experiment with ratios, using the guideline that your skin should feel clean and fresh after each treatment. Up the strength of your mixture to control breakouts by adding more active ingredients, but do so judiciously as the essential oils can be very strong.
 If your skin is usually pimple prone, try dabbing a bit of tea tree oil directly on the problem area. Note: Tea tree oil is very strong; just a small amount is all you need.
 Make sure your hands are clean, then add the carrier oil and boost it according to your skin type. Once you get the hang of your mixture you can eyeball the ratio quite easily.



It is best to start with a dry face, as oil and water repel each other.
 Ring out the steaming towel and place it over your face. The steam will open your pores and release the clogged dirt and old oils. It will prepare your face to be moisturized by cleaning oils you have applied.


Alternatively, hover your face over a pot of steaming water with a bath towel draped over your head and the steam source. This is a good way to deep clean your face if you have extra time.



Be aware that, during the transition process, your face might get worse before it gets better. This is the detoxification phase when your skin is releasing built up toxins. The detox phase usually takes a week or two, but once you’ve gotten pass that your skin should stabilize and attain a healthier, clean appearance.

