 The right diet for those with bowel incontinence is neither a low nor high fiber diet but rather a diet with the correct amount of fiber. According to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, a daily consumption of 20 to 35 grams of fiber a day for adults and “age plus five” grams for children is recommended.Good sources of fiber include fruits and vegetables, whole grain rice, beans, whole wheat pasta, seed, oats, nuts and whole meal bread. However, don't go overboard, especially if you have diarrhea. A moderate amount of fiber is needed to balance between diarrhea and constipation.;
, Drinking a lot of water helps both bowel incontinence and possible dehydration from it. Increased water intake will help replenish fluids lost from diarrhea and will help with constipation, making the feces moist and easy to remove.


An adult is advised to drink 2 liters (0.5 US gal) or more of water every day to help with constipation. This is the equivalent to 8 to 10 glasses per day to help liquify the stool for easy passage.
 Many people are lactose intolerant and cannot digest lactose (“sugar” from the milk). The body removes it through diarrhea that worsens bowel incontinence. Therefore, removing milk and dairy products from your diet might help lessen bowel incontinence.


All dairy products are discouraged, including ice cream, cheese, and yogurt. If you're craving these foods, choose soy or coconut milk alternatives.
 Caffeine is a stimulant. Stimulants increase bodily functions, especially in the gastrointestinal tract. Avoiding coffee, tea, chocolates or any caffeinated products will help keep your digestive system regular as these substances speed up activity in the stomach and intestines, leading to diarrhea, gas, bloating, and upset stomach. Even if you don't think caffeine is a part of your food or drink, read the label before consuming just to be sure.


If you can’t stop drinking caffeinated products, try to find a substitute such as orange juice. Drinking coffee, for example, is somewhat a habit instead of an actual desire or need.
 Herbs and condiments sometimes affect how the gastrointestinal system functions. Your condition could be aggravated by certain herbs and spices that lead to diarrhea, gas, or upset stomach. Hams, sausages and smoked fish are some examples of cured foods that could also be triggers.


Peppers and chilies are highly discouraged, too. The less spicy your food is, the better. Spicy foods can easily cause stomach, esophageal, and intestinal issues.
 Alcohol should not be taken because it hastens digestive chemical reactions. Alcohol aids in digestion especially with fats – thus it should be avoided to decrease gastric irritation.The aim is to regulate the process of digestion; to do so, alcohol or alcohol containing foods must be avoided.


This goes for all kinds of alcohol, from wine and beer to straight liquor and mixed drinks. Even if there are just trace amounts of alcohol, it's best avoided just to be on the safe side.
 There are different classifications of anti-diarrheals, and anti-propulsives are just one. These drugs work by reducing the peristalsis (a wave-like movement) of the gastrointestinal tract and increasing the tone of the anal sphincter. This ultimately can help delay bowel movement.Imodium is an example of an anti-propulsive, anti-diarrheal drug. For chronic diarrhea (which is often found with bowel incontinence), a 2 capsule starting dose must be taken orally followed by a capsule taken once a day. Each capsule of Imodium contains 2 mg of loperamide. Imodium is generally prescribed in lower doses that are taken regularly.
 These drugs act by slowing peristalsis, targeting the autonomic nervous system. The ANS (Autonomic Nervous System) is involved in the involuntary actions of the body (like gastrointestinal movements) therefore also delaying bowel movement.Lomotil is one common example. This drug requires a prescription and cannot be purchased over-the-counter. In adults, the usual dose is 5 mg (2 tablets) of Lomotil three to four times per day initially. Thereafter, the dose may be decreased to 2.5 mg (1 tablet) two to three times a day., Atropine works as an antidiarrheal and anticholinergic. It decreases the movement of the gastrointestinal tract thus extending the time to defecate. Atropine also works like an opioid but without the risks of addiction. Atropine is taken as a liquid by mouth in 10 mL twice a day.Hyoscyamine is a medication similar to atropine. It works by decreasing the motion of the stomach and intestines and decreases the secretion of stomach fluids, including acid. It is available as a tablet, capsule, or liquid. It, too, is only available by prescription and your doctor will determine the dosage that's right for you., Laxatives are given to create a “consistent” stool instead of a watery-like stool that is harder to control. This medication treats constipation by increasing the bulk in the stool, an effect that aids movement of the intestines and increases the amount of water in the stool, making the stool softer and easier to pass.Metamucil (methylcellulose) is a common solution used for bowel incontinence. A 3.5 mg dose can be taken thrice a day after mixing it in water or fruit juice.
 This process is performed to remove impacted stools from the rectum. However, this is reserved for more serious cases – your doctor will know if it's a viable option for you.


In this procedure, a small tube is inserted into the anus. A special solution is then applied to cleanse the rectum and to soften the hard stool.
 Some interventions your doctor may recommend are as follows:Sphincteroplasty. This procedure is done to repair damaged sphincter muscles and to provide additional support. Some muscle tissues are removed surgically; the edges are then overlapped and are sewn together.

Sacral nerve stimulation. This is recommended for patients diagnosed with destabilized sphincter muscles. It starts by application of electrodes on the skin of the lower back that are attached to a pulse generator. The apparatus then discharges electric impulses to stimulate sacral nerves to work properly and reduce periods of bowel incontinence.

Tibial nerve stimulation. This is a new type of treatment that introduces a fine needle into the tibial nerve. An electrode is then applied on the foot and a gentle electric impulse is released through the needle to stimulate the tibial nerve.

Injection of bulking agents. This is utilized to reinforce the sphincter muscles and the rectum. Examples of bulking agents are silicone and collagen.

Endoscopic heat therapy. This is a fairly expensive procedure that applies heat energy into the sphincter muscles by means of a thin probe. It is helpful in muscle contraction that controls irregularities in bowel movement.

Stimulated graciloplasty. This is where a small portion of thigh muscle is taken to create new sphincter muscles to replace damaged ones. Electrodes are then inserted into the new sphincter wherein a pulse generator is positioned inside the abdomen. The device generates electric current to the new sphincter to guide it in assuming the normal function of the muscle sphincters.

Artificial sphincter. A circular cuff is placed under the skin around the anus and is filled with fluids to maintain closure. A tube connected to a control pump is then placed under the cuff. A special kind of balloon is positioned into the abdomen and also connected to the control pump through tubing that goes under the skin. Once activated, the fluid contained in the cuff drains into the balloon that makes the anus open making the passage of stool easier.

Colostomy. This is typically the last resort if other surgeries fail. It is a procedure that cuts the colon and manipulates it through the stomach walls to form an artificial opening. A colostomy bag is attached to the opening to collect feces.
 Keeping the area around the anus clean is top priority. This not only prevents skin breakdown and infection, but it also helps preserve your self-esteem. For the record, don't use toilet paper to avoid skin irritation. Instead, wash the area with water and soap. Always carry a clean up set anywhere you go to make this easier. These contents should be part of your clean up set:


Gloves
Wipes
Soap
Deodorizing spray
Tissue
Plastic bag with fasteners
Disposable underpads
Extra underwear and pants

, With your clean up set, wash the area with water and soap. This way you can be sure that no fecal material is left on the skin on the anal area. The presence of fecal material will attract microbes, potentially leading to infection.


Allow it to air dry. Air-drying involves no foreign contact to the area, reducing your risk of infection. Stand in front of an electric fan and allow yourself to dry. There are plenty of small, handy fans available in the market for easy transport. This decreases the possibility of damaging the skin through wipe use because once the integrity of the skin is broken, there is a port of entry for bacteria that can come in from fecal materials causing infection.
 Talcum powder or cornstarch keeps the skin dry and comfortable in this delicate area. Creams could also be used to avoid skin breakdown. Simply apply directly from the urethral area down to the anus to avoid cross contamination.


Skin needs to be dry in order to prevent bacteria from growing and spreading. They prefer dark, wet environments, which makes this area perfect, especially if you don't dry off properly. Using powder or cream ensures that the area is dry and bacteria-free.
 This type of underwear gives the best comfort with regards to contact with human skin. Cotton is the best because it is hypoallergenic and totally breathable.


This is similar to the above point -- cotton helps your skin breathe, keeping the area dry, instead of sealing in moisture and creating a damp, dark environment for bacteria. The more the area can breathe, the better.
 If you have diminished sensation along your rectum due to nerve damage or have persistent constipation, toilet retraining may be a good idea. The objective of the retraining is to:


Improve consistency of stool. This is achieved by proper dietary modifications.
Establish a regular pattern of bowel movement. This is accomplished by finding the most suitable time to have a bowel movement without the need to hurry.
Find other means to stimulate bowel movement. This depends upon your individual preference. For example, some consume hot drinks or meals.
 This is useful training if you have bowel incontinence caused by damaged pelvic floor muscles. The program is recommended to strengthen the weakened muscles and usually requires regular exercise three times a day for the period of six to eight weeks. It is performed by following these steps:


Assume that you are having a bowel movement. Hold this position until the muscles in the anus are tightened.
Position the body as comfortable as possible with your legs slightly apart.
Compress the pelvic floor muscles as long as possible then relax. Repeat for five times.
Compress the muscle as hard as possible then relax. Repeat for another five times.
Compress the muscle quickly then relax. Repeat again five times.
 Socializing is a challenge for people with bowel incontinence, but it is not at all impossible. Just be sure that you have the clean up set and you are good to go. Upon arriving at a place, check for the nearest bathroom where you can change and do your business. Keep a fairly close distance to the bathroom if you're worried about needing it.


Don't let this keep you from going out and making friends. It's very inconvenient, but it can be handled. If you've followed the guidelines above, bowel incontinence may not be a concern for much longer.
 Bowel incontinence or loss of bowel control can be connected to several factors:



Damage. Muscles and nerves involved in the normal movement of the bowels can be directly harmed during vaginal childbirth or after a surgical intervention that concerns the anus or rectum.

Neurologic diseases. Several underlying conditions can trigger damage of the peripheral nerve that can possibly result in bowel incontinence. Diseases include stroke, spinal cord injury, diabetes, spina bifida and multiple sclerosis.

Inflammatory and irritable bowel disease. Individuals affected by Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis have increased chances of developing bowel incontinence.

Stool seepage. Rectal fistula, hemorrhoids, rectal prolapse and even poor anal hygiene can result in the progress of the condition.

Parasite infection. Infestation of parasites may cause abnormalities in the system and can lead to bowel incontinence.

Excessive use of laxatives. Too much intake of laxatives may cause unnecessary relaxation of the sphincters.

Paradoxical diarrhea. Happens when the reservoir is filled with stool that subsequently hardens and become impacted. The liquid portion of the feces then drip out of the system.
 Oftentimes, individuals who experience bowel incontinence are hesitant to converse about the issue because of the social stigma attached to it. Here's what usually accompanies bowel incontinence:



Pruritis Ani. An itch may be felt at the anus due to the possibility of infection and breakdown or ulcer of the skin. Leftover feces bring about infection, irritate the anal area and make it itch.

Involuntary passage of feces or gas. Occurs if the muscle or nerves controlling the rectum and anus are damaged – thus normal functioning is impaired.

Inability to make it to the toilet in time. Individuals with bowel incontinence might find it difficult to reach the bathroom just in time for the bowel movement. It may be due to the spontaneous relaxation of the sphincters.
 During consultation, your health care provider will likely take a complete medical and surgical history to learn more about the possible causes of your bowel incontinence. Severity, consistency and episodes of attack are also considered. Current medication and dietary habits are taken into account, too. Here's what your doctor may do:



Physical examination. Rectal examinations are performed to evaluate the condition of the anal sphincter as well as its strength. This is done by inserting a gloved finger into the rectum.

Anorectal manometry. This is used to measure the amount of pressure present in the rectum during periods of rest and to see how the muscles react if force is applied to the area.

Nerve and muscle conduction test. This is done to study the condition of the anal nerves and muscles. Also used to check the receptiveness of anal nerves to control the sphincter muscles.

Endosonography. This is performed to check the state of the anal sphincters and to evaluate anal muscles for any signs of damage. Images are taken through the ultrasound probe inserted into the anus.

Stool testing. This is usually recommended if bowel incontinence is accompanied by diarrhea. It is used to recognize any signs of infection.

Endoscopy. A tube (anoscopy, sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy) with a tiny camera at the tip is inserted into the anus to look for any problems in the anal canal or colon.

MRI defecography. Performed to assess the muscles and supporting structures in the anus, rectum and pelvis. Preferably done while the patient is moving bowels on a special commode.

