 Pixlr is a powerful photo-editing tool used by professionals and photo-editing enthusiasts. Pixlr offers a free online editor as well as a basic editing app for desktop and mobile. You may also upgrade to a more advanced version of the product with a regular subscription.


Pixlr Editor is the company’s web-based application. Go here to launch Pixlr editor: https://pixlr.com/editor/

Pixlr Express is the company’s web, iOS, and Android application.You can download it for free from the Google Play or Apple App store, or by going to https://pixlr.com/express/.;
, The quality of your final, edited product is dependent upon the resolution, or pixel count, of the original image. Pixlr strongly encourages its users to start every editing project with the highest resolution version of the image possible. This is especially true if you intend to blow-up the photo—as you increase the size of a low resolution image, the white space between pixels increases, causing the picture to appear distorted. To upload a picture with:


Pixlr Editor, click on the “Browse” button, select the JPEG file, click “Ok” or find an image on the web by clicking the “Open URL” button.Pixlr Express, click on the “photos” button and choose an image from your phone or tablet’s library. You may also capture a new image to edit by clicking on the “camera” button.
 A file’s size is determined by its pixel count—the higher the pixel count, the larger the file. Emailing, uploading, and downloading large JPEGs is a slow process. Resizing your image to a smaller pixel count will allow you to share your pictures faster.


To resize the picture using Pixlr Editor, select Adjustment > Resize. Change the pixel dimensions to the desired size, keep the “Aspect Ratio” locked, and click “Apply.”
To resize the image with Pixlr Express, click “Done” and then select “Resize.” Alter the pixel dimensions to the desired size, keep the “Aspect Ratio” locked, and click “Apply.”, Cropping allows you to easily remove unwanted portions of a photo. Cropping an image will also reduce the file’s size.


To crop your image using Pixlr Editor, select Adjustment > Crop. Manually alter the width and length of the bounding box. Click outside of the picture. If you are happy with the new dimensions, click “Yes” in the dialog box that appears.
To crop your picture using Pixlr Express, select Tools > Crop. Key in the desired pixel dimensions or select one of the pre-set size options from the drop down menu., This filter is only available for free with Pixlr Editor or with a subscription to Pixlr. Select Filter > Denoise. The word “Denoise” will flash above the photo, indicating the the image’s noise, or visual distortion, was reduced. Continue to reduce the noise until you achieve the desired results.


You can not control how much noise is reduced at one time., This feature is only available for free through Pixlr Editor. Pixlr’s clone stamp tool allows you to capture and replicate portions of an image. With this tool, you can copy and paste individual pixels or entire objects. Since the stamp can capture and replicate multiple colors, this tool is wonderful for eliminating or reducing mosquito noise from areas with fine details.


Zoom in until you can see the individual pixels. Select View > Zoom In.
In pixlr, the stamp is applied with a brush. Select the brush tool and adjust its settings. Choose a soft edge brush from row two and reduce the opacity. The soft edges and low opacity will allow you to blend the colors together.
Select the clone stamp tool—it is located directly below the paint can icon. Move your cursor to the exact location you would like to capture and replicate. To activate the clone stamp, windows users must hold down Alt and Mac users must hold down ⌘ Command. As you hold down the key, click on the area. Release the key and mouse.
To apply the stamp, move your cursor to the area you would like to touch up and click. Repeat as needed.
Throughout the process, zoom in and out to examine your work.
 Pixlr provides users ways to alter and enhance an image. You may use the “Color” tool to adjust the image’s hue, saturation, lightness and vibrance. If the image is over or underexposed, you can alter the pictures contrast or brightness with the “Contrast” tool.To access these tools in Pixlr, select Refine > Color or Refine > Contrast.
To access these tools in Pixlr Editor, select Adjustment > Color or Adjustment > Contrast.
To access these tools in Pixlr Express, select Tools > Adjustment > Color or Tools > Adjustment > Contrast.
 Pixlr is equipped with multiple brush-like tools and filters that are capable of erasing minor flaws or altering the entire picture. These tools include:


Sharpen: use this tool to sharpen soft edges
Blur: use this tool to soften harsh edges
Smudge: use this tool to blend pixels together
Sponge: use this tool to “soak up” color or “saturate” color
Dodge: use this tool to increase the image’s brightness
Burn: use this tool to add shadow, or contrast, to your picture
Spot Heal: use this tool to remove blemishes and scratches
Bloat: use this tool to create a concave effect
Pinch: use this tool to produce a convex effect
Red Eye Reduction: use this tool to remove red eyes

, With Pixlr’s effects package, you can transform each pixel in your image. Every effect tool uses math to alter the appearance of individual pixels. Pixlr offers nine different effects. Each effect has several sub-effect options. The categories include:


Atomic, Creative, Default, Soft, Subtle, Too Old, Unicolor, and Vintage., Once you have finished editing your image, select File > Save As, click the “Save” button, or pick “Save Image.” If you are using Pixlr or Pixlr Editor, a dialog box will appear on the screen. In Pixlr, you will have the option to rename the image, choose the “Files of Type”—choose JPEG— and determine where you would like to save the image. Once you are done, click “Save.” In Pixlr Editor, you will have the option to rename the file. Before the image is saved, the program will prompt you to select the “Image Quality.”


High-quality images are less compressed—the pixels retain more data. This results in a large file and a crisp picture.
Low-quality images are more compressed—the pixels contain less data. This creates a small file size and a less crisp, or more pixelated, picture.