 If you want to get lots of friends on Facebook and get lots of people looking at your content, make your page a public page. This will really help make sure that more people see your stuff. Just remember: don’t post anything that’s going to come back to haunt you!

, Friend everyone you meet in real life, if possible. Friend everyone at school and try to friend your friends’ friends as well (now there’s a tongue twister). When someone you aren’t friends with comments or interacts with your posts, friend them. When you see someone on a fan page you think might like your page, friend them. The more friends you have, the more people will see and interact with your posts.


Friend even people that you don't know very well or only met once. No one is actually personal friends with 500+ people, so don't feel discourages when you see other famous Facebook users with huge friends lists.
Don't forget to friend people that you haven't seen in a really long time. Maybe those friendships will even be rekindled!

, Find a community that would like you and join it. Fan pages, groups, anything like that where you are the person to know because you are a great example of what that group of people find interesting. Groups and communities are great ways to meet people and make new friends outside of your immediate area, giving you a voice across the country and across the world!


Appealing to one group of people is going to be easier than trying to appeal to everyone. Find your niche and appeal to them.
 Your posts should make people want to comment like, or otherwise interact with you. Post questions, opinions on controversial topics, or inspiring quotes or stories. The more likes, shares, and comments you get, the more Facebook will make sure that people see your posts.


Example posts would look like: "I'm no policy adviser, but the US is handling this Syria business all wrong. What do you guys think?" or "Macklemore concert next month...wish I could go so bad! Who's with me?" or "“I'm selfish, impatient and a little insecure. I make mistakes, I am out of control and at times hard to handle. But if you can't handle me at my worst, then you sure as hell don't deserve me at my best.”-Marilyn Monroe".
 Interact with other people a lot. This will make them feel like they know you and will also give you the chance to meet new friends. Comment on their status updates and pictures, leave birthday messages, and find other ways to interact with everyone you’re friends with on Facebook.
 When you’re posting something that you really want people to see, make sure you time it well. Saturday mornings and weekday evenings are when the greatest number of people are checking their feed!

