 Go through your closet and/or dresser and pick out anything you are tired of, hate, or don’t wear because it’s too worn out. Put these clothes into a pile and put the rest of your clothes back.;
, Looking through them one at a time, find at least one thing you like about each item. One may have awesome fabric, another, a great print, and another, a unique flair. Maybe your favorite tee is in great shape except for a ripped sleeve, or maybe you have a skirt that’s a hard-to-find color but is two sizes too big. Don’t count something out just because it’s plain or boring; this might make a great base for one of your designs. However, if you really can't find anything redeeming about an item, put it aside for now and move on to something else.
 Jeans that are too short can be cut them into shorts for summer. If a top that’s too small and shows off a little bit of your belly can be cut into a belly top.
 Decide if you can embellish it in some way to spice it up or deconstruct it into something else. Hold it up next to other items from your collection and see if you can make any interesting matches.
 Useful search terms include "deconstructed clothing" and "DIY" (do-it-yourself). Great sites are listed below, too, but don't forget to look on your own - there are lots of ideas out there!

, For example, consider adding fabric paint or beads, slashing it for peek-a-boo effect, shortening it, dying it, cutting off the sleeves, ironing on a transfer that you printed from your computer, or, for a punk look, attaching other pieces of fabric to it with safety pins.
 If you know how to sew, (or have a friend or relative who might help), consider reworking or even combining different items from your wardrobe. For example, you might: swap the sleeves of two different long-sleeved shirts to create a two-color effect; cut off and sew the collar of a collared shirt into the collar of a closed-neck shirt to fake a layered look; cut and sew a shirt with a torn armpit into a vest; invert a cheap hoodie and turn it into fuzzy mittens; cut out a long strip of an interesting fabric to make a belt, hip sash, or scarf; etc.
 Donate them to a thrift shop or sell them to a second-hand store. Usually second-hand stores give you the option of receiving cash or in-store credit for your items that sell. You will receive more in credit than you would in cash, and then when you come back to the store in a month or two, you can use your credit to get clothes you do like. If you bring in clothes to consign every time you visit the store, you will most likely have credit the next time you come in, and can establish a monthly or bi-monthly wardrobe rotation without spending any money.


You can also start clothing swaps with your friends. Often the clothes that no longer interest you can feel 'new' for someone else.

