 Potential thieves must know that they are being monitored by video cameras in order for the system to deter them. Accordingly, place your cameras in places where they will be noticed. Ideally, these cameras will also cover those areas that cannot be easily monitored by on-duty staff. For instance, hallways or other areas of a building that are relatively obscured are ideal locations for video cameras.If deterrence is your only goal, you can save money by using fake cameras. Fake cameras look exactly the same as real security cameras, and may be equally effective in deterring potential thieves.;
, Place signs notifying customers that they are being monitored via video. Signs alone can deter potential thieves from attempting to steal from your business. Place signs near the entrance, as well as any areas that are not easily monitored by staff. Further, place signs within dressing rooms and restrooms that notify customers that shoplifters will be prosecuted., Retail and production employees are sometimes guilty of theft. In fact, in the U.S. alone, dozens of billions of dollars’ worth of goods are stolen by businesses’ employees each year. Potential thieves on your staff may be deterred by video monitoring systems. However, they may also be aware of any gaps in the camera’s coverage, so video monitoring systems alone cannot prevent employee theft.To prevent and diminish losses, install cameras covering your most valuable wares. For instance, place a camera in all storage areas, as well as those areas where any expensive equipment is kept.
Only grant access to information about your video monitoring system to the minimum number of staff to ensure it can be used effectively.
 An important place to monitor is your business’s back entrance. Placing a camera in this location will help deter anyone attempting to exit unnoticed or trying to enter with quick access to any back offices. Further, cameras on back entrances allow you to monitor anybody and anything that may come and go out your back door.Make sure the camera is visible from within the building if you’re hoping to deter retail theft.
If you have a loading dock, install a camera outside to allow employees to check to make sure no one is waiting to break in before opening a back door.
 Cameras at cash registers and other places where money is handled can prevent both customer and employee theft. Cameras in these locations work best when they have a view from above, and can directly monitor any exchange of cash. Cameras of this sort may be especially effective in deterring theft in a retail or service environment., Businesses that are prime target for theft, such as jewelry retailers or factories that produce expensive goods may benefit from a monitored entrance system. Install a lock and camera at each entrance to the facility. This will help ensure you can control who is allowed into the facility.The presence of camera at the front door means that you also have footage of everyone who enters, thus deterring any criminal behavior.
 There are legal concerns associated with using a video monitoring system. Laws governing these technologies vary depending on state and country. Usually, you are allowed to monitor public areas. However, make sure every camera you install is positioned and operated legally.Often, employee break rooms are off-limits for cameras.
Never place a camera in a restroom or locker room. As a rule of thumb, do not install a camera anywhere someone may have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
If you are unsure, speak with a lawyer in your area about the legality of a video monitoring system on your premises.

