 While there are several types of slim cut jeans, the “skinny jean” style is probably the easiest and most flattering to pair with ankle boots.


Fitted straight-leg jeans and similar slim-cut styles can be harder to manipulate since they don't hug your legs in the same way skinny jeans do, but if you choose to wear these jean types with your ankle boots, the same style principles still apply.
 Try on the skinny jeans without the boots. Ideally, the lower hem of each leg should fall to the approximate mid-point of the ankle.


The jeans can be a little longer than this, but try to avoid skinny jeans that fall below the ankle. Unnecessarily long jeans may look bulky when you fold or otherwise manipulate them.
Similarly, super short jeans that sit well above the ankle may not provide enough material for you to work with when creating folds or bunches.
 Cuffs are one of the easiest, most popular ways to pair skinny jeans with ankle boots. The cuff should bring the lower edge of each jean leg just above your natural ankle, revealing a thin strip of skin between the boot and the jeans.Note that the revealed strip of skin should be approximately 1 inch (2.5 cm) wide. A small glimpse of skin can help lengthen the visual leg line, but too much visible skin can create a large block that makes your leg look shorter.
You can use either a single cuff or a rolled cuff. Single cuffs work best on snug skinny jeans, but rolled cuffs can be used on multiple jean cuts.

For a single cuff, fold the bottom hem up once.
For a rolled cuff, fold the hem up once, then fold it over itself once more.


Stick with short, rolled cuffs if you have naturally short legs since long, single cuffs can shorten the visual leg line too much. Regardless of your legs' natural length, no cuff should exceed 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) in height.
 If you don't like the cuffed look, try folding the hems inward instead of outward.Keep folding until you create about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of space in between your jeans and your boots.


It's best to stick with a single-fold cuff since rolled cuffs can create lumps. You'll likely need to wear skinny jeans that are snug against your ankles to make this option work; looser jeans may not hold the single fold well enough to last all day.
To improve the look's longevity, fold the hidden cuff and press it into place with an iron before putting on your jeans.
 This option is best considered when you're working with an old, beaten up pair of jeans that are already past they're prime. Instead of cuffing the bottom hem to an appropriate height, use a sharp pair of scissors to cut off the excess material altogether.


Use a tape measure and pencil to mark off the section you'd like to remove. Try to create around 1 inch (2.5 cm) of space in between the bottom of the jeans and the top of the ankle boots.
You can hem the cut edge, if desired, or leave it unfinished to create an edgier distressed look.
 Scrunching your jeans at the bottom hem or around the knees can raise the hem without cuffing or removing any of the material.This option will only work when you wear snug skinny jeans, however, since looser styles may not stay secure for very long.


When the hems naturally sit at the top of the ankle boots, you could let the jeans simply bunch up and rest at the top of the boot while letting the rest of the leg remain snug and smooth.
When the hems naturally fall below the top of the ankle boots, scrunch up some of the material around the knees and lower thighs. Continue until 1 to 1-1/2 inches (2.5 to 3.75 cm) of skin shows between the jeans and the boots.
 In other words, don't wear skinny jeans over your ankle boots or tuck them into the tops. You may run across both methods, but each one is generally considered a fashion faux pas by amateur and professional stylists alike.


Since the bottom of the legs don't flare out, the upper edge of the boot will create notable lumps and lines from beneath your jeans if you try to wear your jeans over the boots.
While it might seem tempting to tuck your jeans into the boots, doing so can actually make your legs look shorter and wider. This is true regardless of how snug your skinny jeans fit. Essentially, tucking them in breaks up the visual leg line, tricking the eye into believing that your legs end sooner than they should.

