 Are you aware the other person’s faults and quirks? If so, then you’re in a normal phase of realistic love in which you may no longer see your partner through rose-colored glasses, but instead start to notice the things that might annoy or irritate you. It's okay to notice these things — no one is perfect, and your partner is going to start noticing quirks and imperfections about you, too. What's important is figuring out if you can accept these things about your partner.Are you starting to notice that your partner never cleans up the dishes after eating? Or have you noticed larger issues you may need to work on, like that he often says he is fine when he's actually very upset?
If you cannot tolerate the other person's faults at this stage, or feel that they are things that the two of you cannot work on, you might decide to move on from the relationship., Once you start to become more intimate with your partner, you’ll likely have more arguments and disagreements. If you're willing to compromise and put your partner or the relationship first, then you're beginning to be in a more committed and content phase of your relationship.Disagreement is unavoidable, but you can learn to communicate better with your partner by:Listening attentively
Avoiding judgments or blaming
Asking for clarification
Rephrasing or repeating to show you understand
Talk about hard topics such as hurt feelings

, Ask yourself if you can get what you need from one another. The success of building a relationship will depend on if you can trust each other to be there. If you are both turning toward one another and listening to each others’ needs, rather than getting angry or denying what your partner needs, then you are certainly in a phase of contentment.To assess your level of trust, ask yourself if you are able to:Be vulnerable in sharing your concerns and insecurities to your partner.
Be open to what the other person is feeling.
Avoid getting angry, jealous, or possessive.


If you’re in a healthy, contented relationship, you’ll start to share dreams for your future together at this point. You’ll start imagining more possibilities with one another. You’ll feel comfortable sharing with your partner what you see for your future.You can ask yourself if your partner:Is invested in growing with you
Has similar ideas about marriage and family
Is motivated to make and achieve goals with you

,

In the contentment or co-creation phase, you’ll face new challenges and may have to put your relationship first.You'll also recognize your partner’s need and your own need for independence, while still working to establish a new routine and life now that you’re more of a team.In this phase, it’s common you’ll have to negotiate new roles and rules because of:Adopting a pet
Moving in together or buying a house together
Thinking about engagement or marriage
Sharing or merging finances

