 Terry cloth towels will be gentle on your appliance. Wet them and then squeeze out excess moisture.Terry cloth is the fabric used for most bath towels, bath robes, and slippers, but because of its soft, absorbent qualities it can be great for non-streak cleaning as well. Terry cloth towels are plush and soft.;
, Apply a cleaner to the towel. For store bought solutions, use an ammonium-based cleaner. This includes most glass and window cleaners, multipurpose cleaners, and oven cleaners.For a homemade vinegar solution, mix one part vinegar with one part water., Take your towel and wipe down the appliance. This will sanitize the appliance and remove dirt, but probably leave streaks. You will likely need to perform this cleaning frequently.Buffing immediately after cleaning will remove the remaining streaks.
 To protect against scratches, never use steel wool or abrasive scrubbing pads to pick up tough stains. Magic Eraser is good at picking up tough stains, without leaving scratches.For a homemade alternative, try mixing baking soda with a couple drops of liquid dish soap. Apply this solution to an old toothbrush and use it to scrub away tough stains., Ideally, you should have certain towels that you only use for buffing. This will prevent them from accumulating cleaning products, making them more effective at removing streaks. Wash them separately from your other towels, without bleach.Consider making all your buffing towels a single color to make them easier to recognize.
A simple fabric towel should suffice. Although some people recommend microfiber, a basic towel made of cloth should work in most cases., If you do not wipe your appliances down with a cleaning solution before every buffing, your buffing towels will accumulate dirt and become ineffective. Always be sure that there is no dirt or grime left on the appliance before you buff it., Do not wet the towel or apply cleaner. A dry towel should easily pick up the streaks. Gently wipe down the entire surface before the cleaner dries.If you allow the cleaner to dry on before buffing it, you will find it harder to pick up streaks that have dried on.

