 Hair loss can be genetic or it may stem from some underlying conditions such as hypothyroidism or aging. Low calorie diets, malnutrition, and stress can also impact hair loss, as can major illness or surgery. Consider what factors in your life may be causing your current hair loss. This will help you better develop a plan for hair loss prevention.Causes may be different in men and women. If you are unsure of what is causing your hair loss, talk to your doctor or a dermatologist.;
, If you have greasy hair, you may have dandruff due to the yeast that grows there. Testosterone can build up in the follicles, as well, which in turn can lead to hair loss. Using a specialized shampoo can cut down on greasiness and dandruff, which may reduce hair loss.Look for shampoos that contain anti-fungal ingredients, such as the shampoo Nizoral, or ones that have selenium sulfide, coal tar, or salicylic  acid.
Try alternating different products for the best results., Smoking causes a number of health problems, but you may not know that because it constricts blood vessels throughout the body, it can also lead to hair loss. When the follicles experience a diminished blood supply, the hair can fall out. If you're worried about losing your hair and you smoke, now may be a good time to consider quitting.Commit to quit smoking, and write out your reasons why you want to quit, such as you want better health. Pick a date you will quit, and throw out your cigarettes.Use assistance. Medications like nicotine patches or gum help many people quit by weaning them off nicotine.
Get support. Telling your friends and family can help you stick to quitting. They can listen or help distract you when you feel like smoking., Being stressed can cause you to lose more hair, so cutting back on stress is helpful.One way to help with stressful events is to talk about them with someone you trust.Try to cut out stressors when you can, such as not watching the news.
You can also use techniques like meditation to help you cope with stress. For instance, you can try deep breathing when you start to feel overwhelmed. Close your eyes, and breathe in through your nose to the count of four. Hold the breath for four minutes, and breathe out to the count of four. Keep using this technique until you feel yourself calm down.
 Exercise increases circulation throughout your body and helps to reduce stress. Both increased oxygen intake and decreased stress can help reduce hair loss. Aim for 30 to 40 minutes of exercise three to four times a week to start.The exercise can be anything that gets your heart rate up, from walking and jogging to activities like swimming, dancing, or playing an intramural sport.
Pick something that elevates your heart rate, but isn't so difficult that you are unable to speak or stand afterward.
 You may use protein powders in your diet to help yourself get enough protein. If you do, you need to make sure you're choosing one with the right kind of whey to help reduce hair loss. Whey protein concentrate helps reduce hair loss, while whey protein isolate can contribute to hair loss.Protein powders can be purchased at most big box stores, but you can also find a variety at health food stores and supplement stores.
 This supplement will not regrow hair. However, it may help keep the hair you already have from falling out. It can thicken hair strands, making them stronger, which in turn prevents their loss.Try increasing the number of biotin-rich foods you eat. These include cooked eggs, sardines, nuts, soybeans, legumes, bananas, and mushrooms.
Look for a supplement at your local drug store or supplement store. Tablets come in 10 micrograms, 50 micrograms, and 100 micrograms. Talk to your doctor about the right dosage for you., This medication, also known as Rogaine, is one you rub into your scalp where you are losing hair. It can help stop your hair from receding more. It may even help you grow more hair back. You must keep using this product for it to work.If you want to take this drug, talk to your doctor.
Both men and women can take this drug.
 You take these medications in pill form. They help reduce the amount of testosterone in your body, particularly the kind that can increase hair loss. Both are more effective than minoxidil, and dutasteride is generally more effective than finasteride.These drugs are typically only be taken by men.Side effects may include a decrease in sex drive and erectile dysfunction.
 A doctor transplanting hair will take hair from the back of your head or scalp and move it to the front of your head where you're losing hair. Because the hair at the back of your head is less susceptible to testosterone damage, it is more likely to stay in place.This treatment is expensive, though, and you do run the risk of infection.
Also, this procedure is usually done over multiple visits., If you style your hair excessively or blow-dry it too often, that can contribute to hair loss. In addition, shampoo buildup can, over time, lead to more hair loss, as can buildup from other hair products such as gels and hairsprays. Try choosing a sulfate-free shampoo to help with this problem.Also, make sure to not style your hair too much. Teasing and curling can be especially bad for hair loss.
In addition, when you pull it up in a ponytail, makes sure you keep it loose. If it's too tight, it can make you lose more hair.
 Focusing in on lean proteins, which are high in protein, biotin, and iron, can help increase your hair health. In addition, make sure your eating your fruits and vegetables, as you need those to keep your hair healthy.Look for foods rich in B vitamins, including fortified cereals, leafy greens, and meat.If you're worried about your diet, ask your doctor to run blood tests to see if you're deficient in any minerals or vitamins.
 One deficiency to check for in particular is an iron deficiency, also known as being anemic. If you're anemic for long periods of time, you can lose some of your hair. Ask your doctor to check the iron levels in your blood.If you are deficient, you an take a supplement or increase your iron intake in your diet, by eating things like lean proteins.
 Hypothyroidism occurs when the thyroid can't make enough thyroid hormone to maintain normal body function. The condition has a number of non-specific symptoms, including hair loss. Schedule a blood test with your doctor to check for hypothyroidism.Symptoms of the condition are typically variable and not specific to hypothyroidism, so the only way to diagnose it is through a blood test.
 Several medications including certain acne medications, antidepressants, anti-inflammatory and anti-ulcer medications may cause hair loss. Read over the side effects of any medications you are currently using to see if they may be impacting your hairline.If you cannot locate side effect information on the packaging, try the manufacturer website. Alternatively, you can also call the prescribing doctor and request they send you further information about the medication.
 For some people, losing or gaining a bunch of weight at once can also lead to hair loss. Make sure you lose at a steady pace. In addition to helping your hairline, it can also help you maintain the weight you lose, as losing at a steady past can help train your body.
 If you have sudden hair loss or your hair loss is patchy rather than gradually receding, that could be a sign of another condition. Your doctor will be able to tell you if you have an underlying medical condition or if it's just hair loss.