 If you are unsure, it is often a good idea to start with something that professionals recommend. Most home improvement stores and paint vendors offer a selection of palettes that work together. Often these include a trim color that takes the headache of deciding which shade of off-white will work, too.

You do not have to select all the colors off the palette or collection. If you do not like the green, but everything else works for you, simply do not use the green. You also do not have to use all twelve colors; just use what works for you and your space.
You do not have to buy any paint to use the color in your house. For instance, you may like a little orange in your house, but painting a whole room orange may be too extreme for you. Instead, bring in that orange color with throw pillows, or a bedspread, paintings, curtains, and so forth.
 Do not match a wall and couch with the exact same color. While these items will technically "match," the furniture and curtains should not essentially vanish into the walls. Instead, the color of both the wall and the couch will look understated. here are a few ideas you can try instead:Go with colors in the same family. If you have a blue wall, try a blue-green couch. If your wall is yellow, choose a red and orange color scheme for the furniture. The colors will harmonize instead of canceling each other out.
Or choose a contrasting color for a bigger splash. Buy an overstuffed violet armchair to put in your sunny yellow room, or try a bright coral sofa to offset your light turquoise walls.
 Many people hesitate to paint an entire room one bold color, as it is a bold and risky move. An accent wall gives you the chance to play with color without committing to an entire room or area with one color. Here's how to do it:


Saturated colors can have a strong effect on your emotional state. A bright red room might make you feel nervous, and a dark grey one might give you the blues.
However, strong colors can affect a person positively. An orange room might make a person feel joyful and creative, and a dark grey one feel focused and sophisticated. Different people react differently to the same color in the same space.
Pick a smaller wall in the room, like the area around your front door or above the kitchen counter. Paint it a bright color that matches the room's neutral.
Or use a contrasting color for the trim. Painting borders in a contrasting color gives a room an eclectic, fun look. You could also create a stenciled trim in a different color.
Keep in mind that color temperature can affect a room's mood. A soft purplish-pink wall color on a bedroom is romantic. But a bright fuchsia bedroom may come across as a bit too much. You can use nearly any intense color, but use just an accent. This can give the room the feel you want without being overwhelming.

For example, if you love intense fuchsia in the bedroom, consider having such colors in the pillows, bedspread, and some paintings.
If you are a homeowner, keep in mind that if you do choose very bright or saturated colors, you may well have to re-paint before selling. You may enjoy turquoise walls, but most home buyers may not. This can affect the re-sale value.
 If you do not or cannot commit to painting your walls pink or buying a bright yellow couch, you can still add color to your decorating scheme through decorations. Throw pillows, vases, clocks, flowers, bookshelves, and other smaller items can add bursts of color that liven up a room. Just keep these thoughts in mind when you're decorating:


Pick colors in the same family. Have a few decorations that match each other so that the room looks pulled together. For example, try a bookcase painted green, a pair of sea-green vases on the mantel and a collection of turquoise and green throw pillows and blankets.
Avoid using too many colors in the same room, though. As a guideline, three is the maximum: main color, accent color, and trim color. Keep things simple, or else the room may take on a mismatched or chaotic appearance.

