 If you don't own one yet, the iPod touch, Nano, and Shuffle devices all play music. From there, they branch off in different directions. Find the one that fits your budget and lifestyle. Jump ahead to Step 2 if you already own an iPod MP3 player.


iPod Shuffle: The smallest and cheapest of the iPod line, the Shuffle is slightly bigger than a postage stamp and can hold 2 gigabytes (GB) of music. You operate the Shuffle by pressing physical buttons on its face. As an added bonus, it clips to your clothes, perfect if you like to listen to music while working out.
iPod Nano: The Nano is Apple's middle-of-the-road device. It sports a 2.5-inch touchscreen, runs around $150, and holds up to 16 GB of music. The Nano also supports FM radio as well as workout features such as Nike+, which tracks your progress as you run.
iPod touch: Nearly identical to the iPhone in shape, size, and color choices, the iPod touch comes in 16, 32, and 64 GB sizes. You can download apps and games, browse the Internet, check email, and do virtually anything else besides make a phone call.;
, Apple designed all of their MP3 players to connect with iTunes, software available for PC and Mac that lets you purchase and download music, videos, and apps to your devices. Go to http://www.apple.com/itunes/download/ to grab the latest version.


The iTunes download page offers you a file for Windows by default. If you're on a Mac, click the blue "Get iTunes for Macintosh" link below the blue "Download Now" button.
You can download the latest updates for iTunes from the program's download page if you already have it installed.
, Apple ships each iPod with a special USB cable designed to connect iPod devices to your computer. You can buy replacements at most electronics stores, or online by searching for "Apple USB cable".
 iTunes may open automatically the first time you connect your MP3 player. If it doesn't, double-click the iTunes icon, which can usually be found on your desktop (Windows) or your Applications folder (Mac).
 In iTunes 12 and later, an icon depicting your device will appear in the upper-left, below the menu and beside the music note and television icons. In versions of iTunes older than 12, look for your MP3 player under the "Devices" heading.
 Tabs include "Summary" for an overview of your device, "Music" for the playlists and albums synced to your device, and more.
 From here, iTunes lets you choose whether you want to sync all the music in your library, or specific playlists, songs, and albums.


Your MP3 player can only hold as many songs as you have storage available. Keep an eye on the Storage bar at the bottom of the screen, which shows you how many gigabytes (GB) you have free.
 Syncing copies your selected music over to your MP3 player.
 You'll find the eject button in the upper-left corner of the screen near the name of your device.

