 Check names, titles, and addresses.


Use high quality, plain white or ivory paper and envelopes that either come as a set or match. This is a visual cue to their professional nature.
Use address and return labels or envelopes that are typed or printed if possible. Printed or typed labels and envelopes are considered more professional.
Use envelopes printed for your business if you have them. Formal business envelopes feature the name, address, and logo of a particular business.
Use typed or printed envelopes with your business address if you do not have formal, pre-printed business envelopes with a logo. Neatly handwrite in block letters the name and address information in black or blue ink if you cannot type or print your business envelope.
 For example: "General Electric," "Google, Inc."


Address the person on the second line. Use "Attention:" to indicate the recipient followed by their title. For example: "Attention: Mr. John Smith," "Attention: Dr. Charlotte Parker."
Use the same rules for titles for business as you do for formal events. Some exceptions are for accountants and lawyers. For example: "Attention: Mr. John Smith, CPA," or Attention: Attorney Charlotte Parker." With lawyers, you can also write "Charlotte Parker, Esquire" without "Ms."
With women, the default title in business is "Ms." unless you know the person prefers "Mrs." If they have another title such as "Dr." or "Rabbi," use that title instead.
Use the position title only if you do not know the recipient's full name. For example, if you are sending a letter to the president of a particular company, address the envelope with a phrase such as: "To the President."

,


Don't use abbreviations in the address. Write out words like "street," "avenue," or "circle." For example: "200 Main Street," "15 Dupont Circle," "1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, Northwest."

, For example, "Washington, DC 20002," or "Berkeley, CA 94703."


If you're not sure of a ZIP code, you can look it up on the website of the United States Postal Service. For a foreign country, it's useful to look at formatting conventions for international addresses. 