 The endorphins that come from exercise can help you calm down, and moving your body provides a physical outlet for your rage: in this way, exercise can help in the moment of anger. However, maintaining a regular exercise schedule can also help you regulate your emotions in general. While you exercise, focus on thinking about the exercise and your body, not what has been on your mind lately. Some forms of exercise that might appeal to you and help you control your anger include:


Running/Jogging
Weight training
Cycling
Yoga
Basketball
Martial arts
Swimming
Dance
Boxing
Meditating

, Most adults need at least 7-8 hours of sleep per night to thrive.Being sleep deprived can contribute to a wide range of health problems, including the inability to manage emotions properly. Getting adequate sleep can improve your mood and lessen your anger.


If you have chronic sleep problems, consult your physician. You may be able to make dietary or lifestyle changes to improve your sleep. You may also be able to try herbal or medicinal supplements to sleep more.
 Begin writing down details about your anger. If you have an episode or event in which you lost control of your emotions, write it down. Be sure to include exactly how you felt, what caused you to be angry, where you were, who you were with, how you reacted, and how you felt afterwards.After you have kept your journal for a while, you should begin to look for commonalities among entries to identify the people, places, or things that trigger your anger.


A sample journal entry may look like this: Today, I became very angry at a coworker. He called me selfish for not offering to pick up lunch for everyone. We were in the lounge area, and I was taking a break from a stressful day by eating a cheeseburger from the restaurant next door. I got really angry and yelled back at him, called him a name and stormed off. I punched the desk when I got back to my office. Then I felt guilty and ashamed and hid in my office the rest of the day.
Over time, you may evaluate your journal and find that being called a name (such as selfish) is a trigger for your anger.
 Once you begin to identify triggers to your anger, you can make a plan for dealing with those triggers. Using the strategies for controlling anger listed in Part 1 can help, along with scripting an if-then response ahead of time.


For example, you may know that you are going to visit your mother-in-law, who makes disparaging remarks about your parenting style. You could decide ahead of time, “if she makes a comment about my parenting, I will calmly tell her that I appreciate her input, but I am going to make decisions about the way that I parent regardless of how she feels about those opinions.” You may also decide that you will leave the room or even pack up and go home if you feel that your anger is growing.
 To practice assertive expression, you should stick to the facts involved (not exaggerated by emotion), communicate requests (rather than demands) in a respectful way, communicate clearly, and express your feelings effectively.


This approach differs from passive expression, which involves being angry without saying anything, and aggressive expression, which generally manifests as an explosion or outburst that generally seems disproportionate to the problem. For example, if you are angered by a coworker playing music loudly every day while you are trying to work, you could say, “I understand that you enjoy listening to music while you are working, but the music makes it difficult for me to focus on my work. I would like to request that you use headphones instead of playing the music aloud so that it is not a distraction to your coworkers and so that we can all have a pleasant work environment.”

, Anger management programs can help you learn to deal with anger and control your emotions healthily. Attending a group class can help you feel as though you are not alone in your situation, and many people find that peer groups are as helpful as individual therapy for some kinds of problems.


To find an anger management program that is right for you, try searching online for “anger management class” plus the name of your city, state, or region. You can also include search terms like “for teens” or “for PTSD” to find a group tailored to your specific situation.
You can also look for appropriate programs by asking your physician or therapist, or consulting the self-improvement course offerings at your local community center.
 If your anger has progressed to the point that it's interfering with your day-to-day life or your ability to maintain positive relationships, see a therapist. He or she can assess the root of your problem and whether or not you require therapy, medication, or some combination of both. A therapist can give you relaxation techniques to use in situations that make you feel angry. She can help you develop emotional coping skills and communication training. You can search for a therapist specializing in anger management in North America here and in the United Kingdom here.

