 You have a brief period of time, usually 30 days,after your decree is entered to appeal some portion of the judge's decision.


Either spouse can appeal a trial court's decision to an appeals court.
An appeal turns on what happened during the trial, not what has happened since the trial. You can't introduce new facts or evidence on appeal – you're only arguing that the trial judge's decision was incorrect based on the information he had at the time.Keep in mind that settlement agreements typically can't be appealed, because you both agreed to the terms. You may be able to modify the agreement if circumstances have changed., Even if you didn't have an attorney represent you at trial, appellate practice is considerably more complicated than trial practice, and divorce decisions are rarely overturned on appeal.If you did have an attorney, she may be willing to continue to represent you, or she may refer you to another attorney who specializes in appeals.
Appeals arguments typically focus on issues of legal interpretation rather than factual disputes. Appellate judges generally won't second guess a trial judge's factual conclusions.An attorney will ensure that you have solid grounds for appeal and that all necessary documents are filed ahead of any deadlines., The appellate brief contains your legal argument as to why the trial court judge's decision was wrong and should be overruled.


Unlike your initial divorce petition, you likely won't find forms to fill out for an appellate brief. You may be able to find briefs filed in other cases in the same court to use as guides.
Typically an appellate brief argues the judge made a mistake either in applying or interpreting the law – not that the judge made a mistake of fact. For example, if the court concluded that your total income was $100,000 a year, you can't appeal that factual conclusion. However, if the judge arrived at that conclusion because he included money that legally should have been excluded from your legal income for the purposes of calculating child or spousal support, that would be an issue for appeal., When you file your brief, you must also follow your appellate court's rules for "perfecting" your appeal. These vary not only among states but also among appellate courts within a state.In addition to paying a filing fee, you typically will have to file a notice of appeal and order a trial transcript along with a written order asking the trial court clerk to send the trial court record to the court of appeals., After the appellate court receives all the documents for your case, it may hold oral arguments on either party's request. No testimony or evidence is presented; rather, appellate attorneys argue their cases based on the record of the case at trial.


Once arguments are heard, the appeals court, typically consisting of a three-judge panel, will decide whether to accept or deny your appeal.
In most cases, unless your judge made a serious error, the appellate court will uphold the original decree and you will have to follow it.