 The basic idea behind establishing any budget is to measure how much you’re making versus how much you’re spending. Being aware of your exact level of income is therefore a logical place to start. Find out the specific amount that you make in a month or year, then translate that into how much money you have at your disposal each time the bulk of your expenses are made (typically every month).Salaried workers can break down their annual compensation into smaller units to make it easier to view in a particular time frame.
Those who work hourly or contractual jobs should tally up their average monthly income and go from there.;
, Before you can reduce spending, you need to have a rough idea of what it is. It’s a good idea to start saving receipts, reviewing your bank statements and making a note of every transaction you carry out—that way, you can go back and take another look at it later. With these figures in mind, you can start looking for places to begin whittling down expenditures.List your non-negotiable expenses first, such as car payments, health insurance premiums and estimated food costs.
Subtract these expenses from your monthly income to find out realistically what you’re working with.
 Fixed expenses are things like rent, gym memberships and subscription fees where you pay the same amount in regular intervals. By contrast, variable expenses include utilities, food, fuel and anything else that might vary between pay periods. The trick will be to prioritize certain fixed expenses, then decrease the amount you’re forced to spend on flexible ones.You might be able to lower even fixed expenses to an extent by renegotiating fees—for instance, haggling with the cable or phone company over your payments.
Flexible spending is the easiest to get a handle on, as it’s directly correlated to how much you use., Keep an eye on your monthly spending, especially in proportion to your income. When you record your specific transactions and expenditures, make a note of whether they’re fixed or variable. Obviously there’s not much you can do about the cost of rent or insurance, but you can exert immediate control over the items where there’s some wiggle room concerning how much you pay.It’s important to get a sense of how you’re actually using your money. You might be surprised at how your assumptions differ from the truth of the situation.
Where necessary expenditures are concerned, determine whether there’s a way to reduce their impact. For example, you might decide that it's a good idea to downgrade your gym membership to a more basic package if your current plan includes amenities that you never use.
 We’re all guilty of overspending at times. Chances are, your variable expenses are higher than they need to be. When this is the case, it’s usually due to habit or carelessness more than anything else. Assess where you’re doing the most damage to your budget, and whether and how it can be fixed.Decide whether any of your fixed expenses may be worth getting rid of, like your HBO plan or subscription to the Cheese-of-the-Month club.
If you can’t do without a certain possession or service, try to think of ways to make it less costly. You could, for example, make pedicures a monthly treat rather than a weekly routine, or downgrade your entertainment package to basic cable., Come up with a projection for an estimated amount that you think you can cut from your monthly spending. Be realistic—there’s no plausible way to have thousands of dollars left over every time bills are due. You can, however, resolve to save $200 a month for 7 months, then find ways to trim down your everyday expenses in order to meet that desired goal. At the end of your 7 month time frame, you'll have saved $1,400.Usually, this figure will be a conservative estimate: $30 here, $10 there. Every bit that you set aside will benefit your budget in the long run.
Make a commitment to saving at least this projected amount every month. This will set the standard for the new budget you’re transitioning to.
 Starting with your variable expenses, look for little ways to boost your bank account. It’s not very likely that you’ll stop going out with friends altogether, but if you can limit the number of nights you go out or the amount you spend during each outing, you’re on the right track. It is totally doable, for instance, to go from spending $500 every month on groceries to spending $400. Set goals for yourself and try to be disciplined about meeting them.You don’t have to make wholesale sacrifices. A few dollars here and a little willpower there will add up fast and make a big difference.
Remember to reduce your variable expenditures steadily each month.
 Write down the precise amounts that you’re earning, spending and prioritizing. Think of your transition budget as multiple month-to-month budgets as opposed to one big evolving one. Be diligent about sticking to your budget and watch the trajectory of your money as time passes.Assuming your goal is to spend $200 less per month in four months, for instance, your savings should add up to $200 and be sustainable by the end of that time frame.
If you’re not seeing the progress you’d like, look for places where you can renegotiate payments or make cuts., Calculate your budget by hand in a financial journal or input it into an Excel spreadsheet. That way, you’ll have the means to go back and refer to past spending when fine-tuning the next phases of your budget. Make sure you write down everything, from car payments to your morning cup of coffee.Get in the habit of totaling up your expenses regularly.
No expenditure is too small to go in your ledger. Try to make your budget reports as accurate as possible.
 The easiest way to put some extra money back in your pocket is to simply stop buying things you don’t need. Resist the urge to impulse buy or go on shopping sprees when you discover that you have more to spend at the end of the month. With a little self-control, you’ll see your funds start to swell in no time.Unnecessary spending is classified as anything you don’t need to get by, like a new pair of sneakers or a night out on the town.
Stay home and cook rather than going out to eat, turn off the lights when you leave a room and think twice before splurging on purchases that will just set you back., Since the objective is to have more money left over at the end of the month, one of the best things you can do is to supplement what you’re currently pulling in. Put in some overtime hours or pick up a side business that you can focus on in your spare time. This will both make achieving your financial goals easier and leave you with more money that can be used to pay off outstanding debts or treat yourself.Account for added income by making sure it’s reflected in updated drafts of your budget.
Since your savings goals are contingent on your income, they should be adjusted accordingly.
 Financial matters, like life, are unpredictable. Unforeseen expenses will pop up from time to time. Don’t be discouraged if you’re unable to meet your targeted budget projection for the month. The whole point of a transition budget is to take a gradual and methodical approach to overhauling your spending so that you’ll be able to enjoy greater peace of mind in the future.It never hurts to set aside money specifically for when you’re blindsided by an emergency or rough patch.You can extend the time frame for your transition budget if circumstances demand it. The most important thing is that you’re making consistent progress as the months go on.

