 Professionals recommend dealing extensively with specific breeds of horses that you want to build a career around. Some equine appraisers focus on draft horses and other large breeds, while others narrow their interest to riding horses and other smaller, lithe breeds.;
, It's extremely beneficial for someone who wants to become an equine appraiser to read up on applicable law as much as possible. Learning the basics about asset valuation can really help when you go out in the field to value a horse for a client.
 This professional trade group can really help beginning horse experts and those who want to become an equine appraiser to take the first steps to professional development.


Browse the ASEA website. A wealth of information is available there to help people in any stage of their career search.
Join the ASEA. Joining the ASEA provides much more legitimacy for those involved in equine appraisal and other kinds of horse work. Pay dues and receive the multiple benefits of becoming an ASEA member to boost your chances of successful work as an equine appraiser.
Take cues from ASEA sources. The ASEA can also help with pointing individuals toward continuing education goals.
 Pursuing additional certifications or licenses can help a professional to build a reputation as a legitimate equine appraiser who farmers and others will call when they want to establish prices for an equine transaction.
 Many of the professionals who want to operate on a long-term basis in this field will set up a sole proprietorship, LLC or other small business in order to present their services directly to clients.


Find an audience. Equine appraisers are most likely to successfully find clients by reaching out to wealthy individuals with equine holdings. This includes the general category of "gentlemen farmers," who hold horses for enjoyment, for involvement in agriculture or for racing purposes. Specializing in race horses or another equine area can help in marketing an equine appraisal service.

