 In the U.S.A., the Coast Guard has regulations governing the size of motor as well as the number of passengers on commercially manufactured boats. Never exceed these guidelines. If you do not have a Coast Guard specification plate on your boat, ask the dealer to advise you. Just basing the size engine on the size of boat is complicated, for example, a 12 foot (3.7 m) john boat or light aluminum boat will only carry a 15 to 25 horsepower motor, but a heavy fiberglass boat the same length might go as high as 60 horsepower or more.;
, The smallest motor that will do the job is most economical, both in initial cost and fuel usage.
 There are a lot of brands to chose from, and knowing the availability of parts and the durability of the motors will help you chose yours.
 Some have hydraulic tilt, cable steering, and electric start, all of which simplify using the motor, while others have a pull rope start and a tiller handle for steering and throttle control. Because of these factors, no one piece of advice or article can cover all the possibilities. If you already have the boat, however, you need the compatible motor to your setup. In other words, if you have a steering wheel, or stick type steering system, you will want to buy a motor with a steering cable attachment, and if you have a battery and wiring to an ignition system you will want electric start. On the other hand, if you do not have these features in your boat, it is not practical to buy a motor that uses them.
 Most outboards have two cycle water cooled power-heads, or engines. This means mixing oil either in the fuel tank, or adding it to a reservoir for an oil injection system. There are air cooled 4 cycle motors on the market, in smaller sizes, and these are usually less expensive than the two cycle counterparts.
 When the motor is attached to the transom, the propeller must be below the bottom of the boat to draw water and operate correctly. Too long of a shaft will drag on the bottom in shallow water, limiting the locations it can be used and eventually ruining your prop, motor foot, and even your motor. The top of the propeller blade should be slightly lower than the keel of the boat when it is in the vertical position.
 Normally, the motor has two clamp bolts that fit over the top of the transom and tighten against it like a "C" clamp. These usually have short pivoting handles to turn the bolts, so that they can be tightened by hand, without over tightening them. They may also have holes in the so a lock can be place through each one, and secured to prevent someone from stealing your motor.
 This has happened many times, and the cable will keep the motor from sinking in this unfortunate event.

