 Everyone likes to hear good things about themselves. When someone tells you something nice about yourself, it makes you feel good, right? Well, the same works for other people, too. When you're trying to make new friends, it helps to give that person a compliment because it makes her feel good when she's around you.All you have to do to give someone a compliment is tell them something you like about them. For instance, you could say, "Your purple shirt is awesome!" or "You're really smart!"
Of course, you don't want to stop just because you became friends. Keep giving each other compliments. It'll make you both happier.
 Like compliments, people like it when you're nice to them. Plus, being nice to someone helps you make friends. When you do nice things for people, they want to hang around you more and be your friend because you're fun to be around.For instance, bring them a treat from home when you bake, or help them out when they're struggling with a problem. You could also make them a bracelet to show you want to be friends.
 Everyone likes to talk about what's going in their life. When you want to be a friend to someone, you can't just talk about what you're doing all the time. You also need to give your friend a chance to talk, too. Ask them how their day is going, and see what they says.Respond to what they say. For instance, if they say, "I'm really sad," say, "I'm sorry. Why are you sad?"
In addition, it's important to listen when you're friend is going through a tough time. Everyone has problems from time to time, and it usually helps to talk about it. When your new friend is feeling down, ask them what's wrong. See if they want to talk about it, and then listen to what they have to say. Being a good friend means being there for them when they need someone to listen.
Social skills come easier to some people than others. If you want some practice, ask your parents. They can help you build your listening skills.You can also use nonverbal listening cues. Look the person in the eyes, nod when they speak, and give them small affirming words (like "uh-huh") to let them know that you're listening. Have open body language towards the person: face them and don't cross your arms.
 When you meet new people, you may not like certain parts of who they are. Nobody's perfect, and everyone has something that will bother someone else. The important thing is to try to see past that to the person. If you like the person, try to just accept them for who they are, just like you expect to be accepted for who you are.For example, maybe you don't like the fact that your friend loves Justin Bieber. Everyone has different tastes, so let it slide.
Maybe you notice that your friend chews with their mouth open and that bothers you. It's better to just overlook that fact than to unfriend a person over it.

