 Place unopened packages of laminate flooring in the room or rooms in which they are to be installed. This should be done at least 48 hours before the laminate boards are place so they have time to adjust to the temperature. This will minimize shrinkage when they cool or warm to room temperature.






;
, You will need to clean off the surface where you will be placing the laminate. You can sweep the floor or use whatever method you prefer.
 Lay plastic lining on the floor of the room that will be covered with the laminate flooring. Tape the plastic together with a moisture resistant adhesive tape. The plastic may overlap, but you must cover the entire floor. If you have a concrete floor, run the plastic up the walls an inch or two (not extending above the baseboard).
 Cover the plastic lining with a foam floor padding. This is to prevent any residue left on the floor such as small rocks and sand from causing dimples in the flooring and to give it a cushion. Cut the foam lining to fit the floor and tape it down. Do not allow the foam to overlap.
 Place a board at the top left corner, finished side up, ridge side facing the wall.
 Wedge a spacer between the end and edge of the board and the wall. You can buy spacers or make your own.









If making your own, they should be 3/16" to 3/8" thick, L-shaped, and a foot long or so. You will need several, six or more for the first two rows.
 Place the next board the same way, laying it end to end, occupying the next spot along the wall. For the best results, make the entire first row parallel to the longest wall in the room.
 Shorten the first piece of laminate flooring so the joints in this row will be offset (staggered) in relationship to the first row. Use a wooden block to tap the next row of boards into the first. Hold the block securely with your left hand and hit the block with a hammer in you right hand. The gap between the first and second boards should be closing. Keep hammering until the gap disappears.
 Make sure that the gaps between the boards are properly closed.
 When you reach the opposite wall or have to do odd shaped rooms, you will probably have to trim boards. Measure how much you need and then cut the plank with a table saw.
 Don't forget to place spacers along all the edges of the room and remove them when the whole floor is done.
 You can finish your floor by placing baseboards, thresholds, or other finishing touches. Scuffs or holes can be covered with special crayons available at your local hardware store.








