 Light in your child's room can be distracting and make it hard to sleep. Try to eliminate any extra light in your child's room. Get a clock that only shows the time when a button is pressed, use blackout curtain to reduce atmospheric light, and don't have a night light. If these methods do not work, see if a sleep mask can help keep out any unwanted light.


You can even try moving your child's bed away from the door so the light that filters under it doesn't bother your child. , When your child has ADHD, he or she will likely be easily distracted by objects in his or her bedroom. In order to cut down on this, don't let your child have a TV, video gaming system, computer, or other electronic that can be used as a distraction.


Move your child's toys to another room so he or she will not be tempted to play with them instead of sleeping., When you child is trying to sleep, he or she may be distracted by normal sounds in your house. To help avoid this, try playing calming sounds for your child, such as raindrops, ocean waves, or other nature sounds while your child sleeps. This will help block these noises out and calm your child down.You can also try classical or other calming instrumental music.
 You child needs as few distractions while sleeping as possible. This means that your child needs comfortable sleep clothes and bed covers. Buy comfortable cotton sleep clothes that your child is comfortable in. Also make sure your child's sheets and comforter are comfortable.


Make sure your child isn't too hot or cold while sleeping. Switch your child's sleep clothing with the season to make sure his or her temperature is regulated.
Also get rid of annoying or itchy tags or other parts of clothing that may distract your child from sleep., Even with all the different methods to help your child go straight to sleep, he or she may still get up. When this happens, avoid yelling, getting angry, or lecturing him or her. This will only stimulate your child and make it harder for him or her to go back to bed., In addition to sleeping calmly, you need to make sure you wake your child up calmly as well. Do not shake, call out loudly, shout at your child, or pound on the door. This will only make your child jolt awake and start him or her out on the wrong foot.Also make sure you give your child enough time to wake up because he or she may get distracted while waking up.

