 Nuts are an easy healthy snack that provide healthy fats and protein. Buy them unsalted and without any added flavors for the greatest health benefits. You can grab a handful of nuts to snack on, or easily pack them in a container to take with you. Some brands even sell individual serve pouches.Try a variety of nuts, including almonds, walnuts, Brazil nuts, pecans, cashews, and macadamia nuts.
 Yogurt is a healthy food that contains calcium, protein, and other nutrients. It is also a convenient food. Yogurt comes in individual serve cups that are perfect for grabbing on the go. They also take away the need to measure or spoon out into an additional bowl.Make sure to buy yogurt that is actually healthy instead of full of unhealthy additives and excess sugar. Read the label. Many yogurts contain as much sugar as a cookie or snack cake.
Consider buying Greek yogurt, which contains protein, or probiotic yogurt, which contains good bacteria to help with gut health.
 Dried fruit can be a tasty and hassle free health food. It’s easy to grab a handful of raisins or dried apricots for a snack, or pack banana chips to take with you. You can also mix dried fruit with nuts to make a healthy, easy trail mix.


Make sure to only buy dried fruit with no added sugars. Many dried fruits add unhealthy amounts of sugar or cover the fruit in sugar crystals. This makes it unhealthy. Read the ingredients on the label to see if they add sugar or other unhealthy additives.
 Nut butters are delicious and easy to snack on. You can snack right from the jar or buy individual servings. Nut butters contain healthy fats and protein. If you are allergic to nut butters, try seed butters.You may want to try peanut butter, almond butter, cashew butter, or sunflower seed butter.
Make sure to read the labels. For example, many peanut butters have high amounts of added sugars, along with unhealthy hydrogenated oils. To get a healthy nut butter, make sure the ingredients are limited to the nut, oil, and salt.
 Dark chocolate is a healthy sweet snack if enjoyed in moderation. You can pair dark chocolate with other easy foods, like an orange, pomegranate, or nut butter. You can buy individually wrapped pieces of dark chocolate or slowly snack on a bar.Make sure to choose a dark chocolate that is at least 60% cocoa.
You can also toss some dark chocolate chips into trail mix and yogurt, or just grab a handful to ease a sweet craving.
 Many varieties of granola bars can be healthy and hassle free. Granola bars are individually wrapped and can easily be thrown into a bag or grabbed when you want a healthy snack. You may also consider buying bags of granola to add to trail mix and yogurt. Read the labels. Many granola bars are closer to candy than health food, with high levels of sugar or high fructose corn syrup and hydrogenated oils. Look for natural ingredients.

