 Mulch should be aged or composted properly to eliminate bacterial and fungal diseases, and to kill weed seeds. If it is not composted properly and has been made from diseased trees, the diseases can be spread to landscape plants. This could be disastrous for your garden.


Not only could the plants be killed but the soil can be contaminated, making it difficult to grow landscape plants in the area. Verticillium wilt, for example, is a common tree disease which also kills shrubs, perennials and annuals. It lives on in the soil for years after the tree or diseased plant material is removed., There is no need to heap a huge layer of mulch over the soil around landscape plants. A depth of 2 to 4 inches (5.1 to 10.2 cm) of mulch applied in early spring is enough to keep plant roots cool, retain moisture and help reduce weeds. A thicker layer can actually be detrimental as it may suffocate plants.


Shredded bark mulch should never be deeper than 3 inches (7.6 cm) and chunks or chips should never be deeper than 4 inches (10.2 cm).
 Avoid piling mulch too thickly or too closely to tree trunks because this will make them more susceptible to fungal infections. Mulch should be lightly spread about half a foot away from the tree trunk to prevent any illness from occurring.
 Homeowners should avoid using mulch near their home foundations because this can cause termite infestations. One should keep all mulch about a foot away from the sides of their home.
 Organic mulch should not have a high percentage of fine particles. Fine particles of bark can easily become compacted. Once this happens, water will roll off the mulch in rivulets, depriving the plants of moisture.


Compacted mulch will also deprive the plant roots of oxygen which is just as important to them as water. Select shredded bark mulch that is not very finely shredded or bark chunks. A medium grade or chunk size works well.
 Because the mulch is organic, it does break down and must be refreshed, but only every two to three years. When it does need to be refreshed, use a garden fork to fluff up and turn the old mulch over. Add only enough new mulch over the top to bring the total depth back to 2 to 4 inches (5.1 to 10.2 cm).
 Mulch mixed into the soil improves soil texture. Mix a 3- to 6-inch depth of aged or composted shredded bark mulch into the top 12 inches (30.5 cm) of clay soil to improve drainage. Mix the same amount into sandy soil to help improve water retention. Always mix it into the soil thoroughly with a rototiller.

