 Put your waterfall in a spot where in can be enjoyed from different angles, both inside your home and out.;
, Decide the size and orientation of your backyard waterfall system. The longer your stream bed, the more waterfalls you can add along its length. Figure on at least 2 inches (5.1 cm) of grade per 10 feet (3.05 m) of stream. If you want faster-moving water and richer sound, make the grade steeper.
 Make your stream bed roughly 3 feet (0.9 m) (0.91 m) wide and at least a few inches deep. Cut in deeper troughs under the waterfalls, equal to the distance of the drop. These small pools help to slow water flow. Use a staircase effect when digging the grade. This will make the water travel downstream more efficiently.
 If digging in your yard is impossible, you can build an above-ground unit. These can be harder to build than in-ground versions because they require much more structural integrity to support the weight of the water. Use a waterproof silicone adhesive to stick rocks together. Foam sealants that expand after application can help fortify the waterfall liner, as well.
 The lower basin, or pond, must be built carefully. This is where the system's submersible pump will be. Make sure your pond area is at least 1 foot (0.30 m) (0.31 m) wider than the stream. Dig a hole at least 2 feet (0.61 m) wider than the pump enclosure and 6 inches deeper than its height.



Cut 3 or 4 holes on opposite sides of the pump enclosure. This allows water to reach the pump. Insert fabric underlayment and then rubber liner in the pond, allowing for slack in the pump basin. Make sure about 2 excess feet (0.61 m) of both materials extend from the enclosure. Put the pump basin in the deep hole you dug in the pond area.
Attach the hose adapter to the submersible pump. Insert a rubber washer that is the same diameter as the adapter end between the 2 connections. Thread the adapter to the pump. Apply waterproof silicone adhesive to the connection to ensure that it is watertight.
Attach the hose to the adapter. Secure the connection with a hose clamp.
Slide the pump in the enclosure. Make sure your hose is long enough to reach the water chamber in the upper pool.
 Arrange large boulders to frame the waterfall, then build a small, semicircular shelf to house the upper pool. Make the first drop the highest to ensure optimum flow, but make sure the water doesn't splatter.



Use a heavy-duty, 3-sided plastic storage bin to serve as the upper pool. Make sure the tapered, open end of the bin faces outward from the shelf you built.
Drill a hole on the side of the bin where the hose will be attached. Make sure the size of the hole matches the diameter of the hose adapter.
Slip the hose adapter through the hole. Put a rubber washer on the end of the adapter that extends inside the bin. Seal it with the silicone adhesive.
Fit the end of the hose on the other end of the adapter. Add a steel lock-nut to the connection and secure it with a hose clamp.
 Extend sections of underlayment and liner from the pond to the upper basin. Leave a few inches of slack where each waterfall will be. These points require larger stones, which can tear the liner if it's stretched too tight. Make sure sections of liner overlap ones downstream by about 11/2 feet (0.46 m). The liners must extend 2 feet (0.61 m) (0.61 m) up along the banks and pond basin.
 Boulders, rocks and gravel fulfill decorative and functional needs in a backyard waterfall system. You can order them from a garden supplier or quarry. Make sure the company will deliver the load to your home.


Boulders: More than 1,500 pounds of 2-foot boulders are needed for every 10 feet (3 m) (3.05 m) of stream bed. These provide the bulk of the upper-chamber framework and line the pond. They also help conceal large sections of hose, power cords and liners.
Stones: You might need upwards of 1,000 of medium-sized rocks and stones to line the banks. Flat stones are ideal for waterfall drop-offs, as they allow water to flow efficiently and provide a soothing, babbling-brook sound. Treat the underside of flat stones with foam sealant so they adhere to the rubber liner.
Gravel: You might need more than 2,000 pounds of gravel to meet the requirements of a 10-foot (3.05 m) stream bed. Gravel is used every section of the construction. It covers much of the stream bed and helps filter the water as it circulates through the system. Pack gravel and dirt around large stones to keep them in place.
 This will dislodge dirt and other debris. Then add water to the pond basin. When water fills the pond, start up the pump and let the system run. The rocks and pebbles will help aerate and purify the water, so after a while, the pond should look clearer.

