 Attach the yarn to your crochet hook using a slip knot, then work a foundation of 74 chain stitches.

This chain should fit comfortably around the base of your neck. You can subtract chains or add more as needed to adjust the length if 74 chains won't work, but make sure that the final stitch count is a multiple of four, plus two stitches.
 Work one single crochet into the second chain from the hook, then work one single crochet into each of the remaining chains until you reach the end of the row.

Your total stitch count should decrease by one at the end of this row.
Do not turn the work when you reach the end of the row. You'll need to work back and forth across the entire piece instead of flipping it over after each row.
 Chain one, then single crochet into each stitch of the previous row.

Follow this pattern for rows two, three, and four. Your total stitch count should remain the same for each of these rows.
 Chain four, then work three treble crochets into the first stitch of the previous row.

Skip the next two stitches.
Single crochet once, chain three, and treble crochet three times into the same stitch; this should complete one half-circle. Skip over another two stitches after that.

Repeat this pattern until you reach the end of the row.


Single crochet once into the final stitch of the row.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 3-inch to 4-inch (7.6-cm to 10-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten off the yarn.

Use a yarn needle to weave all excess tails into the stitches.
 Use one jump ring to attach the jewelry clasp to one top corner of the necklace. Attach the other jump ring to the other top corner.

Open the first jump ring side-to-side using jewelry pliers. Slide the loop of the clasp onto the open ring, then hook one end of the foundation chain into the open ring, as well. Securely close the ring with your pliers.
Open the other jump ring side-to-side, as well. Hook it onto the other end of the foundation chain before closing it again.
 The necklace should be done and ready to wear. Simply drape it around your neck and hook the clasp together behind your nape.