 To 'excel' as a student you need to act like a student. As a student you have to be organized. A basic way to get organized is to buy stationery. You need to buy the obvious: Pens; Black, blue and red. It is also suggested you purchase Pencils; it's suggested to get the normal pencils (more reliable than mechanical pencils). Rubbers or erasers are cheap and so are pencil Sharpeners, Highlighters, Punched Pockets, Folders, Dividers.;
, Year 7 and 8 may not seem important, but after Year 8 you really should try harder and so try a bit in year 7 and 8 because it is all laying the foundation for later. In year 9; you may do early entry GCSE's - and then it's GCSE years... so the attitude must be focused and motivated. The biggest incentive is success. If you work your hardest in these years you will have success, so be optimistic.
 To excel is not just to do well, it is to do even better, to do your best. Your work must be your best. So the basics are to make sure that all work is well presented and on time.
 Don't do it in the living room, do it in your room on a desk, try to take short breaks every now and then, it'll help your concentration.
 You can spend some time doing these things but not until you have got everything else done.
 If you get given your own textbook then make good use of your textbook and study that until you know all the material, this way it is much easier when you have an assessment. If you don't have a textbook then just either buy your own revision guides, they are usually around £5 and can come in handy for assessments or just your own work, or you can see if an older sibling/friend has anything that could be helpful to you.
 You and a friend could get together when you know you have a test and revise together, that way if either of you are unsure then you can help each other out, just make sure you don't end up gossiping the whole time though!

, Teachers hate it when you say 'I couldn't print it' or 'it's at home' so even if you don't have a printer at home or it is broken, put your work onto a memory stick or just E-mail it to your school account and print it off in the school library.

