 Begin by making a horizontal part in your hair, starting above one of your ears and going around your head to the other ear to divide the top of your hair from the bottom. Clip the top section of hair out of the way. Roll the bottom section against your head in a spiral and pin it to your head a few inches above the nape of your neck.Unclip the top section of your hair and divide it into a top section and two side sections. Hold the top section straight up and tease with a comb, combing from the midsection down to your scalp. Do this until your hair is very textured and teased. Tease the other section of your hair slightly too, then take a comb and start combing all the hair back.
The teasing should have encouraged your hair into a tall beehive shape. Keep combing to mold this beehive, then clip the ends of your hair so that your hair stays put. Spray your hair liberally with hairspray and enjoy this classic look!;
, Get volumized hair by adding mousse or styling product into towel dried hair and blow drying your hair. Take the front section of hair right above your forehead and hold it straight up. Tease it with a comb by combing downward from the midsection to the crown of your head. Then gather your hair into a low ponytail, making sure not pulling your hair back too tightly so that there is still some volume.Loosen the top section by taking a finger, inserting it sideways into the hair at the top of your head and pulling up gently to create a 60’s esque bump at the top of your head. Then use a comb to smooth the hair on the top of your head.
To hide your hair tie, wind a piece of hair around the hair tie to obscure it and clip it under the ponytail with a bobby pin.
 Comb your hair until it is smooth and tangle-free. Then divide your hair into about four sections. Take one section and give it a healthy spritz of hairspray at the end to give your hair more texture and hold. Clamp the tip of the hair into a 1 inch curling iron and roll the bottom of your hair in the curling iron until about chin level. Hold the hair there for a few seconds, then take the hair down and repeat the process of curling the ends of the other sections of hair.After you curl the ends, pull the front half of your hair in front of your face. Hold the end of your hair in one hand and tease your hair with the other, combing upward from the midsection up toward the top of your head. Then tease the rest of your hair in the same way.
After teasing, flip your hair back so that the teased sections are hidden and you hair looks smooth and voluminous. Spray your hair liberally with hairspray and add a headband if you wish.
This hairstyle works for longer hair too but it was done most iconically on short hair in the 60’s.
 Begin by creating two parts starting above each side of your forehead, then take the top section of your hair that you just separated and keep it in a bun at the top of your head so that it is out of the way. Give the rest of your hair a slight wave by wrapping sections of your hair around a 1.5 inch curling iron. Then take the hair down that you tied up, hold it straight up. and comb your hair from the midsection to the scalp to tease it.Flip the hair so that it goes away from your forehead and has a slight bump. Then comb the very top so that it is smooth. Take the bumped section of hair and pin it at the midpoint of your head to create a half up half down look.

