 Locate the app on your device. The app icon has the Star Wars logo on it with some cards in the background. Tap on it.
 Tap the cards icon on the rightmost part of the bottom toolbar. You will be brought to the screen with your current inventory of cards., You can view your cards sorted differently. If you want to see them by their Star Wars affiliations, you can sort by Faction.


Tap the up and down arrows beside the search box on the top right corner. This will bring down the list of sorting options. Tap on “Faction” and your cards will be sorted in decks based on the characters factions.
You will see your cards in groups: Star Wars: The Force Awakens, Galactic Empire, Galactic Republic, Independent, Rebel Alliance, and Separatists.
 If you want to see your cards by their rarity in the game, you can sort by Parallel.


Tap the up and down arrows beside the search box on the top right corner. This will bring down the list of sorting options. Tap “Parallel” and your cards will be sorted in decks based on their rarity.
You will see your cards in groups: Episode VII, Insert, Gold, Yellow, Red, Blue, White, and Award.
Golds are more valuable than yellows, yellows are more valuable than reds, reds are more valuable than blues, and blues are more valuable than whites.
 If you want to see your cards with the most number of duplicates at the top, you can sort by Duplicates.


Tap the up and down arrows beside the search box on the top right corner. This will bring down the list of sorting options. Tap “Duplicates” and your cards will be sorted with the most number of duplicates at the top.
This sorting option will help you view which cards you have a lot of to be traded with others.
 If you want to see your cards with the most recently acquired ones at the top, you can sort by Date Acquired.


Tap the up and down arrows beside the search box on the top right corner. This will bring down the list of sorting options. Tap “Date Acquired” and your cards will be sorted with the ones you’ve most recently acquired at the top.

