 Even $5-10 dollars a week can help a lot in your goal to buy an American Girl Doll. Most parents give their kids an allowance of some kind. Talk to your parents about what kind of allowance is best for you.
 Remind them that you're saving it and they'll be impressed with your budgeting skills. They may also be willing to increase your allowance if they know you have a goal in mind.
 This is the best way to earn money as a kid. Your parents can't do all the housework, so they'll be willing to pay for your help. Think about your parents' least favorite chores and offer to do those chores for them.


For instance, offer to wash the dishes, sweep and vacuum the floor, walk the dogs, babysit your brother or sister, mow the lawn etc... The more specific you are with your suggestions the better.
Do your chores regularly! Be thorough and don't cut corners. At the end of the day you can smile knowing you've earned your money!

, Even if you aren't being paid for them, your parents will notice. Maybe they'll even give you a few extra dollars!

, This is another great way to save money. Your parents probably give you more money than you need for lunch.


Instead of getting a foot-long sub with chips and a fountain drink, order a smaller sandwich and drink water. This is healthier and you save money!
Don't buy food and drink that you don't need like candy and energy drinks. Ask yourself if you want those small things more than the American Girl Doll.
Remember that your health comes first. If you're hungry, feel free to spend all your money on lunch. If you need more lunch money, talk to your parents.
 If they agree, fulfill your side of the bargain and bring home a shining report card! Not only do you get the satisfaction of good grades, you get paid too. Do your homework and study hard, and at the end you'll be smarter and have an American Girl Doll!


For instance, if you get straight A's, you get $10. For a perfect homework, you get $1. For an improved grade in a subject—like a B to an A in math—you get another $2. The exact prices are up to your parents, but you get the idea.
You should do your best in school regardless of whether or not you get paid. Schoolwork always comes first.

