 If you like to run and gun, then pick the assault class. If you want to use vehicles all the time, then you're certainly going to want to be an engineer. Like to cause utter mayhem? Then the support class is for you, but maybe you like staying in the back, fighting from the distance, then the recon class is for you! It's important to pick a class and familiarize yourself with it, otherwise your skill will never grow.;
, This game mode is much more casual and fast-paced than any of the other game modes, so you can really hone your firing skill here and take them to the other game modes.
 Some people have a lot of trouble with Battlefield, or shooters in general, because it seems like you're turning too slow, and can't react fast enough. This is less prevalent on PC though. So press start, options, or the menu button depending on which console you're on, and select options. From there you should see the option for sensitivity adjustment. Play around with it a bit and find which setting suits you the best.
 Yes, Battlefield can be a very infuriating game at times, but the more you play the better you will get, so don't get discouraged just because you had a few bad games, you'll get better.
 Aiming around corners allows you to see the enemy before you round a corner. Otherwise you would barrel through the turn, only to crash into an enemy soldier who is ready for the confrontation.
 Running In Battlefield 4 allows you to get from point A to point B much faster, but every upside comes with a downside. This downside is not aiming fast enough. When you are running, you may see an enemy. In the time that it takes for you to stop running, aim, and fire, the walking enemy would only have to aim, and fire. This half a second that it takes for you to stop running might mean the difference between life and death.
 In Battlefield 4, aiming at an enemy that is already in your crosshairs automatically sets your sights on the enemy. Some servers have this option disabled, but all DICE servers will have this enabled.
 Normally, this would waste bullets when using an AR, or a weapon that limits you to how accurate you can be, but since Light Machine Guns have a surplus of ammo ready for use, and a .25 second longer aim time, it is much more beneficial to start firing long before you aim.
 Sometimes, an enemy might be too close for you to aim at him in a gunfight. Since aiming causes your gun to move back and forth slower, hip firing is ideal for a close-encounter situation.
 In shooters, it is a bad gamer habit to reload after every encounter. This is good when you have too little ammo to kill anyone with, but if you only shot off 2-6 bullets, it is not really necessary to reload. Only reload if you have less than 15 bullets in a 30 round clip, and so forth.
 Instead, switch to your secondary, or pull out some of your gadgets to help you out in an encounter. In retaliation, if you see an enemy reloading during an encounter, this would be a good time to pop out your side arm and pump him full of bullets.
 Like all modern shooters, headshots cause twice the damage. Although you might have a difficult time setting your sights on this small target, it usually only takes 2-3 shots to drop someone if you get consecutive headshots.
 Guns like the G18 have an extremely high recoil. This could be useful in the hands of a skilled player. The recoil kicks your gun up, and if you have it aimed directly in the center of the chest, could prove deadly.
 Habit would have you turn your character's entire body if you need to look at something in your line of sight, but using your eyes allows you to take in double the information from your surroundings.
 Sometimes, it is better to leave a gun without a muzzle attachment, or use the iron sights, rather than using a handle that lowers your accuracy or stability.
 Use any attachments you can to bring these two traits up as high as possible.
 With attachments that bring up those two traits, this gun is the most stable assault rifle in the game, with virtually 0 recoil.
 Hardcore leaves you with only a couple of seconds response time if you are shot at. With no health regen, and almost no health, a high rate of fire weapon like the FAMAS, F2000, or MTAR-21 (DLC) will drain your opponents health the quickest.
 Picking up the assault class, equipping defibs, and setting your Squad Upgrade to the Medic (via Loadout Screen), can easily pump your points up exponentially, and you will almost always see yourself in the top 5 of the leaderboards if you make reviving everyone a priority. This also saves tickets. As a bonus, teammates might take up your example, and start reviving alongside you, saving your team massive amounts of tickets.
 Sometimes, an enemy might downright slaughter you in the cheapest way possible, or it might be tempting to rush a corridor full of enemies, chasing down that tempting kill, but this will no doubt get you killed. Slowing down means checking your corners, seeing what paths you can take that would offer the least resistance, taking a couple of seconds in the respawn menu to survey what spawn would be safest and most beneficial to your gameplay. And you might say to yourself "I slow down, yet I still find myself dying," but remember: You would have died 5 times more if you hadn't peeked that corner, or carefully chosen your route.
 Habit would have you spam the X or A button everytime you reach that dreaded respawn screen, but this can easily kill you. Take your time to check the spawn camera, see if your squad spawn point is in imminent danger. And if in doubt, do not hesitate to spawn in on a control point. It might take you a lot longer to reach your objective, but this can easily increase your K/D.
 Don't be one of those guys that spam the A or X button in the final countdown to try and get into that tasty tank or chopper. Chances are, a much more experienced pilot/driver, and about a dozen engineers are waiting on the enemy team for their chance to shoot you down. Don't hesitate to walk from point to point, capping objectives on foot. This can save you from being prioritized on the enemies kill list.
 Don't be one of those guys rushing to get into the chopper, only to be shot down, or crash into a building. You will definitely cause unnecessary deaths on your team, while allowing the enemy team to take over the tank routes and skies.
 The first few shots usually do the most damage and are the most accurate so make it a habit to spam the Fire button when aimed on an enemy, regardless of what gun you are using. That's why many players invest in hairpin triggers, or seem to kill you in twice as fast as you do any of them: Burst firing increases the damage you inflict, and the rate at which you inflict it.
 Usually people move when firing the shotguns, and this only helps to dampen the damage, and reduce accuracy. Standing still allows the shotgun to work at full power.
 Kill the distracted and unaware enemy, or his buddy that has already got his sights on you?

, It would not be wise to try and fly a chopper for the first time in the middle of a 64 player frenzy, on Golmud Railway. You will be killed, many times, or you might crash the chopper for not knowing how to pilot it. Go to the test range, get in one of the choppers, and learn how to fly it there. Tweak your control scheme there. You also get an unlimited amount of time to practice. Doing it in the middle of the match might only give you a few minutes, tops.
 Be aware that the people you are competing against have probably been playing years longer than you have. Do not be fooled by low rank, as this means nothing on next gen consoles. There are hundreds of players who have devoted hundreds more hours into this game than you, and you will be killed, "a lot". If you ever catch yourself wondering why the last gen players are much more casual than next gen players: This is because the players PAY to play online. This payment system filters out a lot of casual, younger players you might see on last gen. The casual gamers will most likely stay on last gen, opting for free gameplay rather than paying for the online subscription they might not use, due to work or school. And lets face it, the kids parents probably won't be too happy to cough up the money required for a monthly PSN or XBOX Live subscription, when they could be doing it for free.

