 Although you will be wrapping the salmon in parchment paper, the oven doesn't need much extra in terms of heat. Cooking salmon or any other type of fish, in parchment paper is a very efficient way of baking, and almost fool-proof. Cleaning up the surface of where your baking is as easy as throwing away a piece of paper.
 When cooking en papillote, it's generally best to:


Leave the skin on the fillet and bake skin-side down.
Rinse the fillets in cold water, dabbing the fillets dry with paper towels or letting air-dry.
Season with salt and pepper.
 Place the parchment on a baking sheet. Center the salmon fillet onto one side of the parchment paper.
 Baking en papillote is an opportunity to cook vegetables and other seasoning along with the fish. Here are some combinations that work well with salmon that you might want to consider:



Lemon, capers, and rosemary. Lemon and salmon is a classic, as is the addition of tangy, briny capers. Add some fresh rosemary to the mix for a burst of life.

Asparagus, lemon, and onion. Chop up some asparagus and add it in with the salmon, complementing with lemon and red onion. The onion will turn out sweet and the lemon will help the salmon taste light and moist.

Dill and lemon. Dried dill has a very mild, almost-anise flavor, making it a perfect complement to the salmon if you don't want to overpower it. Don't forget the lemon juice!

Tomatoes, zucchini, and mushrooms. For a heartier dish, try adding these summer vegetables. (No need to cook them first.) A spritz of lemon or an entire lemon wedge is never a bad addition to a combo like this.
 After you've decided on your seasonings and vegetables, drizzle a bit of olive oil onto the salmon. A tablespoon of white wine will help keep the salmon and vegetables moist and flavorful.


Butter will work as a substitute for olive oil. For a deeper flavor, add a tablespoon of butter into the parchment instead of olive oil.
 Fold the parchment over the salmon, creating a triangle. Starting at the bottom, fold the edges of the parchment over, creating several overlapping sections. This will make a seal, allowing the salmon and any vegetables to cook in their own juices.


Do not tape the parchment paper together. While you want a good seal on your fish, you do not want to completely capture all the air inside the parchment. A small amount of escaped air is fine.
Do not fold the parchment too tightly. Leave ample room in the paper chamber for the salmon and vegetables. Your parchment should be snug without being cramped.
 You want the salmon fillet to be opaque and flaky. Translucent, reddish flesh means the salmon has not yet fully cooked.
 Transfer all ingredients to a separate platter, or simply cut open the parchment and serve as is.
