 A sarcastic tone is easier to recognize when you know a person well, as it involves a subtle alteration in the person’s typical speaking voice. If the person wants to make sure his sarcasm is recognized, these qualities may be exaggerated.While a sarcastic tone doesn’t have qualities that are easily described, it is generally recognized by these qualities:


The speaker’s voice will be pitched lower than usual for his typical speaking voice.
The sarcastic words may be elongated, emphasized, or drawn out. For instance, “Yeah, it’s a GREAT day for a picnic.”
Sometimes people will mutter sarcastic comments slightly under their breath. And if they do, ignore it. If the person that is using sarcasm mutters something, it could mean they are aware that it might hurt someone's feelings but it would bother them if they didn't say it, so they simply mumbled it. Most of the time it isn't something you should push further.
You may notice a slight sigh following the sarcastic remark.
 Someone making a sarcastic comment will often convey their feelings through facial expressions that contradict his statement. For example, someone may grimace as they’re making a statement that would be positive, if intended truthfully. For example, if he/she scowls as he/she says what a fine day it is for a picnic, there’s a good chance he/she's being sarcastic, since most people enjoy fine days and picnics.Other facial expressions that often accompany sarcasm include eye rolls, raised eyebrows, or shrugged shoulders.
Sometimes people employing sarcasm have seemingly no facial expression at all; that is, they have a “flat” affect, and are speaking in a “deadpan” tone. People who use sarcasm often may not know how to respond to a situation, so they respond sarcastically.
 Sarcasm could be when someone says something untrue without intending to deceive anyone. A sarcastic remark implies the opposite of what’s being said.For example, when someone says, “Great weather for a picnic,” on a day that’s clearly not ideal for a picnic, he/she's being sarcastic.
The remark isn't intended to mean that it was, in fact, great weather for a picnic.
 A hyperbolic statement is one that is greatly exaggerated, not meant to be taken literally. This type of statement can often be used sarcastically. For example, if a person really thought a singer’s concert was terrible, he might say, “That was so good - I wish I’d paid 5 times as much for the ticket. A bargain!”To detect hyperbole, see if the statement matches reality. You can then read the person's tone to determine whether it was meant to be funny or aggressive.


The use of hyperbolic sarcasm might be either to amuse, or cause aggression. In the example above, if the speaker assumes that he’s speaking to a friend who feels similarly disappointed in the over-payment for their tickets, the statement is sarcastic but not to wound.
If the statement was made to the host of the evening’s entertainment, the use of the sarcasm may be intended to be hurtful.
Sometimes hyperbole is used to express enthusiasm, not sarcasm. For example, someone might say, "That was the most delicious cupcake in the entire world. I could eat 10 dozen more!" If the person ate the whole cupcake, you can assume the statement wasn't meant to be sarcastic.
 There are certain phrases that are so often used sarcastically that you should assume that they’re not intended literally. For example, when someone says, “Aren’t you special?” or “Tell it to someone who cares,” the meaning is almost always sarcastic.When someone responds to a statement with the phrase, “Big deal,” the phrase is almost always meant sarcastically. (This only applies to the phrase when used as a single utterance, however; the words “big deal” are usually sincere when spoken within a sentence.)
The phrase “yeah, right,” is sarcastic nearly 25% of the time it’s used, according to one study.
 Sarcasm is more a part of common language in some portions of the United States than others. Regional surveys have found that sarcasm is much more common in northern states than southern. In addition, more Northerners describe themselves as being sarcastic than Southerners. But it doesn't mean you can't find any in the Southern areas.Children as young as 4 years old can pick up sarcasm from their parents and/or caregivers, and also any other people who may be around the child (or children) often. That is how they can grow up using it. Sarcasm isn't necessarily a horrible thing, but it can be a bad habit.
 While there are many cultural cues available to correctly interpret sarcastic remarks, these cues may be inaccessible to people with certain cognitive processing issues. For example, it may be quite difficult for people with closed head injuries, brain lesions, autism or schizophrenia may to learn to recognize sarcasm.If you notice a diminished ability to recognize sarcasm in others, this may be a sign of dementia or other neurodegenerative disease.
Sarcasm is the simplest form of a lie. If a person can’t reliably interpret sarcasm, he’ll likely be unable to discern a lie.

