 When you have done so, go to http://www.allmangasreader.com/ and click on "Install".;
, You can do that at http://www.allmangasreader.com/.
 This can be done in one of two ways:


Click on the "All Mangas Reader" button at the top right of your browser. Click on the "Search Manga" button. Enter a manga name and click on the magnifying glass. Clicking on one manga will result in you being taken to the manga page in question. Once you start reading it, it will automatically be added to your reading list.
If you're not sure which sites a particular manga is hosted at, simply click the magnifying glass symbol from the buttons on the top right when you open the extension. Enter the name of a manga, and it will come up with a list of all the supported sites that manga is hosted at. You can click on a manga page listed there and you'll be taken to that site, from where you can start reading immediately.

On the search page you can further customize your search to narrow down the results. Under the box where you enter the text to be search is a range of options, allowing you to restrict your search by the language the scan is in and the site at which it is hosted. (i.e. Do you have a particular favourite manga site? Why not try looking for manga from that site?)


Simply start reading a manga at any of the supported websites. Anything you read will be added to your reading list.
 Once you open the extension, there will be a button at the top right labelled "All Mangas Reader Options". From there, you can choose the style of your manga list, whether to remove advertising on the manga websites, whether to load the whole chapter in one webpage, as well as being able to scroll down them or click through each page in turn, etc.
 The mangas you have started reading will be displayed in alphabetical order, except for the ones with chapters that you have not read yet, which will be at the top in red. It lists all of the names of the mangas, the logos of the websites where you read them, the latest chapter you read and the latest chapter that was updated. The navigation buttons at the top right of each manga name link to the previous manga chapter, the last chapter you read, the next chapter, the latest chapter available and to delete the manga from your reading list respectively. For any mangas that you have not opened the latest chapter of (in red at the top), there will also be an eye-shaped button on the left of the others, enabling you to mark the latest chapter as read.
 As long as you're connected to the internet, the All Mangas Reader extension will show how many mangas there are in your reading list that have uploaded chapters you have not seen yet.

