 Your dog can only be interested in a limited number of toys at a time. Four or five is a good number because it's enough to keep your dog interested without overwhelming it with a large number of toys., To keep your dog interested, change out the toys your dog plays with about once a week. Pick up this week's toys, and put them away. In exchange, get four to five more toys out for your dog to play with. That means you need at least eight to ten toys for your dog to play with., As you change out the toys, clean the toys as needed. For rubber toys, you can scrub them hard with hot soap and water or stick them in the dishwasher (but skip the soap in the dishwasher). For rope toys, clean them off, then stick them in the microwave (while still wet). Microwave for one minute, and then (carefully!) remove it. Stuffed toys can be run through the washing machine., Have different types of toys out for your dog to play with, rather than all the same variety. For instance, you could have hard rubber toys, food puzzle toys, tennis balls, rope toys (made for dogs), and stuffed toys. That way, your dog will have something to play with no matter what mood it's in., When you bring toys out, consider hiding them around the house in places your dog is likely to find them. If your dog can hunt down its toy, it will get more joy out of playing with the toy. Just don't hide them in a place where your dog has to destroy something to get to the toy., While you do want to rotate out toys to keep your dog interested, you should leave your dog's favorite toy out most of the time. For instance, some dogs like soft stuffed toys to cuddle up with that may become their favorite toy., When a toy makes a sound, your dog may feel like it has to get to the bottom of it, so to speak. In other words, your dog may destroy the toy, ingesting parts as it goes. Therefore, you should always keep an eye on your dog when playing with squeaker toys., Some dogs treat stuffed toys as their babies or children, carrying them around. Others prefer to "kill" the toy, and in the process, they destroy it. They may eat stuffing while killing it, which is be bad for your dog. Make sure to watch how your dog interacts with stuffed toys before leaving it alone with one., If you have a large dog, you need large toys. Toys meant for smaller dogs could easily be swallowed by a larger dog. Similarly, larger toys could pose a risk for smaller dogs if they can't get their mouth around it easily., If you find your dog loves to play with something that's not made for dogs, make sure the toy is safe for your dog. Basically, you need to remove anything that your dog could swallow, such as ribbons, threads, and buttons or eyes.Also, look for the label "child-safe." If a stuffed toy is safe for children under three, then it's likely safe for dogs, as well. Stuffed toys that are safe for this age don't have dangerous fillers. Plus, these types of toys generally don't have buttons or other items that can come off, since those are choking hazards., Worn toys can come apart, and then the pieces can be ingested by your dog. As you put toys away, make sure to check them over for wear and tear. Discard any toys that are coming apart to keep your dog safe.