 There are a number of products that are designed to give you a tanned look without the risk of UV exposure. Self-tanners come in an array of forms, from sprays and lotions to gels and serums. Read the instructions on each product to make sure that it will do what you want. At the makeup counter, try a little on your skin to determine which will be most comfortable on your skin., Pale skin does not work well with the orange tint of many self-tanners, so look for a product that is more golden. Gradual tanning products also work well with pale skin, since they just add a hint of color. Again, try each product at the store before committing to it., Use a wet washcloth to slough off any dry skin on any of the areas that you will be applying the self-tanner. This will allow you to spread the product easily and your skin will absorb it evenly. Pay special attention to knees and elbows, that often have drier, tougher skin., Pat it dry with a towel. Apply moisturizer evenly over the areas you will be applying the self-tanner. Use more on those areas with drier skin, like your knees and elbows. Try to use moisturizer with sunscreen -- self-tanners typically do not help protect your skin from the sun’s harmful rays.
 By dividing your skin into sections (face, arms, torso, legs), you can wash your hands in between so your palms don’t get stained. Be sure to read the instructions on your product carefully -- each one has a different set of guidelines, depending on its form.
 Your wrist and ankle joints will require more blending. Move your hands and feet back and forth on your joints to make sure you have all of the skin covered. Your knees and elbows will require less self-tanner because they absorb more product than other parts of your skin. You can dilute the self-tanner (check to see how on your particular product) or put lotion on top of the self-tanner., Give your skin time to absorb the self-tanner. Wearing loose clothing and staying out of the sun (and situations where you might sweat) will give your skin the best chance to get an even color. After a few hours, your self-tanner should be completely absorbed.

