 Maybe there is a hobby you’ve always wanted to try or pursue but never had enough time for in your busy, passionless schedule. Cultivate your inner passion by going after a new experience and learning new skills. Join a class that will allow you to get better at the hobby, like a class in guitar, drawing, or creative writing. Focus on a hobby that will force you to get out of your comfort zone.Get motivated to pursue this hobby by leaning on the support of a friend or a partner. Join the class together or have the person call you to remind you about the class every week. The support of someone else can help to validate your pursuit of passion in the form of a new skill and ensure you show up to class every week.
 Maybe there is a sport or a recreational activity you’ve always wanted to try like running, karate, yoga, or basketball. Or a sport you’ve always been good at or enjoyed but have been able to focus on. Join a club or a recreational team in your area and make sure you show up for practice every week. Set aside time in your schedule so the training session becomes a priority in your life.Participating in a sport or joining a team will also allow you to get to know new people and be part of a group that is different than your normal circle of friends. This could allow you to develop more passion for others by being surrounded by new people and new topics of conversation.
 Make familiar activities less humdrum and passionless by adding a fun twist to them. This will help make your routine more interesting and exciting.If you tend to sit at the same spot in your home, working on your laptop or reading your notes, mix up your routine by sitting a different spot or relocating to your local library or a nearby cafe. Studies have shown that a change of scene every few hours during an intense study session can actually improve your ability to retain information.As well, if you tend to take the same walking path during your daily walk, choose a different route. If you go to the same yoga class every week, change your routine by going to a different class that may be more challenging or teach you new skills.
 A bucket list is usually composed of activities that you aspire to do. Your bucket list can contain dream items like “climb every mountain the world” or it can contain practical items like “learn how to knit” or “graduate from university”. A well rounded bucket list with an equal number of dream items and practical items can get you inspired and motivated to lead a more passionate life.


Once you create your bucket list, you should motivate yourself to try to achieve an item within a set period of time. This way, you can feel a sense of accomplishment every time you cross an item off your list. You may start with the more practice items first and concentrate on those so you can start to feel accomplished as soon as possible.
Don’t be afraid to put down big dream items, as these can act as useful aspirational tools. Though the dream items may seem impossible to achieve, they can help you to live your life with more passion and motivation. Pushing yourself to try something that seems impossible will at least get you out of your comfort zone and into doing fun and exciting things more often.

