 Type 2 diabetes, once called adult-onset or noninsulin-dependent diabetes, occurs most often in adults over 40. Type 2 diabetes develops when the body resists the effects of insulin or when the body stops producing enough insulin to maintain the glucose levels in the blood. With Type 2 diabetes, the liver, fat, and muscle cells stop using insulin in the proper way. This causes the body to need to make more insulin in order to break down the glucose. Although the pancreas does this at first, over time the pancreas loses its ability to produce enough insulin for meals. This causes the build up of glucose in the blood.


Over 90 percent of people diagnosed with diabetes have Type 2.
Prediabetes is the early stages of Type 2 diabetes. Prediabetes can often be reversed with treatments through diet, exercise, and sometimes medication.
The primary risk factor for Type 2 is being overweight. This is true for children as well, as the number of childhood or adolescent diagnoses of Type 2 diabetes increase.
Other risk factors include sedentary lifestyles, family history, race, and age, especially ages 45 and older.
Women who had gestational diabetes and those with polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) are more prone develop Type 2., Type 2 symptoms do not show up as early as Type 1. It often isn't diagnosed until they do. The symptoms of Type 2 include those associated with Type 1. These symptoms are excessive thirst, frequent urination, increased fatigue, extreme hunger, unusual and rapid weight loss, and blurry vision. The symptoms unique to Type 2 are dry mouth, headaches, cuts or sores that are slow to heal, itchy skin, yeast infections, unexplained weight gain, and numbness or tingling in the hands and feet.


1 out of 4 people that have Type 2 diabetes do not know they have it., This test is given over a two hour period at the doctor's office. The patient's blood is drawn before the test. Next, the patient drinks a special sweet drink and waits two hours. Blood is then drawn over the course of the two hours and the levels are calculated.


If the levels are less than 140 mg/dl, then the levels are normal. If they are between 140 and 199 mg/dl, the patient has prediabetes.
If the levels are 200 mg/dl or above, the patient likely has diabetes. If anything other than a normal amount is measure, the test will be redone to make sure that the results are true., This test is also used to determine Type 2 diabetes and prediabetes. Blood is taken from a patient and sent away for testing. The lab measures the blood sugar percentage attached to the patient's hemoglobin in the blood. This illustrates the patient's blood sugar levels over the past few months.


If there is 5.7% or less sugar attached to the hemoglobin, the levels are normal. If the percentage is 5.7% to 6.4%, the patient has prediabetes.
If the percentage of sugar is higher than 6.5%, the patient has diabetes. Since this test calculates the blood sugar levels over a long period of time, this test is not redone.Certain blood conditions such as anemia and sickle cell anemia have been known to interfere with this test. If you have these or other blood issues, your doctor may have to use an alternate test.