 In order to write satire about current events, you will need to understand the major issues of the day. Read newspapers, blogs and websites that chronicle the news of the day and offer commentary. Watch television as well, especially news stations such as CNN, MSNBC, Fox News and CNBC.


Developments in current events change and evolve quickly, and with the instant online access, your audience will know the news as it happens.
The more knowledge you have about current events, the easier it will be to identify topics to write about.;
, Your topic should stem from something that you have a personal interest in. As you read or watch current events, notice anything that you do not like, that makes you angry, that you believe is wrong, or that you would like to change. These are the topics that you should write about.Also look for inconsistencies, hypocrisy, cover-ups, or inappropriate words or actions as a potential topic. For example, a candidate during a political debate may make disparaging comments about immigration, yet the candidate's parents are immigrants. That inconsistency could be a topic for a satirical writing.
Your interest is necessary because you will be researching, thinking and writing about the current event. If you do not have strong feelings about your topic, it will be very difficult for you to write about it.Choose a current event that is visible and well known. This will make it easier for you to connect with your audience. If you use a current event that people are unaware of, they will have a hard time understanding the satire because they will have no idea what you are talking about., In order for you to write about a current event, you must have a thorough understanding of the event. Have a critical approach as you do your research. You want to understand all aspects of an issue and the different viewpoints of the event.


For example, if you plan to write about a case that is up before the Supreme Court, you would research the history of the case, the defendant and the plaintiff's point of view, similar cases and precedents, the general public's perception of the case, etc.
Never take the current event at face value. Always dig deeper.
 Satire is a unique style of writing and requires a different way of thinking. Reading satire can help you grasp a better understanding for your own writing.Critique the writings that you read by asking yourself some of the following questions:What is the satire about?
Who is the intended audience?
What are the author's motives?
What additional ways could you satirize this topic?
Is the satire warranted?
Go back and watch episodes of The Daily Show and The Colbert Report as another way to learn about satire. Also visit The Onion website. This is an online satirical newspaper.
 Satire is only funny if your audience thinks that it is funny. Find out the intended audience of your work before you begin to write. What resonates with college students will not resonate with elderly retirees.If you are planning to submit your work to a particular publication, ask the editor about the target audience of the publication.
If you are not sure who the audience is, try to write in a more general tone.

