 When it comes to relationships, we all know that honesty is the best policy. Lies always come back to bite us in the end.


Being honest with your man about where you're going, who you're meeting, how you're feeling, etc. is important. How can you expect honesty from him if you don't afford him the same courtesy?
Even if he doesn't necessarily like the truth, the fact that you are being honest with him will let him know that he can trust you -- and trust is essential in any relationship.
 Men love to be complimented just as much as women, so don't be stingy with your praise!


When you're impressed with something your guy has said or done, tell him so! Don't just assume he knows.
Tell him he looks good in a suit, that you're impressed with the project he's working on or that you're amazed at what he can do in the bedroom! A genuine compliment from you and he'll be walking on cloud nine!
Bonus points if you compliment him in front of his friends or family -- men like to be praised in front of other people, it boosts their ego.
 Many women make the mistake of trying to make their man feel jealous when they're angry or upset with them.


However, this often backfires by making your husband or boyfriend feel angry, hurt or betrayed -- and this can damage his trust in you, harming the relationship.
Imagine if the shoe was on the other foot -- if you had done something wrong, would you want him to hear you out and give you another chance? Or would you prefer him to flirt with another women to get back at you? That's what we thought.
 Everybody has their low points, your man included. So don't kick him while he's down by criticizing or saying "I told you so". Be his support system and take this as an opportunity to boost him back up.


If he has a bad day at work, has an argument with a family member or is generally just feeling a bit down, try to be nice to him. Ask him if he wants to talk about it or allow him to brew silently for a while, if that's what he needs.
Remind him of all the reasons why you think he's great and why you chose him out of all the other fish in the sea. Make him feel good about himself again and he'll feel happy and grateful towards you.
 Your man needs you to respect him, the same way you need him to respect you. Don't belittle him or put him down all the time -- that's no way to treat the most important person in your life!


The last thing your guy wants is to feel emasculated, so allow him to feel like a man from time to time -- ask him to open a jar, to build some furniture or to drive your car.
Let him know that you depend on him -- it will boost his ego and make him feel good about himself.
This doesn't make you any less of a strong women, it's just part of being in an equal, reciprocal relationship.

