 You want your personal space to smell as gorgeous as you do, so place air fresheners or odor neutralizers in your home, car, and gym locker to eradicate bad odors in these places.


You can also use baking soda and white vinegar to absorb and remove unpleasant odors. Just sprinkle baking soda in a place like the trashcan, laundry hamper, or litter box, which often smell less than gorgeous. Alternatively, you can set out a bowl with one cup of white vinegar in the room that smells bad, and leave it for a few hours or overnight., Bathing regularly and going through the steps above won’t be effective if you put on dirty, smelly clothes. Wash and dry your clothes regularly to keep them smelling fresh, and use a nicely scented laundry detergent or washing powder so your clothes smell as gorgeous as you do.


To get rid of bad smells on your clothes and boost the effectiveness of your detergent, consider adding white vinegar, lemon juice, borax, or baking soda during the wash cycle.If you spray some perfume you like on a clean towel or wash cloth and throw it in with your clothes when you dry them, they will come out of the dryer smelling even better. You only need a few spritzes on the cloth, so don’t waste too much of your perfume.
 When clothes are stuffed in drawers and closets, they can acquire a musty smell. Prevent this from happening by placing potpourri, cedar blocks, or air fresheners in the locations you keep clothes.You can also use a bar of scented soap. Unwrap the soap, loosely cover it in tissue paper, and place it in the drawer, wardrobe, or closet for an instant clothing refresher.If you store dirty clothes in your closet, use an odor neutralizer or room spray to keep your closet from smelling like a pile of dirty clothes.
 Lightly spritz your pillow, sheets, or bedding with a room or linen spray so that the scent transfers to you while you’re sleeping, leaving you feeling refreshed and gorgeous when you wake up.As a bonus, it also helps improve the smell of your room.
Select a fragrance that is calming to help you sleep better. Some companies sell specific formulas with essential oils such as lavender to promote relaxation and improve sleep.
 Witch hazel lowers the skin’s pH level, which makes it difficult for the bacteria that cause bad odors to survive. When you want to make sure you smell gorgeous and don’t have time for a full shower or bath, try applying a cotton ball soaked with witch hazel to the areas of your skin that seem smelly such as the underarms or your feet., When you’re away from your regular beauty supplies, but want to make sure you smell gorgeous, it can be helpful to keep a few products in case of emergencies. Store the kit in your car, backpack, purse, or locker.Wet wipes or baby wipes are good for all sorts of emergencies.
Baby powder or body powder can help absorb sweat and bad odors, freshen shoes, and keep your hair from looking greasy.
Include antiperspirant in case you forget to apply it or are feeling particularly sweaty.
Scented lotion, perfume, or body spray when you need to freshen up. If you don’t want to lug a whole perfume bottle, spray some perfume on a few cotton swabs that you can keep in your kit.
An extra toothbrush, toothpaste, mints, or gum to prevent bad breath.

