 For a vintage, rustic look, tie fluffy sprigs of baby’s breath to the chairs on both sides of the main aisle. Affix the sprigs with strips of lace, rustic twine or pastel ribbons to complete the look. If you’re going for drama and elegance, use this affordable flower to create lush potted arrangements and place them along the aisle.Choose the pots based on your wedding theme – for example, you could place the baby’s breath in wooden buckets for a rustic or outdoor wedding.
For a more sophisticated look, put the flowers in ornate planters or vases.;
, Baby’s breath is extremely affordable and its fullness can take up lots of space, making it ideal when you need to keep your floral costs low. The plant is quite sturdy, so it will hold up well under the construction of the ceremony arch. If your wedding is outdoors, baby’s breath is hardy enough to withstand the elements in most climates.


If your budget is tight but you want an elegant wedding look, baby’s breath can be used to create an elaborate wedding arch at a relatively low cost.
Depending on your wedding theme, you can choose to decorate the arch with only baby’s breath or use it more as a floral accent and filler. Speak to your florist about possibilities., Baby’s breath wreaths can create a whimsical, romantic atmosphere and they tend to look lovely anywhere you decide to hang them. Place the wreaths on doors, walls and even on the back of the getaway car.Lush garlands can be easily constructed with baby’s breath for additional décor. Hang these garlands over windows, along tables and around the main entryway.For a quaint yet elegant look, hang unconnected bunches of baby’s breath over the windows, rather than stringing the flowers together to create traditional garlands.To save money, try making your own wreaths and garlands. Baby’s breath is easy to experiment with and costs very little, making it a great choice for DIYers.
 Encircle the base of your wedding cake with baby’s breath for a simple and classic look. Mix it with other flowers or use large bunches of it by itself to create an ethereal, airy vibe. If you want to use even more baby's breath, encircle the base of each layer of the wedding cake, or place sprigs of it on top of each tier.


Place a frothy bundle of it on the top layer of the cake instead of a more traditional topper.
Accent the dessert table with more baby’s breath to tie the whole look together.