 GameShark is one of the most popular brands of cheat cartridge, but there are many others you might use to get the Dig ability on your game.Due to the fact that you will be using your cheat cartridge to adjust the data of your game, there is a risk that you could corrupt your data or do permanent damage to your game.


Cheat cartridges can be bought at most video game stores and electronics retailers. There are cheat cartridges available through online sellers and digital cheat programs that you can use for computer emulated games.
If you intend on using a GameShark cheat cartridge, be certain you purchase version 2.1 or higher. Lower versions of GameShark will not work on color games., This will bring up the code handler, where you will have to insert a code. You can find lists of codes for your cheat cartridge online. These codes need to be input into your code handler to give you items (like TM28, which teaches Dig), or can be used to add Pokemon that naturally learn the Dig ability to your team.


Some cheat cartridges are buggy or are poorly adapted to certain games. In cases like these, you might have to plug your game into the cheat cartridge several times before it works correctly., The code you use will depend on the way you intend on learning the Dig ability, either by TM or a Pokémon that learns the ability. You should be careful when inputting your code, as a single missed or incorrect character can result in a failed attempt or deleted/corrupted data. Some codes you might use include:The TM28 code: 82005274 013C
The Nincada code: DA8A6B45 37694831
The Tripinch code: E3F01278 4A26A70E
Some codes are only intended for certain cheat cartridges. The cheat codes listed above should work for most common cheat cartridges., You may have to restart your game and unplug it from the cheat cartridge, or you may be able to access your game data even with your cheat cartridge connected. This will depend on what kind of cartridge you use, but once you open your game data, you should find TM28 in your inventory, a new Pokémon friend on your team, or a modification to the random encounters of your map that allows you to find and catch your target Pokémon in an area you usually woulnd't be able to.

