 There are many different types of back surgeries. If your doctor suggests that you need an operation, take care to find out precisely what he recommends. You can also ask for a referral to a surgeon who specializes in that type of back surgery.One of the most common types of back surgery is spinal fusion. During this surgery, weak spines are supported, usually by steel rods.
Your doctor might recommend a discectomy. Part of a disc is removed to take pressure off of other parts of the back.
A corpectomy is also common. This is when part of a vertebrae is removed.;
, If your doctor recommends back surgery, you might have concerns. Before scheduling the surgery, make sure to have several thorough discussions with your doctor. You will want to talk to both your regular doctor and the potential surgeon.Make sure you understand the terms. When your doctor talks about your back and potential surgeries, you might not understand all of the medical jargon.
Ask your doctor for clear explanations. You can say, "I'm not sure what you mean by 'lumbar disc herniation'. Can you explain that to me in different terms?"
Take notes. Write down what your doctor says. This will help you remember the important details after you've left the office.
 Back surgeries can be extremely effective in treating a lot of ailments. But it is normal to feel scared or reluctant. Ask your doctor if there are other options.When your doctor brings up surgery, ask if there are alternatives. You can say, "I understand that surgery can help. But are there other things we can try first?"
Depending on the severity of your problem, there might be other regimens that could work. For example, you could ask about physical therapy.
Take a friend or family member to your appointment with you. It can be helpful to have someone else listening and asking questions.
 There will be several professionals involved in your spinal surgery. When you are planning for the surgery, it might be useful to meet as many of these people as possible. Ask your surgeon who will be responsible for your care.Get to know your surgeon. You want to make sure that you feel comfortable with this person.
There will be several other people caring for you while you are in the hospital. For example, there will be an anesthesiologist, several nurses, and a case manager.
While you are in the hospital, you will most likely begin the recovery process. Find out in advance if you will be working with a physical therapist or occupational therapist while you are in the hospital. Also, ask your surgeon if you will need to go to a rehab facility after you leave the hospital.
 One of the best ways to prepare for surgery is is to rely on the knowledge of your medical team. However, you might find that you are interested in learning more about your condition and solutions. You can also do some outside research.Ask your doctor for reading materials. He can likely give you some pamphlets or direct you towards useful websites.
Find an online forum. There are many online communities that can be useful to you. Look for one where people discuss back surgery and the recovery process.
Talk to people you know. Maybe a friend or co-worker has had back surgery. Asking them questions about their experience can help you know what to expect.

