 If you are meeting royalty, it is a given that you are pleased to meet them, as it is an honor. Therefore saying “Pleased to meet you” is unnecessary. Royalty may not necessarily be offended by you saying this, but you will definitely look foolish.The best alternative is to simply say “Hello,” or you can use the widely accepted “How do you do?” You must be courteous and give a greeting, but you don’t want to come off as foolish by saying the wrong thing.
 The general rule is that you do not touch royalty, except in some circumstances when they initiate it. If the Queen or other royalty reaches a hand out for a handshake, grip it briefly and gently. Never give a tight squeeze or a hard shake. Further, never go in for a hug or kiss on the cheek or hand. This type of physical affection with royalty is bad form.There have been one or two instances where the Queen of England put her arm around someone and the person reciprocated the action. It is wise to follow the lead of royalty, but never do something like this unless they do it first.
 Tea and light snacks are often part of a meeting with royalty, but you should never eat if they are not eating. Likewise, if you happen to be eating at a dinner with the Queen, once she has stopped it is customary that everyone stops.If you do have tea and snacks with the Queen, never slurp your tea loudly and take small bites of the food. Slurping and crunching loudly are sure ways to look foolish in front of royalty.
Never chew gum when you are meeting royalty as this is disrespectful.
 A sure way to offend royalty is to refer to something in their personal lives that you may have heard about or read in a magazine or tabloid. It is acceptable to engage royalty in small talk if you are in their presence for an extended time, but try to keep the conversation away from personal information.


Don’t ask about some scandal you heard reported in the news. Don’t ask about other members of the royal family.
 It is best form when meeting royalty to dress as you might for a professional interview. In general, royalty would not expect you to be put out by purchasing something expensive specifically for the meeting, but it is courteous to be dressed nicely. A suit for men, or at least dress pants, and a button up shirt and tie is the best option. Women should dress conservatively in either a pantsuit, slacks with a blouse that covers well, or a long dress paired with a sweater or cardigan.