 Coasters are a great decoration for any room. Even when they're not in use, you can set coasters out on end tables and coffee tables. If you want to add a subtle splash of neon to your home, incorporate neon coasters.If you don't want anything too bright or gaudy, you can use coasters that are dotted or striped with neon instead of coasters colored in a solid shade of neon.;
, The color in ombre vases fades from the top to the bottom. You can get ombre neon vases for a subtle hint of neon in your home. A ombre neon vase may, for example, be clear near the top and fade into a bright shade of neon pink at the bottom.Ombre vases can be a great way to decorate end tables, buffets, and mantels.
You can place things like artificial flowers or decorative reeds in ombre vases.
 Stop by a local flea market and see if you can find a vintage neon sign. If you love quirky decorations, a vintage sign can work great for your home. You can hang it up in your living room, kitchen, or other part of your house.You may also be able to find artists online who create neon signs in the spirit of vintage signs from the past. If you love the idea of neon decorations, this may be something worth investing in

, A hanging magazine holder can be a great way to eliminate clutter in your home. Look for a hanging magazine holder with neon ropes. This is a small touch of neon, but can add a splash of color to an otherwise dull room., Stop by a local department or furniture store and look for neon hooks. You can drill these into your wall for a fun, colorful key hook. This adds a great splash of neon to your home.You can get neon hooks in unusual designs as well. For example, look for neon hooks in the shape of animals.
 If you have some old chairs in your kitchen, consider spray painting parts of them in neon shades. You don't have to spray down the entire chair if you feel it would be too much. You can just spray down key parts, like the seats or legs.This can work well if your kitchen has a more neutral color scheme. Some neon on your chairs can brighten up the room.
 Many people shy away from the idea of painting a wall neon. It may seem too bright or even tacky. However, a small splash of neon on one wall can actually brighten up a room without being too gaudy or distracting.If you have a room with neutral colored wall paper or paint, try painting one wall in a neon shade to add some light and fun.
You can also add accents with neon. For example, paint the edges of the floorboards neon or place some neon paint on handles to cabinets.
 You don't have to saturate a room in neon to decorate with it. In fact, you can place a few items strategically in a neutral room. For example, if your living room is mostly in shades of beige or white, add a neon end table or toss a few neon throw pillows on your couch., You can paint around the windows of your front door, using neon shades. You can also paint something like the handle or frame of a door neon. A few neon accents on the doors in your home can incorporate neon in a way that is not overwhelming., Being too concerned with matching is a decoration pitfall in general. Worrying too much about matching with neon is particularly difficult. Your neon shades will probably not match the color scheme of your room exactly and that's okay. Neon is meant to add some variation to a room. It's okay if neon colors differ a little from other shades in your home., While many neon shades are fun and attractive, some decorators dislike neon green. The color tends to be polarizing and can easily overwhelm a room. If you're concerned about your home looking tacky, stick to other shades of neon., Remember, neon can be intense. Therefore, you may be better off using it often forgotten areas of the home. Places like windowsills, cabinets, and artwork on the walls can all incorporate neon. This adds a hint of neon without overwhelming a room.