 You're expected to play a guitar before you buy it, so don't be shy. Better yet, play 10 different guitars, comparing the sounds from one to the other. Do you want a deep, big sound, or do you want a brighter ring to your notes? Play a few chords and notes up and down the fretboard to measure the responsiveness at different points, as well as ease of play.









If you've never played guitar before, it might not be wise to drop a lot of money on a great guitar until you know it will stick. For the first few lessons, ask some friends if they can lend a guitar. Once you know some chords and songs, you can test them on guitars you might buy.
When you're serious about a guitar, take it into a sound-proofed room to test out. Strings on the other guitars in the room will create sound when you play a guitar (sympathetic vibration), making the guitar sound better than it actually is. Most music shops will have an amp room in the back.;
, If you like the sound but can't play it, opt for a smaller guitar. A key point is that the bottom groove should fit comfortably on your right thigh. Sitting upright, you should be able to strum with your elbow at right angles to the neck, and your wrist flexible. But there are some other, more subtle things to check on a good acoustic as well:










The Action: How high above the frets are the strings? On good guitars, they will be close. Cheap guitars have "high action," meaning you must push much harder to play a note.

Neck Width: How easily can you reach the top strings with your fretting hand?

Body Size: Dreadnaught guitars are big, and have a similarly rich sound. A concert acoustic is much smaller and thus brighter. If you're playing alone, sitting down, the big size can be nice. But if you're part of a band and like to move, you might want something slimmer.
 Different types of acoustic guitars are best for different genres. While the descriptions below are generalizations, they will be helpful when picking out a guitar for beginners:










Traditional Acoustic: This is the classic guitar, with a big body and an open sound hole. It is used a lot in folk, rock, country, and pop music, but can be heard in almost anything.

Traditional with Pickup: If you see a panel with buttons and a quarter-inch input jack, this means you can plug the guitar into an amp without sacrificing the rich acoustic tone. If you plan on playing with a band, they are highly recommended. Very versatile.

Electric-Acoustic: These hybrid guitars are used in jazz and world music, and can only be adequately tested through an amplifier. Generally more specialized., The most important thing for your guitar's sound is the piece of wood on the top. There are a lot of woods used for different guitars, depending on the sound you want, but the most important thing to note is whether or not it is laminate or solid-topped. If you don't know, or it doesn't say, ask a store clerk.










Solid: This is one or two matching pieces of wood, lined up with the grain in the guitar. It produces a clearer, richer sound than laminate, but is more expensive.

Laminate: Is 4-5 pieces of thin wood pressed together, usually plywood. It has lower volume and tone quality but is still a good option for a cheaper first guitar.
 If you've played the guitar, love the sound, and feel like it fits your style and comfort, then it's likely a good guitar. There is one final set of checks, however, that make sure it is well built and ready to buy:









Tuning pegs are easy to turn.
There is no excess glue, chips, or marks of other shoddy construction.
All pieces feel securely fastened, no wiggle or movement.
There is an adjustable truss rod. Ask the store clerks if you cannot find it.
The neck (not the fretboard on top of the neck) is roughly even with the top of the guitar.
String height is low, especially at the first fret.