 Your gifts are your strengths, they are what you are good at doing. Compile a list of your strongest skills. Your list will include practical skills, like filing taxes, social skills, such as listening, and interpersonal skills, like evaluating a situation or having a high level of self-awareness. In addition to self-reporting your strengths, take a gift or skill inventory test. The results may reveal new gifts or affirm your evaluation of your strengths., Your passions reveal what you care about. You may be passionate about the environment, animals, social justice, education, or children. Your passions move you to action. What moves you to pick up a sign in protest? Do you regularly donate to an organization? If you struggle to readily identify your passions, take time to explore different issues. Educate yourself on global warming, familiarize yourself with immigration reform, dedicate yourself to social justice. Over time, you will discover your passions., Values are a set a principles you live your life by. Often, our values are derived from our religion, family, and society. Your values guide your decisions and actions. If you value integrity and honesty, you strive to tell the truth and appreciate when others are open with you. You may value equality, freedom, or family, generosity or dedication. When you work or live in an environment that does not respect your values conflict and tension naturally arises.Identify your core values by completing a series of easy exercises. Consider which characteristics are present in the people you respect—how do your parents, mentors, and teachers live their lives? Evaluate which issues inspire you to take action and why these issues excite you. Assess your community and determine 1 thing you would change. Review your answers and search for common themes. The themes and principles that emerge will resemble your values and beliefs., The key to finding your calling requires you to meld your gifts, passions, and your values. Find a way to lend your strengths to a cause you are passionate about while maintaining your values. When you reach the perfect balance of all three, you will experience a feeling of satisfaction—you will have figured out your life!Finding the perfect balance between your gifts, passions, and values may take awhile. Don’t expect to perfect the formula on your first try!

