 Facial cleanser is important for great skin. Ditch the bar of soap and get a good quality face wash to start your makeup routine. Fill your bathroom basin with lukewarm water and splash some on your face (this is also great for waking you up in the morning) and then squeeze pea size amounts of facial wash on to your hand and massage it into your face with circular motions and then rinse it off with the water and pat your face dry with a towel.;
, Get a little cotton pad and put a little bit of the toner onto it and then wipe it all over your face. This leaves your face cool and refreshed while evening out your complexion and removing any dirt your cleanser has missed.
 Find a moisturiser that's good for your skin type. Most skin care brands make a moisturiser for all types of skin. Dab bits of moisturiser on your cheeks, nose, chin and forehead then with the excess in your hand, rub your hands together with circular motions and massage the moisturiser on to your skin.


Sometimes you might want to apply a cream at night. To do this, get a little bit on your ring finger and pat it under your eye.
 This will help your make-up to stay on all day. Just apply it like you would apply your moisturiser.
 Find a foundation that matches your skin tone perfectly. If you can't, then go for a shade lighter. Put just little onto the back of your hand, then with a foundation brush start applying it around the nose than work outwards, only use a little because it's easier to apply more than to remove it. Make sure it is properly blended so that it does not look like you're wearing anything on your face.
 Find one that brightens for under your eyes. You can either use a brush or your finger. If you're using a brush, put a little concealer on your hand then dab the brush in it and use light feathery strokes to apply it under your eyes, around your nose and on any blemishes. If you are using your finger do the exact same thing but try to pat it in as that will give better coverage.
 Pressed powder usually gives a bit more coverage than loose powder. Use a big fluffy brush and apply just a little on your face to set your make-up.
 Blusher gives you a rosy glow on your cheeks. Bronzer gives you defined cheekbones and a sun-kissed glow. Apply it with a fluffy angled brush; either apply it where the sun would normally hit (your cheeks, forehead, and nose) or apply it in the hollows of your cheekbones to give yourself a more sculptured face. For blush, you can either apply it on the apples of your cheeks or just below your cheekbones all the way up to your hairline.
 Any color of eyeshadow that is flattering for your skin and eyes will do. If you choose a shimmery champagne colour and use a fluffy eyeshadow brush, make sure to sweep it all over the lid. If you want to add some more depth, apply a darker brown colour in the outer corner and crease.
 Eyeliner is optional, but for school, a brown eyeliner is a more natural choice. You could apply it on your water line and tight line, or you could just apply it on your lid close to your lash line.
 For mascara, a waterproof one is a good choice if you have sports or PE (Physical Education/Exercise) and want to keep your makeup fresh. Comb the brush through your lashes and wiggle it every now and then. You could apply it on the bottom lashes also.
 If you want to, you can accentuate your eyebrows as well. You could use a brow gel, pencil or powder to do this. For pencil, use light feathery strokes and brush through your lashes afterwards for a more natural look. For powder, use a little angled brush and again use light feathery strokes and brush through after.
 For lips, keep it very natural. Apply a lipbalm for soft kissable lips and you leave it as that, or apply either a clear or light coloured lipgloss.

