 When facing potential buyers, their first question will usually be ‘why are you selling?’ You need a good answer, not just to help sell your business, but to be sure you are selling to for the right reasons. Some common reasons include: retirement; partnership disputes; illness; overwork; and a desire to move on to something new., Potential buyers will want to see evidence of profit and actual or potential growth, but at the very least, they will want to know the precise state of your finances.It is best to review the following materials with an accountant:


Internal financial statements for the past 3 to 5 years, including profit-and-loss statements and balance sheets.Year-to-date financial information.Tax returns for the past 3 to 5 years.A list of inventories and furniture, fixtures and equipment being sold with the business.A commercial property appraisal (if you own the property) or the lease (if renting)., Before you decide to sell, you will want to estimate the value of your business to decide if it is worth it. Once you have decided to sell, you will want to have an appraiser do a business valuation, as this will allow you to establish a credible asking price.The most common formula for determining value is a multiple of the seller’s discretionary earnings.This type of market-based valuation involves first recasting financial statements: adding back the sort of expenses – owner’s salary, perks, steering profits into capital improvements – that may have been employed to keep the company’s profits low for tax purposes.Comparable data for businesses of the same size and in the same industry and area are then used to come up with an appropriate multiple.
Other key numbers that buyers may use in valuing your company include a market-based multiple of Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization (EBITDA), growth in revenue, and EBITDA margin (EBITDA divided by revenue)., As when selling a home, you can greatly increase value by taking simple steps to make your business more attractive.


Fix anything that is broken or run-down.Keep records on operating procedure and create a business succession plan. The less reliant your business is on you, the easier it will be to sell.Maximize revenues and minimize operating expenses in order to show higher profits. Consider trimming staff, tightening up any operating problems such as excessive inventory, and tightening credit offered to customers.Protect your intellectual property by filing for patents, trademarks, copyrights, etc., These are the materials that you will use to attract potential buyers. The blind profile is a one-page document that provides highlights of your business without revealing its identity.The selling memorandum is a more comprehensive prospectus sent to serious buyers. You should have them first sign a confidentiality agreement, as the memorandum might otherwise disclose valuable business details that competitors could profit from.It should include:


A history of when you started the business, hired employees and secured patents (if applicable).
A roster of employees with job descriptions, levels of experience, and salaries.A description of the customer base, including each customer’s size, location, and the amount of business you conduct with them.A review of your location, such as whether you own or lease the space.A list of all owned or leased equipment, with a description of its condition.Minutes of board meeting and annual meetings (if your business is a corporation).A business operating manual., Selling a business yourself saves money by avoiding a broker commission, but involves a lot of work and may not result in the highest possible sale price. As when selling your home, consider hiring an agent: a business broker (for businesses with annual revenue less than $1 million) or a mergers and acquisitions specialist (for multi-million dollar businesses).A broker can put together sales materials, find buyers, get the highest asking price, and help keep the sale quiet, which is important to keep employees, vendors, and customers from taking flight.All this will leave you more time to run your business.
When hiring an advisor, be sure to study past transactions he or she has negotiated. Individuals who specialize in your industry are the most attractive.Your broker can usually suggest legal and accounting professionals to assist with business disposal related advice.
 Major online sellers like BizBuySell and BizQuest charge a monthly fee to advertise on their sites. In return, they allow you to reach a large market and provide tools to help you value your business.When advertising, provide as much information as possible without giving away the identity of your business.
Don’t give your street address or phone number.
Acquire a separate phone number and email for buyers to contact you.
 So as not to waste your time or theirs, you’ll want to know the following:


The potential buyer’s name and all contact information.
Their previous employment and business ownership.The reason for their interest in your business and how long they have planned on buying.Whether they have pre-qualified for financing. If not, ask how they will finance the business and how much money they have for a down payment.Their intended timeframe for completing a transaction., It is best to have two or three potential buyers in case one of them falls through. Be sure to stay in regular contact with each potential buyer and respond promptly to their inquiries. Failure to do so may cost you a deal., The typical business sale takes between six months and two years according to SCORE, a non-profit for entrepreneurs an partner of the US Small Business Administration., Reveal litigation or regulatory issues to prospective buyers upfront. Otherwise, these details may scuttle a deal or worse yet, lead to litigation after a sale., Research buyers who show serious interest. The more value your company will provide for them – access to new markets, products, brands, services, favorable customers, etc. – the more they should be willing to pay., If you want your business to continue to be operated in the way you want it run, then you will want to look for buyers who share your same business philosophy., It is best to set an initial price that is higher than the one you are looking for. For instance, restaurants typically sell for 85% of the initial asking price, so you would need to ask for 117% of the price you want to achieve.A broker or online service can advise you on how high to set the price. Also, be sure to set a price floor that you will not go beneath.



With small businesses, the owner is often asked to buy back equity in the company at the same terms as the sale price, and then to stay on to continue running the business for a fixed amount of time.Be open to alternate payment schemes, such as taking a lower initial sales price in return for a share of profits during the time you will remain with the company.Have a lawyer, accountant, or your broker advise you on the tax implications of the sale. You can save thousands of dollars by structuring the sale in the most tax advantageous way possible., Be sure potential buyers sign a confidentiality agreement to protect your information. Even before drawing up the final sales agreement, be sure to put the basics of the deal in writing., As with the sale of a home, you will want to get the sale into escrow to protect yourself in case the buyer walks away without cause. This involves putting earnest money into an escrow account while the buyer performs due diligence and organizes financing. If you walk away during or after this period, the buyer will keep the money in the account. If the buyer walks away, you will keep the money., Once a sale has been agreed, the buyer will typically ask for more information, such as employee contracts and salaries, heath care contracts, vendor contracts, bank statements, etc. Furnish this information promptly to bring the sale to a swift close.
 These will generally include a sales agreement, assignment of lease (if you are renting the property), security agreement, and noncompete agreement (in which you agree to wait a fixed period of time before starting a new, competing business).The sales agreement should include, at the minimum:Names of seller, buyer, and business.
Assets being sold.
Purchase price and allocation of assets.
The terms of the agreement and payment terms.
A list of inventory included in the sale.
Any representation of warranties of the seller and buyer.
Determination as to access to any business information.
Determination as to the running of the business prior to closing the sale.
Fees, including brokers fees.
Date of closing.
 Particularly if you are planning on retiring after selling your business, you will want to be certain to invest the profits so as to allow for continuing income throughout retirement.