 Before you start your title search, think about hiring a real estate lawyer or a title searcher, examiner, or abstractor.These individuals make a living conducting title searches and because public land records can often be confusing and difficult to understand, it may be a good idea to hire one.


For help hiring a real estate attorney, check out this great wikiHow article.
For help hiring a title professional, talk to a real estate lawyer or your real estate agent. If you are using your home as collateral, talk to your loan officer.
 If you will be conducting a title search on your own, start by going to the county recorder's office in the county where the land in question is located. A county recorder is responsible for recording deeds and other documents that affect title to real property.When you arrive at the county recorder's office, ask the receptionist where their public land records are. These are the documents you will need to search through.
 When you go to the county recorder's office, be sure you bring with you certain important information about the property you are searching for. You will need to bring the property address, the tax ID, the lot number, and the parcel number.If you do not have this information on hand, it can be found at the tax assessor's office in the county where the property is located., Once you have found the public land records, you will use the property information you brought to find the records pertaining to the piece of property you are concerned with. Once you have found the relevant records, they will generally be organized in one of two ways:


First, the records may be organized in a grantor-grantee index. Here, every recorded document is indexed in both a grantee index and a grantor index, with each entry organized alphabetically by either the grantor's or the grantee's last name. The grantor is the person transferring title and the grantee is the person receiving title. To search these indices, you will need to establish a chain of title for the parcel of land. To do this, you will need to build the chain link by link. You will start by searching for the most recent known grantee (the current owner of the land) and you will trace ownership back, deed by deed, until you reach the point the land was owned by the government. Next, you will move to the grantor index and start with the first grantor in the chain (hopefully the government). You will move forward in time, looking under each grantor's name, deed by deed, to see if anyone conveyed an interest to anyone that is not in the chain of title you created in the grantee index. If both chains match up, your chain of title is mostly likely clean (although this does not mean title is clear).
Second, records may be recorded in a tract index, which is a single index containing every document affecting the piece of land in question. Here, you will need to sift through the documents and create your chain of title.
 Once you have found the relevant public land records, you will need to analyze them to determine the quality of title. When you inspect public records, you are looking for two things.


First, you are looking to see if the person trying to sell you the land actually has legal title to that land. If you are not buying land but using your property as collateral, you are looking to make sure you have legal title to the land. Doing this will be easy once you have searched the public land records. All you need to do is make sure you can trace ownership of the property to the current seller (or yourself), depending on the reason you are searching. Once you have created a chain of title, you will simply look through that chain and make sure all of the links are valid and lead to the correct current owner. In other words, you are looking at the chain of title to make sure every time the property was transferred, it was done so legally and properly.
Second, You want to look at the public land records to see if there are any encumbrances on the land. An encumbrance is a "right or interest that exists in someone other than the owner of an estate and that restricts or impairs the transfer of the estate or lowers its value.Examples of encumbrances include liens, easements, covenants, mortgages, or unpaid taxes.