 Ask yourself if the seller seems willing to negotiate and what it is that bothers you about the counteroffer. Common reactions can include simply being annoyed by the prolonged negotiations, being confused about the intentions of the seller, being surprised by the seller’s high asking price, or being worried that you don't have the finances to pay the price the seller wants. Carefully weigh your concerns and decide if you would like to accept the offer, continue negotiating, or simply move on. If you reach the conclusion that the home is not worth pursuing, then it is time to decline the counteroffer.


Think carefully about the terms of the counteroffer, especially if the seller has rejected a contingency such as a home inspection, as this might be a red flag that there is a problem with the property that the seller does not want you to know about.
Consider the market, the availability and price of similar homes, and whether or not this particular home has unique characteristics that make it particularly valuable to you.You should only decline the counteroffer outright if you are 100% prepared to leave this home behind.
If there are multiple offers on the home, do some research or talk to your realtor to find out if this is common in your market. If it is, then you may have no choice but to prepare yourself for drawn out negotiations if you decide to go through with buying a house., The counteroffer renders your prior offer void, so you are usually under no further obligations to proceed, but if you still want to negotiate, you can do so. Your response needs to make it clear whether your declining is final, or if you are still willing to proceed with negotiations based on the terms of your previous offer.


Be polite. When crafting your response, tell the seller that you appreciate their time and consideration of your offer. Explain that you appreciated the opportunity to view the property and learn about it. Even if you think it is unlikely that the seller will want to resume negotiations with you after you decline the counteroffer, it is important to be polite just in case.
 If you are working with a realtor, he or she can take care of this for you. If you are not working with a realtor, you can write your decision to decline the counteroffer by way of a letter, including your address, name and signature. Be sure to check state laws to understand exactly what information must be included in this letter.You don't need to add a specific reason for declining the counteroffer unless you want to. If you wish to explain your reasoning, you can explain that the counteroffer is beyond your budget, that you have another property in mind which is more attractively priced, etc. Providing the exact reasons may make you seem more vulnerable, but it can be handy if you suspect that adding reasons might prompt a change of mind for the seller.
End the letter with another expression of gratitude for their time and consideration. Wish them the best of luck in selling the property soon if you're closing down negotiations, or simply express a hope that you can keep things moving if you wish to keep negotiating.
 Looking for the house of your dreams can be frustrating, but try not to dwell on negotiations that didn't work out. Sooner or later you will find a home that is perfect for you, so don't give up!

