 Buying a set can lead to a poor fit. Choose your tops and bottoms separately because you are likely a different size on the top than you are on the bottom. For example, you may be a medium on top but a large might fit you best on the bottom. Try different sizing combinations until you find exactly what you love and feel most confident in. , There are many options for bikini tops available. Finding the right one depends on your style and body type. The most basic bikini top is the triangle top. This top is adjustable but does not offer a lot of support. The half cup, balconette, and plunge shaped tops are similar to bras and offer more support. Bandeau and strapless bikini tops are great for avoiding tan lines.Choose a swimsuit top you are comfortable in and that you like the style of. Try on various styles because you never know what you might like.


Get a swim top you can slip on if you hate tying your top or it always comes untied.
Stick to a classic shape if you want to avoid strange tan lines. , If you can never get your large bust to fit in a bikini top comfortably, opt for a top with a demi bra. The extra support will make you feel more confident at the beach or pool. For even more support, you can get a top with underwire, including underwire straps. , If your bust is small, get a bikini top with ties that you can adjust. Having the ability to adjust your suit will help you get your bikini tight and close to your chest so it does not fall off. If you want a strapless top, choose one that has boning on the sides and removable padding to keep it from sliding off. , The Euro or normal bikini bottom is low on the hips and is the most common bikini choice. The Brazilian bikini bottom has half coverage on the back. Choose a thong bottom if you want no coverage on the back. You can opt for board shorts or skirted bottoms instead of traditional swimsuit bottoms for more coverage.
Get high waited bottoms if you do not want to show your belly button. Strings on the sides of the bottoms make your hips appear smaller., You can choose the color of your bikini based on your skin tone if you would like. Emeralds and pastels look good on light skin. Medium skin tones look best in bright colors and metallic. Dark skin tones look great with bold blues and reds. These are only suggestions. You can wear whatever color of swimsuit you think looks best on you.


Be aware that white bikinis can be see-through when they get wet.
Bright colors can make your skin look more tanned. , Bring a close and trusted friend or family member, like your mom or sister, to shop with you and to wait outside the dressing room for you. They can help you choose what looks best on you and get you a different size while you are changing. Having support can be great if the bikini shopping starts to get you down and you need encouragement. , You can take your bra off when trying on a swimsuit but make sure you keep your underwear on to avoid spreading and contracting any diseases. Wear a thin pair of underwear to the store to give you a better idea of what the bathing suit looks like without the underwear. , When you put the swimsuit top on, make sure any strings are tied tightly. Adjust the swimsuit so it is comfortable but won’t come off. Arrange your breasts by gently placing them toward the center of your torso. Check in the mirror to see if the top is too high on your back or sides and adjust the straps. The top should not puncher you but also should not be able to slip off. Try jumping up and down in the dressing room to see if the top stays in place.
 Put the bottoms on over your underwear. You want the bottoms to be a little snug because they expand about a half inch when they get wet. Slip two fingers between the bottoms and your skin. If two fingers don’t fit, the swimsuit is too tight. Extra room between your fingers and the suit means that it is too large. Your swimsuit will get even larger when it gets wet, so it is important the bottoms are not too big. , You will be able to see what the bikini looks like from all sides if you take pictures from a variety of angles and lighting. Take the photos yourself or have your friend take the photos for you. This will help you remember what the other bikinis you liked looked like on you when you are trying on different bikinis and going to different stores. , The size of swimsuits varies greatly from store to store. In some brands you might be a small and in other brands you might be a large. If something does not fit you, try not to worry about it. Move on to the next swimsuit. 