 This section is rather easy if you are prepared, and most deaths here are preventable. Be proud if you reach the stairs., In particular, bring a good cloak; this will mostly protect you from life drainers. Make sure spellcasters don't surround you with summoned monsters., Think twice before pressing a key. Remember, this game is not in real-time; you could leave the computer, go to sleep, and the monsters still wouldn't be able to attack you., This time your goal is to get to the end, not to try to find wands. Not while an arch-lich is poking your back with the Magicbane., This will make things much easier.,, Wraiths are common in the Valley of the Dead, but they rarely leave corpses there so you might want to lure them to a lower level.,, You will have to go through it again later on your way out when you don't have time to kill many monsters., There is a temple in the Valley of the Dead. If you haven't yet, buy protection there. Vampires will also not attack you while you are on an altar, but you shouldn't need that by now.,,, Vlad is infamously easy for such a late-game enemy, so anything should work except for wands of death; being undead, Vlad cannot be killed with death magic. Silver weapons work especially well.,, The Wizard's Tower is three levels tall. Two other levels in Gehennom have a possible entrance to the tower surrounded by a moat. The moat is tiny, but is in the middle of the levels. Zap a wand of digging at the exposed wall. It will make an opening to let you inside., There will be a random kind of lich standing right on top of the portal, so watch out. If there is no portal inside, you will have to find the second level with a possible entrance; it looks like this level, except with a portal inside., Go to the middle of the level to find the moat.,,, To do this, go to the lowest level you can go to using the stairs, and then step on every tile until it says: "You feel a strange vibration under your feet." To do the ritual:

Light 7 candles on the non-cursed Candelabrum of Invocation.
Ring the non-cursed Bell of Opening.
Read the non-cursed Book of the Dead.
 Make sure you have full health. This will be a huge battle. If any of the demon lords is still alive, you can bring it here so it will fight the high priest for you., There are fire traps surrounding it, so don't go directly next to the wall., You might need a scroll of charging. The bell will find the door and open it for you. Alternatively, a wand of secret door detection will also work., Zap him with the wand of death. There is a chance he has magic resistance. In that case, you've got bad luck. You'll have to battle him without magic., While it is in your inventory, the game tries even harder to make you lose; for example, you may teleport down 3 stories just because you are trying to climb up, and spellcasting takes much more energy than normally!, When you use these with the Amulet, you will enter the Endgame.