 Different career consulting firms look for different types of education. Many will require a bachelor's degree at minimum. Because there aren't many specific majors in college that apply directly to career consulting, firms will often base their decision to hire you on your personality, experience, and desire to succeed.


Some good majors for career consulting include business management, psychology, counseling, and vocational psychology.Getting your master's or P.h.D. in counseling may open up more job opportunities and get you higher pay.
 More often, employers are looking at social media and your digital presence before they decide to hire you. In fact, a staggering 93% of all hiring managers will take a look at your social media before they decide to hire you.Market everything from your profile picture to the content on your social media accounts. Post things that would make you look desirable to a firm or an employer.


Things like volunteer work or career advice would look great to a firm.
Having a website that lists your expertise would also be a good idea.
Avoid taboo subjects or taking extreme stances and avoid posting illicit or inappropriate photos.
 Career consultancy firms work with a broad range of people from different backgrounds. Being able to communicate effectively to people is something that firms will be looking for during the interview.Effective communication does not only mean that you can articulate your thoughts, but it also includes being able to actively listen and understand the perspective of the person that you're trying to help. Think of your responses before you say them, and stay away from anything that could come off as inappropriate.


Practice active listening by listening to the person who is talking and internalize what they are saying. Reflect what they are saying by repeating them or rephrasing what they just said to you.This shows that you're listening and understanding where they are coming from.
 Career consultancy firms will be looking for confidence when selecting someone to work at their company. Having confidence is something that will ease clients and help them accept your professional advice.Dress as well as you can and maintain good hygiene. Make sure to keep your posture straight and articulate your words. Raising your tone at the end of the sentence can make you appear less confident, so make sure to use a firm and bold tone of voice.Looking and feeling confident on the interview will also increase your chances of landing a job.
Maintaining a healthy amount of eye contact will also make you appear more confident to the firm.
 Check with your university if they have a coop or intern programs available and work with a career coach at your school to help place you. If no such program exists, do research on career consultancy firms and look for intern or fellowship opportunities on their websites. If you can't find one, then help out at your university's career center while you're perusing your undergraduate degree. This will give you insight into the day-to-day operations of a career counselor and could influence your decision to be an adviser.


While you won't be working directly with clients or students, you'll be able to examine and learn from people who are doing it professionally.
You will also gain network contacts that you can call on post-graduation for help.
 Look for career consulting firms on popular job boards or search for consulting firms in your area. Once you find some companies that you are interested in, visit their websites and look under careers to see if there are any jobs available. Make sure that your education and experience match the job listing before applying.
 Preparing for the interview includes having clean, pressed clothing. Be as professional looking as possible and wear a suit. Before a firm hires you to manage other people's careers, they will want to be sure that you can come off as being able to handle your life. Work on things like your posture, vocal intonation, and communicating effectively to nail the interview and get the job.


Use gestures while you talk but don't go overboard and seem frantic. Keeping your palms face up will make you appear more open.Write down and practice responses to commonly asked interview questions before you go in.
Stand up straight and maintain healthy levels of eye contact while you are in the interview.