 Separate egg whites from 3 eggs. Follow the rules mentioned strictly to achieve best results. When you separate the eggs and pour into the bowl, the bowl must be clean from grease/water. Egg whites will be easy to separate when they are cold.

See to that you do not see even a speck of yolk in the separated whites. Do not use your finger into the whites to take any speck of yolk/shell.
Use a grease-free spoon. Wait until the egg whites reach the room temperature. Once they reach room temperature, pour them in a wide and tall, grease-free dry vessel.
Use a grease-free whisk and beat them with hand until they become frothy.
,, ., Add sugar only 1 tbsp. at a time. Beat them in medium speed.

As you beat and as you keep adding the sugar little by little, you’ll witness the egg whites becoming like a soft batter. Increase the speed of the beater to high as you continue to add sugar.
 Sugar must be thoroughly mixed into the egg whites.

Just rub a little of the mixture between your thumb and index finger. You should feel like touching thick butter. Your fingers should not feel even a little of sugar granules. If you feel, continue to beat them.
Beat the egg whites until they form stiff peaks. That is, when you try to lift your whisk, or try to tilt the vessel upside down (the former option is easier ) the mixture should be thick like firm clouds and they should not slide down. Something that is in the consistency of whipped cream. This step takes around 8 minutes.
), and give a good beat (optional step)., Do not grind them, just pound them.), Do not fold them too much. Use a grease-free spoon/ladle to fold., Take a zip lock/piping bag and fill it halfway with the meringue-mixture. Use a grease-free spoon/ladle to fill. Tight the bag releasing any air inside.

Cut a small hole in one corner and start to pipe the macaroons. You can check the video on piping the macaroons below.

If you do not have zip lock or piping bag, you can just use two spoons to form clumps, if you do not worry on the structure of the macaroon.
,, You can keep them for weeks/months in room temperature.