 Flats are some of the most versatile and comfortable shoes to wear. Depending on what you pair them with, your outfit could be perfect for the office, a stroll about town, or even a special date night. Here are some outfit ideas for you to try:For a casual look, try a pair of distressed jeans and with a cream-colored turtleneck sweater.
For an office look, try a tan suit coat over a white, button-up blouse tucked into black suit pants. Finish the look off with a skinny, leopard print belt. For something more casual, switch out the suit pants for skinny jeans instead.
For a special date, try a red-and-black plaid, button-up blouse tucked into a black skirt. Wear a light, tan coat that is a little bit longer than your skirt. Finish the look off with a black handbag, and a gold-and-crystal statement necklace.
For a chic, fashionable look, try a pink button-up blouse tucked into a pair of ankle-length, skinny, distressed jeans. Top it off with a pink handbag.
 Heels are versatile. They are typically paired with short, cocktail dresses for special nights out. They can be paired with jeans for something more casual, however. Here are some outfit ideas:For something casual, try a black, leather jacket over a white t-shirt tucked into a pair of distressed boyfriend jeans.
Another take on the casual would be a blue-and-white striped shirt tucked into a pair of boyfriend jeans with a brown belt.
A great, cozy, fall look might include a pair of skinny, ankle-length jeans and a cream-colored, cable-knit sweater.
For something more elegant, try a black cocktail dress with simple gold jewelry and a red or black clutch purse.
 Like flats and heels, booties can look casual or dressy depending on what you pair them with. Choose jean or canvas material for something casual, and suit material for something dressy. When you wear skinny pants or jeans, be sure to roll the cuff up to your ankles. Here are some outfit ideas for you:For a casual look, try a black shirt with skinny jeans. If it is nippy outside, throw on a black felt or wool coat, and a black scarf with white accents.
Dress in all black with black skinny jeans, a black fitted shirt, a black leather jacket, and a black purse.
Go classic with white t-shirt tucked into a pair of black (or dark blue) skinny jeans. Throw on a black leather jacket with silver studs and a red-and-black plaid scarf. Finish the look off with a black handbag.
For a date or special night out, try a burgundy sweater over a light gold/sand-colored dress. Finish the look off with a black bag and some simple, gold jewelry.
 Leopard print sneakers are best for casual, street style looks. They go best with t-shirts and jeans, but you can also pair them with other outfits too. Here are some ideas to get you started:For something classic, try a black or white v-neck t-shirt and distressed boyfriend jeans. Finish off the outfit with a brightly-colored handbag.
For something dressier, try a long, light-brown coat over a white, loose-fitting shirt tucked into a pair of black capris. Finish the look off with an ivory-colored purse.
For a girly twist, try a light blue button-up blouse tucked into a jean tube skirt. Accessorize with a black purse.

