 Don't focus on your weakness or your strengths, focus on EVERYTHING. Once you sign that contract, you are the property of the Army, and you complaining about sit-ups will just give them more reasons to make you do MORE sit-ups.


Even if you are pretty out of shape, you can get in shape...start our walking. Before long, one mile is a few miles!





;
, Don't start a plan you downloaded from a website for Olympic athletes if you know that's not your level. You'll just get discouraged and hurt yourself trying. Write your own plan. You want to join the Green Berets? Then that's the goal you're pushing for, and that's the last step. For example, start out trying to do 5 push-ups in a row. So, to do those 5, make a plan to do 20 over the course of the day. Remember, muscle doesn't heal while you take a break during an exercise, muscle heals while you sleep.
 Doing something like this gives you something to aim for, and will serve you well when you're taking that fitness test. It will also help boot camp become a learning experience with all that's being taught to you. You won't be physically exhausted and just trying to survive day to day.
 Of course, your instructors will teach you everything you need to know, but accuracy will help get you the Army job you want, commonly referred to as an MOS. Don't expect to get into Sniper School with a great smile.
 If you want to really excel in your career in the Army, take a few language courses and learn to speak something foreign to you. Not only will this show ambition on your part, but it will make you all the more valuable, and show that you're willing to get outside of your comfort zone.
 Take everything you see when it comes to your life, no matter what aspect of it, and take it with a grain of salt. Remember, recruiters from all branches have quotas, and they will do their best to distract you to get you to sign those papers. READ THEM: You don't want to end up peeling potatoes in Alaska in the middle of the winter or something like that that you'll hate.

