 For X-factor UK, there are different dates and rules. Make sure you meet all the requirements and complete every step before all deadlines.


You need to be 14 or older. This is regardless of whether you're in a group or a solo act.;
, Or two songs, just in case the person before you sang the same one. You'll be singing it acapella (without any instruments or backing track -- just you) in front of an X-Factor team member and the crowd around you.


Avoid being clichéd. Only sing Whitney Houston, Michael Jackson, or Jennifer Hudson if you're just as good. Pick a song that you know won't be the 500th time your judge has heard it that day. If that's the case, you'll be compared to everyone else on two different levels.

The judge doesn't have to know the song. In fact, it may be better if they don't.
 Before the season starts, there is an application form online at the website of your country's version of the X Factor. This is months and months in advance, so you may need to wait until the next season rolls around.


There are plenty of auditions by "mobile van" each year. In fact, that's how James Arthur auditioned. Get connected on the website, Facebook, and Twitter for announcements.
 If you missed the online application, there's still an open call. Thousands of people do it. If one is in your area, great! Suit up and start practicing.


In the UK, open call auditions were held in London, Birmingham, Manchester, Cardiff, and Glasgow.But there were tons of mobile van auditions -- just the beginning of the list is Aberdeen, Colchester, the Isle of Wight, and Dublin.
 On the audition notice received when you fill out your form, it explicitly says to stand out from the crowd. Personalities are so large there really is no limit. Whatever matches your personality, go for it.


This show is all about spectacle. Here's what the form says: "Dress as the pop star you want to be - we are looking for the next big music sensation so make an impact. We also highly encourage everyone to bring along posters and banners to the open day - the brighter the better!"
Fortunately or unfortunately (no one is quite sure), wearing your wedding dress or a plastic chicken on your head is not unheard of. You may stand out more by not trying too hard, believe it or not.
 If the audition is months away, don't quit. Run through your piece every other day or so until you can do it on one leg with your hands tied behind your back. Stay vocally healthy to boot.


Load up on warm water. Stay away from alcohol (dries out your throat) and definitely don't smoke. If you're concerned you're getting a tickle, go for green tea, pineapple juice, and get on vocal rest. Don't strain your voice -- that'll just wear it out.

