 Crowdsourcing is one way of involving users in your moderating efforts. By making content moderation not just a responsibility but a paid duty, community members could be more vigilant in spotting objectionable submissions. You might conduct an online recruitment for user-moderators who can be assigned to do the following minor tasks:

Reviewing violations reported by other users
Flagging spammers
Filtering profanity
Approving comments on posts
Screening entries for photo or video contests.;
, With post-moderation, users can report posts of fellow site members that violate submission guidelines. Each post could come with a list of options prompting viewers to flag inappropriateness, submit feedback, or report defects in site functionality. Post-moderation can also double as an audience engagement tool. In this type of moderation, users can rate posts to feature best submissions, burying duplicates, spam, and unremarkable content in the process., This is preferable if your site hosts a forum page with several sub-forums or threads. Aside from assigning points or credits to every forum post submitted by users, you may also offer higher credits to users who can report malicious content, such as spams or defamatory comments. The credit system can pave way for a ranking scheme that can motivate users to be active in identifying unwanted content., Of course, your community would be more motivated to actively report violations if they could reap rewards from the action. With the credit or point system in hand, you can reward top user-moderators with incentives such as these:

Forum badges
Site privileges
Forum points converted to tokens or shopping credits
Personalized rewards or gifts
Free memberships
First preview of new site features.
 Users would be mindful of their actions if they are aware of the consequences of violating community guidelines. Make your restrictions and sanctions viewable and easy to comprehend so that no member would have an excuse for making offenses. Let them know about penalty levels, and explain what kinds of content could be subjected to removal or what type of online activities can cause user suspension and permanent blocking.