 Many people prefer to buy synthetic dreadlock extensions because they’re relatively inexpensive. Synthetic hair is also great for dreadlocks because it tangles easily, creating dreadlocks more quickly. However, you can’t use heat products on synthetic extensions or they will melt.Additionally, you can’t dye or perm synthetic hair extensions.


Purchase pre-dreaded single-ended extensions online or buy synthetic clip-in extensions to dread yourself.
Synthetic dreadlocks and extensions can be bought online or at specialty beauty supply stores.;
, If you like using heat products or dyeing your hair, purchase natural extensions. These extensions can be treated like your natural hair.However, keep in mind that these extensions will be much more expensive than synthetic extensions.


Natural dreadlocks and extensions can be found online and at many beauty supply stores.
 These extensions look like long dreadlocks with an un-dreaded section in the middle. Double-ended dreadlock extensions are an excellent choice for people who want more volume in their dreadlocks. However, if they’re installed too tightly, the weight of the extensions will pull on your scalp and lead to hair loss.If you want these extensions, have them installed professionally.
Instead of choosing double-ended extensions, purchase single-ended extensions or regular extensions that you can dread yourself.
 Do the needle test by pushing a needle through a thick section of a dreadlock. If the needle slides though, you can install your own extensions. If it doesn’t, you need to have your extensions professionally installed using dreadlock adhesives.Do an online search to find salons that service dreadlocks in your area.
 If you purchased regular clip-in extensions, you will need to dread them yourself. First, ask a friend to hold the clip end of the extension. Hold the tail end of the extension tightly in one hand. Next, use a fine-toothed comb to brush the hair against the grain, starting at the clip and working in small sections. This will create small knots in the hair, dreading it.


After you’ve combed the entire extension, pull it down with your hand to smooth it out and repeat the process.
Continue combing and smoothing the extension until it’s tightly dreaded., Your hair should already be dreaded before you put in any extensions. If you have blunted ends on your dreadlocks, cut off the tips and brush them out. You should have one to two inches (2.5-5 centimeters) of loose hair at the ends of your dreadlocks.Use a fine-toothed comb or small brush to loosen the ends of your dreadlocks.
You can loosen all of the ends at once or do it as you apply the extensions.
 If your extension came with a clip on the end, cut this section off. Next, brush out the end so that there are two to three inches (5-7.5 centimeters) of loose hair at the top.


Cut and loosen each extension as you need it. Otherwise, you may unravel unused extensions.
 Thread a sewing needle with about 12-14 inches (30-35 centimeters) of thread. Next, sew a few small stitches into the base of the loose section of the dreadlock, close to the dreaded section. Make sure these stitches are as tight as you can make them.


Leave two to three inches (5-7.5 centimeters) of loose thread at the beginning of the stitches so that you can tie them off later.
Purchase sturdy thread that closely matches your hair color.
 Place the loose, stitched part of your extension against the loose end of your natural dreadlock. Center the extension so that an inch of your loose hair is against the tightly dreaded section of the extension. Sew the center of the extension against the center of your dreadlock using small, tight stitches., Press the extension into your dreadlock, wrapping the sides around the extension like a tube. Add a few tight stitches to secure these hairs into place. Keep adjusting the dreadlock until the top of the extension is completely covered by your natural hair.


Wrapping will help blend the extension into your hair. The better the top of the extension is covered, the better it will blend.
 Find the loose end of the thread inside the extension. Tie both ends of the thread tightly together, knotting it several times. Use sharp sewing scissors to cut off the tails of the knot, leaving about an inch (2.5 centimeters).


Tuck the ends of the thread into the center of your dreadlock to hide them.
 Insert a .5 mm crochet hook through the center of your dreadlock. Gather some loose hair into the hook and gently pull it back through the extension. Repeat this process until all of the loose hair has been incorporated into the dreadlock, including the loose hair of the extension.


Once the loose hair is incorporated, rub the dreadlock between your palms to rough up the extension connection.
Avoid using larger crochet hooks as they can damage your hair.A small .5 mm crochet hook can be found online or at sewing supply stores.
 If you wash your hair too often, your dreadlocks will become loose and frizzy. However, if you don’t wash them enough, they’ll start to smell bad. While washing, focus on massaging your scalp and gently massaging the base of your dreadlocks. Avoid using conditioner or any detanglers.To avoid shampoo buildup in your dreadlocks, use a residue-free shampoo. If you dye your hair or you’re using color-treated extensions, use a color safe, residue-free shampoo., If your dreadlocks stay wet for too long, mildew will grow on the inside. After showering, squeeze as much water as you can out of your dreadlocks and into the shower. Next, wrap your hair in a fluffy towel for 10-20 minutes. Last, allow your hair to air dry before putting it up or wearing a hat. If your dreadlocks still haven’t air-dried within an hour, use a hair dryer to speed up the process.
Be careful not to melt any synthetic extensions with the hairdryer.
 When you sleep with dreadlocks, the friction of your head against the pillow can loosen or tangle your extensions. Avoid this problem by wearing a silk hair covering while you sleep. Alternatively, you can use a silk pillow or braid your hair to keep it all in one place.Never sleep with wet dreadlocks as they won’t dry properly.

