 Think about the things that happened between you and the ex. Look at both the good sides and the bad sides of the relationship. It's almost always easier to remember the good times; it's a promise that the pain will pass.;
, It's all right to feel the pain.
 Feeling angry? That's good. Anger can bring out those bad memories and if they are there. Why waste them? And check out the warning about revenge.
 If this person has ever affected you negatively, look at why this person was motivated to do this. Is it possible that they are or were having problems with themselves, such as immaturity, inability to commit or work stress? Consider the possibility that this person is 'damaged goods.'

, And equally, know that you cannot change a person who does not want to change. While it is possible to help people who want to change, the motivation needs to exist on a case-to-case basis and it is not your role to save someone or make them "see the light".
 The past is in fact the past and however badly you wish you could go back and do things differently, it just isn't going to happen. Don't waste your future thinking about what could have been. Think about what can and will be.
 They are a challenge. A habit takes 11 days to form. How long will it take to break?

, If they are true friends, they will understand and let you cry on their shoulders and wail in their ears.
 Sitting at home moping self-piteously is good at the start of the rupture but only on rainy days! Remember to take advantage of the times you have right now - be present in the present and soak up the sunshine. Go climb some rocks, sing karaoke or roller blade. Working out is cool too. Exercise the blues away.
 Give yourself time to know that you are ready to give it a try again. If you jump too quickly, your emotional baggage will jump with you, unresolved and laden with damaged feelings.
 However, forgive and move on - do not hold it against a new person. Be sure to check that you aren't dating the same 'type' of person. This might happen if you don't take enough time to get over the old relationship and find your own groove again.

