 Read about the systems in the body, with focus on the urinary system. Also try to read all you can about kidneys to see if you are really interested in the field of nephrology.;
, If your school offers AP courses in biology, taking them would be a good thing if you are considering any branch of medicine. Consider talking to your biology teacher about the kidneys.
 As the top medical schools demand high grades, maintaining a good average would be beneficial if you are considering getting into a good medical school.
 Before getting very serious about your interest in nephrology, talk to a professional nephrologist. Ask them how their usual day is, and see if the idea would interest you.
 Although this is not obligatory for entering a medical school, a pre-med program is an excellent basis for medical school. Also, most medical schools would prefer students with a pre-med background.
 Getting high grades is a great basis for getting accepted into good medical schools.
 If you live in the US, taking the MCAT is obligatory to get into any accredited medical school.
 Medical school is usually four years. In your third year, while trying the different specialties, try to focus most on nephrology. Here you would realize if nephrology is really the medical discipline you want to specialize in, or if there is any other medical discipline that has attracted you more.
 This usually takes 2-4 years. Since nephrology is a branch of internal medicine, you will have to do your residency in internal medicine first. During your residency period, you will work in a hospital. You are responsible for patients, and supervised by senior residents as well as professional doctors. During this period, you are paid a fair salary.
 Having good contacts in the field of nephrology, as well as urology, is a very good step while in your residency and if you are sure of becoming a nephrologist.
 This usually lasts 2-4 years. Here is where you focus strictly on nephrology. Here you are also paid a salary (slightly higher than that of a resident). Once you have finished this step, you can now practice nephrology without the supervision of other physicians.

