 Hold your empty reel the way it would be oriented on your fishing rod and turn the handle as you would when retrieving. Note the way the bail turns. This is the way the line will be spooled onto the reel; the opposite direction is the way the line will peel off the spool when you cast.


Spinning reels are designed to hang down from the rod, not rest above it like spincasting and baitcasting reels are. To hold the reel properly when it’s not mounted on the rod, wrap the fingers of your casting hand around the mounting bar and let the reel hang from that hand while reeling with your other hand.;
, You want to orient the filler spool so that line peels off it in the same direction in which your reel bail turns when you turn the reel handle, in other words, that it comes off the filler spool the same direction in which it winds onto the reel.
 Use either an arbor knot or a uni-knot.


If you wish, you can mount your reel on the rod and thread the line through the guides before attaching it to the rod.
 Turn the crank handle slowly with your cranking hand. You can add tension by passing the line between the fingers of your casting hand, by raising the rod slightly if your reel is mounted on the rod, or by both methods.


If you’re filling the reel by yourself, place the filler spool flat on the floor and let the line spool off it onto the reel.
If you have an assistant, have the assistant thread a pencil or dowel through the filler spool, holding it parallel to the direction of the reel spool. The assistant can apply finger pressure to the spool to supply additional tension to the line.
 If you’re taking up the line on the reel spool the same way it pays off the filler spool, you shouldn’t have twist. However, you should still let the line go slack to check for twist. If there is twist, the line will start un-spooling from the reel spool. You then have to peel off the line, flip the filler spool over, and start again.
 Your reel may have a tab or mark on its spool that lets you know when you’ve filled it to the proper amount.


If you under fill the reel, your casts will be shorter because of the friction of the line rubbing against the top flange of the reel spool.
If you overfill the reel, the line may absorb enough water when it gets wet to slip past the flange and cause a backlash when you cast., You may want to put a rubber band around the reel spool to keep the line in place if you’re not going to fish with the reel right away.

