 If you know you're going to be photographed, then you should try to wear clothes that are naturally thinning and flattering. Clothes that are all one color, especially if they are of a darker color, tend to make you look more slender. Pick something that fits well; if it's too tight, the photos can have unflattering bulges, and if it's one of those loose, trendy garments, it may look flowy and awesome in person, but it could actually make you look larger than you really are. Here are some other ways to wear clothes that naturally make you look thinner than reality:


Avoid horizontal stripes, as they are known for making people look larger than they really are. Opt for vertical stripes, which are slimming, instead.
Don't wear clothes with elaborate details around your problem areas. If you have a dress with elaborate details around the stomach area and that's the part you want to hide, this will only emphasize the area further. In general, patterned clothes tend to make people look bigger than solid colors.
If you really want to go all out and know you'll be photographed, wearing some shapewear won't hurt.
Women should wear high heels, as they can make them look even thinner.;
, Being photographed from below can make you look like you have a double chin, make you look shorter than you really are, and can just generally make you look heavier. When you're being photographed, make sure the camera is at least at eye-level, if not even higher. Being shot from below can add up to 50 pounds to your look!

, Ladies, if you’re standing, strike a red carpet pose by turning a bit sideways and putting one leg in front of the other, toe pointed at the camera and knee slightly bent. Shift your weight to the back leg. If you're not facing the camera head-on, it'll actually make for a more flattering angle, because it'll add dimension to your body.
 To avoid the dreaded double chin, tilt your chin a bit upward. You can slightly elongate your neck, too, as long as you don't look like you're searching for something. This can help you look longer and thinner. Just make sure you practice this technique beforehand so you don't look like you're trying too hard, or like you're not being yourself. You can also move your head slightly forward so you're not pulling it back and creating a double chin.
 Position your arms so that they are away from your body. Placing one on a hip is a good look, because it helps define your waistline. If you keep your arms at your sides, it can make you look boxy, and can smush your non-existent arm fat, making your arms look bigger than they really are. If you think that having one hand on your hip is a bit too dramatic, then you can keep your arms at your sides, but place them a bit away from your waist and body, so they aren't flatted against your sides.
 Stand up straight, pull your shoulders back, and suck your stomach in and up, like you’re trying to zip up a tight pair of jeans. If you really want to suck in your stomach, you have to make sure to do it subtly, so that people don't notice your ribs poking out in the photo. It's better to look a little heavier than you want in a photo than for someone to say, "She sucked in!" Just maintaining good posture can go a long way in making you look tall, more confident, and more thin.
 For defined legs, bend your knees slightly, wear heels, or tighten your quadriceps (the large muscle on top of your thigh). If you're sitting down in a photo, you should cross your ankles to make your thighs look smaller.
 Though saying cheese in photos can be fun and cute (if you're a fifth grader at a birthday party), it will also give you chipmunk cheeks because your smile will be exaggerated. Instead, go for a normal, natural smile. You can even try pressing your tongue to the roof of your mouth to make your face look a bit thinner than it really is.


If it doesn't feel silly, you can even do the model technique and turn a bit away from the camera before it goes off; then, turn toward the camera and smile just as your picture is taken. This will make your smile look less flat and more natural.
 The closer you are to the camera, the bigger you will look in comparison to everyone else. If you want to look thinner and smaller, you should try to be further away from the camera. However, if the camera is centered and you're standing in a line of people in a row, like if you're posing for prom, then you should try to get as close to the center of the group as you can. People on the ends of rows look bigger.
 If you're taking photos while facing the sun, this will make you squint and will make your face look larger than it really is. Try to get your photo taken away from direct sunlight so your expression doesn't have to alter.
 Though you don't need to get a fake tan, spending some time in the sun (while not taking photos directly in it!) can help your skin take on a darker hue and can keep you from looking washed out in photos. Photos tend to make people look a bit washed out already, with the edges of their bodies looking a bit blurry and ill-defined, and getting a tan can help you have a more defined figure.
 Though putting your hair halfway up or up in a loose bun can help elongate your neck and can make you look thinner, if you have your hair in a really tight bun or ponytail, it can make your face and neck look a bit severe, which will create harsh angles that make your face and upper body look larger than they really are. If you have even a few strands of hair around your face, this can create a nice, soft look that can make you look thinner.
 When the time comes, just smile and relax instead of worrying how thin you'll look in the photo. If you're too anxious about this, your face and body may look strained or unnatural. If you want to look like your best, thinnest self, then it's important to relax when the time comes to say cheese -- even if you don't actually say it!

