 Your resume is often the first thing that your potential employer will see, so you want to make sure to list all of your qualifications. At the top of your resume, list your education. If you went to college and majored in something relating to the field of the position you are applying for, state your major.Also consider including your GPA if you were a particularly good student.
 Make sure that your most impressive and relevant experience is close to the top of the resume. While many resumes are in chronological order, there are still ways that you can make sure that your most impressive positions are at the top.Consider dividing your work experience into two categories: jobs relating to the field you're looking in, and other work experience.
For example, if you are applying to a job in Graphic Design, have the first section of work experience titled “Design Positions”, and other jobs under the title “Other Work Experience.”

, Your resume should tell a story, with every job on it leading up to the job you’re applying for. You want to make it clear that you are applying to your dream job, and that every job before it was a step in the journey.You may find it difficult to relate every job to the one that you are applying to. The best way to do this is to look at the job description and draw out words and phrases like “strong customer service skills” or “ability to multitask” and inject them into the descriptions on your resume of your past jobs.
Consider leaving some of your job experience off your resume. For instance, you probably don’t need to include your babysitting job in high school.
 This could include volunteer experience, community service, or any clubs or organizations you belong to or run. The people reading your resume may be looking at hundreds every day. You want to be sure that yours stands out by showing your personality and what you have to offer to their company as an individual., Your resume is no place for modesty. For every job that you list, you want to state how your involvement was invaluable to the company you worked for. Instead of listing the tasks you performed, illustrate how these tasks helped the company or business reach a goal.For example, instead of saying “Managed several employees and directed them to do various projects”, say: “Acted as a manager for several employees and increased general productivity of the company to save $1500 monthly.”

, As you start sending off your resume, you will likely need to accompany it with a cover letter. You want to make sure that every cover letter you send is catered for the specific job and company you are applying to.Include at least one sentence about why you admire the company or business you are applying to, and why you would be a good fit for the culture of that company.
Elaborate on your most relevant former jobs. The cover letter is the place to fully express how your former experience relates to this new job.
Like with your resume, you can borrow from the job description and requirements of the job you’re applying for if you are working from a written job description.
 You need to make sure to proofread your resume and cover letter carefully. Read them several times over and give yourself a few days to think of any edits you should make. Read them out loud to catch any grammatical errors. Then give them to at least one other person to look over. Having even one spelling or grammar mistake may cost you the job, so don’t underestimate the importance of a spotless resume or cover letter.

