 Consider how you will portray this role and what are the key aspects of the character. Often, people try to portray themselves and not actually take on the guise of another character so you need to be flexible enough to not act how you would normally.;
, The teacher will note this and think you're positively dedicated to the main role. Its important to show that you are sincere and skilled enough to take the role, as well as the commitment of learning the lines and attending rehearsal, as well as keeping up with your homework and chores.
 Everyone needs support, but you can also learn a lot about acting by watching how other people portray the character.
 If you are allowed to dress in character, then do so to give the best presentation. Practice your lines to be sure that you are very familiar with them. Never be late to rehearsals, ideally be there 10-15 minutes early. The lead role of the cast is in fact a leadership role to the rest of the cast so it is important to demonstrate your leadership skills and responsibility.
 Gesture and give facial expressions as appropriate, remember to smile when it is important to smile as these gestures play as much part of the role as the lines. Take the lead from the prompt (who is usually the teacher) and follow their instructions, particularly if they wish to see you present the role in different way.


Changing the style of the presentation on request is often called improvisation, where you have to improvise a different style or scenario for your character. This demonstrates how good an actor you are as well as how responsible you are. When a person forgets a line in front of an audience, its usually best to improvise a way to make it look like no one has forgotten the line at all, rather than to wait for them to remember or for the prompt. Being considerate to your fellow actors and stage crew is an important skill and demonstrates your maturity.
 Generally, bowing at the end of an audition is not necessary and can seem trite. It's best to listen to all suggestions the teacher gives you and then give way for other people to have a try.
 Generally, its best to be aware when the announcement will be and to talk to your teacher afterwards to see if they feel you have a chance, or what they suggest to improve your chances. Chasing after teachers however will often be unproductive so its best to be respectful.

