 Probably the most essential aspect of choosing the best water bed for your needs is finding one with the right amount of movement. The wave effect is what sets the water bed apart from a traditional mattress. However, too much movement can be uncomfortable or keep you up at night. The waveless rating indicates how quickly the mattress returns to stability after movement. Most water beds come with a waveless rating between 100 and 85%.


100% waveless mattresses return to stability almost immediately after movement. These typically utilize pockets of air, water, and fiber layers within the mattress to achieve maximum stability.
100-95% waveless mattresses move for a few seconds before calming. These are the most common type of water bed mattress. They make entering and exiting the bed comfortable, and feel very much like a non-water mattress.
90-85% waveless mattresses can move for several seconds each time you shift positions. If you are looking for a water bed that offers a rocking, cradling movement to help you sleep, this range may be ideal.
85% or less waveless mattress are what you would call full-motion water beds. Typically, these are hard sided water beds with one, large water bladder inside them. This is what most people think of when they think of water beds. However, for most people, these mattresses will not likely offer adequate support.;
, The goal of a water bed is to cradle the body relieving stress on all pressure points. However, some water mattresses are too soft, and they create a hammock effect where the body dips down in the middle and lifts up at the head and feet. Layers of fiber material improve the support and stability offered by water beds and allow you to sleep more comfortably.


The more layers, the greater amount of support and least hammocking effect.
Thicker fiber layers move more slowly creating less wave when you shift positions., There are two main varieties of water bed, and it’s important that you understand the difference and try out both. Hard sided water beds are the traditional type where a water mattress is held in shape by a specially crafted bed frame. Soft sided water beds are more like traditional mattresses. A foundation and edges are crafted from soft foam, and the water mattress fits into these softer materials.


Hard sided mattresses offer greater motion, but are often large. You’ll need to adjust the rest of your furnishing to match the specially crafted bed frame, and you will also need special bedding to fit the mattress. California bedding sizes are necessary for hard sided water bed mattresses.
Soft sided mattresses are more like traditional mattresses. They can often be placed on your existing bed frame, and they can be covered with traditional bed linens.