 A good scissors is simple and fluid, and it is much easier to understand the smaller steps once you know the total goal. For a right-footed fake, you bring your right foot around the ball, faking a touch with the outside of your foot to the right. Instead of touching, however, you loop around the front of the ball, land on your right foot, then use the outside of your left foot to go to the left of the defender.









Go online and watch experts like Lionel Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo performing the move at top speed to get a great example of perfected scissor moves.

NOTE: These steps explain a right-footed scissors, where you step over the ball with your right foot, then push off to the left. For the inverse, simply reverse the feet.;
, If this is the first time performing the move, practice without the ball moving or at a very slow jog. If jogging, take a light touch so that the ball is rolling forward as you approach it. You want to keep the ball close to you throughout the move.While you can practice the first few standing still, you should work on both still and moving scissors to be effective in a game.
 You never want to come down completely on your feet with a heavy landing. You need to be able to spring in either direction in an instant.
 Your knees are bent and you're leaning forward slightly at the waist. You want an even, relaxed, and quick posture.
 Leave your toe pointing down so there is a smaller area needed to get around the ball. This also prevents a defender from poking the ball out. If you're using your left foot, go counter-clockwise.
 As you come around the ball, shift your weight towards the right. This both fakes out the defender and allows you to land on the right foot, which you push off of to go left.
 You need room to get your left foot around the ball and touch it away from your defender. Make sure you're landing on the balls of your feet, not your heels, so you can spring up quickly.


As you land, begin bringing your left foot to the right side of the ball., This touch should be diagonally forward and to the left. As you perfect it, try to cut down the time needed to land and spring off your right foot -- the faster the better.









This touch might be somewhat large -- it should be big enough to get the ball quickly past the defender but still allow you to catch it before anyone else.
 A change of speed is essential to pull off any move, and the scissors is no different. Use your left-footed touch to burst into a quick sprint, blowing by your defender before they realize the fake.