 When you describe your expectations for good behavior, also describe the consequences for disobeying the expectation. This way, your child can choose how to behave while knowing exactly what will happen. For example, say something like “I expect you to hold my hand when we cross the street, and if you don’t you will have to spend ten minutes in time-out." This will cause your child to think more deeply before he/she engages in bad behaviors.Make each consequence short and easy to understand to increase the likelihood of your child remembering them. For example, “No iPad today,” “No Sesame Street today,” or “30 minutes deducted from your computer time today.”

, When you implement a consequence, make sure your child knows why he/she is being punished. Clearly explain to him/her that you have discussed with him/her what is expected, he/she disobeyed you, so now he/she has to face the consequence. By clearly explaining the consequences, there is no room for confusion about what behavior was incorrect, and you will both be on the same page.Try saying something like, “We both agreed that you would not hit other children when they don’t share their toys. Because you hit your friend, you will not get to play your video game tonight.”

, Positive reinforcement is the most effective consequence. When your child behaves in a way that you approve, offer him/her a piece of candy, an extra ten minutes on the playground, or a sticker.You can try “big” rewards if your child is especially well behaved for an extended period of time such as having a sleepover, getting ice cream, or choosing one item from the toy store.
Reward don’t bribe! Rewarding occurs after a behavior is complete, while bribes occur before the fact. If you are bribing your child to behave well, he/she may become confused and think he/she only has to behave well when he/she gets paid.
Ensure your reward suits the behavior. Offering a sticker for sitting through church quietly is acceptable. But offering a sticker for not hitting a schoolmate might not be a grand enough reward. Adapt and adjust to each situation.
 Children can often be forgetful and therefore, if you make a certain consequence last too long, they might forget why they are being punished. For example, if you take your child’s toys away because he/she was throwing them, do so only for a few hours or a day, not for a week or a month.In addition, long-term consequences might lead to increased bad behaviors. For example, if you ground your child for two months, he might think “Why should I behave? I’m already grounded”.
Always try talking to your child first to find out what is going on. Punishment should be used as a last resort.
 Choosing to institute consequences when it is convenient for you is confusing and undermines your authority as a parent. By not being consistent, your child might also become confused as to when bad behaviors will be faced with a consequence, and this will likely lead to worsened behaviors.