 While your six-year-old probably can't read the design blueprints, he or she might enjoy looking them over with you and discussing the changes you'll be making. Older children might be encouraged to troubleshoot proposed changes, imagining how you and your family will likely use the space you're adjusting and alerting you to possible conflicts.;
,, Discuss the pros and cons of the room they imagine and offer suggestions, lightheartedly. This is a good way to help them visualize the future room and develop their ability to arrange furnishings (bed, dresser, artwork, etc.) thoughtfully.
 The more actively involved your child is in the decorating process, the more excited they will be to see the project complete. This will help keep them enthusiastic throughout the process and instill an appreciation for change that can be reinforced, and reflected upon as your lives progress. If their room is part of the renovation, let them pick out as much as possible for it, from the color and style of bedding and window coverings, to the rugs on the floor.
 As you shop, point out things they might like to add to their redesigned room and listen to their responses. Stay relaxed and make these trips playful and imagination-sparking experiences for them. Help them fine tune their image of their future room by pointing out things you (and they) find atrocious, then let them tell you what they would rather see.
 Show them what happened during the day, or let them tell you what changes they see happening. Discuss how things are progressing with them and ask if they can "see" their new space taking shape. Encourage them to explore changes and examine how the work is being done to help them better understand what steps the workers have taken, and what is left to be done. If they spot shoddy workmanship (and they very well may), treat the discovery with the appropriate level of seriousness. Make a mental note to address the concern with the contractor, and offer your child some valued reward for noticing the problem they've spotted.
 While you're out on these jaunts, encourage them to look for things they find particularly appealing (plants, fountains, color schemes, themes, artwork, textures, etc.) and suggest ways to incorporate these things into the design of their new room.

