 Rechargeable batteries are most often charged in an A/C adapter, which you can plug into a basic home outlet. These chargers feature terminals sized in a variety of ways, from AAA to D. Depending on what kind of batteries you want to charge, you can usually find a charger appropriate for the size at any electronics or hardware store.


Some chargers feature a variety of adaptable sizes, meaning you can charger AA and AAA on the same terminals. If you've got a lot of different-sized batteries, this would be an ideal choice.
Rapid-chargers are similar to regular chargers, but often don't have a charge-control mechanism that halts or slows the flow of voltage. These are effective at quickly charging batteries, but can reduce the life of the battery more significantly.;
, Never try to recharge single-use batteries, or you risk causing corrosion and damage to your charger. Only try to recharge batteries specifically labeled "rechargeable." If you've got some dead single-use batteries, dispose of them properly and buy rechargeable ones.


Nickel–metal hydride (NiMH) batteries are common in consumer products, especially power tools, while lithium-ion batteries are common in electronics. Both varieties of battery are commonly used and both are rechargeable.
When you first start to use a new set of rechargeable batteries, run them completely down before recharging them. This will decrease the possibility of a phenomenon called "memory effect," which is when the battery's capacity diminishes from being recharged prematurely. Use a battery tester to determine if there is life left in a battery before attempting to recharge it. Many battery testers are inexpensive, easy to use and provide an instant reading.
 With most A/C adapter chargers, a power light should come on automatically, or by flipping an "On" switch. Make sure that any power indicator lights come on, and you'll be ready to start charging your batteries.


Always defer to the manufacturer's instructions. Read the battery charger instruction manual thoroughly, which should contain important information, including the time it takes to complete charging, a key to indicator lights and safety information specific to the batteries being used.
 This means putting the positive (+) ends into contact with the charger's positive terminals and likewise with the negative (-) ends.


On most A/C chargers, there should be a diagram showing you how to orient the batteries properly. Generally, the flat side of the battery should rest against the spring, and the "bump" on the battery should rest against the flatter side.
 Most chargers should change a light from green to red, or vice versa when the batteries are fully charged. Do not interrupt the process by unplugging the charger's cord or by removing the batteries early, or the battery life will be significantly diminished.
 Overcharging of batteries is the primary cause of a reduction in the life of the battery, especially in rapid charge chargers.


"Trickle charge" is a technique of lowering the charge to roughly 10 percent of the capacity of the battery, which is usually enough to keep a battery fully charged, without triggering the discharge that results in a diminished capacity of battery life.Most manufacturer's don't recommend long-term trickle charging, but if you have a charger with an adjustable charge rate, dropping it to a lower rate can be an effective way of keeping your batteries juiced.

