 Use a sharp knife to cut any ribs that are 5 inches (12.7 cm) or longer in half.Country ribs are often 1 foot (30.5 cm) or longer. For especially long ribs that are over 1 foot (30.5 cm) in length, you can even cut them into three equal parts. Slicing long country ribs crosswise will make it easier to handle them.;
, Place the ribs cut-side down between two sheets of plastic wrap or wax paper. Use a meat tenderizer to pound the ribs until they are 3/4 inch (1.9 cm) thick.


This step is optional, but pounding the meat allows it to cook faster and makes it more tender upon consumption.
 Pour the cold water into a large bowl and stir the salt in until it completely dissolves, creating a basic brine.
 Cover the bowl with a lid, plastic wrap, or aluminum foil and refrigerate for 30 minutes to an hour.


To save time, you can salt the ribs directly instead of soaking them in a brine. Spread a coat of vegetable oil over the ribs with a basting brush. Generously salt the ribs, focusing on the fatty areas. As the fat renders during the cooking process, the salt will make it especially flavorful.
 Combine the brown sugar, chili powder, paprika, dry mustard, onion powder, black pepper, and cayenne pepper in a shallow dish, mixing the ingredients until evenly distributed.


Transfer half of the mixture to a small bowl and stir in the ketchup and vinegar until well blended.
 After removing the ribs from the brine, pat them dry with paper towels and liberally coat the ribs in your remaining spice rub. Set aside on a clean plate.
 It is important to soak the wood chips before use to control the fire and create enough smoke for the ribs.


Each type of wood will contribute different undertones to the flavor of the smoke. For instance, hickory has a strong, smoky flavor, while oak is a little more mellow. Mesquite has strong earthy undertones, while wood from fruit trees like apple or cherry have notably light, sweet flavors., Cut several small holes in the top of the foil packets to vent.


Wrapping the wood chips is another measure used to control the heat of the wood. Venting the foil allows smoke to escape, which is the desired result.
 While it is still cool, oil the grate by rubbing it down with vegetable oil or by spraying it with nonstick cooking spray.
 Get all the burners hot before turning off the heat to all but the primary burner.


Place the packet of wood chips over the primary burner.
Turn on all the burners, setting the heat to high. Allow the grill to preheat until the wood chip packet begins to smoke. This should take about 15 minutes.
Leave the primary burner on, set to high, and turn off the other burners.
 Heat the charcoal and wood chips on one side of the grill.


Evenly spread 6 quarts (6 liters) of charcoal briquettes over half the grill and set to flame with lighter fluid and a grill lighter.
When the top coals are partially covered in ash, place the wood chip packet over the coals.
Set the grate in place, cover the rill, and open the vent halfway. Continue preheating the grill for an additional 5 minutes or until the wood chips have begun to smoke.
 Cover and cook for 90 minutes untouched.Country style ribs can be cooked faster, but slow cooking them is best because it causes the fat to render and will create a smoother taste.
 After the first 90 minutes, use a basting brush to liberally coat both sides of the ribs with your sauce.


Apply additional coats of sauce in the same manner ever 30 minutes.
 Once this occurs, add another coating of sauce and move the ribs to the hot side of the grill.
 Cook the ribs on the hot side of the grill for 2 to 5 minutes or until lightly charred.


Check the internal temperature of the ribs by sticking a meat thermometer into the center of the thickest rib. The internal temperature should read 145 degrees Fahrenheit (63 degrees Celsius).
 Allow the ribs to rest off the grill for 5 to 10 minutes before serving.
 Coat a shallow baking pan or roaster with nonstick cooking spray.


You may also line the baking pan with nonstick aluminum foil.
 Arrange the ribs in a single layer, evenly spread apart.
 The ribs should become tender.


Drain any grease or liquid before proceeding to the next step.
 Use all the sauce, spreading it over the ribs generously and evenly.
 Reduce the heat to 200 degrees Fahrenheit (93 degrees Celsius) and continue cooking for an additional hour.


When finished, check the internal temperature of the ribs with a meat thermometer to verify that it is at least 145 degrees Fahrenheit (63 degrees Celsius).

