 When your skin isn't properly washed, it becomes clogged, patchy and develops dark spots. Always remove blackheads, dirt, and oil to maintain clean skin. Your skin is the foundation of a pretty face, so it is important to take great care of it.








Use a cream cleanser that suits your skin type and is for daily use. Get in the habit of washing your face every morning and every night.
 Exfoliation removes dry, dead skin cells that keep your face looking dull and uneven. Dead skin cells don't reflect light like fresh skin does, leaving you without a healthy shine. Whether you use a scrub cleanser, mask, or wash cloth, be sure to consistently exfoliate.









Be gentle when exfoliating by applying light pressure and using circular motions. Also, always stop when your skin starts to feel uncomfortable.
It is best to limit exfoliation to once a week, especially if you have sensitive skin.
 When you mix baking soda with warm water, you will create a great exfoliating treatment that is safe and gentle on your skin. All you do is mix equal parts of baking soda and water and rub it on your face using circular motions. Keep massaging for about one minute and then wash it off with warm water.Finish the process with a great face moisturizer to hydrate you skin. Skin can become dry after you cleanse or exfoliate it, so be sure to replace any moisture lost back into your skin.
 There are certain times when it is impossible not to touch your face, but it is important to limit how much contact actually happens. Every time you put your chin in your palm, pop a pimple, or even rub your tired eyes after a long day, you are damaging your skin. Our hands clog our pores with dirt and oil and all of those rubs and tugs create fine lines, wrinkles, and micro tears on our faces.
 No matter what your skin type is, you should be using a facial moisturizer to hydrate and nourish your skin. When choosing the best face lotion, find products with all natural ingredients that are oil free. This will give your skin the benefits of essential botanicals like aloe vera, but it won't clog your pores.








Use a hydrating lotion within two minutes after getting out of the shower or bath because the skin becomes porous and better absorbs lotion.
When applying, be gentle and make sure you rub the lotion in completely. Don't forget to use the lotion on your neck too.
Dry winters, air conditioners, makeup, and wind can all lead to dry skin, so make sure you replenish your face with moisturizer everyday.
 If you leave your skin exposed and unprotected for too long, it can cause irreversible damage because of the UV rays that come from the sun. The sun causes wrinkles, dark spots, and skin cancer that will slowly develop over time. An easy way to wear sunscreen every day is to buy a face lotion that also has sunscreen in it. Look for lightweight lotions that use natural ingredients.


Lotions that contain sunscreen are easy to wear underneath your regular makeup and will give you the protection you need.

