 Holding hands, putting your arm around your partner while walking, or even just sitting beside one another are all ways to show affection without being overly physical. Affection doesn’t necessarily have to be sexual in nature. Simple displays of affection and making sure to touch one another often are great ways to bring you closer.Try watching a movie together while cuddling on the couch. Even simply cuddling and being physically close to each other can make you feel closer on an emotional level.
 If you’re parents, or work often, you might find that your time and energy for intimacy are often limited. It’s not a bad thing to set aside time to be physically intimate with one another. However, it’s still important to be spontaneous and passionate now and then just to keep things interesting!If you don’t want to “schedule” your intimacy, just focus on making it a priority that you both can keep.
 While physical intimacy is important, it’s important to talk things out with your partner and respect their needs and desires. For example, before you push more frequent physical intimacy on them, have a discussion about it. Ask them if they think you both could benefit from being physically closer. Ask them how they think you should go about being more affectionate with one another, and what they’d be comfortable with. Not only will you be respecting them and their boundaries, you’ll also be having meaningful discussions about your relationship.It’s important to respect your partner’s feelings, as well. If they happen to be dealing with something in their lives and are having a hard time, for example, it might not be the best time to bring up physical intimacy. Reassure them that you are there for them, regardless of your physical relationship.
 If you are having trouble with physical intimacy that you can’t seem to get past on your own, it might be a good idea to talk to a therapist who specializes in helping couples overcome these kinds of struggles. Problems with sexual intimacy often stem from emotional issues you’re facing in your relationship—such as feeling too distant from one another. A sex therapist would be able to help you address these issues and work them out., Things won’t heal or strengthen themselves overnight. Even if you start working on your relationship and taking the steps towards growing closer, it will still take time and effort to really see the result you want. Taking it slow in relationships, no matter how long you’ve been together, can help strengthen them in the long run.Don’t push or force the issue, especially when it comes to physical intimacy. Be patient and be prepared to put in the time and effort until both of you are comfortable.

