 If you have an event during which pictures will be taken coming up, and you're nervous your pictures will come out looking stiff, take some time to practice your smile beforehand. Look in the mirror and find your best angle and the right amount of teeth to show. Don't forget to smile with your eyes, too. When you find a smile you love, notice how it feels on your face, so you can replicate it at will.
 If you're worried that the expression on your face in pictures tends to look fake, pay attention to how it feels next time your face cracks into a genuine smile - like when someone is making you laugh, or your favorite comedy is cracking you up. Ask yourself the following questions that will help you "memorize" the way your authentic smile feels:


What feelings are flooding your brain when you flash a real smile? See if you can recreate those when you're in front of the camera.
What position is your face naturally taking? If possible, glance in the mirror before your smile fades and make a mental note of what your genuine smile looks like. When it's time to get your picture taken, try to recreate the facial positioning that come together to create your most winning smile.
 If your eyes tend to be half-closed in pictures, try a little trick to help you look wide-eyed and alert. Just before the photographer takes your picture, let yourself blink for a full second or two before opening your eyes and smiling. You'll be less likely to give in to the urge to blink when the flash goes off.
 If your teeth are a little dull, there's quick fix to try that requires no preparation: just before you smile, run your tongue over your teeth to wet them. Teeth that are a little shiny will look brighter than dry teeth. The gloss will keep your smile from looking dull. Some makeup artists actually advise rubbing a little vaseline over the front of the teeth to keep them looking smooth and shiny throughout the photo session.
 If you're worried about the way you look, chances are that negative emotion is going to show up in your smile. You'll end up looking tense and strained instead of natural and happy. Next time you're posing for the camera, ignore the photographer's encouragement to say cheese, and go to your own "happy place." Instead of thinking about how awkward your face must look, think about something that you can't help but smile about. Your positive feelings will shine through, brightening your smile.

