 Throughout the auditions, you should be taking notes on each actor’s ability, expression, strengths, and weaknesses. This will help you remember how well each actor did, and it will make the decision process easier.
 Give each auditioning act an excerpt from the script. These should be no longer than three pages. They may request to audition for a certain role, or you may ask them to read a particular part. This will allow you see how well they fit with the character or role. You or another casting director should read the other roles in this excerpt so that the actor can respond to the lines naturally.You can also ask them to perform a prepared monologue from another play.
If you like a particular actor but are uncertain if they are right for the role, you can ask them to read a larger part of the play. You can also ask them to read a different role if you think they will be better suited for it.
 Musicals require all actors to be able to sing. You want to make sure that your leads are comfortable singing as well as speaking. Allow your actors to sing a prepared song. They may or may not bring their own music. Note the strength of their voice, their tune, their pitch, and how well they project their voice.
 Musicals also require dancing, especially from chorus roles. While lead actors may be able to get away with minimal dancing experience, they should be able to learn a simple dance fairly easily. If you can, gather your potential actors together. Teach them a short dance from the musical, and see how well they pick it up. While a few mistakes are acceptable, look for how well they keep in tune and move with the other dancers.
 If you have many actors coming to audition, you may also decide to record them. This will help you reflect later how well they acted. It will also allow you to compare two or more actors easily. Be sure to ask the actor’s permission before you start the camera., It is standard practice for actors to carry with them a photograph and resume to auditions. Before each audition, take these from the actor. This will help you remember individual actors from a large pool of potential players.If it helps, you can also make notes on each actor on their resume.

