 The root note of any scale is the note that gives the scale its name. Therefore, the root note of the C Major scale is a C. The root note also is the lowest note on the scale.You can find C on the third fret of the fifth string of your guitar. Fret the string with your index finger. Just use your fingertip so the string sounds cleanly and you don't mute any of the other strings. Keep the rest of your fingers curled over the keys. Think of making the shape of a "C" with your fingers around the fret board.
Scales repeat through octaves, so the scale naturally progresses back to the root note, which will then be one octave higher.;
, The notes of the C Major scale are C-D-E-F-G-A-B. These notes remain the same regardless of the octave.








If you find it easier to play by ear with reference notes, find an audio recording of the C Major scale online and listen to it. Sing along with the names of the notes until you have the notes memorized. Then try to find those notes on your guitar.
 When you learn to play guitar, your fingers are numbered in a universal way. The frets on your guitar also are numbered. In first position, the finger number and the fret number are the same, so that your first finger is on the first fret.








In case you aren't familiar, your first finger is your index finger, your second finger is your middle finger, your third finger is your ring finger, and your fourth finger is your pinky.
After first position, the relations between finger numbers and fret numbers change. For example, if your first finger is on the second fret, your hand is in second position. The second finger has access to the third fret, your third finger to the fourth fret, and so on.
Remember to use just the tip of your finger to fret the strings, and keep your other fingers curled over the fret board when you're not using them to fret a string.
 When you first play the C Major scale, do it slowly. Saying or singing each note aloud as you play will help reinforce the names of the notes in your head.








If you can sing the note (in tune), this will help you associate the name of the note with a particular sound. When you hear that sound in a different octave, you will automatically know what note it is.
 Once you've learned the notes to the C Major scale, play around with the notes. You'll discover simple melodies that can be played simply with the notes from the C Major scale.








For example, you can play the song "Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star" using only the notes from the C Major scale. In fact, this song can be played entirely on one string on your guitar.
Practicing simple songs like this is a good way to become familiar with the scale itself and the relations between the notes.

