 Before starting any supplement or complementary medicine, always speak to your doctor first. Explain to them why you want to take artichoke leaf extract, and ask them if they think it will interfere with any of your current medications.


While there are few known side effects of artichoke leaf extract, it can worsen bile duct problems, increase bleeding, or cause a rash., Artichoke leaf extract can help reduce the symptoms of certain medical conditions and diseases. If you are suffering from a particular condition, you may find that artichoke leaf extract provides relief when taken with your normal medication. These conditions include:


Irritable Bowel SyndromeHigh cholesterol (hypercholesterolemia)HyperlipidemiaHyperlipoproteinemiaChronic gastrointestinal distress, Artichoke leaf extract is most often used to lower cholesterol levels. If you have high cholesterol or if you have a cholesterol-related condition, such as hyperlipoproteinemia, an artichoke leaf extract can help you manage it.If you’re not sure about your cholesterol levels, ask your doctor to do a cholesterol test.


You may not be able to eat for twelve hours before your test. This is a type of blood test, which means that your blood will be drawn.If your mean cholesterol levels are 5.17 mmol/L (200 mg/dL), you may have hypercholesterolemia. Artichoke leaf extract may be able to help manage your levels slightly as a complementary medicine, but you should still take the medication prescribed to you by your doctor., While most people will not have an adverse reaction to artichoke leaf extract, you should avoid it if you have an allergy to artichoke or to any plants related to the artichoke (such as daisies). Furthermore, those who have bile duct obstructions, such as gallstones, may find that it worsens their condition.Allergies to artichoke often manifest as skin rashes (dermatitis).
Its safety for use during pregnancy has never been tested. If you are pregnant or lactating, you may want to avoid artichoke leaf extract just in case.