 Search for common interests or common ground with the man you are talking to. Searching for common ground may require different questions for different settings.For example, if you’re talking to a coworker, you could ask about projects they are working on, if they work with a friend of yours, or what they like (or don’t like) about their position. You could say, “I heard you got promoted last month. How do you like your new position?”
If you are talking to someone at a party, you could ask how they know the party host, if they live nearby, or what they do for a living. You could say, “How do you know Jack? He and I have known each other since high school.”
If you are on a date, you could ask him about his interests, where he grew up, or his career and life goals. You could ask, “If you could go anywhere in the world, where would you like to visit?”

, Most people love good listeners… it gives them a great opportunity to talk about themselves! In fact, good listeners are generally viewed more positively following a conversation, because the speaker was given space to talk about themselves. The feelings generated from talking about yourself are the same feelings of pleasure you can receive from food or money.Let the other person know you are listening by reflecting back what they say. For example, if your date says, “I have a terrible commute. I’m in my car for hours every day,” you could say, “That sounds really stressful!” This also helps the conversation move deeper, which is important if you want to get to know someone better., Ask open-ended questions to further the conversation. Questions that can be answered with a “yes” or “no” can sometimes make it hard to continue the conversation, if the person you are speaking with is not particularly forthcoming.For example, asking “What was your family like growing up?” can take the conversation in a bunch of different directions. Asking “Do you have any brothers or sisters?” can be answered with a very brief response.
Ask follow-up questions like “How did that make you feel?” or “What happened next?” to continue the conversation.
 Talk about yourself, too. Let others get to know you. Telling your own stories conveys confidence, because you are using your own voice to speak about your own experience. Speak up and be proud of your life and who you are.If you tend to get nervous or shy when talking to people, it may help you to think of some things to say ahead of time. Know your audience and decide what might be appropriate conversation topics (you probably don’t want to bring up ex-boyfriends, for example).
Think of your most interesting, engaging material. You could tell some funny stories, talk about your travel adventures, tell stories about your pets, or interesting tales about the time you met a celebrity or went skydiving, for example.
Wait for a lull in conversation, then you could say something like, “I had the strangest thing happen to me the other day,” then tell your story. Or, you could piggyback on the current topic of conversation and say, “That reminds me of the time I….” Make sure you don’t monopolize the conversation, and find a way to steer it back to other listeners when your story is over.

