 If you have a stable Internet connection and a working email account, you can use a third-party mailbox program to access your email without using a browser. Any email account should do: Microsoft, Google, Yahoo! – anything that would access through a browser. Ask a friend, a relative, or a coworker to email you a browser install file; you can load this onto your computer and download a browser!


If you use Windows, try activating Microsoft Outlook. This program comes automatically installed on Windows.
Try Mozilla Thunderbird. It's a free mail program that works on all known operating systems. Plus, it's open source – so it will be safer than many proprietary "backdoored" programs.
 You don't need a browser to do this – it just needs to be installed on your computer. Make sure that you have a working email account, a stable Internet connection, and a previously-set-up mailbox program

, Most programs will prompt you to set up your account upon your first launch. The exact steps will vary from client to client, but they should be fairly straightforward. When you've set up the account, click the "Get Mail" button to access your inbox.


If you have any trouble, find the "Help" section of the mailbox program, or run a web search for "how to set up a mail account in ."

, Ask anyone who's reasonably tech-savvy: a friend, a coworker, a family member. The install files for most standard browsers are available on the developer websites: your friend can download Chrome directly from the Google site, for instance, Safari directly from Apple, or Firefox directly from Mozilla. If you have trouble finding the file, run a web search for "download " to find the specific download page. Have your friend attach the file to an email, and then follow these steps:


Open the email using your non-browser mailbox program. Look for the attached browser file, then click it to download.
Open the file, and click "Install". Follow the steps to install the browser of your choice onto your computer.
Browse the Internet using your new browser. Keep the install file saved on your computer, just in case.

