 There are a variety of different strategies that a team can use in the 1600m relay. Examine each team member for their strengths and weaknesses and put them in the leg of the race that would be most beneficial for the overall time. Decide whether you want to run from behind and finish strong, or if you want to get a big lead early and maintain it.


For instance, some teams prefer to put their slowest runners in the third leg of the race, while other teams put their fastest runners in those slots to widen a winning gap., A common misconception is that the fastest runner should start, but this isn't true. There is a combination of skills that go into being a good starter.For one, they must be good out of the gate, and must be good at pushing off the starting block and avoiding false starts. Starting runners also must be mentally strong because they can't judge their placement in the race during the first lap because of designated lanes and the staggered start of the runners.Combine all these skills together and pick the person on the team that is best at all of them.


During practice determine the person that is the most capable of launching off the starting block and reaching their maximum speed in a short period.
A false start occurs when athletes begin to run before the referee initiates the race., Runners in the second and third position must be proficient at handling and receiving the baton, so it's critical that they drill passing it.A bad baton pass could cost your team valuable seconds that could cost you the race, and the second and third runners are the only runners in the race who must exchange it twice.
 The anchor is the last person running in the race and is usually the team's fastest runner. Their goal is to maintain the lead that the second and third runners opened up, or catch up to other teams during the last leg of the race. If you plan on putting weaker runners before the anchor, make sure that the anchor is mature and self-confident enough to catch up to other teams when your team is behind., The 4x400 is one of the most grueling long distance sprinting events and requires a good cardiovascular system. Running long distance during the offseason will help you build up your cardio so that you can run at your highest speed for a longer period when you're doing relays. 