 You have the best search engine at your fingertips: the internet. When searching for someone’s history, be sure to put quotation marks around the person’s name. A number of websites allow free searches:


Google.com, Whitepages.com, Friendfeed.com, Facebook.com, LinkedIn.com, Twitter.com, nsopw.gov, Glassdoor.com, and Bing.com.
Always be mindful of the fact that the information found by performing a basic internet search may not be verified and could easily be false.
 To uncover information about arrests, convictions, and incarcerations (a criminal background check), most information will be in the public record. To find this information, visit court and other government websites to access these documents. Type “criminal records” and then your state in a search engine.


Remember to search documents in all states where your subject has lived. If you do not know where a person has lived, you can search on a website such as Intelius.com, which will often list the states a person has lived in.
Don't forget to search county and city websites for records of convictions on the local level.
Additionally, some counties do not maintain online databases: in this case, you will need to pull the records from the county courthouse, where there should be hard copies.
Some counties charge a small fee for copies of the records, while some offer copies for free.
 There are a lot of records you cannot legally access without the permission of the subject—such as a credit report, school records, or military records. If you want to obtain certain information about someone, you may need to ask them to provide you with the information.


If you are considering a new roommate, for instance, you may want to simply ask if they have ever been arrested or in trouble before making your decision.
Understand that they do not have to give you access to or copies of their information. However, if they are not forthcoming with information, then you can certainly base your decision on your lack of information.
For example, if a potential roommate refuses to state whether he or she has been arrested, then you can choose not to live with that person based on the lack of information.
 Many online companies, such as Intelius, US Search, and Net Detective, will search for someone’s address as well as their criminal background records. You can search by typing in the person’s first and last name, as well as current city and state.


Prices vary, but you can expect to pay over $30.These companies may return “false positives.” For example, a bankruptcy filing might appear although the person never filed for bankruptcy protection., Unlike landlords and employers, a private citizen is allowed to hire any legal service to run background checks, including criminal background checks. Nevertheless, you should research any company before hiring them.


You can find investigators on the web by typing “private investigator” and the name of your city.
There are a lot of scam artists out there. Read online reviews of any background check company that you may want to use and see if people are satisfied with the results.

