 Next time you start to feel anxious or tense about a situation, examine the thoughts that go along with that feeling. Are you putting yourself down or assuming the interaction will go badly? Get into the habit of spotting these thoughts when they happen, so that you can do something about them.For instance, you might be in the habit of telling yourself things like, “Nobody likes me, so I might as well not even try to make friends,” or, “Everyone will see that I’m nervous, and it will be embarrassing.”

, People with AVPD often think in distorted or illogical ways. Look at your thoughts objectively and see if they stand up to scrutiny.People with AVPD often experience the following cognitive distortions:

All-or-nothing thinking. “If I’ll never become the life of the party, why even bother trying?”
Catastrophizing. “I tripped over my words talking to that person. They think I’m a weirdo now.”
Blaming others. “If other people weren’t so shallow and judgmental, I wouldn’t feel this way.”
Ignoring evidence that doesn’t support a negative self-image. “I made a new friend, but I’m still nervous in public, so that doesn’t change anything.”



, When you have a self-defeating or illogical thought, challenge it. Ask yourself whether it’s based on fact or emotion. Look for a way to reframe the thought in a positive light.For example, you could reframe the thought “I’m really boring” as “I don’t like being in the spotlight, but there’s nothing wrong with that.”

, Get more comfortable with new or stressful situations by visualizing them ahead of time. When you’re calm and relaxed, picture yourself doing a task you don’t like, such as talking to your boss or returning something at the store. This mental practice will help you feel more at ease when you do the task for real.Visualize the scene in as much detail as you can.
Make sure to imagine yourself staying calm and confident throughout the interaction. If you’re stressed out as you visualize, it could make the real interaction even worse.
Visualization works because it trains your brain to react differently to certain stimuli.

