 It can be something like “I need to leave now” or even something silly like “My monster needs me.” It’s about trying to keep the person bullying you off-balance. This often confuses the bully enough that he or she is less sure of how you will respond the next time the possibility of bullying arises. Bullying often follows a script, and you want to change it so the bully is off-balance. If you are a bystander and see someone being bullied, try to create a distraction or take the bully's attention off of what he's doing. You can also provide an interruption by telling the person being bullied like, "Hey, I really need to talk to you for a second" or "Mr. X wants to see you for a minute.", If they follow you, or it happens again and you feel comfortable doing so, ask the person to stop. If the person refuses, detail the steps you will take to deal with the situation.For example, you can say something like, "Please stop calling me mean names. If you don't, I will report you to the principal."
It's important not to give bullying an audience if you're a bystander. Attention will only encourage the bully. Don't laugh at or encourage bullying behavior. If it feels safe, you can even say something like, "That's really not funny" or "Take it easy.", No matter how the person who is bullying you responds, staying calm will show them their efforts to upset you aren’t working. Show that you are unaffected by their actions, even if you are inside. , Write down as exactly as you can what they said and did and who was there. This can help when you talk to teachers or people in authority about the situation., Letting people in authority know will make it harder for the person who does the bullying to continue. You might not be the only one suffering, and it might be time for the school administration to take action against that person. It’s important to have a record of complaint against the person doing the bullying in case it continues. If the verbal abuse has taken the form of sexist, racist, or homophobic slurs, you also might want to reach out to teachers involved in student groups trying to combat sexism, racism, and homophobia., Change your routes. Go with a crowd whenever you can. Bullies often avoid taking on someone with a group around them., If the bullying consists of any physical violence, go to the police immediately. Threats of violence should also be reported to the police, as they are illegal in many jurisdictions., Being the target of bullying is not your fault. No one should have to deal with bullying, social isolation, and shaming alone. Even if people who were your friends have gotten involved in the social bullying situation, look for new activities and new friends. Get yourself out of the toxic situation. If needed, speaking with a school counselor, joining a "beat-bullying" group, or seeing a therapist may also help with your emotional pain.

