 When you want to fall back in love with your husband, sometimes the best route is to start back at square one: getting to know each other all over again. We change as we get older and go through different experiences in our lives and sometimes we get too focused on who we or our husband used to be. You need to be in love with each other as you are now!


It is very important to remember that it's normal, if you've been together for a long time, for him to have evolved into a different person. People really do change! If you're really right for each other, you'll be willing to love this new person too.
Go on a first date again. Introduce yourselves. Talk about the kind of things you would talk about on a first date. Talk about your experiences over the last few years and how you think you've changed. Talk about what you want for the future. And be honest!

, When we're on dates, we're putting in the effort all over again. We want that person to love us! We're more romantic and more likely to look at each other with a new pair of eyes. Go on dates again and make it a regular thing.


Just make sure you don't make the date itself regular. Don't go to the same place, eat the same foods, or do the same activities. Just like you wouldn't like a new boyfriend to think you're boring, you don't want to create this image in your husband's mind either.
 You eat the same thing for dinner on different nights of the week. Do the same thing every Saturday afternoon. Before you know it, your whole life runs like clockwork: from when you schedule your book club to when you have sex. That's no way to let romance into your life. It's boring. By breaking away from routine and constantly endeavoring to keep your life exciting, you'll find new things to love about each other and new memories that you can share.
 A new hobby is a great way to get the two of you doing something new and exciting, while also giving you something to bond over and share. When you're excited about something together, it's very effective at creating love and positive feelings. You can try:


Geocaching
Pottery
Learning a new language
Curating a wikiHow category!

, One of the great things about marriage is that we can work together to become better people. We can help each other achieve our dreams of what we want for ourselves. Sometimes, we forget to provide that for each other though. If you want to reawaken your love for each other, work on challenging each other to be better people and pursue the things you've always wanted.


For example, if your husband has been plugging away at a novel for years, help him to set aside one night a week where he can work on writing without interruption.
Maybe you both have been wanting to get in shape. Work together to develop a workout routine and motivate each other to stick to it and meet your goals.
 You should both try to put in the same effort through your entire marriage that you put into dating. When we stop acting like the other person is worth the effort, they start to feel like that's what we really think. If you stopped trying to look nice for each other every now and again, it's time to start back up. If you stopped trying to look sexy for each other, turn up the heat. If you stopped trying to woo each other, make your most romantic mix tape ever.
 If your husband sees you stepping it up, he'll be inclined to do the same. Of course, you can always talk to each other to try to get your husband back up to snuff, but positive change really goes both ways. Be the bigger person and be willing to start the chain.


For example, you can get dressed up and ask him out on a date. He'll be so wowed, he'll feel like he has to out-do you and be even more impressive with his date offering next time!

