 Any time you are going to change your physical activity level, talk to your doctor first. They will discuss health topics with you like your blood pressure, cholesterol, medications you take, or other health factors that might affect the safety of your activity level. You can work together to make a workout and diet plan.


They will probably discuss your family history with you so they’re aware of your risk factors for heart disease, so know if anyone in your immediate family (parents and siblings) have had a heart attack, stroke, or diabetes.
Say something like, “I want to build up my cardiovascular system. Are there any activities I should avoid?” or, “Can you help me plan a heart-healthy diet?”;
, Goals help you measure your progress and work for attainable change. Be specific, such as, “I will eat five servings of vegetables a day,” or, “I will ride my bike for 30 minutes every day this week.” Specific goals are more easier to measure than vague ones.Avoid overwhelming yourself – set one goal for activity and one goal for diet this week, then adjust those goals once you reach them.


Be practical in your goals. If you currently never exercise, don’t expect to suddenly start hitting the gym five days a week. Small improvements are a great start. Even going from being totally inactive to being physically active only one hour a week has benefits for your heart.Don’t feel bad if you slip up or backtrack. This isn’t a “failure.” Changing habits is difficult and takes time, and the important thing is that you recognize what went wrong and keep on trying!

, As you find your cardiovascular system getting stronger, keep track of your progress. This is extremely motivating, and you’ll be amazed at how much can change in a short time. Make charts on your computer or in a notebook, or write in a casual “diary” format.It helps to keep track of details: exactly what exercise you did and for how long (e.g. “ran 1.5 miles in 30 minutes”), what foods you ate (include nutritional information from the label) and in what portions, and other health-goals you have. Maybe you’re trying to quit smoking — record how many cigarettes you had that day. Weigh yourself weekly and write down your weight. Note if your clothing size decreases.
 Having support while you work to get healthier will make your challenge easier and more fun. Enlist a friend to be your gym-buddy, and motivate each other to get there 5 days a week. Make healthy meal plans with your family so that they feel included in your goals, and can help with the shopping and cooking. Seek support from your doctor or an online community if you feel your enthusiasm waning — a little encouragement can help get you back on track.You can say something like, “My goal is to work out three days a week, and I would love it if you would go to the gym with me,” or, “Let’s find a recipe for a healthy meal that we all like, and cook it together.”

