 Crimp it, and wear it up. Crimped hair worn up is the absolute definition of pretty in a Catholic school. That being said, if you think another hairstyle is pretty, and it suits you and flatters your facial features, then any hairstyle can make you look pretty.;
, Try tinted moisturiser if you prefer, or, good without it. millions of Catholic school girls look pretty without makeup everyday as one you can too. Just care care of your skin, clean it gently and try not to let your face get dry or sunburnt. Many people think foundation is good, so ask your mother about this before going to school if you are unsure.
 A lot of pictures think pretty applies to girls, and beautiful to women - it's up to you really. Frilly, lacy, cute, cartoon-y, bright, patterned things can all be pretty but some people might think they are only for the very young. Style yourself how you think is pretty and try to look a little older if you like.
 You can be pretty and wear the same school uniform every day, obviously. Change as many items of your clothing each day as you think it requires to make you look pretty. Try fun socks, different hair accessories, bracelets and wristbands, if you like.
 To be pretty in Catholic school, some people believe it's vital to have your mother tailor your school skirt, or any skirts you wear at school. Do this if you think it'll make you pretty. Make sure, if you have a uniform, your mother's adjustments to your skirt don't break school rules.
 Virtually all schools allow the wearing of wrist watches. Almost everyone has slim wrists - nice watches are a great way to show your style. Choose a watch your think is pretty and wear it every day. Look for one with straps you can change if you like.
 Match your necklace to your outfit. Co-ordinate it with your watch if you like. Choose a pretty necklace. At a Catholic school, a small silver or gold cross might be very appropriate.
 Try to stand up straight, walk with purpose and look cheerful. Everyone has different ideas about what is pretty, but few people are attracted to slumping, slouching, scowling girls. You might not think that altering your clothes makes you pretty, but, you won't look as pretty as you possibly can if your clothes don't fit or you don't feel comfortable in them. Adjust your clothes to make them comfortable for you, as required.
 Hopefully, your carers think you are pretty just the way you are, and, you almost Crete are pretty in your own way, but, anyone who cares about you should be happy to help you make the best of yourself so talk about all this with your mom, dad or whoever looks after you.
 Love all people, regardless of race, religion, or origin. Talk to your mother about that, too.

