 Take a measuring tape and measure the circumference of your hips, or wherever you desire the thong to rest, to determine the length of the band for your thong. Then, to figure out how long your crotch pieces need to be, take the measuring tape and measure in line with your belly button, slightly below your hips, and pull the tape underneath your crotch, through your legs, and top the top of your hips on your backside.;
, Purchase lace trim that is as long as the measurements for the waistband and two times the measurements for the crotch. Depending on the width you desire for your thong, the lace should be about two inches wide. You will also need a piece of cotton fabric for the lining that is about three square inches. Make sure the cotton fabric is similar to the color of lace you choose.
 You will divide your lace into four pieces, two for the band of your thong, and two for the crotch of your thong. Taking your hip measurements, divide by two, then cut the lace into two pieces for those measurements. Next, you'll cut your crotch piece by taking your crotch measurements and cutting two equal strips to be the length of the measurements.


For example, if you measured 38 inches for your hips, you'll divide by two and you'll come out with 19 inches for each strip. Then if you measured 10 inches for your crotch piece, you'll just cut two 10 inch pieces of lace.
 Before you begin sewing, you'll need to pin your lace together. First, pin your hip pieces together by laying one on top of the other and then place one pin vertically on each end.
 Lay your crotch pieces on top of each other, but instead of two vertical pins, you'll create a line of horizontal pins through the middle of the lace. Start at one end of your lace and place pins horizontally going across the fabric. As you start to reach the other end of your lace, begin pointing pins toward the bottom corner of your fabric, creating a down diagonal. , Using a sewing a machine, or a needle and thread if you are courageous, sew both pieces together. For the best stitch, you'll want to use a serger or a zigzag stitch. Taking the waistband, sew both ends together, allowing the stitch to hang over the lace, meaning you shouldn't have any extra fabric sticking out past the stitch. , This piece will be sewn a bit differently as you'll be sewing through the middle of your pieces rather than the end. Follow the pins that you placed through your thong, sewing through the middle and then down the diagonal towards the bottom corner. This will create a wider piece for the front of your thong that meets with the waistband. , Taking your crotch piece, line up the wider side with one side of your waistband, both with the insides facing out and sew along the top of the crotch piece and the bottom of the waistband using a zigzag stitch. Then, do the same with other side of the crotch piece to the other end of your waistband.


You should see a continuous seam, meaning you matched the seam of the crotch piece up with each seam on the waistband.
 This isn't necessary, but it is good for hygiene purposes and comfort. Taking your cotton fabric, cut a piece that fits nicely inside the crotch of your thong, and sew along three sides of the fabric, leaving the highest side (the side that will be more in the front of the thong) open.
 After you've finished sewing, turn your thong right side out and try it on. Because the lace is stretchy you shouldn't have had to add any extra material. If you decide the bands are too thick or not thick enough, consider buying lace trim that is less than or more than two inches wide.

