 Include photos and moments of fun things you've done together. Add ticket stubs, receipts or anything that reminds you of good times together. Pass and share the book around so everyone can edit it.;
, Sleepovers are helpful since you are spending time together overnight, and learn more about each other.
 Arrange to go on a longer day trip, visit a festival, a concert or something that creates a bond. Going to movies or other local activities is also great.
 The key to any friendship is to listen. Allow your friends to talk and don't pass judgment or criticize.
 It's no fun being friends with clones anyway. Appreciate what makes each of you unique.
 You won't always agree and no amount of fighting can change a persons mind.
 Don't let disagreements last for long. Try not to go to bed angry.
, Don't do it.
 Don't lie but look for positives and let them know. Everyone loves a pat on the back.
 Give them the attention they deserve.
 Be aware of your feelings and don't sabotage your friendship. Acknowledge your feelings and understand they are human. Confessing them and talking about them brings you closer.
 Get to know the good sides and bad sides of people. A real friend will know when your being unreasonable, call you on it, love you and still be your friend without missing a beat.
 No friendship can survive in a vacuum. You can't force it and you can't force people to ignore other people that are interesting to them or bring new perspective. It makes them a better friend in the long run.
 Acknowledge it and avoid it. Appreciate they will have interest beyond your group of friends. Remember they are individuals and need time away to explore and learn. What they bring back from it can strengthen your friendship as you grow as people.
 It isn't what you do when you're apart, it's what you do when you're together.
 Assume that all information shared is to be kept private. You should never be obligated to state, "don't tell anyone", "keep this between us". Friends should assume confidentiality until the teller shares it publicly.
 Forcing yourselves on each other could cause you to become sick of each other. Alone time isn't a bad thing. You don't need to be connected at the hip to be better friends.
 Be forgiving and never hold past mistakes against each other.

