 Maintain a running log of notes on your baby’s daily diet and the texture, color, and frequency of his or her bowel movements. Armed with this log, you'll be better able to detect abnormal defecation in your baby. Look for correlations between what the baby eats and how it defecates. Reduce the intake of problematic foods.


For instance, if your baby’s poo is normally brownish-green with a peanut butter-like texture, but then it suddenly turns dark yellow and becomes hard and small, think about dietary changes (including drinks) you might have introduced that could be the cause.
Pay attention to the consistency as well as color of bowel movements.
If your baby’s poo changes dramatically, you should talk to your baby's doctor. Share the information you’ve kept on your baby's stool with the pediatrician. The more details you provide, the better the doctor will be able to help you determine what's normal for your baby and when treatment may be necessary.;
, If your baby’s poo is like hard pebbles, s/he is likely constipated. Constipation -- the inability to pass stool as normal -- could occur when your baby is first introduced to solid foods. It might also mean that your baby has a soy or milk intolerance and could need a different kind of milk or formula.Introduce solid foods and more fluids to the diet slowly and monitor your baby’s ability to process them. If he or she shows signs of constipation, reduce solid food intake and add softer food(s) and more fluids to the diet.
 However, this does not indicate that the baby is unwell. Additionally, some foods such as corn are more difficult for the gut to break down. If you see small or occasional chunks of food in your baby’s poop, don’t fret.
 If your baby is passing soft or relatively firm stools that are green, yellow, or brown, you have nothing to worry about that. However, if the stool is one of those three normal colors but is excessively runny, it could mean your baby has an infection or allergy.Diarrhea in another color, such as red or black, could indicates blood is present in the stool.


Keep your baby hydrated. Give them plenty of fluids while they are experiencing diarrhea.
A large amount of yellow diarrhea could indicate the presence of giardia, a parasite.

