 Each state has a Vital Records office that maintains copies of birth and death certificates. You should find the office for the state where you were born. If you were born in North Dakota but now live in California, then you need to contact North Dakota, which has maintained a copy of your birth certificate.


To find the correct office, type the state and then “vital records” into your favorite web browser.;
, Every state will allow you to order a copy of your own birth certificate. However, state laws limit your ability to access other people’s birth certificates. The laws will differ by state.


In Texas, for example, residents can order their own birth certificate and the birth record for any immediate family member.Texas defines “immediate family member” as a guardian or parents, children, spouse, siblings, or grandparents.Non-Texas residents are limited to ordering only their own birth record or the record of a child (so long as they are listed as a parent on the certificate).If you have questions about whether you can get the certificate, you should call the state’s Vital Records office and ask.
 You will need to show valid personal identification in order to get a copy of your birth certificate. If you order in person, then bring the ID. If you order by mail, then you will need to photocopy the ID. Photocopy both sides. Generally, the following are acceptable forms of identification:a valid driver’s license
a state-issued identification card
a valid passport
an employee identification card

, You should be able to visit your state’s Vital Records office and order a copy in person. Be sure to bring your personal identification. Also have acceptable methods of payments. Call ahead to see what methods of payment the office accepts.


Some states will have one centralized office you must visit. Other states will have county Vital Records offices. To find the nearest to you, be sure to call the state’s central Vital Records office and ask.
Also ask about the office hours. You don’t want to make a trip if the office is closed.
Ordering in person is often the fastest way to get a copy of the birth certificate. For example, in Texas you can get a copy of the birth record within 5-30 minutes. By contrast, if you order a copy through the mail, then you will need to wait 10-15 days for expedited service and 6-8 weeks for normal delivery.