 When you get diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease, you may experience a lot of different emotions. You may feel sad and depressed, scared, or shocked. You may be angry. You may even feel relief that now you know what is causing your symptoms. Whatever emotions you are feeling, allow yourself to experience them as you cope with your diagnosis.If you have trouble dealing with your diagnosis, you may want to see a therapist to help you move towards acceptance.
 If you have been diagnosed with PD, you may want to seek care from a mental health professional. This may be helpful if you believe you will have trouble coping or you want to ensure your mental and emotional health as you deal with your physical condition. A mental health professional can help you come up with a treatment plan for your mental and emotional well-being.You may wish to seek out a therapist or counselor later when you discover you are having trouble coping.
If you develop depression due to your diagnosis, you should see a counselor. They can help you manage your depression. You may also be able to get antidepressants to help with your symptoms.
 Your diagnosis of Parkinson’s cannot be changed; however, the way you approach life can be changed. Though it may be difficult, having a positive attitude and hopeful outlook on life can help you cope. Don’t let the disease control you and your life.Focus on the good things in your life.
Be grateful for what you have. If you have to, make a list each day of what you are grateful for.
Don’t be critical of yourself or what you can’t do. Dwelling on the negative aspects won’t help you.
Many doctors have found that those who are positive and proactive in response to their diagnosis have slower deterioration and milder symptoms., For some people, one coping strategy for PD is taking a look at your priorities. Parkinson’s can alter many aspects of your life, limiting what you can do. However, that does not mean that your life is over. You are stronger than you think you are, and prioritizing your life can help you see that and learn to cope.Make what’s important to you your top priorities. This may be family and friends, going new places, or trying new things.
Prioritize what you can do instead of what you can’t do. This can help give you some perspective.