 If the infection remains latent, you may not even know you are infected with tuberculosis for years after becoming infected; however, the infection may become active, and needs to be identified as quickly as possible. If you experience any symptoms that might indicate an active tuberculosis infection, see a doctor immediately.With a latent infection, you may have TB bacteria that are walled off inside your body, prevented from harming you by your immune system. If your immune system is weakened, however, you may develop an active TB infection.
An active TB infection will most commonly attack the lungs, resulting in pulmonary TB disease. X-rays are commonly used to assess whether your lungs have been damaged, and laboratory tests can also be run on any mucus, called “phlegm,” that you cough up.
If you have any type of cough that lasts more than three weeks, or are becoming increasingly short of breath, see a doctor immediately.
 In particular, watch out for coughing that results in mucus or blood in your mouth, and/or chest pain while coughing. Chest pain usually occurs due to an infection of the lungs, which causes inflammation, swelling, and even permanent damage to the tissues of the lungs.


Watch closely for blood in anything you cough up. Blood stained sputum, as this substance is called, is a symptom of more advanced TB that occurs due to inflammation of the respiratory tract.
 When TB spreads, it may lead to noticeable symptoms affecting your lymph nodes, your bones and joints, your digestive system, your bladder and reproductive organs, and even your nervous system.In particular, watch out for enlarged lymph nodes, which may indicate that your immune system is struggling to fight a TB infection. The lymph nodes around your lungs and heart are those most likely to be infected.


Additionally, be on the lookout for pain in your stomach, pain or immobility in your joints, confusion, persistent headaches, and seizures.
If any of these symptoms develop in tandem with another, see a doctor as soon as possible.
 An active tuberculosis infection may also affect your kidneys, brain, and spine. Other symptoms that may indicate TB disease include persistent weakness, persistent fever, and heavy night sweats.Check your temperature for fever. Fever occurs due to the presence of an infection in the body.
Keep track of any night sweats. Night sweats occur as a result of infection, as the body tries to get rid of the fever that is present in the body. More specifically, sweating is the body's way of removing the excess heat caused by fever.
 TB affects many bodily systems, including the digestive system. When the digestive system is not working as it should, it can lead to a loss of appetite, which in turn leads to weight loss. Symptoms such as these will persist, and will usually worsen, without treatment. See a doctor immediately if you’re concerned you may have a TB infection.