 Some types of depression, such as seasonal affective disorder, are linked to a lack of exposure to sunlight. Your body uses UV rays in sunlight to promote Vitamin D production, which is linked to serotonin production.Research has shown that sun exposure is positively correlated with serotonin production, and bright sunlight can counteract the mood-lowering effect of acute tryptophan depletion.Low sunlight levels may also increase your body’s production of melatonin, which can interfere with your body’s serotonin levels.If you don’t live in an area with bright sunlight, light therapy by using a light therapy box is an option.Consult with your doctor about which light therapy box is best for you: boxes produce anywhere between 2500 lux and 10,000 lux. Use a stronger box for at least 30 minutes every morning; lower-lux boxes may require up to two hours.Be safe outside. Choose a “broad-spectrum” sunscreen with an SPF of at least 15, and wear sunscreen whenever you go outside (even on cloudy days). Being outside in the sunshine without sunscreen dramatically increases your risk of developing skin cancer., The exact relationship between serotonin and sleep is still under scientific debate.However, serotonin does help regulate your sleep cycles. Chronic sleep deprivation has been shown to desensitize the serotonin receptor system, leading to symptoms that are similar to those seen in mood disorders (e.g., stress, anxiety, depressive symptoms).Wake up and go to sleep at the same time each day, including weekends.This consistency will help your body regulate your sleep cycle.
Avoid distractions in bed. Don’t watch TV, do computer work, or use backlit screens in bed, as these can interfere with melatonin production and may keep you awake.Limit napping. Too much napping during the day can disrupt your nighttime sleep cycle. Try to limit afternoon naps to 10-30 minutes.Have a glass of milk before bed. Milk contains carbohydrates in the form of lactose, which may help you fall asleep. Carbohydrates are also linked to serotonin production, although not directly., Exercise has natural antidepressant effects and releases endorphins, the body’s natural mood elevators. The exact relationship between exercise and serotonin production remains unclear.Moderate exercise appears to increase tryptophan levels, and may contribute to the production of serotonin. Regardless of the exact process, many research studies show that moderate, regular exercise improves your mood and reduces depressive symptoms.Aim for a minimum of 30-35 minutes of physical activity per day.Moderate activities include brisk walking, biking, jogging, swimming, and gardening.
Aerobic activities have the greatest effect on mood, and are the most likely to increase serotonin levels.Avoid exercise that is too strenuous. Over-exercising can trigger stress responses in your body, which will deplete serotonin levels. Exercise that is too difficult for your fitness level is also much harder to get yourself to do regularly. Exercise in ways you enjoy.
 Some studies show that thinking about positive events in your life can increase serotonin production. Similarly, thinking about negative emotions can decrease serotonin production.People who can view even challenging past experiences as positive (e.g., as learning experiences) are considerably more likely to feel happier overall.


Research suggests that feelings of awe and wonder promote healthy cytokine levels. When cytokine levels are too high, they can block serotonin from functioning properly. Taking a walk in nature or doing something that literally “amazes” you is actually good for your serotonin levels!, Studies have shown that petting your dog or cat can raise levels of serotonin, dopamine, and oxytocin, which all play significant roles in your psychological well-being. Playing with your pet can also reduce your body’s stress responses.Pet owners are less likely to suffer from depression than people who do not own pets.
 Research suggests that practicing yoga regularly can significantly increase your serotonin levels. In addition, yoga reduces monoamine oxidase, an enzyme that breaks down serotonin and other neurotransmitters.Several studies have shown that yoga can help reduce anxiety and depression.Sudarshan Kriya Yogic Breathing has been shown to help treat stress, anxiety, and depression.To maximize yoga’s effectiveness, you should practice a mix of asanas (postures), pranayama (breathing techniques), and meditation. Which yoga practices work best for you will depend on your fitness level and other factors; experiment to find what helps you the most., Success enhances the level of serotonin in the brain. Experiences of failure and social rejection lower serotonin levels. People who experience positive, successful social interactions and have healthy self-esteem are more likely to have high serotonin levels.Put yourself in situations that will boost your self-esteem by allowing you to take on a challenge, however small.For example, set (reasonable) goals for yourself, and celebrate your successes when you achieve them. Learn to dance, play the guitar, cook a meal, or skydive.
Research suggests that success produces a positive feedback loop: achieving your goals boosts your confidence, which boosts your ability to perform and achieve new goals.
Pursue something meaningful to you. Pursuing accomplishments that give you a sense of purpose may also increase your serotonin levels., Stress increases your body’s level of cortisol, a stress hormone. It also reduces your serotonin levels.People with poor serotonin levels can experience depression, mood swings, and stress. People who have positive, relaxed moods also have higher serotonin levels.In addition to the obvious candidates such as meditation and yoga, there are several other ways you can reduce your stress levels.Practice progressive muscle relaxation. PMR focuses on intentionally tensing and then relaxing your muscle groups, one by one. PMR can help you become more aware of your body and where you tend to carry tension. With practice, you can learn to release tension on command.Listen to pleasing music. Calm, pleasant music helps reduce your stress levels. This, in turn, may boost serotonin levels.The British Academy of Sound Therapy has put together a playlist of the world’s most relaxing music according to science.
Try therapeutic massage. Massage has many health benefits. It can improve symptoms of depression and alleviate anxiety. Research also suggests that massage may boost serotonin levels.Try visualization. Visualization can help you relax by using mental images to create a calm, relaxing place for you to retreat to. During visualization, you imagine a relaxing safe space in as much detail as possible, using all of your senses. The University of Houston - Clear Lake has several guided visualization exercises on their website., Deep breathing is excellent for quelling your body’s stress responses. You can get these effects from just 10 minutes of deep breathing practice.Find a comfortable position, either lying down or sitting erect.
Place one hand on your lower abdomen and one hand on your chest.
Slowly inhale through your nostrils for a count of 4. You should feel your lower belly expand as your diaphragm expands and your lungs fill with air.
Slowly release the breath through your nostrils for a count of 4.
Repeat for at least 5 minutes (but preferably 10).
 Meditation lowers stress responses in the right prefrontal cortex and amygdala. When your body is stressed, it releases cortisol, which robs your body of serotonin.Meditation also heightens activity in the left prefrontal cortex, which is associated with feelings of happiness and well-being. While no studies have proven a link between meditation and serotonin function, it is an excellent way to improve your mood and reduce stress.Mindfulness meditation has been linked to increased serotonin activity.Meditation also stimulates the lateral hypothalamus, which may elevate serotonin levels.