 On the APC Smart UPS 1000, 1400 and 1500 series, the front plastic face is pulled away from the box by flipping it downward and lifting it away - just look for the cutout on one edge and start pulling there. Next, there will be two screws to remove from the top corners of a metal plate which is behind the front face, and then also flip downward this metal plate to reveal the batteries. The 1000 series has smaller batteries than the 1400 and 1500.You will need to power off the UPS to replace the batteries if there is any charge left in them.;
, If either is less than 12.55v, they've been sitting around too long and are likely ruined already. Return to supplier.
 Remove the plastic block(100A fuse)joining the two halves together, then remove the cable.
!

, This is a step that should be performed per Plastic Weld® instruction manual.
 Evenly apply adhesive to one battery as pictured. Stand up the batteries on a flat surface and join the two batteries together with terminal side facing each other. Let it cure for 30 minutes.
 Apply strips of Gorilla Tape (duct tape) along each edge of the battery, pulling the tape tight across the joints. I did mine this way and it was completely stable- and ready to use in 2 minutes.
 Do not install the fuse first as doing so increase the chance of shorting out the battery while installing the cable.
 Or just stick them back on if the original adhesive is sufficient to hold the covers in place. These are sealed batteries so there is no danger of leakage- the covers are to prevent accidental contact with the terminals.
,,,, The UPS should be loaded to 30-50% of the rated watt capacity. For 1000VA/~650W and 1500/~950W model, 300W halogen floor lamp works well.
 (Rather than pull the plug, it's best to disconnect power with your circuit breaker or a power strip. See below in Tips.) Let it run until it shuts off completely. Ignore all beeping. It should take about 45 minutes to an hour.
 Let it charge overnight. The UPS is now ready to be put into service.

