 Undue stress or strain to the muscles surrounding sensitive joints can cause your joint pain to worsen. Spend five to ten minutes walking or doing some dynamic stretching before you begin your workout.Dynamic stretching is different from static stretching. Continuous lunges are an example of dynamic stretching. You should not do static stretching at the beginning of your workout, as it can lead to injury.
Make sure you're warming up the muscle groups you plan to exercise, as well as your body as a whole. For example, if you're planning to do an upper body workout, you might walk for five minutes, followed by a couple minutes of sit-ups or crunches and a couple minutes of arm swings at a gentle and slow pace.
 With isometric exercises, you contract specific muscles without actually moving your body. If your joints are stiff, isometric exercises can help you build strength in your muscles without moving the joints.Isometric exercises can be a good way to build initial strength if your joints are particularly stiff, or if you are new to exercise.
Start with the largest muscle in a muscle group, since it typically will be the easiest for you to find and isolate. Contract the muscle and hold the contraction for about five seconds, then release. Repeat slowly three to five times with appropriate rest periods over several minutes, then move on to another muscle.
 While whole-body exercises may be more efficient, if you're trying to exercise sensitive joints you don't want to overtax them. Start with exercises that target the upper body, then tackle the lower body the next day.A good strength training regimen to work up to would work your shoulders and arms one day, your legs and hips another day, and your back and core the third day. Next, to ensure the full recovery of each muscle group have a day of rest on the fourth day.
 When you first start a strength-training program, you may not be able to lift even the smallest dumbbell. Start with bodyweight exercises, and repurpose light items around the house to use as weights.For example, you might do curls and presses with a can of soup.
 With a closed-chain exercise, the limb you're exercising remains stationary while the rest of your body moves. These exercises are better if you have sensitive joints, because they require the muscles to do more work and put less pressure on the joints.Squats are an example of a closed-chain exercise. Your quadriceps do the work when you squat, taking pressure off your knees and ankles. Your feet and lower legs remain stationary.
Be cautious approaching open-chain exercises, in which your body remains still while the limb moves. These exercises are good if you're working a joint after an injury. Otherwise, closed-chain exercises are best for sensitive joints because they work more muscles around the joint. Examples of open-chain exercises would be the bench press or leg press.