 Usually thought to be the purview of chiropractors and massage therapists alone, cracking the back can be safely performed at home, provided the act of cracking isn't accompanied by any pain or discomfort.If you begin to feel any pain during the act of cracking your back, stop immediately.









What happens when you crack your back? When you crack your back, nitrogen and carbon dioxide bubbles travel rapidly from the surrounding tissue to the joint.This rapid expansion causes a momentary vacuum, which in turn causes the cracking sound we are all so familiar with.
 While cracking our backs generally feels good — and is often accompanied with relief — it may not be addressing the underlying problem if you have persistent back pain. You may be putting a temporary band-aid on a bigger problem, and in some cases, can even make the problem worse.









Ever notice how cracking your back leads to a cycle of pain and then relief? You crack your back and get relief, but your back feels crummy the next day, necessitating another go at cracking. This cycle of boom and bust can usually be fixed by getting a chiropractic realignment.
What happens in a chiropractic realignment? The doctor of chiropractic works any fixated or jammed vertebrae back into realignment so that the vertebrae aren't pressed together or pinching one another. Unfortunately, you cannot give yourself an alignment. You must have it done by someone else — even chiropractors cannot give themselves alignments.
 There are tons of great stretches that you can perform instead of cracking your lower back. These are often just as effective at providing relief and potentially less dangerous. Here are some that you might consider:









Yoga poses such as cat pose, downward dog pose, pigeon pose, and chair pose

Basic lower back stretches

, If you work out too soon after cracking your back, you could end up with an injury such as a herniated disc.To avoid this, stretch instead of cracking, or decide to crack your back after you've done the requisite workout.








