 There are two ways to remove the rib cage:


Using the circular hand saw. Pick up the circular hand saw and touch the outer portion of the rib cage with your tool. You just need to tap it briefly and continuously until they're removed. After cutting the rib cage, pick it up and remove it from the patient's body.
Using the hammer. The hammer does the same job but a tad quicker. To use the hammer, simply pick it up then swing it towards the rib cage. Using the hammer will lead to bleeding, so keep an eye on your patient's status.;
, For this part, just use your hand. Grab the left or right lung then violently move your hand to the left then the right until it's removed.


Do the same to the other lung then drop the organ wherever you want.
 After getting rid of the rib cage and lungs, you can now see the organs underneath it. With your knife, cut the upper portion of the pink tubular organ you see and then the lower part. It will snap free.


Pick it up the organ using your hand and then place it away from your patient's body.
 With the tubular organ out, we can see the heart clearly now. You now need to cut the valves holding the heart. There are two ways to do this:


Using the knife, cut the upper heart valves until it stops beating.
There are four valves, and if you look closely, you can see the creases where you have to cut.
Cut quickly since the blood level will quickly decrease.
Alternative, you can use the cutter or other sharp tool to slice the valves. Some players tend to lose the tools they use because of the doctor's clumsy hands.
Keep in mind to watch the blood level; if it goes down too fast, make sure to inject your patient to stabilize their blood flow.
 After you have successfully cut the valve veins, the heart can be removed. Pick it up using your hand then put the heart aside.


If you can't pick up the heart, check the veins again. You might have missed the upper veins of the heart; cut it with the knife or any bladed tool.
You can tell when the heart has been successfully removed since it will fall deeper into the patient's body.
 The new heart can be found in the container on the right side of the table. Open the container slowly to avoid dropping the heart onto the floor. Grab the heart then throw it into the area where the old heart was.


This will end the game, and you have successfully operated a patient's heart. Congratulations!

