 Regret is like any other emotion; it serves a basic survival function. Be open to embracing the productive aspects of regret in order to lessen its duration.


Regret is how we learn to reexamine our actions. Personal growth and positive change would be impossible without something forcing us to periodically identify decisions that lead to negative consequences. Addicts, for example, often rely on regret as motivation to get clean.Reframe your thoughts on the regretful situation or decision. Think of mistakes as opportunities to grow and change. Young people tend to cope better with regret, and much of that is attributed to the fact they view the emotion as a positive. They embrace the fact that regret is key to change and growth.Accept blame. Oftentimes, people blame external circumstances for their actions. This leads to more bad decisions and, in turn, more regret. For example, say you were late to work because you stayed out late drinking. You might blame a stressful week or peer pressure for your actions and next time happy hour comes around you'll end up repeating the process. If instead, you think, "Staying out late was a bad decision and I faced consequences," you're more likely to avoid such actions in the future. You've embraced the fact you have control over the situation rather than diverting control to external forces., Sometimes, when circumstances are particularly unfavorable, we need to experience sadness. Allowing yourself time to embrace disappointment for an appropriate duration can help you recharge.Sadness is much like regret; it's a negative emotion but one that's beneficial to us as a species. Sad feelings push the mind into a hyper focused mode, which allows you to evaluate problems and figure out how to come to terms with life's difficulties.It's normal to respond to negative circumstances with sadness. Avoiding those feelings can prolong the duration of your regret and frustration. After a particularly harsh failure, give yourself a week to grieve your loss and experience your disappointment., Oftentimes, our most regrettable moments stem from bad relationships with friends, family members, and significant others.


If you're having a difficult time, leading to feelings of sadness and regret, are your friends coming through for you? Who is offering you their support and love and who is fading to the background?Identify those people who do not support you emotionally and who have, in the past, ensnared you in difficult situations. Continuing to foster negative interpersonal relationship longterm is something you will come to regret. Cut ties with those who do not support you and get closer to those who do., As stated, viewing regret as an opportunity to grow means you're less likely to dwell on mistakes. However, you have to be prepared to take action. Figure out what you need to do to move past your regret.


Was anyone hurt by a decision you made? Did the consequences of your actions have an affect on family members or friends? There might be phone calls you need to make or letters you need to write. If necessary, take time to apologize.
Write down all the emotions you're experiencing. "I'm sad because X, Y, and Z." "I'm angry because X, Y, and Z." Look back over your list when you finish and evaluate what lead to your present mindset. What could you have done differently? What is driving these emotions and how could you reasonably eliminate them?