 The RKC (which stands for Russian Kettlebell Challenge) plank engages your deep core in a way that the traditional plank does not. This exercise engages the muscles in your deep core, giving you a better rounded core workout than traditional planks alone.Start on all fours. Lower your elbows to the floor so that the sides of your forearms are resting on the floor, and clasp your hands together to form a first in front of you. Activate your core and drop your shoulders down your back.
Extend first one leg, then the other out behind you using slow, controlled movements. Your toes should come to rest on the floor a little more than hip-width apart. Keep your spine neutral and your knees straight.
Your pelvis should be posteriorly rotated so that your buttocks are slightly elevated, rather than creating a straight line from your head to your heels as you do with a traditional plank.
 If you're bored with the plank, or no longer find it physically challenging, there are other variations that will work your core effectively so you don't have to keep doing traditional planks for longer periods of time.For example, you can do side planks to target smaller core muscles and obliques. Get on your side with your feet stacked one on top of the other and raise up onto your elbow with the side of your forearm on the floor in front of you. Your elbow should be directly underneath your shoulder. Hold for 10 seconds on each side.
You also can do a three-point plank, in which you lift one leg or one arm off the floor. Make sure you repeat with the other side.
 Because your body is moving with a body saw, you get more of a core workout than you would by just doing planks. A towel is the only equipment you need to add body saws to your exercise regimen.Fold your towel and lay it on the floor where your feet will be. When you get in plank position, place your toes on top of the folded towel.
Lower to your elbows so that the sides of your forearms are resting on the floor and stabilize your core. Brace your glutes and abs.
Slide your feet forward about four to six inches, keeping your arms still, and slide back to the starting position. This is the sawing motion. Do 2 to 4 sets of 10 repetitions, resting between each set.
 Once you've mastered the body saw, you can add single-leg and single-arm body saw variations to increase the challenge. Simply lift one leg or one arm off the floor. Saw by sliding your body forward and back with your feet (or foot).When doing single-leg or single-arm exercises, make sure you switch and do each side.

