 The first move that you make can have a big impact on whether or not you will win the game. While you may not be able to make a good opening move in every game you play, it helps to know what to do when the dice roll is in your favor. The two best opening moves you can make are to create a prime or to move one of your pieces from the 24th point to the 13th point, also known as the “lover’s leap.”


To create a prime, you either need a 3-1, a 4-2, or a 6-1 dice roll. The 3-1 dice roll is best because them you can create an anchor on your 5th point, thereby creating a prime with the 6th point. This puts you at an advantage because your opponent will have two fewer possibilities of passing your bar.To do the lover’s leap, you need a 6-5 dice roll. Use these moves to bring your 24th point checker out to the 13th point. This move exposes your other checker to being hit, but it gives you a great advantage towards home with the other one., You can raise the stakes in a game of backgammon by using the doubling cube, but keep in mind that your opponent can also refuse your offer and end the game. In this situation, your opponent would lose. However, your opponent may end up losing fewer points than if you had not proposed a double. Therefore, it is best to propose a double when you are not too far ahead or too far behind of your opponent. That will increase the chances that your opponent will accept the offer to double., To reduce your chances of getting stuck in your opponent’s home board, you should try to get your pieces as far away from the 24th space as soon as possible. For example, if you roll a 6-5, use both numbers to move one of your checkers from the 24th point to the 13th point. Then, do the same with your other checker on the 24th space the next time you roll a 6-5., You can keep your opponent from getting to his or her home board by creating anchors near the higher points on your opponent’s board. This will prevent your opponent from getting checkers from the 24th point to the home board. It will also make it harder for your opponent to reenter checkers that have been hit and sent to the bar.You can create multiple anchors next to each other to form primes. The ideal prime is called a six-prime, 6 points next to each other that all have 2 or more checkers on each point. Creating a six-prime will make it impossible for your opponent to move towards his or her home board.
 The goal of a blitz is to hit as many of your opponent’s blots as possible while also advancing your checkers forward. Blitzing increases the odds that you will win a gammon or a backgammon and your opponent will lose more points.To blitz, begin by hitting any and all blots that your opponent leaves open during the first few turns. Try to get as many of your opponent’s checkers on the bar as possible and advance while your opponent is stuck trying to reenter the board.
Try to create some anchors near your home board to slow your opponent down even more.

