 Most organized directors would hand out an information package (which includes an itinerary, costs, forms to sign, etc.) prior to the trip. Make sure you and your parents/guardians get these forms signed and returned as soon as possible. Make copies of the itinerary and make sure you, your parents/guardians, and emergency contacts have one. Pay for the trip ASAP!;
, Do not leave this to the last minute!

,, Some instruments can be carried on, while others must be checked.
, passport) to go on the trip. If you are travelling on a plane, you will need photo ID. If you travelling out of the country, you will need a passport. Make sure you have copies of your ID in case it is stolen.
 Most groups want to prepare special music for a tour. Some groups will have special rehearsals for those going on the tour. Be at each and every rehearsal unless you have a good excuse!

, DO NOT take your whole house with you. You will for sure need your instrument (plus extra reeds, strings, etc.), music, concert uniform, ID, the itinerary, spending money, casual clothes, toiletries, and medications. It would be a good idea to also bring books, magazines, iPod/MP3 player, cell phone, homework, snack food, a camera, and any other entertainment items that might be fun to have. Pack what is appropriate to the activities your group will be participating in (i.e. if the hotel has a water slide, bring a bathing suit). Pack appropriate to the amount of days the trip is! (ie. don't bring $500 to a 2-night trip)

,, Entertain yourself or talk to the people around you.
 If there aren't enough keys for everyone to have one, decide who will carry the key(s). Decide the sleeping arrangements and bathroom schedule.
 Generally, whenever your group is in the public, don't misbehave.
 If there is free time at the hotel before curfew, then you will be free to talk to your roommates, use the pool/water slide, talk to friends in other rooms, but you must stay within the boundaries! Generally, if you are visiting a room or have visitors, the door must be left open.
 There will generally be a room check and a chaperon will put masking tape on your door. DO NOT leave the room for any reason at this point!

, You and your roommates could set an alarm clock or get a wake up call. Sometimes a chaperon will knock on the doors to wake people up.
, DO NOT leave anything behind. Most chaperons will check the room for anything you may have left behind.
