 You can call the airline or check flight status online. If you notice delays online, contact the airline directly for more information.;
, If weather is bad, flights into or out of the airport will be affected. Icy conditions, stormy weather and extreme weather events are of particular concern.


Besides the weather, other natural problems affect flights. If a volcano has erupted along your destined flight path, the airplane cannot travel through the volcanic ash. This type of delay can last for days or possibly weeks.
 You will need confirmation numbers, flight numbers, and any phone numbers for your travel agent or people who are waiting for your flight arrival. Have these in a handy place that is easy to find. This will reduce worry about losing vital information.
 This will help you re-evaluate your travel plans. Depending on the expected length of delay, you may need to return home or, if you're in transit or in another state or country, you may need to consider making alternative accommodation arrangements.
 If the first leg of your journey is delayed an hour, you might miss a connecting flight you have scheduled.


Talk to an airline representative about getting another connecting flight if you are concerned you will miss your existing connection.
 Airlines have different procedures regarding checked luggage when flights are delayed or cancelled. You should receive instructions from an agent or customer service representative.
 Babies and small children have feeding and sleeping schedules that may be interrupted. Your level of coping will be affected by ensuring their needs are met quickly and with a minimum of fuss.


Keep infant formula and baby food in your carry-on luggage so you can adjust how and when to feed the children in your care.
Feed children while waiting out the delay so that they do not get hungry or cranky.
Find a gift shop that sells snacks, or look for healthy options at restaurants and snack bars near the boarding gate.
Ask for help if you need it; the attendants will realize your need if you voice it and many will do their best to point you in the right direction of food, toilets, and other basic needs.
 There is little you can do when a flight is delayed. See it as an opportunity to catch up on quiet time, reminding yourself that getting panicked or anxious won't improve the situation. Try to take the delay in your stride.


Read a book or a magazine, listen to music or get something to eat while you wait for your delayed flight.
 If friends, family members or business contacts were expecting you at a certain time, let them know your flight has been delayed.


Ask friends and family to watch the flight details online themselves, for any flight you take. This will help them to realize as quickly as you that you're delayed.
 If you are supposed to be at a wedding without fail, see if there are other travel options available.


Ask your airline to re-book you onto another flight or endorse your ticket towards another airline. Airlines are not required to do this, but you can always ask.
Explain why it is important to get there. You will get more sympathy if you can prove that you are going to an event that won't happen again, like a wedding or a funeral.
 Delays are hard to cope with but cancellations can make you sweat, worrying about whether or not you will reach your destination. You will get there if you stay focused and attentive. This means to reschedule, alerting people at the other end of changes in plans and staying alert for updates.
 The airline will try to get you on the next available flight to your destination.


Talk to your travel agent, if you used one to book your flight. Your agent might have access to more information than you do, and can get you re-booked more quickly.
Call your travel insurance company if you purchased insurance when you booked your trip. They can help you re-book over the phone.
, If you do not want to have your flight re-booked, the airline can refund you the cost of your ticket.
 If you had an urgent meeting to make, consider asking to use a business lounge and attending the meeting virtually by Skype or telephone. Make use of technology––it's better than nothing.
 This is a most harrowing experience an air traveler can experience. The air grows stale, the toilets gets filthier and food runs out. Everyone's patience grows thin. In this case, focus on staying calm and keeping cool and hydrated.


Fill your water bottle at the first sign of a delay. Drink sparingly but regularly.
Distract children with games, reading, electronic devices, etc.
Talk to other passengers about positive things. Acknowledge their stress and feelings and gently remind them that worrying won't improve the situation and never underestimate the power of kindness. You might find distraction in relieving others' worries through finding little ways to alleviate their discomfort, like bringing them water or telling them a story. It helps to pass the time!
Walk around regularly to stretch your legs. Encourage others to do likewise.
Bring lack of hygiene issues to the attention of the attendants, realizing that they are also subject to the limitations of the facilities.
Tell the attendant if anybody appears ill, violent or in distress. It might be useful to find the principal attendant to get things dealt with swiftly.
 Again, realize that you are among many people who also want resolution of their issues. Be concise, polite and offer to be flexible about connections, etc. If you are so tired, angry and fed up that you know you will blow your top, consider returning the following day after sleeping, especially when you are in your hometown or have accommodations already sorted.
 When tempers flare, some people consider their needs to be more important than everyone else's and this can set people off, arguing and complaining. It may be difficult staying calm and polite, but it will win you more responsiveness from those in a position to help you. Air rage is ugly. People are naturally inclined to help those who help them by being friendly, patient and understanding. Use that knowledge for your own benefit.

