 Try to stay as active and as socially engaged as you can. When you are dealing with chronic pain, sometimes having people around you can be the very last thing you want; however, having people around can also distract you from the pain and allow you a few moments, or maybe more, to forget the pain. Humans are social creatures and while you may not always want to have people around, and don’t need to 24/7, it has been shown that social contact can have significant effects on pain perception.Socializing can help alleviate loneliness and depression, which can negatively affect chronic pain.
 As social creatures, finding others who truly understand what you are dealing with can be a significant comfort. Support groups also help you not to feel so alone. The people in the group may be able to offer advice and coping techniques.To find a support group for people dealing with chronic pain, start by looking at the groups at the American Chronic Pain Association or the National Fibromyalgia and Chronic Pain Association.
 Exercise has been shown to increase the production of endorphins, which naturally reduce pain. Exercise also strengthens muscles along with reducing the risk of obesity, heart disease, and diabetes.Try low-impact activities, such as yoga, Tai Chi, walking, swimming, cycling, or strength-training.You will need to talk to your physical therapist and other members of your pain management team to determine whether stretching exercises, strengthening exercises, aerobics, or weight training is best for you.
Make sure to find the right level of activity for you. If you do too much, you may have increased pain the next day; however, staying inactive for too long can lead to further problems with pain and mobility. Find the right exercise and amount of activity for your condition., Staying busy and engaging your mind and body in activities that distract you from the pain can be an effective management strategy. Try reading or listening to music.These activities may not be able to let you forget the pain, but it can help you take control of your life.Consider finding a hobby that lets you get out of the house and connect with other people.