 A fun-sized cookie or candy bar is okay on occasion. In fact, experts agree that indulging in a little bit of what you love a few times a week may be more sustainable than quitting cold turkey. Remember the recommended five to eight teaspoons a day and try to stay within this limit. While a full-sized candy bar often provides nearly all the sugar you should consume in a single day, and sometimes even more, a miniature Snickers bar can give you a sense of satisfaction without going overboard., Some of us may struggle to stop at one cookie or candy bar, no matter how hard we try. Combining sugary options with healthy choices helps us fill up faster, leaving us satisfied and less likely to go overboard on cookies and cake. For example, try:


Dipping a banana in chocolate sauce.
Mixing chocolate chips in with your morning fruit and oatmeal.
Adding a single teaspoon of sugar to your morning coffee.
Eating a piece of whole wheat toast with Nutella or marmalade/jam.
 The holiday season can be a nightmare for people looking to cut-back on sugar, but there are ways to avoid over-indulgence during this time of year while still enjoying the festivities. A great trick is eating something high in healthy fat, a little protein and some fiber before going to a big holiday party or dinner. This will prevent overindulging. A great options would be an apple with natural almond butter.


Think about the alcohol you consume. Social drinking is a part of many holiday get-togethers, but spiked eggnog and hard cider can be packed with sugar. Opt for distilled spirits or wine, which are naturally low in sugar.
Pick savory treats over sweeter options. These tend to be higher fat, which can curb appetite and prevent overeating.
Limit your carb intake. Breads, rices, pastas, and other starches should generally be avoided. Opt instead for meats, cheeses, and produce.
Try freezing baked goods in sealed containers. When you have to wait for a cookie or pie to thaw, if gives you time to think about the consequences of indulging and also gives you time to fill up on healthier options.