 The mumps virus is no longer particularly prevalent today because most people are vaccinated as children. The mumps vaccination is usually combined with the vaccinations for measles and rubella, in the MMR vaccine. People who receive the vaccine are commonly considered to be immune to the virus.The vaccine is usually provided to children in two doses: one between twelve and fifteen months in age, and another at either age four to six or eleven to twelve.
Adults that have not been vaccinated should also receive the vaccine in two doses. A single dose does not seem to provide sufficient protection against the virus.
 The mumps is most commonly transmitted from person to person through infected saliva. It's important to avoid the saliva of anyone infected with the mumps virus.The mumps can be transmitted through the air via tiny droplets of saliva released through coughing or sneezing.
Do not drink from the glass of anyone you suspect to be infected with the mumps virus.
 If your doctor suspects that you have the mumps virus, a blood test is often conducted to confirm the diagnosis. Being tested for the mumps virus is the only way to know for certain that you have been infected.The blood test confirms a mumps infection by identifying the antibodies the human body produces to combat the mumps.
An oral swab is usually also taken to confirm the presence of the mumps virus.
 In the absence of complications, the mumps virus can offer a fairly easy recovery. Unfortunately, a number of additional medical issues can be caused by or exacerbated by the presence of the mumps virus. These complications are rare, but can be extremely serious.Inflammation of the testicles, breasts, ovaries, pancreas and parts of the brain can lead to significant health issues and even death.
The mumps virus can cause hearing loss in some people.
The mumps virus can possibly cause miscarriages in pregnant women.
 Unfortunately, because the mumps is a viral infection, antibiotics cannot help fight off the mumps virus. However, there are several effective treatments while the person with the mumps is symptomatic, including rest, hydration, fever or pain control, and time.You can apply warm or cold compresses to the cheeks to help with the pain and swelling. You should also eat more soft foods and avoid sour foods.
People are no longer contagious a week after a verified mumps virus test.
People often recover within two weeks of a positive mumps test provided there are no additional complications.

