 Suspect everyone, especially when you're not in a crowd.;
, The more people you have around you the better as they will alert you if anything suspicious is happening and help you if someone tries to hurt or kidnap you.
 If they want to harm you, why can't you harm them. Don't worry, the law protects you (within reasonable limits).
 It will increase your chances of getting kidnapped.
 Kidnappers usually prowl the streets in the dark for unsuspecting victims.
 It's better if it is a police station, firefighter station, or etc. If you're lost, go back to those checkpoints; they will assist you.
 It will help you, A lot.
 Run as fast as you can to a crowded area! .
 This time, it's about being chased. Scream out loud, ask for help. Don't hesitate or be ashamed. Your life depends on it. Don't stop screaming or your chances of getting saved will decrease. Getting discovered is a kidnappers greatest fear.
 Everything can be a weapon to help you. Throw rocks, garbage bin or anything, but not something that can be use as hand weapon like knife, long rod, etc.
 When you are safely hidden, call the authorities. Stay calm and quietly reveal your situation, location, the kidnappers face, kidnapper number and so on. If possible, don't get off the phone and make sure it is always switched on and with you so that it can be traced by the authorities.
 After hiding and if you see the chance to escape, don't hesitate, just go. If you have safely escaped, inform the authorities, if not, repeat the above-mentioned steps.
 Use your weapon. Target weak spots such as eyes, throat, heart, testicles and so on. Also try to kick them, to get them of balance. 

, Otherwise, it will make it easier to catch you.
 The moment they release you after being bit,run!

, If the kidnapper has succeeded in kidnapping you, don't despair. When going to the kidnapper location, leave trail such as pieces of paper or cloth along the way. This will greatly help the authorities.
 Things to analyze are the location, the street name, the window to escape.
 This will ease the investigation by police.
 This will increase your chances of escape.
 Locals might think something strange and will investigate.
 Keep track of their daily routine. This will be useful to escape.
 If you fail, try again. If successful, go to the nearest town, local police, church or mosque or any praying places, etc.

