 Good hygiene is very important for everyone. No-one wants to sit next to someone who doesn't shower/bathe or hasn't for weeks! Remember to shower daily, once on the morning or night. Be sure to wash your hair too, not everyday though, because it makes it dry but every two days is fine.;
, Make sure to use a cleanser, toner and moisturizer on your skin. If you have acne, or acne-prone skin try to not touch your face much, as it produces oils - just wait till it clears up.
 Make sure you have great hair by washing it, (but this depends on your hair type.) getting it cut every six weeks, and most of all, a cool hairstyle. You might want to change your hairstyle every two days to avoid looking boring. Try straightening and curling your hair. Ask your hairdresser for a style which suits your face shape. This can be anything, but don't pretend to be anyone your not to appease others! That's one of the most important part of being a pretty girl!

, You may want to create your own style or just go for a natural look. Whatever you do, make sure not to pile it on, its very hard to remove after (especially eye-liner!) and looks provocative..which is the last thing you want!

, You do not need to go to trendy stores to look nice! Go to other small shops so you can make your money go further. If you wear a uniform to school, make small personalizations! You don't need to look a drag just because you are wearing a uniform.
 Buy an inexpensive safety razor from your corner shop. It's a lot more hygienic because hairs hold onto 'smells' for longer. Also remember to shave your legs, underarms and arms (if you have hairy arms.) Try waxing your upper lip if hair starts to show. Some girls also get hair on there stomach. Its nothing abnormal, especially for darker-headed girls because It's a lot more visible. Just remember not to hurt yourself shaving! (Remember to get a tweezer to remove those stray eyebrow hairs too!)

, Staying in shape is very important for your health. Remember to drink eight glasses of water to give you glowing skin! Going to bed at a reasonable hour also works wonders..wonder why they call it 'beauty sleep'?

, Even the most beautiful person in the world wouldn't be as pretty if they didn't smile. Smiling is brilliant for drawing people to you. You will be surprised how many people will talk to you if you have a great grin on your face!

