 You can only take a course from an approved provider. Helpfully, there is a listing of approved courses by state on the U.S. Trustee’s website here: https://www.justice.gov/ust/list-approved-providers-personal-financial-management-instructional-courses-debtor-education.;
, Find the drop-down box labelled “Choose Option.” You can select the state where you are filing for bankruptcy from the states and territories listed. A list of approved providers will appear.


If you are filing for bankruptcy in Alabama or North Carolina, then you will find a list of approved vendors at the U.S. Courts website: http://www.uscourts.gov/services-forms/bankruptcy/credit-counseling-and-debtor-education-courses. The U.S. Trustee does not operate in these two states.
 All vendors provide services in English and Spanish. However, you can also search for vendors who offer courses in a different language. Go down the page at the U.S. Trustee’s website and look for the section titled “Approved agencies offering services in languages other than English and Spanish.”Click on the “Choose Option” box and select the language you want.
 If you have a question, then you should contact the Debtor Education Unit at the Trustee’s Office. You can reach them in the following ways:Call 202-514-4100
Email ust.de.help@usdoj.gov
Fax 202-305-8536

, Courses can be offered in-person, online, or over the phone. Once you pull up your listing of approved providers, you should check to see how they offer the course. Check “Delivery Method.”If the vendor offers in-person classes, then double-check to find the address where the class is offered. The listings include a “Main Address,” but this is the vendor’s business address. Classes can be held in different locations, which should be listed under “In Person.”

, From the results at the Trustee’s website, you can click on a direct link to the vendor. Many vendors will list their price on their website. If they don’t, then you can call to check.
 A course provider must notify you whether you can take the course for free or for a reduced fee based on your ability to pay. In fact, the provider must give you this information before obtaining any information from you.


Each provider has its own fee waiver policies. However, if your household income is less than 150% of the federal poverty level, then you are entitled to a fee waiver or reduction., Once you have selected a provider, you should contact them directly to sign up. You will need the following information, which you can find on your copy of court documents:the district where you filed for bankruptcy
your bankruptcy case number

, There are deadlines you must meet. For example, if you have applied for a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, then you must complete the course within 60 days after the first date set for your 341 Meeting of Creditors. If you miss the deadline, the court could close your case and you would need to pay a new filing fee to reopen it.You have more time in a Chapter 13 bankruptcy to complete the class. You must file your certification no later than the day you make your last plan payment.Since plans last three to five years, you have quite a bit of time to take the course. However, some attorneys recommend that you take it early.
 In a limited number of situations, you might not have to take the debtor education course. Check to see if any apply:no courses are available in your district (very rare)
you are on active duty in a military zone
disability or incapacity makes it impossible to take the course

, The debtor education course should take about two hours.It will focus on how you can make sound financial choices after bankruptcy. It should cover the following topics:money management
developing a budget
using credit wisely

, After you finish the course, the provider should send you a certificate of completion, usually through the mail or by email. Hold onto this certificate since you must file it.


If you have an attorney, then the certificate can be sent to them.
 You won’t receive a discharge until you file your certificate with the court to show that you have completed the course. You must also fill out Official Form 423 Certification About a Financial Management Course.You can get this form from your court clerk or download it here: http://www.uscourts.gov/forms/bankruptcy-forms/certification-about-financial-management-course.


Complete Form 423 and then attach your certificate of completion.
Keep a copy of both for your records in case any question arises later.

