 This doesn't have many questions, but it has enough to get your character really started. Don't go writing all the little details like hair and eye color yet.


You will need those, but right now, there are only a few questions. What is that person's main fear or phobia? What is their history? What is their name? What is their main drive to do what they do? What side are they on? Now, side can be a little tricky when you're writing a book.
But basically, characters are split into good and bad characters. Sometimes it seems unclear. But when you get down to it, what side are they on?;
, This is when you get a little more into it. Where are they from? Where are they going? Who are their friends and relations? What gender are they? These questions are as important as the little details. Even if you never say "Their best friend is George.", you still have to know these things as if it were you.


You need to be able to write these characters like you were writing about yourself. You never want to get confused.
 What is their eye color? What is their skin color? What is their hair color? This is what I call the color stage. These things are important for detail and writing your character with realism.


Notice how this is done in different layers? That's because you will write in layers. As you get to know a character in a book, you know more about them. These characters have to have different levels of detail like real life people.
 These are the little, tiny details that aren't very noticeable, but they make it seem like the character could leap off the page and dance any moment. These are little things like birth marks, scars, habits, and other things. They may not seem very important, but without knowing them, your character might and probably will fall at some point, when something like this comes up.
 Either on paper or on a computer program like Word, you need to write all this down. Every single detail, every single thing about a character, you need to record. And you need to do it before you start writing about the character, or preferably before you write the book. You need to know everything, because you don't want him to be a friend of the main character, then realize halfway through the book, when you first talk about him, that you never mentioned him before. You must have all the detail!

, Not write a whole book dedicated to this character, but it might be part of it. Just write a lot of information up until he enters the book. To the very day. It could be helpful in future books, or if you write a prequel. It will be very, very helpful to know the character like this. Read it through enough times to implant it in your brain.


You need to know a character by heart if you want him to come alive. Now, I'm not saying that every character who has a line or is mentioned should have a biography or should answer every question. But you should do it with every character that is mentioned often. It may also help to write this like you would an interview, and you are interviewing the character.
 This may seem like a lot of work, and I'm not going to lie, it is. But it is worth it. If you want a true character that your readers will love, or that they will get to know, you must do this. But when this is all done, with all the characters' information archived and ready to read, then you can start writing.


This is when you will most realize that the archiving is worth it. If you ever forget a detail, it is right there. But when all these steps are done, and your books is published, and your characters inspire people, then you'll realize, if you haven't already, that characters are what make up a lot of what makes books popular.

