 A conservation easement is a legally binding document restricting the use of private land in order to protect a particular resource. In your instance, you may be considering placing a conservation easement on your land to protect the wildlife. If you choose to enter into a conservation easement, you will in essence be selling or donating certain property rights to a nonprofit organization (called a land trust). The land trust will in turn have the right to enforce your promise and ensure the land is forever protected for the conservation purposes stated in the agreement.


You should investigate different land trusts so you understand who will be enforcing the promises in the easement and how they will be doing it. For example, the Wildlife Land Trust, Ducks Unlimited, and the Conservation Fund are all land trusts that advertise their ability to manage conservation easements focused on wildlife.Investigate your options prior to entering into an agreement with one.
While the land will remain in your possession and you will own it, you will be restricted in what you can do with the land. For example, you may not be able to build permanent structures on the land or divert water away from a natural stream.
A conservation easement is intended to last in perpetuity (i.e., forever) and therefore it may affect your ability to sell it in the future.Due to the complex tax and contract implications of executing a conservation easement, you should always contact a lawyer prior to signing an agreement. A lawyer will be able to talk with you about the benefits and drawbacks of participating in a conservation easement.
Once the easement has been executed, it should be recorded at the county recorder's office in the county where the property is located.;
, While hunting and fishing are regulated by each individual state, the actual acts often happen on private land. If you do not want to allow hunting or fishing on your land, you should make that clear. Purchase "No Trespassing" signs and place them around your land. Ideally you would also have your land fenced in, although this is not always feasible. Be careful to only post signs on your land and not anywhere else. It is illegal to place a sign on land that is not yours.If you do allow hunting and fishing on your land, you can help regulate how and when it happens. By doing so, you will ensure animals are hunted and fished sustainably and humanely. First, find out when official hunting and fishing seasons are and only allow activity when it is in season. For example, in Maine, deer season runs from October 31 through November 26.Contact your state department of fish and wildlife if you have any questions.
In addition only allowing activity in-season, you can also set rules for people hunting and fishing on your land. For example, you might only allow each hunter to kill one deer per visit. You might also limit the number of fish they are allowed to catch when they are on your land.
If you see illegal hunting or fishing on your land, you should contact your local police or sheriff's department immediately. Illegal hunting and fishing is a crime and individuals can be criminally prosecuted. Some states even have hotlines you can contact.This is one of the strongest deterrents available to help protect wildlife.
 The federal Endangered Species Act (ESA) prohibits the "taking" of a listed species from the wild without an exemption or permit. The ESA remains in effect on private land when a listed species happens to be present there. "Taking" includes harassing, harming, hunting, shooting, killing, or capturing. Listed species include endangered and threatened species, which are determined by the federal government.If you are unsure whether listed species are present on your private land, you can hire resource professionals to come out and examine your property. If listed species are found, you can make arrangements with your state fish and wildlife service or the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in order to get guidance on how to manage and protect your land.Even if you are not taking listed species on private land, you should report anyone you believe is. Listed species need to be protected and your help will undoubtedly achieve that goal. If you need to report a violation, contact your local or federal fish and wildlife service.
 Whether you have a big lawn, a small garden, or hundreds of acres of farmland, you should always know what types of chemicals you are putting on your land. While a lot of chemicals are advertised to make your lawn greener, your flowers bigger, and your vegetables bulkier, you do not always hear about how these chemicals can harm the wildlife. Always be aware of what you are buying and how it will affect the animals on your land.


For example, while insecticides will help kill or control insect populations, they can have unintended consequences on an entire ecosystem. Wildlife can be exposed to the chemicals directly by eating or drinking contaminated food or water. Some animals can breathe the chemicals in or absorb them through their skin. Predators (e.g., hawks and owls) can be contaminated by eating other animals that have been affected by the chemicals. Some chemicals will have direct affects on wildlife and can lead to death. Other chemicals can affect a population indirectly by interfering with their ability to reproduce.