 These grinders use small, spinning discs to shave apart each bean precisely, which produces a more consistent grind. Any grinder that comes with an espresso machine, or is attached to one, should be a burr grinder. You can also purchase a burr grinder separately, although it may cost several hundred dollars.

Low-speed burr grinders are less likely to burn the beans when grinding it fine for espresso, but may be more expensive than high-speed grinders.Conical burr grinders and flat grinders both have their fans; one type is not definitively better than the other.;
, You can grind as many beans at once as can fit loosely in your grinder, but keep in mind that ground coffee won't stay fresh for more than a day or two. If you want to grind only enough for one espresso shot, you may have to experiment to see how many whole beans to use. Typically, one tablespoon (15 mL) is enough, but results vary depending on the variety of coffee bean and how fine the coffee is ground. Regardless of how many beans you used, one espresso shot takes roughly 0.25 ounces (7 grams) of coffee grounds, enough to fill the filter on your espresso machine and add a small mound on top.., Almost every burr grinder model has settings for how fine to make the coffee grounds. For espresso, you'll want to make fine or superfine grounds. Some models have a numerical scale instead; with these, it's best to experiment with several settings to see which produces the cup of espresso you prefer.

A setting that works for one type of coffee bean may need adjusting for another type. If you frequently switch between beans, you might want to write down which setting works for each of your favorite types of bean.
 Take a small pinch of coffee grounds between your thumb and finger, then separate your fingers and examine the grounds. If the coffee fails to clump together and falls in separate pieces, it needs more grinding. If it is a powder that leaves an outline on your fingerprint, it is too fine and may not produce a good espresso. Finely ground coffee that clumps together on your finger is perfect for espresso.A burr grinder should produce consistent results, at least until it eventually wears down after many uses. Once you've found a setting you like for a particular bean variety, you don't need to keep testing every time.

