 This method works as an arm, wrist, or ankle cast. You could conceivably make it work as a leg cast, but it would take several socks or a couple of the very tall thigh-high socks. Find the sock that fits the “cast" you intend to make., Pull the sock onto your arm or ankle and mark it where the respective cast would usually end. You can check pictures of real casts to find the perfect spot.









For a wrist cast, you’ll mark both at the edge of your hand where your fingers begin as well as around your palm where your thumb need to exit.For an ankle cast, the mark should be approximately where your foot ends and your toes begin.
 Based on the markings you made with the sock on, cut the sock to the correct size for your cast. Don’t worry if the heel of the sock makes a small bubble around your wrist because you’ll cover it up later.









If you want to give your fake cast the proper thickness, you can cut two or three socks to the same size and layer them to give it the proper bulk.
 With the sock(s) cut to the proper size, you can now put them back on over the spot you want to make the cast. Now is the time to align the sock(s) as well, so place them in the correct spots both around your digits and further up your arm/leg.









If you have multiple, layered socks, then you should also fold the topmost one down about a quarter of an inch, so you can tuck it beneath the other layers. This will give the edges of your cast a rounded look like the real thing.If you by chance have a relatively smooth wrist or ankle brace in your possession, you can also place this under the sock to gives the “cast” added bulk without ruining more socks than necessary.
Yet another option is to wrap the area in a thick Ace bandage before putting on the sock. Not only will this option give the area the necessary thickness, but it’ll make it more difficult to move the wrist/ankle if you are afraid your movements might give it away that the cast is fake.
 You may see the material labeled as sticky gauze, self-adhesive bandage wrap, or by another name. The material is a breathable gauze that has a slightly dry, sticky feel and texture that allows it to stick to itself. Start at one end of the sock and wrap the gauze in a tight layer down the entire length of the sock.








You want to make sure that you’re completely covering the sock except for roughly 1/4” at the edges where you tucked the sock under. You also want to make sure that the gauze is tight to give it a perfectly smooth surface with fewer obvious lines of the gauze overlapping itself.
You may have to do a couple layers of the gauze to give the “cast” additional bulk, especially if you only used one sock.
The gauze comes in a wide variety of colors, so you can easily fake a colored cast.
 Once you’re done wrapping it, your “cast” is ready to go. For added effect, you can decorate it like people do actual casts. Have someone who’s in on the joke sign your cast with a couple of names and “get well” remarks to help sell it.









If you made an arm “cast” and really want to push the joke (and make it harder for people to examine it in the process), you can also keep your arm in a sling. This also helps to keep your arm in one place if you’re worried about your movements giving away the fact that your arm isn’t broken.
For a leg or ankle “cast,” consider adding a pair of crutches to the costume. You can usually find old crutches at a yard sale or secondhand store for a reasonable price.

