 Whether at a campsite or back country, the ground upon which you set up your tent affects the comfort levels dramatically. Look for a site that is level, free of jutting objects such as rocks, branches or tree roots and isn't too near water (wind blowing across water increases the chill factor inside the tent).
, Decide how much shade you may get at different times of the day before setting up your tent., Cramming too many people into a small tent is a recipe for discomfort. Always choose a tent that states clearly that it can carry the amount of people you intend to fit inside it. Err on the side of generous, especially if you like to include creature comforts such as additional pillows, books to read, games to play, etc. and you'd like some space between each other.

Bring several tents along if needed. It is better to set up a shared camping area than to sleep on top of each other. Besides, you can always have the fun of creating your own space outside the tent area as well.
Check that the tent is weather resistant. If you've had it for a few years, check for holes, weathered areas, broken items and mold. All of these things need to be fixed.
 This protects the tent floor, creates an additional layer between you and the hard, cold and wet ground and can help to keep the tent clean.

The moisture barrier can be a simple and inexpensive plastic painter's drop cloth. The function of the moisture barrier is to prevent ground water vapor from the seeping up into your dry tent.
 This prevents the rain and dew from ruining your camping trip., Spread the moisture barrier or tarpaulin sheet in an area slightly smaller than the footprint of your tent., See that the doors and windows will be where you want them. Keep everything as flat and smooth as possible. Make adjustments now, as it will be difficult to move the tent after the stakes are in.

Ensure that the moisture barrier is completely covered by the tent. If the moisture barrier extends further than the tent, it will become a moisture carrier... catching rain or dew and carrying the water into pools inside your tent. You don't want that to happen.
, If you have space in the car, also throw in the gym mats or outdoor lounge chair mats, for added padding over the top of the inflatable mattress. If it's comfort you're after, there's no such thing as too much padding., Put an older cover on it, to protect it. Even better, keep single bed duvets just for camping trips––cheap ones are just perfect for this, even the polyester filled ones. Place the duvets over the top of the sleeping bags for additional warmth and plenty of comfort.

Blankets are okay too, if you prefer them or want them as well as a duvet. Single bed or even baby blankets are ideal inside a tent.
 Bring at least one per person, or more if there's space. Pillows can double up as seat cushions during the day time. Bring plenty of pillowcases to keep things clean., Wrap yourself up in some thread count 500 inside the sleeping bag. Ooooh, cozy!, Why not? You're trying to be comfortable, after all. Hang some multi-colored ribbons or streamers from the roof or at the entrance, for a zap of color and fun., If you're in a large tent, the kind you can walk around in and that has several rooms, be sure to set up ample "real living space", just like at home. Include a pantry (these can hang or can be formed as little cupboards) and fill with food, but only if you're away from bear country. Otherwise, keep your food in the car or locked away in provided lockers.

Place cushions on the chairs and a rug or two on the tent floor.
Skip this step if you don't have enough room in your tent.
,

These can be fun, party lanterns, or normal camping ones.
 Flashlights, LED lamps, headlamps and the like are perfect for inside the tent. Avoid gas lamps in the tent––keep these for outside the tent areas, where it's safer. There are so many good LED solutions on the market now, that it's very affordable to have the appropriate lighting inside tents., Pack enough tiles to fit the inside dimensions of your tent. You will likely need 4 packs of foam tiles.

Do a test run at home to see how many foam tiles are needed for your tent.
, Usually, each square covers 11 or 12 square inches. Therefore, an assembled set of 8 should be almost 2 feet (0.6 m) by 4 feet (1.2 m). If your room is 8 feet (2.4 m) across, you will need to assemble about four sets., You should find that the sleeping area is extremely comfortable and cozy, as well as insulated against the ground. All this, for very little cost, weight and effort!, Avoiding carrying too much gear should be your primary concern, not "glamping". Nevertheless, it is possible to improve the comfort of your experience with just some simple changes., While costly, these are worthy the expenditure when you get a much more comfortable night's sleep. They not only provide padding but also help to insulate you against the rising damp from the ground under your sleeping bag., This can help you rest more easily at night and it neither weighs too much, nor takes up a lot of space. Various brands make these tiny camping pillows––look for a drawstring with a stopper that helps you to compress the pillow's size as much as possible., Clothing can be lain upon underneath the sleeping bag, it can be stuffed inside a jacket or pillow case to form a pillow and it can be used to keep drafts at bay. Everything must do double duty when you're packing light, so make the most of those clothes to increase your comfort––wrinkles are the least of your concerns when back country.,

Get a mat convertor. This will allow you to turn your sleeping mat into a chair for daytime use, which can be a lot more comfortable than sitting on the ground or rocks. These don't weigh a lot and are easy to fit into the backpack.
Use your backpack to lean against or sit on. If it has gear in it still, use a jacket or other clothing item to soften the gear, then make use of the backpack to lean on or even sit on, if the gear isn't breakable.
 Dollar store mats are ideal as they're cheap, tiny and light. While you'd probably not bother with such a cheap mat in your home, they're great for camping precisely because of their budget qualities, allowing you to place them in the tent flap entrance as a place to put your feet to remove and put boots on in comfort, avoiding wet grass or ground. This helps to keep the dirt and damp out of the sleeping area of your tent.