 Both the chair and half-chair poses are challenging poses where you'll really feel the burn in your quads. If it's too difficult for you to hold and breathe through chair pose, try alternating it with mountain pose on every other breath.Stand with your feet together, bend your knees, and lower your hips as though you are sitting in a chair. Raise your arms overhead, pressing your palms together above your head. If it's too challenging with your feet together, you can spread them to about hip-width apart. Hold the position for five deep breaths.
For half-chair pose, you simply cross your right ankle over your left knee. Otherwise everything else is the same as chair pose. Flex your right foot so that your knee is protected. Hold for five deep breaths and then repeat while standing on your right foot., There are three warrior poses, each of which works to stretch and strengthen your leg muscles, as well as helping tone the core and improve your posture. You can do these poses together in a sequence, or intersperse them with other poses.To do warrior 1, step your right foot forward from a standing position into a lunge. Your right knee should be at a right angle directly over your ankle. Extend your left leg out behind you, with your toes turned out so that the heel of your right foot bisects your left foot. Reach your arms straight up to the ceiling on either side of your head, palms facing each other. Take five deep breaths, then repeat with your left leg out front.
With warrior 2, your legs are in the same position as warrior 1. However, instead of reaching up to the ceiling, open your arms and twist so your arms form a straight line above your legs, your right arm reaching forward and your left arm reaching behind you. Hold this pose for five deep breaths, then switch and do the other side.
Warrior 3 is a balancing pose that stabilizes your lower body and strengthens your core. Come into a standing forward bend, then walk your hands under your shoulders. Shift your weight to your left foot, letting your left knee bend slightly, and raise your right leg high behind you. Adjust your right thigh so your toes will point towards the ground, pulling through your heel to maintain your balance. When you're steady, lift your hands and press your palms together in front of your chest. Hold this pose for five deep breaths, then switch to the other side.
 The half moon is a balancing pose that you can move into directly from warrior 3. This pose strengthens all of your leg muscles, while giving your inner thighs a good lengthening stretch and improving your balance and flexibility.From warrior 3, drop your right fingertips to the mat under your right shoulder and turn your body to the left as you open your hips, stacking your left hip on top of your right and keeping that left leg extended behind you.
Raise your left arm straight up toward the ceiling and shift your gaze to your left fingers.
Hold the pose for five deep breaths, then switch and do the other side.
 Extended side angle pose provides a serious strength-building exercise for your entire lower body, particularly your quadriceps. The key is to engage your legs fully and keep your body weight centered, not leaning on your arm.To begin extended side angle, stand with your feet wide apart, then turn your right foot out, so that your right heel bisects your left foot.
Bend your right knee at a right angle, your knee directly over your ankle. Reach over your head with your left arm, pulling your torso toward your right knee. Keep your torso long and flat, stacking your hips. You should feel a long line of energy running from the outer edge of your left foot through your left fingertips.
You can extend your right arm to the floor or bend your elbow and rest it on your knee. However, resist the temptation to simply lean on your right arm. Think of your upper body as weightless and let your legs do all the work of holding up your body weight.
Hold the pose for five breaths, then release back to center and switch to the other side.
 Balancing poses build a lot of strength in the standing leg. Tree pose is one of the more basic balancing poses and is accessible for beginners who may not have as much flexibility or have difficulty finding their balance.From a standing position, shift your body weight to your left leg as you bend your right knee and raise your right foot. Turn your right knee outward to rest your right foot on your left knee or thigh.
To find your balance, locate a focal point on the floor a few feet in front of you and lock your gaze on that point. Move your right foot until you find a position where you can balance firmly.
Once you've found your balance, stand tall, bringing your palms together in front of your chest in a prayer position. If you have trouble finding your balance, you can leave your arms extended outward at your sides for a little extra stability.
Firm up the thigh of your standing leg, pressing it against the sole of your foot. If you have good balance, extend your arms upward, reaching toward the sky.
Hold the pose for five breaths, with each inhale thinking of reaching upward toward the sky, each exhale pressing your left thigh and the sole of your right foot firmly. Then release to a standing position and do the other side.

