 Pass along that "Disability Manners 101" article or "How to Help a Depressed Friend" PDF. You don't have to be disabled to share disability resources! This is an easy way to educate people and promote understanding attitudes.
 This can educate people who don't have the specific disability, and provide emotional support to those who do. Your friend with Down Syndrome may light up when you dress up in blue and yellow to celebrate World Down Syndrome Day.


Check with the disability community before celebrating an event, in case it is run by a harmful group or promotes dangerous ideas.
 Stop calling people who disagree with you crazy, willfully ignorant people deaf or blind, foolish people -tards, or anyone stupid. These all refer to people with disabilities.They imply that disability is insulting, and that disability is antithetical to agreeing with your or having a reasonable opinion., The idea that suffering should be hidden contributes to mentally ill people's reluctance to seek help, and hinders understanding of all disabled people's problems.


Mentally ill people and autistic people can experience especially strong emotions.
Men face additional pressure not to appear "weak" or "girly." Rigid gender roles are not good for anyone. Treat men's emotions as worth sharing, and consider your own prejudices.



"Hey, that language is really hurtful to people with disabilities. Please don't use it."
"That's not fair. Would you treat a non-disabled person the same way?"
"How do you think a Deaf person would feel if they heard you saying that?"

, Calling others out can be a very scary thing to do (especially for disabled people), and you need to make it clear that you're a safe person. Listen, apologize, and work on doing better.


If you cannot accept criticism with grace, then you are probably not ready for activism.
 You never know who is disabled, nor do you know who is struggling or having a really bad day. Give second chances when people make honest mistakes. Treat people as having equal human dignity, no matter how difficult it is for them to pass a test or brush their own teeth. All people, disabled or not, deserve respect.

