 SSRI are often prescribed to treat aggression, urine spraying, and compulsive behaviors; however each of these can result from an underlying medical condition. Aggression could indicate hyperthyroidism, central nervous system issues, and painful conditions like arthritis or dental disease.Urine spraying could indicate urinary tract inflammation, kidney disease, thyroid problems, or diabetes.The vet should give your cat a physical examination and blood screenings to rule out potential underlying issues before prescribing an SSRI.  ;
, A cat’s liver and kidneys process an SSRI, so you should make sure these organs are in good health before giving your cat an SSRI. Have the vet test your cat for kidney and liver disease and overall metabolic function.If your cat takes an SSRI long-term or will take one for the rest of its life, you should have its kidneys and liver screened at least once a year., Medication costs depend on the type of SSRI, brand, dosage strength, and dosage form. If cost is an issue, talk to the vet about ways of reducing treatment cost.

Many generic SSRI are available, so if the vet recommends a more expensive brand, ask if there’s a less costly generic option.If you have trouble administering pills but other dosage forms are more expensive, ask the vet for a pill dispenser or crusher. Ask if they can recommend a liquid or gel form that’s more affordable., An SSRI is not a substitute for behavior modification and training. If you’re dealing with a fearful or aggressive cat, combine medication with desensitization training for best results.For example, if your cat is afraid of or acts aggressively around people, try having someone stand in the next room within visual range of your cat. Pet it, use positive verbal reinforcement, and offer treats to encourage it to reassociate other people with good things. Over the course of several training sessions, have the other person stand gradually closer to the cat until they can offer the cat a treat.
If you need help modifying your cat’s behavior, ask its vet to recommend a certified animal trainer or behaviorist in your area.
 SSRI are often prescribed to treat indoor urine marking. You’ll have the best success treating this problem by using feline pheromones with medication. Have your cat wear a Feliway collar or spray pheromones around your house.Your cat won’t want to mark areas where it can already detect pheromones.
Be sure to stop your cat immediately if you catch it marking and clean up soiled spots with a pet odor neutralizer to deter future marking.