 You can quickly alienate an anxious child by telling them that their fears are silly. Instead, empathize with them. Your child will trust you if you show them you understand why they’re afraid.For instance, if your child is nervous about making friends, you could say, “I know it can feel scary to meet new people sometimes.”
Avoid reinforcing your child’s fears. Just focus on making them feel understood.
 Encourage your child to face their fears, but let them decide when they’re ready to make the leap. If you push your child to do something they’re unprepared for, they will fear the situation even more next time., Make sure your child knows there’s nothing wrong with them for being anxious. Tell them that lots of people are anxious sometimes and that there are many different ways to manage the feeling., If you act anxious in certain situations, your child will learn to be anxious, too. Provide a good example by acting confident and showing your child how to manage anxiety appropriately.You don’t have to pretend you’re never afraid. However, you should focus on the actions you take to manage your fear.
For example, if you’re anxious about an oncoming storm, emphasize the behaviors you take to stay safe, such as staying inside and keeping an emergency supply kit on hand.
 When your child expresses anxiety, help them get to the bottom of it. Once you’ve discovered their root fear, you’ll be better equipped to help them develop coping strategies.For instance, if your son is anxious about going to school, a discussion might reveal that he’s nervous about talking in class. After finding this out, you could help him come up with some ways to make talking in class less scary.
 When your child feels anxious about something but does it anyways, tell them how proud you are. The positive reinforcement will build your child’s self-esteem and motivate them to keep working on overcoming their fears., While family support is important for your child, they should also see a therapist. A therapist can give your child Cognitive Behavior Therapy. In this type of therapy, the therapist will talk to the child to identify the causes of anxiety and teach them healthy coping mechanisms.