 As soon as you make your doctor's appointment, take out your phone and put it in the calendar. Most phones will allow you to set up an alarm reminding you that your appointment is coming up--five minutes, an hour, even a day or a week ahead of time. They key is to set the reminder the moment you make the appointment (or learn someone's birthday).


You can set up recurring reminders, too. So if you have to pick up your little sister after tennis practice every Tuesday, you can set up a reminder that will go off every week.
 Have you ever heard of someone tying a piece of string around their finger so they won't forget something? The idea is that the string around their finger is so odd that it will remind the person of what they are trying to remember.You can make associations in all kinds of ways--the more out of the ordinary, the better. If you need to do something on your computer, place something unusual on the keyboard (like a toy boat or banana) so you remember you're going online to pay your bills, not to look at cute cat pictures.
 If you are going into the bedroom to get your medication, quietly chant "medication" to yourself as you head toward the bedroom. Repeating the thought or idea keeps it active in your short-term memory (which normally holds information for only 10-15 seconds). This will help you avoid the problem of walking into a room and then wondering, "now, why did I come in here?"The more you access a thought or "use" it, more likely it will end up in your long-term memory, which can store information indefinitely.Singing about your task can also help you remember. Pick a simple tune like "Twinkle, Twinkle" or one of your favorite songs, and sing about how you're going to take your medication.
 Always forgetting your wallet? Write "WALLET" on a sticky note and place it square in the middle of your door.Try this method when you need to accomplish something on your computer--the distractions on a computer are so numerous, it's easy to get side-tracked. Put the sticky note on your computer screen, and then move it to the edge as a reminder to stay on-task.

