 Once that connection has been established, they're much more likely to both recognize you and treat you like a friend by honing in on you through the crowd. A regular, known customer is always going to garner more favor by the sheer reality that we're biased toward the people we're familiar with and like. Of course, if you're known for being a drunken boor, they're not going to be won over by you because knowing you means knowing your drunken escapades. So keep it real and stay a nice patron at all times.;
, There will be moments even on a crowded night that the way to the bar is clear. Like traffic, the surge comes and goes and just happens to increase more at certain times because we tend to attract people through the power of suggestion - by being there all at once, surely none of us are missing out on whatever he's having and she's getting. If you swan up whenever you get the whim, expect the crowd to be as it is. However, if you watch the crowd's movement with a keener eye, you'll know the perfect moment to jump up and grab that next drink before the bar crowd regroups and conceals the clear pathway again.


Of course, this relies on being reasonably alert, which is not something you can always ensure around alcohol. Presumably though, if you're not alert enough to notice when there's a gap to the bar you can slip into, you're too drunk to care about crowds anyway.
 When you do have to contend with the bar crowd, keep it well mannered. Don't push, prod or stab anyone with a cocktail stick. If you do, it'll happen back and you've only got yourself to blame.
 Many people hang around the bar because they can. Or because they're chatting up a member of the bar staff, they're unsteady and too afraid to let go of the bar or they've seen people sitting at bars in the movies and think that leaving the bar will mean they don't look cool. Not to mention the people who won't leave the bar because... it's crowded. So, once you're at the bar:


Place your hand on the bar itself, your empty hand.
Make sure your cash is visible. If the staff see a "quick drink", they'll sell it. However, waving notes around is likely to see you drop down the queue.

Look eager and seek to make eye contact very determinedly.
Avoid looking petulant, angry or woeful. All of those facial poses put you to the end of the queue. After all, when you finally explode in a fit of self-righteous pique, it's a free form of entertainment for the rest of the crowd.
 The bar staff won't serve someone whose focus is clearly elsewhere and you're unlikely to notice they're signaling even if they do gesture that they wish to serve you. The process is - obtain drink, then chat. Besides which, by buying two drinks, you can open the chat with even greater ease.
 He or she will be searching for the next person to serve and if your eyes meet first, then you're it. If not, keep aiming your sights until you connect.



Be patient. Bar staff know when you're not and they're not averse to leaving you to stew just a bit longer by way of a lesson, especially if you've yelled out something like "Hey you Blondie, I was next". Smile sweetly and realize that you're not the only one waiting and that soon enough, it'll be your turn. Saying "whenever you're ready" is tantamount to saying "hurry up". When they're ready, they'll come and see you.
 It's not very helpful to finally squeeze your way through the crowd to stand there dumbstruck about the drink choices when you've had all that time waiting to make a choice. Use that time to work it out or if your buddies gave you a list a mile long of orders, have it written down on a list – or your hand. And is your cash ready? Avoid pulling the "Oh, I thought you took credit" stunt when you know it's a cash-only event too! And be aware that credit card payments are slower and hold up bar staff; they're more inclined to grab your easy cash (and tips).
 Once you have the attention of the bar staff, be a nice person. Smile, ask them how their night is going and make your order clear and succinct. And tip fairly and as big as you can, or buy them a drink too. The bar staff won't forget a good tipper and will be sure to remember you the next time you make your way through the thronging crowd to the bar.


Remember your manners. Please, thank you and "you're very kind" go a truly long way. Bar staff are people too.
 This dastardly but very sound ploy can keep you well away from the crowded bar, leaving you free to enjoy the booming music and continuing your shouting conversation with your remaining friends. And in turn, send each of those friends to the crowded bar until you're the last one left, by which time it is to be hoped that the bar crowd has thinned somewhat.


Each time a buddy goes to the bar, make sure he or she is loaded with orders for everyone. Even if someone ordering for the whole table needs someone else to carry or remember the drinks, once they have the bar staff's attention, they can just keep on ordering and signaling to one other to turn up and fetch the drink. You could even use a phone text signal - if the place is noisy, have the phone call receiver set their phone to vibration.
 You don't have to endure the impossible. If there is a less crowded bar out there, it needs your cash and still provides the same drinks. Maybe it's not as cool but your presence there will improve that factor and if you drag along your friends, you can make a fun night out of being at the less-crowded bar and making it your own special place.

