 If you want to do a little more than just be a general nuisance in class, acting out in goofy ways can get you a couple of detentions, when done properly. Here are some ways to get up and disrupt class physically:


Wait until everything is silent. Get up and start doing press-ups. Do it until you get to twenty, and then roll over and start doing sit ups. If you do it making as much noise as possible, then before you get to five press-ups the teacher will ask what you are doing. That's your cue to say, "Well, I don't want to look like you, do I?"
Sit on your chair upside down. Make sure your head is where your legs should be and your thighs are stood up where your upper body would be and your legs are dangling down the back of the chair.
Walk out of class. If the teacher asks why, just say you were thirsty or you forgot a pencil from your locker. If you really want to get your teacher mad, say you're leaving because you're bored.
Do the exact opposite of what the teacher says. If she says to turn in your papers, keep it under your chair.
Be tardy as often as possible. After a few times, you'll get a detention.
Put your head down and try to fall asleep in class. Snore loudly. Don't get up when your teacher calls on you.
 You don't have to just annoy your teacher. If you're bothering other students, they might tell on you, and you'll end up in detention. Try poking them, throwing things at them, or starting pointless conversations with them. Here are some other ideas:


Pass notes around, or better yet, throw them at random people, including the teacher. Avoid making other people look guilty so that the teacher can tell it is you.
Throw pencils or pens.
Shoot spitballs at random people. Yell "DUCK AND COVER!" and shoot a whole bunch at once. Hit the teacher as often as possible, if you're daring, but this could merit suspension.
Set up folders around your desk. When the teacher asks, say "I'm afraid someone will cheat!"
For no reason, duck low and do an air-raid-siren sound. Then point at your teacher and say, "We're being bombed again by Hitler!"

, If the teacher decides to take your cellphone away, refuse to hand it over. This may result in many detentions and/or your device taken away.


Take your iPod or iPhone. Try to watch a movie. For a little extra annoyance, eat a lot of popcorn or candy with the movie. People will ask for some and it might distract people from the teacher for a while.
If you listen to your iPod, listen to your music as loudly as you can. Dance to it, too. If your teacher decides to take away your iPod, refuse to hand it over.
 In some classes, the following steps might not get you into much trouble, but in others they might be detention worthy. Check out your specific classroom rules for more ways to get detention:


Chew gum in class, or eat something. If your teacher doesn't notice, blow big bubbles and pop them and smack your lips loudly. Offer other students a piece, or charge them for it.
Sit in your seat, and do nothing. This can irritate the teacher very much, and you could get in trouble.
Eat, and do so very rudely and loudly. Bring in a bottle of soda, a water bottle, a cereal bar, or a small bag of chips. Chew with your mouth open. Gargle the drink. Then, choke on it and spit it out all over someone.
Bring in your whole makeup bag, a brush, and a small mirror. Pile it across your desk and make yourself pretty! If for some reason the teacher doesn't notice, ask her if your lip-gloss is too dark or your eyeshadow too light.
Get changed in class. Wear a tank top and shorts. Put a shirt over the tank top, then a hoodie or another shirt. Put jeans over the shorts. Wear flip-flops. Take them off, and put on socks and tennis shoes.
 When nature calls, you can have a good excuse to cause a big scene. Or even if nature isn't calling, you can fake it. This will annoy everyone in the classroom:


Ask to go to the restroom in the middle of an important lesson or a test. When the teacher says no, wait five minutes and ask again. Do that about three times. Grab your crotch, raise your hand, and yell out "I GOTTA GO PEE! OH, OH PLEASE! I GOTTA GO PEE!"
Run to the trash can, lean over it, and make puking noises. Wait until everyone looks over. Take your head out and laugh, saying "I GOT YOU NOW, DUMBHEAD!!"

