 Organ transplantation is one practice of the surgical medical sciences that is of recent age only. Organ transplantation is used in the case of complete failure of the function of certain organ in the body of humans. An example is the surgical procedure of liver transplantation. This surgical procedure is often used with patients who had complete liver failure for a long time and reached an end stage liver failure that requires the immediate medical intervention of a new functional liver transplantation instead of the diseased nonfunctional organ. This procedure is currently used with all other organs transplants in the body of humans. This surgical procedure usually depends on the availability of a suitable alternative organ to be implanted in the body if the patient.;
, The immediate source of such an organ would be an organ donor that is usually one member of the family that this specific patient belongs to. This is so due to the matching of genetic materials between these two persons. Organ transplantation poses few problems and obstacles that make this surgical procedure in humans a handicapped primitive procedure in the current practice of the medical sciences. One of the problems that faces such a procedure includes the obstacle of rejection of the Implanted organ by the patients immune system. This is usually the case with all organ transplants that occur in the world. This problem is currently faced by the medical procedure of immune cells suppression using suppressing agents such as the hormone cortisol. This procedure is however very unpredictable in its outcome and relies heavily on luck more than on medical information and professional knowledge of the subject. Also if this process of organ rejection by the immune system of the patient is overcome then other problems can arise later.
 The fact that the implanted organ has foreign tissue to the body of the patient is an obstacle for the normal metabolic function of this implanted organ in the body of the patient. This implanted organ has in most cases cells that are foreign in their nature to the host body. For this reason this poses another problem that will likely make this organ transplantation not live for a long period of time. The usual search for a donor of an organ for transplantation in the body of a diseased patient is in my opinion not the right choice to do. This is so due to the two main obstacles that were mentioned previously. A more logical and possibly more successful choice would be to use organs that are natural to the patient biological tissues.
 This choice of natural biological tissue of the patient can survive the two obstacles that were mentioned previously of organ rejection and of the problem of odd metabolism due to the presence of foreign cells in the transplanted organ in the host body. This procedure is however limited by the unavailability of this type of organ to implanted in the body of the diseased patient.
 Currently stem cells research tries to solve problems in this direction. Stem cells research is however limited to the production of certain types of new cells that are capable of regeneration and proliferation in the body. This type of new cell research can have certain advantages but also has many limitations. A more promising subject of medical science in this direction would be related to the basic medical science that is called embryology. This basic medical science of medicine deals with natural development of the fetus in the uterus of the pregnant woman. This development of the fetus into a baby can form one subject of research in the direction of finding suitable organs for transplantation in the body of diseased patients. The development of the particular organs in the fetus can be modeled and used to generate organs that have superiority over organs by foreign organ donors.
 By knowing the mechanism that underlies the development of that particular organ in the embryo one can use this to mimic it for the production of highly promising organs for transplantation in the body of needy patients. This subject still needs to developed further using advanced biological as well as mathematical models such as the mathematics of geometric shapes that is called topological sciences of mathematics. I think that the fetus in every pregnant woman has common features to all pregnant women. This is true for the general same shape of all newborn people. They differ however in their biochemical content of cells and enzymes. By knowing the mechanism of development for each organ in the body in the embryo one can use this mechanism to synthesize new and freshly made organs from the native tissues of the diseased patient to be transplanted in his body.
 I think that the embryo in all living organisms has predestined and preprogrammed outcome that is identical for all humans. This can only suggest that there is common mechanism that underlies the development of these fetuses for all common organisms such as in humans. The topological features of each animal shape differs from each other. Each living entity has its own topological structure that is unique for him. This shape or structure of every living system should be modeled and understood mathematically in order to be able to mimic its formation on the biological and cellular levels. This can be done by doing specific research on these topics instead of wasting resources of money and time on useless subjects of current medical issues.

