 Click this link to navigate to Skype customer support. Only Skype customer support can completely delete an account. Whether you want your own account deleted, or you want to report an account impersonating you or stealing your identity, this is the place to start.;
, Enter your Skype username and password to log into the customer support website. If you don't remember your password, return to the sign in screen and click "Forgotten your password?" below the Password box.


If someone has stolen your account and you cannot access it, follow these instructions to get the account suspended. You can then submit an account recovery form to regain access to your suspended account.
 After logging in, you'll be asked why you need customer support. Choose the topic that matches your problem. Most commonly for account deletion requests, your reason will fall under one of these categories:



Account and Password → Deleting an account


Security & Privacy → Identity theft / Account takeover


Security & Privacy → Report fraudulent activity


, A few links to FAQ answers will appear, but unless you are looking for answers to specific security problems, these are unlikely to be helpful. Click Next instead to be taken to better options.
 Click Text chat support to open a new window and chat to a customer service worker. Ask him to delete your account permanently, and let him know why you want it deleted. Once a worker is available, the conversation might be done within a few minutes.It can take up to 2 weeks for your account to be permanently removed.You may want to remove your personal details from your account before then, as described below, to make your account harder to trace back to you.
 The Skype community service website has had problems in the past. If you get an error message or don't see the chat window appear, try the following workarounds:Make sure your browser preferences allow pop-up windows.
Try choosing a different help topic (such as "Security & Privacy" instead of "Account and Password").
Use a different browser, such as Firefox or Opera.
 If chat support is still not working, you can contact Skype support by emailing your request to contactus@skype.net instead, or by filling out this form. It can take 24 hours for Skype to respond to these methods.

