 Warming up really helps your voice develop it's natural tone and is a necessity before singing. Try these warm ups:


First warm up: Try singing five different notes on a scale on a piano. Go up and down, saying "KEY" on the way up and "OH" on the way down.






Second warm up: Use the same basic idea of the first warm up, only do "HO, HO, HO, HO, HO, HO, HO" instead. Do small notes on each "HO", but put energy into it.





;
, It can help to get your energy out before any performance. Try these warm ups:


First warm up: Lift your arms up to the sky and take a deep breath. Stay in this position for 20 seconds and let your arms down. Do this the second time for 30 seconds. Go in a sequence from 20 to 30 seconds, (20, 30, 20, 30 ,20, 30) and that's all. Ten times is more than ideal.






Second warm up: Go to a nearby swimming pool to begin your second warm up. You should breath in and go under the water for about 10 seconds, then come back up and breath out. Repeat about 5 times.
 The first golden step in composing a song is to have a concept on what you going to sing about. It could be about coldness, the wind, break-ups, scandals, love, or anything else you have a passion for. Many creative experts get the idea of a song by going through a situation and making a song based on it (such as a relationship).


Do not name your song. This may cause confusion, especially if you aren't completely sure on the base of your song.






Making lyrics is thought to be difficult but this is a necessary stage in creating a song.
 Music meshing is just mixing what you previously created in the last step with music. Say you made the lyrics and have the concept of the song, you just have to add some music. Think of some notes or tunes for a possible song and work on it.


It can be difficult to think of music, so you may have to use instrumental methods to make your music track.






Try music mapping. It is simply mapping your music out based on instrumental. Take your instruments and think and make music with each of them. Like using a guitar for some chords and using drums for some beats. Make chaotic music with the instruments.
 Take a song based on wind for example: as raging as the wind I blow, into this one and only blow I make destinies one and then you can make music using various instruments. Just think ideas about your song and frame them into lyrics.
 Find any mistakes and clarify them. Take your time and make your song music to other peoples ears. Mark each and every line, clause, sentence or word where a type of music is needed to be played. Make choruses and also have a rhythm.
 Have playback with your fellow bandmates and have a rehearsal.
, Rock bands must rehearse a lot before concerts, and must write many songs in order to be paid attention to.
 Repeat the procedures taken in order to write one song. As stated in the previous step, bands must continue publishing songs in order to keep up with the public.

