 Tickling sets off involuntary muscle responses in our bodies, meaning that we can’t control our reaction in laughing, smiling, or shrieking.Most people are ticklish in some way, then, whether all over or just in a small “tickle spot.” You won’t have to look far to find a target.


Choose someone you know, as most strangers will not take kindly to a random tickle.
Even if you know the target, be sure that he’s comfortable with being touched. Target someone like a close friend, sibling, or cousin.;
, Some people love to be tickled, while for others the experience is very unpleasant. We laugh during tickling because it is an automatic reaction, not because we necessarily like it or because it is enjoyable. Non-consensual tickling has even been used as a form of torture in the past.Be sure that the target will have fun with your surprise attack, or else you may cause him physical or emotional distress. Some people have a deep dislike for tickling.
Have you tickled your target before? Did he just laugh, for example? Or did he fight back, ask you to stop, or try to run? You may want to hold back in the latter case.
 Some places on the human body are more prone to ticklishness than others, like the soles of the feet, the toes, and the armpits. For your tickling reference, know these spots and target them.


Other high-priority tickle areas include the belly, the sides (around the ribcage), the backs of the knees, the back of the neck, and the ears.
Your victim may be more susceptible to tickling in one or more of these areas than in others. Experiment. Find out where he is most vulnerable.
 Another way to heighten the experience is to vary the kind of touch you use when tickling. Mix it up. Sometimes a light stroke is best, while at others you should really aim for a full on hard tickle.


For example, try sneaking up on your target and lightly touching the back of his neck with the tips of your fingernails. This sort of touch is the kind that sends shivers up the spine.
A lot of females have long nails. This can be a big advantage for you when tickling someone by spider tickling (lightly running all your fingers) or stroking.
To get a bigger response and more laughter, take both hands and really go for the person’s vulnerable spot.
Mix up speed, as well. Tickle fast at times, and at others tickle slow.

