 Look for the Facebook app on your mobile device. It’s the one with the app icon with the Facebook logo. Tap on it to launch it.
 If you logged out of your previous Facebook session, you will be asked to log in. Enter your registered email address and password into the given fields, and tap “Log in” to continue.
 Tap the button with three horizontal bars on the upper left corner to bring out the main menu. Tap “Friends” from here, and you will be brought to the “Find Friends” screen.
 Before you go on searching for new friends, you may want to start reviewing friend suggestions left by some of your current Facebook friends. Tap the “Suggestions” button on the header menu bar, and you will see a “People you may know” section that contains the people Facebook thinks you may know based on your mutual friends and communities.


The list here can be very long. It keeps on expanding as you reach the bottom.
If you find someone you know and will like to add, tap the “Add Friend” button beside his/her name. Your friend will be notified and he/she has to accept your request before you two become official Facebook friends.
 Another option you may want to explore is looking at your friend requests. Tap the “Requests” button on the header menu bar, and you will see a “Friend Requests” section that contains the people on Facebook who have sent you friend requests that you haven’t answered yet.


If you find someone you know and will like to add, tap the “Confirm” button beside his name. You will now become official Facebook friends.
 If you already know the name, email, or phone number of the friend you’re looking for, you can do a search to see if he is on Facebook. Tap the “Search” button on the header menu bar. You will see a search box at the top.


Enter the name, email, or phone number of your friend, and tap the “Search” button on your keypad. A list of people matching your search parameter will be displayed. Browse through it.
If you find someone you know and will like to add, tap the “Add Friend” button beside his/her name. Your friend will be notified and he/she has to accept your request before you two become official Facebook friends.

