 You will need to do this at least six months ahead of time, unless you expedite the process and you are from a country that doesn’t require a travel visa. Your passport must be valid for six months after your trip to the World Cup.;
, Most European countries, like the United Kingdom, Ireland, Switzerland, France and Russia, you do not need a visa; however, there may be a limit of 30 to 90 days on how long you can stay. However, US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand citizens require a travel visa for any trip to Brazil.In general, Middle Eastern and African citizens also require travel visas. European, Central American and South American citizens generally do not require a visa.
Restrictions will change for future World Cups. Your need for a visa will always be determined by the visa requirements of the host country.
 If you need a visa, travel visa fees can be waived if you have a valid match ticket for the World Cup. Go to FIFA.com to buy tickets and then print out a copy of the tickets and the receipt.


If you plan to go to Brazil and purchase tickets from a kiosk, your travel visa will be processed like any other travel visa, and you will be responsible for the $160 processing fee., Press search to find the city or country specific Brazil Consulate Website. It should end with the suffix “itamaraty.gov.br.”


For example, the Brazil Consulate site for Boston is boston.itamaraty.gov.br.
There are consulates and consulate websites in Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Hartford, Washington D.C., Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York and San Francisco.
 Portuguese is also available.
 Choose “Tourism” as the type of visa you are looking for. If you are planning to work in conjunction with the World Cup, you can choose “Business” and go through a different visa application process.
, View whether you are required to submit the application in person at the consulate or whether you should apply by mail.
, Type in your personal, trip and passport information. Click “Next” to fill in additional sections.
 Print the form after you have completed it online. Sign the form.
 It should be two inches by two inches and have a standard white border. Ensure you have a full view of your face.
 Print a copy of your travel itinerary, including flights and hotel information if you have them. You must prove that you will arrive in Brazil before July 13th, the final day of the World Cup., Take a number when you arrive. You can apply for a visa without an appointment at most locations from 9 am to 12 pm on weekdays.
 You must leave your passport at the location. They may ask you to show a second photo ID to confirm your identity.
