 This will be the chin of your tiger, so you can draw it the right size for you. If you want a big tiger, draw a wider U and for a small one, a small U, just don't make it a thin U, as this will look too long.
 Make sure the ears are the same size on both sides, and are at the same level for a symmetrical, more professional look., Draw a line from the bottom of one ear to the bottom of the other. This should complete the outline of the head, so that it looks like a proper tiger., This will be your tiger's nose. Don't make it too thin or too wide, draw it to fit on your tiger's face correctly., This is is the tiger's mouth, and is also a simple way to draw a lion or kitten's mouth., Just to the left of it, draw a line that curves down into the line on the side of the nose. Do the same on the right, curving the line down and into the side line of the nose., You have two options for coloring them. You could just colour them black for a simple look, but for a shiny look, draw a tiny circle in the corner of the eye, then color all of the eye black, apart from that tiny white circle., Repeat on the right, and be sure that the muzzle is the right size to fit the face, just like with the nose., Add a line on the right too, and draw them to be the same length, as a lopsided tiger won't look as good as a symmetrical tiger., Leave a gap in the middle which will soon become legs. The lines you draw across should be the thickness of the leg - if you want skinny legs, leave a large gap in the middle of the lines, and for fat legs, a smaller gap., You should leave a gap between the head and the end of the line. Do this in both sides., The line you draw should be straight with no bumps., Connect back into the body, and don't do the same on the left. This should only be done on the right to add a 3D effect., Draw stripes on it, and color the one closest to the tip of his tail black. Also add little black triangles coming out of the sides of his face, three on each side for stripes. Do this to the sides of the body too., Done! You have a tiger!