 While Vaseline is not a moisturizer, it can be used to soften skin and lock in moisture on dry skin. You can use Vaseline as a spot-treatment for dry skin, especially during winter, helping to protect skin exposed to adverse weather conditions.


Apply Vaseline to your elbows or knees to help moisturize the skin and rid the areas of any ashy texture or appearance.
If you have callouses or rough spots on your feet, apply a thin coat of Vaseline at night then slip on some clean socks. Your feet should feel a bit softer the next morning.
Apply a small amount on dry spots on your body before fake tanning lotions are applied. This will help to prevent uneven tanning.Use petroleum jelly after shaving. It can be used to smooth and soothe clean, freshly shaven skin.;
, Used alone or in tandem with makeup, Vaseline is a commonly-used and cheap product to highlight the natural beauty of your eyes. As long as you’re very careful to avoid getting petroleum jelly into your eyes, Vaseline is perfectly safe.


Use a touch of Vaseline mixed with powder eyeshadow pigment to make new colors. Or, use it for a more solid eyeshadow that won’t get all over your face when you put it on. Some people like to apply Vaseline under eye shadow to create a shiny effect.
Vaseline can be used to tame unruly eyebrows, by brushing a small amount across them. Similarly, you can use Vaseline to define your lashes and leave them with a glossy and waterproof look.Apply a thin coat to your eyelashes before you go to bed. While unproven, many people think that Vaseline may help your eyelashes grow longer and thicker over time.
 Rub Vaseline onto your cuticles several times a day for softer, better-looking cuticles. Vaseline is often used as part of a manicure, to help make the cuticles pliable for tending back. It's an excellent way of caring for your fingertips.


Make your week-old nail polish look new again by rubbing a small dab over the polish, helping to restore the glisten and shine.
 In cold or dry weather, a very small layer of Vaseline applied to chapped lips can help retain moisture and keep your lips from drying out. Some people like to apply Vaseline before scrubbing lips with a toothbrush to exfoliate and leave them feeling smooth.
 While it may seem odd, applying Vaseline to the teeth is an old stage-hand trick, used to get dancers and other performers more enthusiastic about grinning. Vaseline prevents your lips from sticking to your teeth, and is a common preventative measure taken when applying lipstick. Done correctly, Vaseline can help avoid getting lipstick on the teeth.


Use caution and only apply a very small amount of Vaseline to your teeth. Nobody wants a mouthful of petroleum jelly.
 Small amounts of Vaseline can be effective at managing hair, locking in moisture, and treating dry scalp issues that you might be having. You want to use Vaseline sparingly, since it's very difficult to wash out, but it can be an effective treatment in some cases.


Use Vaseline to reduce scaling and itching associated with dandruff. Condition the scalp with Vaseline pre-shampooing, massaging it gently into your scalp before a shower.
Use Vaseline as a mask around the hairline when dyeing hair. It can protect against harmful hair dyeing, perming and straightening chemicals.
In a pinch, a very small dab of Vaseline can be used in place of mousse or styling gel. Smear a tiny bit on your hands and scrunch through your hair for a choppy look.
 One of the most common and effective uses of Vaseline is in helping to prevent chaffing-related rashes or irritation caused by clothes. Runners and cyclists will often apply a small amount of Vaseline to the insides of the thighs to avoid chaffing during a long race. Some people struggle with nipple chaffing caused by certain articles of clothing or varieties of fabric. If you have a problem with chaffing, apply a preventative coat of Vaseline to the area to keep yourself moving.

