 This foam is the harder solid form that has a smooth feel to it. The ball can be any size. SmoothFoam is used here because it's durable and doesn't crumble or scratch as easy as the regular Styrofoam. Also, the finished project will not collapse from the inside under the weight of the trimmings, coverings and if you press on it too hard or sit, or step on it by accident.

If the ball is not already halved, get a saw or serrated knife saw it in half. It doesn't have to be perfect. Look for a seam line that perfectly divides the ball in half equally, and cut along that line as straight as possible. Saw and sand the uneven cuts and edges with sandpaper as needed.;
, SmoothFoam has a "fake Rolex Watch" or reptile egg texture not really suitable for Christmas. There are countless ways to do this.

If the ball is to be completely covered with glitter move on to next step.Same for anything that'll cover the texture.
Cover the ball with plaster, speckle, moulding paste etc. Get creative with textures using various methods and techniques .
Get sandpaper and rub it against the foam. Do this until the original texture is not seen.



 


Different grades of sandpaper produce different textures on the foam. Also experiment with other scrapping tools like nail files or wire brushes.
Coarse sandpaper will give the foam a rough rocky look.
Medium sandpaper to fine sandpaper will give a more sugary or sandy textured ball.
Ultra fine sandpaper can give a very fine smooth texture like a pearl.
 The ornaments here were painted but other items and techniques can be used. Unless using the flat side as a background for a lacy or open design nativity scene leave this blank. Make sure this covering is suitable for attaching the nativity scene.

Paint the SmoothFoam Ball curve side with good quality gold acrylic paint. Good quality acrylic paint is thick like toothpaste or butter and sticks to the foam ball nicely. Find these in the Fine Art section of the craft stores or in a art supply store. Liquitex© Acrylics is a good one. There are also many water-based inks and gel mediums which also are safe for the foam. Bad quality acrylics are watery and runny making a dripping mess. Also they have a tendency to peel off even after drying out or slide off the foam as well.

For rough balls and glitter paint: Daub paint from the tube on a section and spread the paint over with the brush over half or fourth whatever suits you the best until that section is covered. Let that dry and repeat the step on a different section until the ball is covered. For white spots that are peeking through dip a soft brush in paint and push the paint into the crevices that are what is peeking through. Let dry.

For smooth pearl balls: Put a small daub of paint on the top the dome and with a sponge brush press down and drag the paint to the bottom. Go to another spot and repeat until the ball is covered. Try also a very soft bristle brush but this will not be as smooth as the sponge brush and leave stroke lines in the paint finish. Let the paint dry. Once it dries use the ultra fine sandpaper or a scouring pad and gently rub the ball buffing out paint lines bumps until it's perfectly smooth. Wipe the crumbs with a soft brush or cloth and repeat the painting process and buffing again and again until the ball get's a reflective quality like a pearl when dry.
Another good idea is pinning beads, buttons and other decorative things to the ball until the curve edge is completely covered. Try covering the curve edge with fabric.
Reference other Wikihow articles, books, craft blogs, websites to find lots more Styrofoam covering ideas.
 Use a thick, heavy duty  glue that won't melt the foam. If using hot glue use the low temp versions or settings. Some glues just don't work. So experiment on scrap foam and paper before using on the main project.


Look around for nativity scene pictures in a number of religious books, children's religious books, magazines or in Christmas song books. You can find religious Christmas cards. Another good idea is to find nativity fabric or jewelry and pin/glue that on as well. Also look for nativity art on the web to print and download.
Some Christmas cards have a glossy finish that can distract from the picture. Remedy this with some card de-glossing solvent sold in craft stores.
Some stiffer and thicker papers and cards like in some children books are difficult to cut. Use heavy duty scissors or a crafts knife.Try copying them via machine or just use the thinner and softer ones instead. Also resizing to the perfect size on the printer/computer can be a hassle.
Some thicker cards are really a number of thin layers that can be peeled apart.
Thicker as well slicker, glossy papers don't stick easily to foam directly. Try roughing the back up before gluing with sandpaper for better adherence or glue it on a rougher paper that'll adhere to the foam better. Also press down on the paper for a few minutes to let the glue get a chance to grab and set.
As for positioning the picture on the ball, there are many ways to do this:
Trace the circle of the ball on the picture after measuring and editing the elements you want in the picture on the ornament. Trim the circle a wee bit smaller and glue.
Cut out figures from the picture and glue them on the painted background alone or as a collage.
 Good quality paint is pretty much permanent and water resistant. But if you feel if you need too protect a precious sentimental card, glitter coatings, or the whole ornament use Modge Podge or any water based sealant approved for Styrofoam and following the instructions on the package to protect the ornament.

It's a good idea to seal finishes with glitter so the glitter doesn't fall off the ornament leaving it bare or end up all over the place.Sealing a picture will protect it from looking beat up over time and also will protect it in case there's a spill, water, which will help it last for years.
 Make sure the trimming fits around the edge easily. Gathered lace ruffling makes a really pretty edge. Also make sure to cut enough length of trimming to go around the edge and extra before gluing. It's easier to cut away an extra inch than having to add that missing inch later.

A grand effect is created by placing a very wide lacy or pleated fringe (1 to 2 inches wide) around first then a narrower denser one on the inner edge of the first framing material.
 Use one of many ways to attach a loop for hanging if the ornament is to be hung.

Dip a decorative straight pin in the glue or add a bead to the pin press almost all the way into the ball. Take a cord or ribbon and tie in a bow or slipknot around the pin beneath the bead then press the pin into the ornament. You can also pin though the hanging material or through the knot of a ribbon or cord.
Press a hairpin or jewelry hook into the foam deeply. Dip the pin to the glue first before inserting. Leave the loop or hook poking out. Hook an ornament hook through this loop like a tradition glass ball ornament.
Repeat the first suggestion only pressing the pin all the way into the ball then filling this indentation with speckle and smoothing it out. Allow the speckle to set and cure before hanging.

