 Though swimming can temporarily reduce your menstrual flow, a tampon will eliminate any flow. Also, especially in a pool, it is not sanitary for you to go in the water with your friends without inserting a tampon or a menstrual cup first. If you are not yet comfortable with these items yet, you should try using them at home before you go swimming. Tampons: If you are already used to wearing tampons, they are perfect for swimming. You do not have to worry about any leakage, since they expand as necessary to fit your body. Be sure to hide the string by tucking it into your bikini bottom and you are good to swim in clear water, wearing any swimsuit bottom. Remember to change your tampon every few hours if you have a flow, and to never wear it for more than eight hours.

Cups: Though menstrual cups are not as commonly used as tampons (yet), they are inserted into the vagina and sit at its base to collect menstrual blood. They can even last up to ten hours, which is more than the eight-hour maximum wear for a tampon. Just like a tampon, the menstrual cup is functionally invisible. It suctions to your body so that no blood escapes, and when you use the cup, you don't even have to worry about hiding a tampon string.
Swimming wearing a pad or a pantyliner is not advisable. A pad will just get wet and soggy if you go in the water, and it will be unable to absorb any leakage. If you just wear it in your suit, it will swell and may be noticeable and probably uncomfortable.;
, If you are wearing a tampon, you might need to make a few changes throughout the day if you will be around the water for an extended period of time. Take a few more supplies than you think you will need, in case your group decides to enjoy the day and stay a little longer. If you want to change from a tampon to a pad once you are done swimming and change into normal clothes and underwear, you can bring those, too.


If you are wearing a tampon on a heavy day, change it every three to four hours.
If you are wearing a menstrual cup, you probably will not have to worry about dumping it out while you are there — it can stay in for up to 12 hours. Still, bringing an extra one just in case will not hurt.
Also, it is likely some other woman in your group may need a tampon.
 There are a lot of lies out there when it comes to your period. Don't listen to anyone who says that swimming with your period is unhealthy, or even that your menstrual blood will attract sharks if you swim in the ocean. Ignore anyone who tells you that your tampon will absorb too much water if you swim with it in. There's absolutely no truth to statements like this, and you are free to swim any day you want to, whether or not you have your period., Though this is not necessary, if you are really nervous about your tampon string showing or just feel a little uncomfortable down there, you can wear shorts to give yourself some extra protection and to put your mind at ease. Buy a cute style that does not look too baggy, and slip them on over the bottom of your swimsuit. For extra peace of mind, buy them in a dark color.


Mens-style "board shorts" often look great with bikini tops and is a style that does not draw any attention or curiosity.
You can also fib and say you could not find your swimsuit bottoms or had to borrow your brother's or something.
 Though your menstrual blood is not likely to leak through to your bikini bottom if you've inserted your tampon or menstrual cup correctly, you can also put your mind at ease by wearing a darker-colored swimsuit. Choose a cute color such as dark blue or dark purple and prepare for a fun day of swimming ahead.


You can also choose a suit that's a bit thicker in the bikini area so you don't have to worry about your tampon string showing.
 Swim with confidence! Do not constantly fuss with your suit or twist around to check your rear every 5 minutes — that is a dead giveaway. Excuse yourself from the water and run to the bathroom for a quick check if you're really nervous about something going wrong.. Try to ignore it and enjoy yourself.


Set up a buddy system. Ask a close girl friend to alert you if she notices any problems.
 Though there's no sure-fire way to feel perfectly normal during your period, there are a few things you can do to minimize any cramps or bloating you may experience during your period. Avoid fried, salty, or generally unhealthy foods, along with caffeine. If you're really in pain, take Motrin or another pain relief medication that can ease your troubles. Sometimes, the best thing you can do is just to get in the water and forget about any pain you're feeling., If swimming is too uncomfortable, if you're just not feeling well, or if you just cannot feel confident about going in the water on your period, back out gracefully. Say, "I'm not feeling up to it right now" and soak up some rays instead. If everyone in your group is a girl, they will probably understand immediately. If you are in mixed company, the boys won't bother you about it.


Find ways to interact with the group, even while they are in the water. You can sit at the edge of the pool and put your legs in, time races from the shore, or cheer any contests from the sidelines.
Remember that this is only a last resort if you really don't feel comfortable. You should feel confident enough to go swimming whenever you want — period or not. Menstruation is a natural process that should make you proud to be a woman instead of ashamed.

