 If you’re having your wedding reception catered, contact your caterer and inform them that there will be gluten-free guests in attendance.Ask them to prepare at least one or two gluten-free dishes (e.g. one main and one side). Since going gluten-free is currently a popular dietary trend, the catering company will most likely be used to providing a gluten-free option.


If you do not have a caterer, but family members or friends are preparing the food for your wedding reception, you’ll need to have a similar conversation with them.;
, Ask your caterer (or the friends and family preparing the reception food) to provide a list of all ingredients used in preparation. This way, if wedding guests are unsure whether or not they can eat a certain dish, you’ll be able to inform them about the specific ingredients.Cooks and caterers who are not familiar with serving gluten-free food may accidentally include gluten in a dish. If you find out the list of ingredients ahead of time, you can warn the cooks and caterers and request that they remove the gluten.
 Since many popular wedding foods contain grains such as barley, wheat, and rye, it’s a smart idea to provide fruit and vegetables for your reception. Gluten-free guests will be able to eat these if nothing else.You could serve a seasonal fruit salad, or a vegetable-based salad, in addition to a more traditional Caesar salad.
 If you’ll be serving alcohol at the wedding reception, keep in mind that beer also contains gluten.If your gluten-free wedding guests are over 21 and plan to drink, either find a gluten-free beer to serve, or offer a wine option.


Ask your catering company what they usually do when bringing alcohol to a wedding that has some gluten-free guests attending.
 At the reception itself, you’ll need to signal to guests which dishes are gluten free and which contain meat or other animal byproducts. Do this by placing a small sign reading “Gluten Free” in front of the respective dishes.As is common practice, note “Chicken,” “Beef,” etc. in front of other dishes as well.


The catering company will likely provide these signs if they’re used to serving events with gluten-free guests.

