 Keep in mind that although there are many familiar tools to remind you what your diet should consist of, like the USDA Food Pyramid, those methods are changing. Refamiliarize yourself with updated dietary suggestions like nutrition, calorie intake, and portion sizes.Dietary needs are different for everyone and are often based on a wide range of information. Consult your doctor or healthcare professional to find out the necessary information, like weight, sex, age, and medical conditions, required for making the most informed dietary decisions.
 Eating a significant amount of high-quality protein will help reduce depression, stress, and anxiety, and will even help with mental clarity. Try and resist eating low-quality industrially produced protein, like hotdogs and salamis, that are known for causing heart problems and cancers.Fish is a great low-fat source of protein that also happens to be rich in essential fatty and omega acids.Chicken breast, whether roasted, steamed, or baked, is another high-quality, low fat option.
 Making sure each meal has at least some of the necessary nutrients needed for a healthy lifestyle can have tremendous effects on your health.


Eat healthy fats, like monounsaturated, polyunsaturated, and omega-3.
Be sure to consume vitamin B and vitamin D. Both vitamin B and D are essential, especially to those over 50, as your body begins to naturally produce less of them., Simple carbohydrates and sugars often spike blood sugars levels causing overeating and mood swings. Cutting down on these ingredients, while replacing them with natural sugars and complex carbohydrates, will improve your health immensely.Try and avoid rice and white flour. Instead, replace them with whole grains or beans.
Avoid sodas and sweetened drinks.
Instead of adding sugar to your meals, try and find sweetness naturally, like in fruits.
 Eating fiber helps boost much needed digestion as your dietary tract becomes less efficient as you get older.


Opt for whole grains rather than processed and simple carbohydrates.
Eat whole fruit rather than drinking fruit juice.
Take a supplement to make sure you are consuming enough fiber.
 The importance of staying hydrated, no matter what your age, can never be stressed enough. Drinking enough water a day will help you avoid urinary tract infections while keeping your brain and metabolism functioning to the best of its ability.Getting older can often mean a dulling of thirst. Keep small routines, like drinking a glass of water every time you leave the room, to make sure you stay hydrated.

