 The nutmeg is the inside part of a yellow fruit from the nutmeg tree, namely the kernel.The ripened fruit splits open to reveal a hard, black nutmeg. This nutmeg is dried for culinary usage. Mace is the inner case of the nutmeg and looks like webbing. Mace has a more delicate taste than nutmeg.;
, There are two ways to purchase nutmeg.


The more common way is to purchase it pre-ground in glass, plastic or cardboard containers for ready sprinkling. Nutmeg purchased in this way should be used quickly to get the best flavour, as the flavour deteriorates over time in contact with the air and aromas of the kitchen.
The preferred method for the sake of ensuring excellent aromatic, spicy and nutty flavour is to purchase the nutmeg in its whole state.You will need to own a nutmeg grinder/mill or nutmeg grater in order to be able to grate the nutmeg; some companies sell the nutmeg in a makeshift grinder as part of the supermarket or gourmet store sales package. It is better to spend a little and buy a solid, metal nutmeg grinder that will last you a long time, if not a lifetime. Alternatively, you can use a rasp-style grater (such as a Microplane) to grate your nutmeg. Freshly ground nutmeg can't be beat; its aroma is heady and the taste spectacular. Whole nutmeg will keep for at least one year.
 Nutmeg goes well with certain types of savoury dishes:


Cheese dishes
Pumpkin - pumpkin soup and mashed pumpkin
Soups
Spinach
Ravioli
Cannelloni, especially the vegetarian version
Add pinch or two to cooked greens such as spinach, chard, kale, etc.

Stews, haggis and sausages
Middle Eastern curry dishes
Porridge

, Again, nutmeg goes well with certain types of sweet dishes:



Custard, including rhubarb and custard

Cake, especially spice cakes
Puddings
Vanilla pastries

, Nutmeg is ideal for:


Sprinkling over cappucino or latte froth
Sprinkling over milkshake froth
Sprinkling over chai froth
Adding to milk and soy smoothies
Adding to eggnog

Infusing spiced or mulled wine

In Dominican Republic ground nutmeg is often added to the black coffee when brewed in the coffee pot

