 When they arrive smile, and say "hi", then let them come in. Be polite and friendly, and make sure to ask them how they are.


Introduce your friends to people in the household they don't yet know.
Offer compliments on how they look and offer gratitude for any gifts that they bring with them.;
, If it is the first time at your house give them a 'house tour', to let them know where everything is. Be alert to the fact that it's better to show guests the bathroom and let them know where they can do such things as change a baby's diaper, grab a glass of water, etc. without having to ask you direct.


If there is somewhere your friends shouldn't go, such as a baby's room, an elderly person's room, etc., make this clear. It's better than having them embarrassed by wandering into baby's room and waking baby up when looking for the bathroom, etc.
 If possible, have a selection of drinks (water, orange juice, apple juice, coke, lemonade, etc.) to make sure that you have something they like. Always have fresh, clean water on hand, and make sure all cups and glasses are clean for your friend to drink out of.


If you don't have a lot of room or money to spare, ask what sorts of drinks they like before they come over. Remember this for future visits.
Keep an eye on the drinks during the time your friends are with you. Offer top ups as needed.
 Have a small platter set up in advance. Some good snacks include:


Chips
Cheese
Crackers
Dip.
 Have a couple of board games on hand to play, and some magazines to look at. If you have a garden, ask if they would like to go and play outside. If you have a pool, and it is warm, before hand ask your friend to bring their bathers so you can go swimming. Having a chat over the nibbles is also a great way to spend the time together.


If the friends are children, have things ready for them to do.
 If you noticed they were carrying something but seem to have forgotten it, ask about it.


If your friends brought food, see if they need the dish back. Either clean it now or offer to return it later if this is impractical.
 Say that you've had a wonderful time and hope that you can all get together again some time soon. Let them know that they are welcome again any day.

