 Everyone is. Do you think it's weird to suddenly start yapping with the stranger next to you about nothing in particular? It's not! Chances are they are just as bored and fed up as you are, with the god-awful food, rogue baggage falling from the overheard bins, and last minute flight delays. An off the cuff remark on any of the aforementioned items is bound to get you, at the very least, a slight snicker or a sympathetic nod. And that's when you know it's time to make your friendship move...;
, Hey, what's that you have there, a little itty-bitty vacuum sealed cheesecake slice? At this moment, you'll remember you're lactose intolerant and politely offer it to the criminally attractive gentleman next to you. Few can resist the pleasures of a pretty smile and vacuum packed cheesecake. Next thing you know, you're talking about the best restaurants for lactose intolerant folks and how much you miss cheesecake. You exchange food for friendship. It's really that easy.
 In other words, bait them. The road to friendship is a two way street and you certainly shouldn't feel like you have to make the first move every time. But how do you get the other person to make a move? Simple, if you're traveling with a laptop, notebook, iPad, or well-known book, make sure to whip that baby out ASAP! When you have your device at your fingertips just start jotting down(or typing) things you have to do for work or places you want to see when you get to your destination. Write big/use large font and make those things sound incredible! If your jobs sucks, well here's your opportunity to start writing about those movie ideas that have been running around your head. Can you draw? You lucky devil you! Now is the time to break out that pencil and start sketching whatever comes to mind(bonus points if you can sketch the guy next to you). People love eavesdropping and spying on whatever their neighbor is doing. I'd give it a whole two minutes before the casual "Oh, wow, I'm reading that book too, how do you like it?" comes out. Or the ever popular, "That's such a great sketch, are you an artist?". Oh, the sweet sweet victory.
 Everyone has to use it. And whether you're flying two hours or twelve, there will always be a line; such is the way of the world. Lucky for you, that means more bumping into potential buddies! But what does one talk about on a bathroom line, you ask? Not the obvious, of course. Is someone on the line wearing those little fuzzy socks they give out to protect your feet from the frigid re-circulated air? Great, comment on how ridiculously cute they are! Ask "Are they really that warm?", followed by a warm playful chuckle. The conversation should unfold naturally.

