 You do not have to have a fancy schmancy system to be an avid couponer. You may actually find that dealing with a binder (or whatever system you use) is cumbersome and needless. Use what's available in your house already -- don't go spending money for the purpose of saving money.


Use a big zipped baggie and paper clips. If that doesn't sound up your alley, grab a shoebox. Repurposing your old goods is greener, too.;
, Something that comes with individualized sections already does half the work for you. You can place labels on each of the tabs in the sorting system that you choose.


Accordion files now come in all sorts of shapes and colors; some are plastic and bendy and others are more like a box. Think about the volume of your coupons and what your needs are.
Use a small accordion check file for your purse or a clutch. That way when you go to the store, you're not carrying around all of your coupons.

The downside to an accordion-style coupon organizer is the accessibility of the coupons. Because coupons are merely stacked on top of one another within each category, they are difficult to see and often stick together.
 One of the most popular methods of organizing coupons is in a binder. With fewer coupons, they virtually collapse. With more, they expand to just about as big as you need. If you're serious about couponing, get a 3" or 5" binder -- the 1 inch (2.5 cm) ones just won't do.


Use trading card sheets. They keep all your coupons separate and easy to reference. You can find these at toy stores, hobby shops, or sporting good stores.This style of coupon organizer allows your stash of coupons to be easily viewed, readily accessible and simple to take into the store. The downside to this system of coupon organizing is the bulk of the binder.
 Since couponing has become so trendy, products and companies have sprung up as a result. Now you can find little gadgets dedicated just for coupon organizing.


Most coupon organizers have pages for shopping lists, a coupon stacker section, a coupon tracker section, scissors with a blunt tip, and a carrying bag., Surprisingly, couponing isn't just about coupons. You need more than just your system to stay on top of things. Couponing is a lifestyle and you'll need everything to be as easy as possible.


Keep scissors with your system. Otherwise they'll be easy to lose as a family member or roommate may misplace them. What's more, keep a pen and paper handy. You may need to write a grocery list, take notes on stacking or plan meals.

