 Ensure that you’re getting the potential health benefits from the curcumin in turmeric by maximizing its bioavailability, which describes how easily your body can process particular nutrients. Curcumin’s natural bioavailability is quite low, as it is poorly absorbed, quickly metabolized, and mostly eliminated by your body.Fortunately, you can easily increase the bioavailability of turmeric by consuming it with black pepper.


Make a mix of the two spices that is about 3% black pepper and 97% turmeric. This way, whenever you add turmeric to anything, you’ve already got a built-in bioavailability booster.About ½ teaspoon mixed into ¼ cup of turmeric should be the perfect ratio.
Specifically, black pepper contains piperine — which is the chemical that aids your body’s absorption of curcumin — by about 2000%!, If pepper isn’t your thing, or if you’re looking for another way to maximize bioavailability, mix turmeric into coconut, flaxseed, and olive oils. One of the reasons your body gets rid of curcumin so easily is that it’s not very water-soluble, and fatty foods can help maintain curcumin in your system long enough for your body to absorb it.Add a few dashes of turmeric to your oil-based salad dressings. You can simply add turmeric right to the dressing bottle to avoid forgetting!
Sprinkle turmeric right onto an avocado, and eat as is.
 Blend cashews, coconut flesh, and olive oil into whatever thickness you prefer for dipping or spreading. You can always add a bit of coconut water to thin the dip. Add garlic, turmeric, and ground ginger to taste. Don’t forget to include some black pepper!Eat the dip with fresh veggies, especially sweet peppers, snap beans, and raw broccoli, as these all contain quercetin, another nutrient that increases the bioavailability of curcumin.
 Quercetin is actually a pigment that is commonly found in foods with rich colors — including various fruits and leafy greens. It helps your body process curcumin circuitously, by inhibiting a naturally occurring enzyme in your body that deactivates curcumin.Eat more dark red or blue fruits especially, including cranberries, blueberries, and black plums. Red grapes, apples, and other berries contain some quercetin as well.
Make salads that include red leaf lettuce, raw kale, chicory greens, raw spinach, and onions.
Pair a meal that contains turmeric with red wine or green tea, as these contain quercetin as well.

