 You can use an artificial Christmas tree in almost any room except for where there could be an open fire nearby, such as a kitchen or another room where a fire could erupt at any point via a cigarette or other type of fire-creator/lighter.;
, Clean away any pieces of furniture that sit in that particular area and vacuum the area to kill all the dust mites and spider webs that may have accumulated there.
 Some stands come already in one piece, while others require a little assembly. If the Christmas tree stand comes in multiple pieces, you'll need to attach piece by piece, making sure they are all facing downward the same way in the radial direction. Typically, these pieces/legs slide onto the main base easily, as long as they're facing the right direction.
 Most newer trees come in two or three sections, ready to be easily connected. Start with the bottom piece, slotting the bottom of the pole into the top of the base. Then tackle the second and third sections, one by one. For each one, you'll see a connection point in the interior of the tops and bottoms of each section, where two poles slot into one another. The instructions on the box for your particular tree can also offer further help. With pre-lit trees, you'll have to connect the pole and the electrical cord for each tree piece.
, Most artificial Christmas trees are stored "bunched up" and can look very sparse when you unpack them. Push some of the branches into a more-realistic looking place instead of having them be tightly folded up. If your branches are the wire variety, you can bend them into your desired position, spreading out the branches and angling them slightly up, ready for decorations.
 Add lights (if the tree isn't a pre-lit tree), tinsel and ornaments to the tree. Try to hang heavier ornaments only on the bottom (if they hang near the middle or top, they could fall off and break, or even break a branch which could lead to an uneven tree the following year, which could lead to having the user buy a brand new artificial tree). Use the top area for light ornaments and the bottom for medium weight and those too heavy or too expensive (too cherishable). Decorate the tree just as you would decorate a normal real tree.
 Most people stick with a traditional angel or star, but feel free to be creative and do something different, too.

