 Saving on heating cost is a subject that every homeowner is interested in.


Most homes have different heating zones for each room or a limited number of rooms on a single zone. This is much more efficient than heating rooms that are not occupied.
There are other choices available for heating different rooms with different types of heat. In houses where boilers provide hot water heat to baseboard units, air handlers are also used whereby the hot water in converted to forced hot air for a portion of the house.
In addition, infrared heating zones are often used in single rooms as stand-alone heating units.;
, Infrared heaters work on infrared light. Infrared light isn't visible because it's beyond the spectrum that we can see; therefore the heat that is produced is a product of light that is invisible to our eyes. Basically an infrared heater heats the object in a defined space. We get warm from an infrared heat because our skin and clothes absorb the infrared light and the heat is transferred to our body. It's like the difference between being directly in the sunlight versus sitting in the shade. We feel warm in the sun because the light that hits our clothes and skin keeps us warm.
 There are several different kinds of infrared heaters on the market today.


Some direct their infrared light straight into a room or space to create heat on the object it reaches.
Other infrared heaters contain three parts that create heat: infrared light bulbs, a heat exchanger (such as a good metal conductor like copper) and a fan that blows air onto the exchanger to create the heat.
 Depending on the application, infrared heaters can use propane gas, natural gas, and electricity. For homes, the most common heat source for infrared heaters is electricity as stand- alone heaters. Stand-alone infrared heaters can save you as much as 50 percent on your home heating bills. They can pay for themselves in just a few weeks use. They are much less expensive than propane or pellet stoves, cost nothing to install or maintain, and can keep you warm for pennies a day. You can turn your central heating system down low and only heat the room that is in use.


The big advantage of a stand-alone heater is that you can move it from one room to another as you change rooms. It takes just a few minutes to get a room warm and comfortable.
 Stand-alone portable heaters range in model sizes that can heat from 300 square feet up to 1000 square feet. Many models have a programmable thermostat to start the heater just before you get home and your favorite chair will be warm and ready for you.
 Portable infrared heaters are ideal for single rooms, garages, workshops, basements, and cold spots in your home. Even though they produce a lot of heat, the type that have cabinet enclosures don't feel hot to the touch. They don't require clearance space around them and you don't have to worry about your children or pets getting burned. They are much more effective than regular electric space heaters, safer, and are much less expensive to operate.

