 Voices are made up of 3 registers. These registers are the chest register, the head register, and the middle register. Each register corresponds to the range of notes you will sing from that section of your body.Head voice is the higher register of your singing voice. When you sing high notes, the vibrations will resonate in your head or skull. Put your hand on the crown of your head and the back of your neck as you sing higher notes to feel the vibrations.Chest voice is the lower register of your singing voice. When you sing low notes, the vibrations will resonate in your chest.
Middle voice is the middle register between your chest voice and head voice. It may feel more like chest or head voice, depending on your range. This is where your voice will transition from the chest to the head to properly sing the notes.;
, Everyone has a natural register to their voice. Some people have nasal voices while others have a chest voice. If you have a nasal voice, you sing higher and may have difficulty with low notes. If you have a chest voice, you can sing lower notes.


Place your hand on your nose. Talk to yourself. Then place your hand on your chest. Say the same thing you said before. Where did you feel the vibration? If you felt it in the nose, you have a nasal voice; if you felt it in the chest, you have a chest voice. If you feel it in both areas, you have a balanced voice and can sing both high and low notes equally., Your vocal chords have to relax as you lower your pitch.Tension in your vocal chords is going to result in the notes getting stuck in your throat. As you go higher, your notes will have less sound and power, or will sound like you are shouting.Warming up your voice before singing helps you relax the muscles. It gets the blood flowing and loosens the muscles in the throat so you can sing properly.
To relax your vocal chords, release a sigh. Let the sigh go down as low as you can vocalize. Roll your shoulders to release tension, and then move your neck from side to side. Sometimes you can relax your vocal chords by reducing the tension in that area.Also try moving your head back to look up, and then lowering your chin to your chest. Make sure to drop your shoulders and relax.Expand the back as you inhale to relax the vocal chords. This is especially helpful when you are going from high notes to low notes.
Train yourself to relax the outer muscles of the larynx. To sing properly, only the inner muscles are need., When you sing, you want to keep the notes high in your head, using only your inner throat muscles. When the notes fall back into your throat, you start engaging your swallowing muscles, which shouldn't be used for singing. You will be able to feel the notes if they are in your throat instead of higher in your head. By activating your swallowing muscles, you limit your tone quality as well as your vocal range.


Put your hands on your cheeks while singing. Try to keep the sound above your cheeks. This will help keep the notes from dropping down into your throat.
Visualize that you are singing up when singing a low note. This can help counteract the urge to drop the note., Water helps relax your vocal chords. After drinking water, find the most comfortable note you can hit. Make an "ah" sound and let your voice drift lower. Try to do intervals of 5 as you move on to lower notes. Keep drinking water as you do this to keep your vocal chords relaxed.


Don't force your voice down. It should naturally drift. If the tone starts to sound bad or you find your voice hurting, stop.
 Singing low notes takes less power, and the notes will have less volume. Sometimes when singing low notes, the rib cage is not lifted as much as it should be. This causes less power and less support of the notes.Make sure to breathe properly when singing low notes. Breathe using the diaphragm, and hold the ribs high without letting them droop.
Push your stomach in when singing the note.
 As you go between singing high notes to low notes, you need to switch gears. If you continue to sing in the same register even as you sing lower, you'll hit a plateau where your notes start sounding awful.You need to move from the head into the chest.


As you descend from head voice to middle voice, the sounds thicken. With each note, you should feel the sound moving from head to mouth or neck. Practice descending scales over and over, and practice them slowly until you start to transition from the head into the mouth and finally your chest for low notes., Not all voices are made to do the same thing. You may not be able to sing low notes if you are a soprano. This can be frustrating, but you must perfect and work with the instrument you were given., When you feel resonance in your face while singing low notes, you are controlling your low notes. This is exceptionally important since you don't want to lose control of your low notes. Start by humming. You should feel some kind of vibration in your face. If you don't, shake your head slowly from side to side so you can relax your throat. Continue practicing for as long as it takes to feel the resonance.


When you feel facial resonance, hold a note in the middle of your range by singing "Mee." Gradually lower the pitch of the "Mee"s.
Your volume will decrease, but the vibration in your face should still be there and your tone should sound good., To sing low notes, you should increase your range. This should be done gradually so as not to damage your voice. As you work on increasing your lower range, do it one note at a time. You want to perfect each new note so that it is well supported, feels comfortable, and sounds good before trying to add more notes. You never want to continue lowering your register if the notes are incorrect, strained, or sound terrible.


Work on increasing your range by practicing short exercises where you sing through a small interval of one half or full step at a time., Many people speak with chest voice instead of head voice. To get the notes into the low range, start by speaking the words in your lower register. This can put your vocal chords in the right position.After saying the words, sing the same words. Your vocal chords should be at the correct spot to sing in the lower register.
If you are going from high to low notes, think about speaking the words. Set your mouth and voice up for speaking the words, but sing them instead. This can help you while singing. If you have practiced speaking and then singing, it may be easier to think it and adopt the proper vocal chord position.
 Tapping your chest while singing helps you feel the vibration in your chest, which indicates you are singing with chest voice. The point of this exercise is for you to feel the sound vibrating in your chest so that you are singing the low notes in the right register.
 Vocal coaches are trained singers who can help you with your technique. They can help you develop your ranges properly and improve your tone without damaging your voice.


No matter what level singer you are, if you are serious about improving your low notes, working with a professional may help you develop proper technique. A professional vocal coach can also point out weaknesses and suggest ways to improve.

