
Cut each potato lengthwise in half.
Lay each half cut-side down, then cut parallel to the cutting board to cut in half once more.
Cut these planks into your fries.
 Soaking them reduces the starch content. Some cooks even soak the potatoes overnight., Want to know how McDonald's gets perfect fries every time? They cook them three times, starting with a "parboil," or vinegar bath. Throw everything in a large pot, cover with the 2 quarts water, and set the stove to high. This is completely optional to get good crunchy fries.
 They should be tender and easily pierced with a fork, but not falling apart. Start checking after about 8 minutes.
 Let the potatoes cool on a paper towel-lined baking sheet for about five minutes as they cool down. As they do, get start heating up the oil in the next step.
 While fries can be cooked without a thermometer, it will be impossible to get McDonald's-besting fries without one.








If you don't have a thermometer, but want to go for it anyway, you'll want medium-high heat. Not quite the highest setting, but pretty close. You drop one small potato in to test -- it should bubble up quickly, These are not completely cooked yet, and that's a good thing! They should be pale and floppy. Note that, as the potatoes hit to oil, the temperature should drop to roughly 360F (180C).








Return the oil to 400F with each new batch, ensuring all the fries cook.
 Remove the chips from the hot oil and drain them on a plate full of paper towels. Don't move forward until they have at least cooled to room-temperature. This is key for your second fry! It should take about 30 minutes.


Wondering why you double-fry fries? Potato water molecules are caught up in the starch, and there is less water in the outer edges (as they "air dried" when cut) than the centers. During the first fry, this outer edge water escapes, but the water in the center just makes it to the edge. Luckily, as this water cools it forms a starchy, oily crust, which the second fry turns into the perfectly crisp exterior of a good fry., McDonald's doesn't just freeze their fries to store them -- the process of freezing actually makes crispier final fries! This is because water expands as it forms ice, creating jagged little ice crystals in the potato. These internal "cuts" provide more room for the rapidly melted water to escape once you fry it, removing more moisture for a crisper fry., This recipe requires little more than smart fryer skills. If you want to use the same oil as before, this is perfect -- simply strain out or remove any bits of potato that may have stayed in the oil.
 You'll likely need to do this in two batches to fit everything -- don't try to crowd the pan. The oil will again drop to about 360F (180C), and adjust the heat if needed to keep it there








, The paper towels remove excess oil, and the salt provides the best, most even flavor when allowed to dissolve on the still-hot fries. Serve immediately!









If you're working in two batches, the fries can be kept warm and crisp on a wire rack in the oven set to 200F.