 Comb your hair with your wide-tooth comb and soft brush to free your hair of tangles and hidden hair accessories (ex: clips, bobby hands, etc.).









Apply two pumps of mousse to your hair starting at your roots and working the product to your ends.
Back brush/comb your hair to tease it and create more volume. Brush the front of your hair down over your forehead. Then back-brush it by placing the brush in the middle of the hair and gently brushing back toward the roots; do this until the desired level of teasing is achieved.
Repeat with the sides of your hair by lifting your hair and back-brushing again.
 Gather your hair into a smooth ponytail, smoothing out the bumps with your free hand. If smoothing unwanted bumps with your hand doesn’t work, use your wide-toothed comb. Hold your hair in place with one hand and secure it into a bun with the other.
 Wrap your elastic around your hair once or twice to make a ponytail. Coil your hair around the base of your ponytail as if you were putting it in a ballerina bun. Flatten the bun to your head and secure it with either the same or an additional elastic (or by pinning it with bobby pins; when done well, this helps the look a lot).
 Use the elastic to secure a ponytail, hold the ponytail up behind you, and tease the ponytail by down brushing the hair toward the elastic holder. Spray with hairspray, if desired, then loop your hair once using a second elastic. Feed the loose ends of the hair through the loop, and then secure the entire looped bun with the remaining elastic. Allow the ends to poke out through a messy loop.
 For those with hair 1-2 inches past your shoulders, loop your hair and wrap an elastic holder around it once. Feed the remaining hair through the first loop to create a second loop. Make sure to hold onto the ends of your hair so that they don’t slide through and undo the second loop. (Note that your first loop may get tighter as you pull your hair through to make a second.) Wrap the remaining elastic over both loops to secure them into a loose knot.









Alternatively, if your hair is quite long, wrap it around the base of your pony, then secure it loosely with a second elastic. Loop your hair and wrap an elastic around it once.
 When you’re done, gently smooth your hair back over the crown of your head, and brush the edges of your hair to look less messy. Apply a thin layer of hair spray, if you plan on wearing your chic, messy bun for several hours or in harsh conditions.








