 You can find a church that holds Tridentine Mass by looking up organisations such as "ICKSP" (Institute of Christ the King Sovereign Priest) or "FSSP" (Fraternal Society of St Peter). These groups stick exclusively to the old form, are in full communion with Rome and can be found in many cities around the world. Other churches may hold Tridentine Masses occasionally, so look on church websites or ask around in Catholic circles. Steer clear of any Sedevacantist churches and chapels, as they are celebrating the mass illicitly and are in schism with Rome;
, There are two options for this. Read over the missal beforehand. You may also want to not bring a missal and just enjoy the Mass for what it is, but know that it's almost entirely in Latin and you may get confused or bored.


A bound missal. The 1962 version is preferable as it is the most commonly used, but other versions may suffice as well. A good missal contains a translation of the form of the Mass from Latin to English near the front, often with descriptions of what the priest is doing as things are said, sometimes with illustrations. It should also contain at the back the "propers", which are the parts of the Mass which change depending on what day it is. If using a bound missal, bookmark the pages you need.
A printed missal, if you can't get a bound one. You can find free PDF's online of the form of the Mass, and of the propers for each day.
 These are mostly explained in the missal. Some parts are omitted, done in silence, sung, said, chanted or added in. Most is said by the priest and altar servers alone, but sometimes everyone will join in.


The Mass begins usually with an opening hymn and a procession of the priest up to the sanctuary (where the altar is), along with the altar servers (young boys that assist the priest with Mass).
First is the prayers at the foot of the altar, which ends with the Introit. You can find the Introit in the propers. A "Kyrie Eleison" (Lord, Have Mercy in Greek) is said or sung- you can find the words for it in the missal. A "Gloria" (prayer praising God) is said/sung after that, except for during Advent and Lent.
The Collect (a prayer), Epistle (a Bible reading), Gradual (small hymn), Gospel (reading from Mark, Matthew, Luke or John Bible books), and the homily are said. You can find all of these in the propers for that day, in your missal. During the Gospel, all stand and it is read in both Latin and English. The homily is like a sermon written by the priest that discusses morals and usually in reference to the celebration of the day or the readings previous,
After the Gospel, a "Credo" (a declaration of the Catholic faith) is read out, sung or chanted. Next is the Offertory which is in the propers. The Offertory and prayers following are said over a plate of small wafers and a chalice of wine, as the priest prays that God will accept it as an offering. There may be a part called the Incensation, where incense is used all around the altar.
The priest washes his hands while saying a Psalm. Many more prayers are said over the wafers and wine, and a prayer called the Secret is said. It's not actually secret, and you can find it in the propers. It's just called that because it's said in a low voice. A Preface said after can be found in the propers, or they may use the general one found in the main general instruction of the missal.
The priest will pray in silence for about ten to fifteen minutes- you can read what he says in your missal's "Roman Canon". This is to prepare for the Consecration, the most glorious and important part of the Mass. When the bells ring three times, it means the Consecration has occurred, where Catholics believe the wafers transform in to the real Body of Christ, and the wine in to the real Blood of Christ- this is called the Eucharist. The priest raises the Eucharist (no longer a wafer, but the Body of Christ) above his head so the congregation can adore Him. He does the same with the chalice.
More prayers are said, and the priest consumes the Blood (only he may drink it). The congregation goes up for Communion, kneels at the rails and the priest says a small prayer as he places the Eucharist into the person's mouth. Only Catholics in a state of grace may receive the Eucharist- this is very important, and to neglect this rule is considered one of the greatest mortal sins.
The Communion and Post-Communion prayers are said, found in the propers. Then a final Gospel reading is said, a final hymn and the Mass has ended. You can leave or stay and pray for a while.
 Women wear some form of head-covering. Most common is a chapel veil a.k.a a mantilla, which is a lace veil worn over the hair. Many traditionalist churches have a basket of these near the front for people who don't have one, but ask beforehand. A scarf placed over the hair, a formal sunhat or a beret all work fine. Usually, the dress code also dictates women should wear longer skirts or dresses that are at or below the knee, and blouses that give good coverage of the chest and upper arms. Men should wear trousers, a collared shirt, nice shoes and usually a tie. Some men choose to wear a coat and tie, or a sweater vest. Men should not wear hats inside the church.
 If receiving Communion, fast for three hours beforehand (this is a necessary rule, or you can not receive). You will be sitting, standing and kneeling at different sections. Most missals have instructions, but you can also follow the congregation quite easily. There are also responses the congregation sometimes says- for example, when the priest says "Dominus vobiscum", everyone will say "Et cum spiritu tuo". These are again listed in the missal. People also do the sign of the cross often (touch head, chest, left shoulder, right shoulder), and cross their foreheads, lips and hearts before the Gospel is read.
 Turn your phone off and avoid chatting with people in the church itself. You may want to ask before you go in to the church if there's someone you can sit beside to help you follow along. If you have noisy or crying children, see if they have a "crying room"- a soundproof room with windows so the children will not disturb the silence, but you can still see the Mass. If you aren't a Catholic, sit at the end of a pew that is furthest away from the aisle, so people won't have to clamber over you to receive Communion.
 If you have European ancestry, this is what most of your ancestors were attending from 1570 onwards, before Protestant Christianity became more widespread. Smell the incense, hear the chanting, look at the beautiful movements of the priest, and admire the gorgeous altars, artwork and statues around the church. If you get lost in the Latin, don't fret. Simply ignore your missal until you reach a "landmark", such as the ringing of the Consecration bells, or the Homily, that can ground you in the order so you can continue following. Or, abandon the missal entirely and just watch.
 They may be curious about you, especially if it's a small parish. Be friendly and say hello, and you may make some good friends. You may also be able to meet the priest- the appropriate title to refer to him is "Father", or "Father ". Often the congregation will have a cup of tea and a snack together in an adjacent hall, to break the three hour pre-Communion fast.

