 Lightweight, loose-fitting clothing will help to keep you cooler. If it is light in color, it’s even better, as this will reflect the heat and sunlight better. Shorts and short sleeved shirts are good choices. Something that lets the air flow freely through, hitting the sweat on your body, works best. The following suggestions are specific ways clothing can maximize your ability to stay cool:


Cotton and linen clothing tends to keep you cool and absorb moisture.
Clothes you can hold up to the light and see through are great choices. Be sure to apply sunscreen when wearing really thin clothing, however, as the clothing doesn't provide adequate protection from the sun's harmful rays.
Synthetic clothing tends to trap moisture, which makes the fabric feel heavier, stick to your skin, and restrict air-flow.
Working in lower humidity settings with short sleeves has been shown to have a minor benefit. Weigh the options of UV exposure with your choice of clothing., Wear a wide-brimmed hat, one that sufficiently covers the top of your scalp as well as the tops of your ears. This helps to keep you cooler by providing shade. Choose a brim that is wide enough that it can also cover the back of your neck.Light-colored hats can help keep you cool.
 Depending on the activity, one shoe could be more comfortable or appropriate than another.Consider whether arch support, durability, and comfort are mandatory, and then choose the best breathable footwear for the activity.


Cotton socks are great, but moisture wicking socks help your feet stay cooler.Some running shoes are designed with the summer months in mind, providing ventilation in a variety of designs.Be careful if you decide to go barefoot. Many artificial pavements become unbearably hot during warm weather and can scald your feet., Wear fewer accessories during hotter weather. Metallic accessories can heat up considerably and less is always best when it comes to keeping cool. Other clothing accessories can weigh clothing down, trapping in heat and moisture.If you have long hair, wear it up and off your face and body, allowing the breeze to flow along your neckline.