 When you’re on the go and want to make sure you smell good for boys, it can be helpful to have a few products on hand that you can use if you’re away from your regular stash. Consider carrying these items with you in your purse, bag, car, or gym locker.Wet wipes or baby wipes to freshen up.
Powder to absorb sweat and prevent bad odors.
Antiperspirant and deodorant so you can reapply as needed.
Lotion or perfume when the product you put on in the morning dissipated.
A spare toothbrush, toothpaste, or mouthwash to freshen your breath.
 If there are certain areas such as your feet or under your arms that you think smell, mix 1 teaspoon of hydrogen peroxide (3%) with 1 cup (8 ounces) of water. Then, wipe this solution on the affected areas., Witch hazel lowers the skin’s pH level, which makes it difficult for the bacteria that cause bad odors to survive. When you want to make sure you smell good for boys, try applying a cotton ball soaked with witch hazel to the areas of your skin that seem smelly such as the underarms or your feet.Carry a spray bottle of witch hazel with you so you can apply whenever you feel the need.
 Certain types of foods can result in more pungent body odors that boys may find less than appealing, so try changing your diet to see if it makes a difference in how you smell. Garlic, curry, onions, fatty foods, and oils have been shown to cause a stronger body odor.It’s a good idea to consult with a doctor or dietician before you make significant changes to your diet.
 When your mouth is dry, bad breath can occur, and chewing gum helps increase saliva production and flow.For dental health, choose a sugarless gum with xylitol.
 Clothes made from natural fibers such as cotton and wool are more breathable, which means that they help odors dissipate instead of trapping them like synthetic fabrics. They also help keep you cooler and fresh-smelling.


It’s much harder to get odors out of synthetic fabrics, even with repeated washing.
Wash your clothes as soon as you can, especially after working out.
 To keep both yourself and your clothes smelling great even when they’re stored in drawers or closets, store them with perfume sachets.