 A good idea might be to show the carpet by a professional first just to see how much it might cost. Use the figures quoted to you by a professional as the numbers to keep in mind while you judge the cost of doing the job yourself. If it isn’t much more expensive and you aren’t totally confident in your ability to do it yourself, it might be worth it to hire the professional. It is also very difficult. , Only dye your carpet if you are sure it is wool or nylon. Read the dye packaging carefully to make sure it is safe for use on these materials. Some local fabric, carpet and home supply stores, as well as a variety of online retailers, sell carpet dye in an assortment of standard colors. Some online sites offer a large variety of common colors, in addition to an array of unique carpet colors.


In general, home carpet dying is more effective when you choose a color that is darker than the original color of the carpet. If the carpet is heavily stained with dark colored stains, a color darker than the stain produces best results. You cannot dye a carpet to a lighter color.
 Some companies offer coloring matching. You can bring or mail in a small piece of the carpet left and they will mix a customized carpet dye for you. Be wary, as this might be more expensive. Paint swatches from paint stores, curtain tiebacks, and other color samples can also be effectively color matched. , This is definitely necessary if you are dying a wall-to-wall carpet and you’re going to need to do a deep cleaning regardless so you might as well get the furniture out of the way.
 Both Walmart and Home Depot rent steam cleaners, so you can go to one of these stores or a local shop and just rent the cleaner for the day. You shouldn’t need it for longer than that. Rug Doctor also offers renting services.
 Be sure you are following the direction on your specific carpet steam machine. They can be dangerous and you want to make sure that it is doing a good job cleaning too. Make sure that you go over every spot on the carpet at least twice. A ‘lawn-mowing’ approach is a good idea – go up the width of the carpet and then continue as you cover all the dirty areas.
 If the carpet is wet when you try to dye it the process will be much more difficult. Use paper towels or sponges to pad it dry. It doesn’t need to be 100 % dry, but it can’t be wet either. A little damp is okay. 