 Europe is an entire continent, so take into account that 1 to 2 countries is a good goal for your first European tour, because it does not require you to take extra flights or train rides. Seniors often choose to visit ancestral countries, art capitals like Florence or Paris, or places they have read about.;
, The senior range is usually between 50 and 90, and there is often a huge difference in mobility, vision and independence during those ages. List all the things that you require, such as airport transfers to your house, a wheelchair, a walker, a slow pace, all meals provided, audio tours, airport assistance and more.
 Tour companies are set up both ways; in some cases, you must find the people and advertise the trip, and in other cases, you can simply sign up for a trip that is coming.
 Keep in mind that you rarely find the perfect tour, but, with a little compromise, you can find one that you are happy with. The following types of tour companies are often used by senior or elderly travelers:


If you want to choose an education-focused tour, then look into Exploritas, formerly called Elderhostels. This organization works with universities to provide classes, seminars, sightseeing, and expert tour guides. They do cruises as well as land-based tours.
AARP, once the American Association of Retired Persons, endorses Grand European Travel. If you get this magazine, or you are a member, look on AARP.org for discounts off European tours. They have contracted with Grand European Travel to give discounts and create tours for seniors that are appropriately paced, have airport transfers, include first-class accommodations, most meals included, tour directors and local guides, entrance fees, first-class coaches and free gifts, such as books or passport wallets.
If you are looking for an all-inclusive tour, with almost everything included in the quote price, look for Grand Circle travel. Their tours focus on participants that are over 50 years old. This is a popular provider, especially for trips to Italy and for cruises.
If you are still very mobile and you want to have an adventure-based trip, get quotes from Eldertreks. This company designs trips that are unusual, or unlike most group travel. You can go farther afield, venturing to Eastern Europe, Scandinavia and smaller, less tourist-based countries.
If you want to travel with your children or grandchildren, then Grandtravel creates trips for this purpose. Unlike student travel programs that often let you take parents or grandparents along, these trips are created with the senior's pace in mind. The trip attempts to bridge the gap of interests between generations.

