 At noon, the sun can point you in the general direction of north and south, and consequently east and west, but it will not tell you due north or due south. In the Northern Hemisphere, walking directly toward the sun at noon will lead you south, while walking directly away from the sun will lead you north. In the Southern Hemisphere, the opposite is true: toward the sun will lead you north, and away from the sun will lead you south.
 The sun rises in the general direction of east and sets in the general direction of west every day, so you can use the location of sunrise or sunset to get an approximate idea of direction. Face the sunrise and you are facing east; north will be on your left and south will be on your right. Face the sunset and you are facing west; north will be on your right and south will be on your left.


The location of sunrise and sunset only provide an approximate idea of direction 363 days of the year, because the sun rises due east and sets due west only on the vernal and autumnal equinoxes (the first day of spring and fall)., While using vegetation to determine direction isn’t an exact science or a precise method, oftentimes it can give you a basic idea of which direction’s which. Living north of the equator, the sun is usually in the southern part of the sky, and the opposite is true south of the equator. This means that leaves and foliage will tend to be thicker and denser on the southern side of a tree or bush.The opposite is true in the Southern Hemisphere, where vegetation will be more lush on the northern side.


Many guidebooks will note that moss only grows on the north side of a tree in the Northern Hemisphere, but this is not true. However, while moss can grow on all sides of a tree, it is true that it will often be denser on the side that is shadier (the north in the Northern Hemisphere and the south in the Southern Hemisphere).
 The sun can be used in conjunction with a non-digital wristwatch to provide an approximate idea of the cardinal directions if you find yourself lost in the woods but at least have a wristwatch. In the Northern Hemisphere, point the hour hand on your watch at the sun. South will be halfway between 12 o’clock and the hour hand.In the Southern Hemisphere, align 12 o’clock on the watch with the sun, and the midway point between that and the hour hand will point north.When you are facing north, east is on your right and west is on your left. When you are facing south, east is on your left and west is on your right.
During daylight saving time, use one o’clock instead of 12 o’clock on the watch.For this method to work, your watch must be set for the correct time. It can also have a margin of error of about 35 degrees, so this method is only reliable for an approximate idea of direction.