 A green top is the cornerstone of any leprechaun costume. The simplest way to create this base is to wear a solid or checkered green button-down shirt.Avoid wearing a T-shirt. Leprechauns are old world creatures, and the look of a button-down shirt creates a classy, antiquated ambiance more effectively than a T-shirt would.
Alternatively, consider a green jacket and white shirt. Even though a green button-down shirt is the easiest way to start making your costume, a more traditional version of leprechaun attire is a white button-down shirt paired with a solid green suit jacket.;
, The idea is to be green from head to toe. Green trouser pants are the perfect article of clothing to pair with your green top, but you could also opt for green shorts made from trouser material if you want to wear your costume when the weather is on the warmer side.


If you have trouble finding green pants, you can purchase white pants and use fabric dye to dye the garment a bold shade of green.
 While girls and women can pull off a green top and green slacks, they also have the option to slip on a green dress, or to pair a green top with a green skirt.If working with a green skirt, you can still pair it with a green button-down shirt or white button-down shirt with a green suit jacket.
Depending on the print of the jacket and the print of the dress, you could even shrug a green suit jacket over a green dress. Try to keep the jacket a solid color rather than a print, though, and make sure that the shade of green on the dress is a little different from the green on the jacket.
 If your legs are exposed or partially exposed, wear a pair of white knee-high socks to cover your calves.This is important if you are wearing shorts, a skirt, or a dress. If you are wearing long pants, you should still wear white socks, but they do not necessarily need to be knee-high since any portion of the sock covering your calf will not be visible, anyway.
 Green top hats and pilgrim-style hats are usually fairly easy to find around St. Patrick's Day, but you might even be able to find a hat that can work during another time of year by searching online stores, thrift stores, or costume stores.You could make a leprechaun hat out of paper or fabric if you do not want to buy one or are having trouble finding a pre-made hat you like.
One of the easiest ways to make a green hat if you cannot find one is simply to purchase a top hot or bowler hat from a thrift store and spray paint it green.
 Make sure that the belt buckle is gold. If it is not already gold, use a bit of acrylic paint to paint the buckle gold.

If you go with a dark green belt, make sure that the green is darker than the green of your trousers.
 Find a green necktie or green bow-tie that matches your pants or jacket. Tie this around your neck for a classy leprechaun look.You could use a solid green tie, or you could liven things up with a green checkered pattern. A pattern works especially well if you are wearing a solid green shirt or jacket and solid green bottoms.
 For the gold, you can use gold-wrapped candy coins or plastic gold tokens. Carry the fake gold in a black plastic kettle, black bowl, or satchel style pouch.You could also make fake nuggets of gold by spray painting small, smooth stones with gold spray paint.
 Look for black slip-on shoes without laces. Spray paint the shoes using acrylic craft paint in green glitter or metallic green.


It is an option to leave the shoes black. Black shoes with a buckle can have a traditional leprechaun appearance, but painting the shoes green can add a bit of flair to your costume.
If you do not have an old pair of shoes you are willing to paint, check out some nearby thrift stores for a pair that might work.
Alternatively, apply green glitter with Mod Podge. If you cannot find green spray paint, apply Mod Podge or another type of craft adhesive to the shoes and sprinkle a coating of green glitter over it., Trace and cut two smaller rectangles out of this larger rectangle to form the shape of a buckle.


The final shape of your buckle should be a rectangular frame with one rectangle cut out of the top and a second cut out of the bottom. There should be a cardboard bar separating the two final rectangular cut-outs.
Cut out two of these buckle-shaped pieces of cardboard. You will need one for each shoe.
Each buckle should be about 3 inches (7.6 cm) wide and 4 inches (10 cm) tall.
 Use acrylic craft paint or spray paint to color this piece of cardboard gold.
 The strip should be skinny enough to fit through the rectangular cut-outs of your cardboard buckle.


The length of each strip should be about 6 or 7 inches (15.24 or 17.78 cm). You will need two strips (one for each buckle and each shoe).
 The construction paper strip should go under the outer frame, over the middle bar, and under the outer frame again.Center the cardboard buckle in the middle of your strip.
 The strip of paper should run vertically, and the buckle should be taped to the shoe so that the buckle lies at the front top with the paper strip standing just above it, as though it were the tongue of the shoe.Use heavy, durable tape so that the paper buckle stays securely in place.
 Trace the shape of a beard or beard and mustache combination on a letter-size sheet of orange or brown construction paper. The length of the beard outline should span nearly the entire length of the paper, and the width of the beard should take up 2/3 to the full width of the paper.To get a more accurate perspective, hold the piece of paper up to your face and mark the distance from ear to ear. This is the width you will need for your paper beard. The length does not need to be quite as precise, though.
 Cut width-wise strips of orange construction paper, each with a width of roughly 1 inch (2.5 cm)., Take each strip of orange paper and wrap it around a pencil or pen to create paper curls.Wrap the paper tightly as you work. If you wrap the paper too loose, the curls will not hold well.
 Apply a line of glue to the bottom of the beard. Press orange curls onto the glue, following the outline, until the entire bottom row is filled with bushy orange curls.Continue attaching the orange curls in this manner, working in rows from the bottom to the top of the beard base.
When done, none of the base should be visible, and the entire thing should be covered with bushy orange curls.
Make sure you allow time for the glue to dry.
 Punch holes near the top of the beard, one on each cheek end. Tie a long piece of yarn to one hole and another piece to the other hole.The pieces of yarn should be long enough so that you can wrap them around the back of your head and be tied together into a shoelace bow.
Alternatively, buy a beard instead of making one. You can buy orange costume beard around St. Patrick's Day or around Halloween. If you want to buy one during any other time of the year, look in a costume store, party store, or online store.
 The ball of clay should be about 3 inches (7.6 cm) in diameter.Make sure that the clay is well kneaded, first. Kneading the clay makes it soft and easy to work with. If you do not knead the clay, it will be more likely to crack and break as you work with it.
Form the ball into the shape of the pipe bowl as you attach it to the dowel. Use your thumb to create an imprint in the ball, making “walls” around your thumb and creating a bucket inside the center.
 Cut the wire to your desired stem length. , This layer of clay should be about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) thick. Make sure to create a mouthpiece for the stem., Direct the wire through the opening of the bowl. Connect the stem and opening of the bowl.Avoid making the clay look too smooth as you layer it on. Use your thumb or fingertips to leave shallow impressions along the clay, giving it a lumpy and rustic look. Or, use a sculpting tool (like a dull blade) to make ornamental designs in the clay., Place the pipe baking parchment paper., The clay needs to be baked in an oven preheated between 210 to 220 degrees Fahrenheit (98.9 to 104.4 degrees Celsius) for 45 minutes to an hour.Check the clay frequently as it bakes to make sure that it is not burning. The exact amount of time you will need to bake the clay varies by brand, but it usually falls out to 15 or 30 minutes per 1/4 inch (0.625 cm) of thickness.
Place the clay pipe on a baking sheet lined with aluminum foil, wax paper, or parchment paper when you bake it.
 Apply a coat of light to medium brown acrylic paint to the clay pipe after it cools.The color should be brown like wood, but you can use colors like green or orange for extra embellishment.
 Use a soft cloth to rub a coating of clay varnish onto the paint after it dries. Make sure you allow the varnish to dry completely., While a homemade leprechaun pipe can add whimsical charm to your costume, if you are short on time or crafting supplies, you can usually find an old-fashioned pipe in a costume store, thrift store, or online.

