 Brandy is any distilled spirit made from fruit juice. The fruit is crushed to get just the juice and then the juice is fermented to make fruit wine. After that, the fruit wine is distilled to produce brandy. The brandy is then usually aged in wooden barrels, although some brandies are not aged.


Brandy is made from grapes but there are brandies made from other fruits such as apple, peach, plum and many others. When brandy is made from another fruit, the fruit name is said first before the word “brandy.” For example, if made from apples, it would be called apple brandy.
Brandies get their dark color from aging in barrels. Un-aged brandies will not have this caramel color but colors will often be added to create the same look.
Pomace brandy is made a bit differently. Instead of just fermenting the grape juice, fermentation and distillation to make pomace brandy will include the skins, stems and seeds of the grapes. Pomace brandy is also known as marc (English and French) and grappa (Italian).;
, The name "brandy" originates from the Dutch "brandewijn," or "burnt wine," which evokes the warm, glowing feeling from the first sip of a fine brandy.


Brandy has been made since the 12th Century but was originally only made by apothecaries and doctors and used as a medicine. French authorities only allowed winemakers to begin distillation in the 16th century.
The French brandy industry grew slowly until the Dutch began importing brandy for consumption and for export to other European countries. It was cheaper to ship in terms of the amount of alcohol than wine, and so was economically viable for merchants.
The Dutch invested in building distilleries in the French winemaking areas of the Loire, Bordeaux and Charente. Charente became the most lucrative area for brandy production and is the location of the town called Cognac., Popular types include Armagnac, Cognac, American brandy, pisco, apple brandy, eaux de vie and Brandy de Jerez. Brandies are categorized by age, according to different systems for different types of brandy.
 Brandy is processed in a slow and gentle manner to bring out all its flavors and is traditionally aged in oak barrels. There are different aging systems and categorizations for different kinds of brandy. General aging labels can include AC, VS (Very Special), VSOP (Very Special Old Pale), XO (Extra Old), Hors d’age and vintage but these vary greatly for different types of brandy.


VS (Very Special) has been aged a minimum of two years. These are best used for mixing as opposed to drinking neat.
VSOP (Very Special Old Pale) brandy is usually between 4 and a half to six years old.
XO (Extra Old) brandy are usually six and a half years old or more.
Hors d’age brandies are too old to determine the age of for some reason or another.
For some brandies these labels are regulated while for others they are not.
 Armagnac is a grape brandy named for the region of Armagnac in the southwest of France. It is made from a blend of Colombard and Ugni Blanc grapes and distilled once in column stills. Then it is aged for at least two years in French oak, resulting in a more rustic brandy than Cognac. After aging different aged brandies are blended to make a consistent product.


3-star or VS (Very Special) brandy has a youngest brandy in the blend that has aged at least two years in oak.
VSOP (Very Superior Old Pale) brandy is when the youngest brandy in the blend has aged at least four years in oak, although many of these brandies are actually much older.
Napoleon or XO (Extra Old) brandy is when the youngest brandy in the blend has aged at least six years in oak.
Hors d’age brandy is when the youngest brandy in the blend has aged at least ten years.
If the Armagnac has an age on the label it means that the youngest brandy in the bottle is that age.
There are also vintage Armagnacs that are at least ten years old and the year of harvest will be displayed on the bottle.
These age categories only apply to Armagnac; Cognacs and other brandies will have different meanings for these categories.
 Cognac is a grape brandy named for the town of France from which it originates and made from a blend of specific grapes including Ugni Blanc. It has to be distilled twice in copper pot stills and aged in French oak barrels for at least two years.


3-star or VS (Very Special) brandy is when the youngest brandy in the blend has aged at least two years in oak.
VSOP (Very Superior Old Pale) brandy is when the youngest brandy in the blend has aged at least four years, although most brandies in this class are actually much older.
Napoleon, XO (Extra Old), Extra or Hors d’age brandy is when the youngest brandy in the blend has aged at least six years in oak. On average, these brandies are usually actually 20 years old or more.
Some Cognacs age 40-50 years in oak.
 American brandy includes many different brands and does not have much legal regulation. Any age categorizing such as VS, VSOP and XO are not legally controlled and you should be aware of this when buying. There are only two U.S. regulations that affect the consumer in terms of the brandy.


By law if the brandy has not been aged for two years, it must have the word “immature” on its label.
Additionally by law, if it is not made from grapes then it must say the fruit from which it was made.
Since classifications are not regulated by law, different brands have different ages for their classifications and their aging processes may not be very long. Check the websites of the distillers for more information on particular varieties and ages.
There are no legal requirements dictating which distillation techniques should be used.
 Pisco is an un-aged grape brandy made in Peru and Chile. Because it is un-aged it is clear in color. There is currently an argument between Peru and Chile over who should be allowed to produce pisco and if it should be restricted to certain regions.
 Apple brandy is made using apples and comes from either America, where it is called the applejack, or France, where it is called Calvados. It is very versatile and can be used in a range of cocktails.


The American version, applejack, is very bright and fruity.
The French version, Calvados, is more nuanced, subtle and layered in flavor.
 Eaux de vie are un-aged brandies made from fruits other than grapes such as raspberries, pears, plums, cherries as well as others. They are usually clear because they are un-aged.


In Germany eaux de vie is called "Schnapps" but this is not at all the same thing as American schnapps.
 Brandy de Jerez originates from the Andalusia region in Spain and has its own prescribed production method in which it is only distilled once in copper stills. It is then aged in American oak barrels.


Brandy de Jerez Solera is the youngest and fruitiest and has a minimum average age of 1 year.
Brandy de Jerez Solera Reserva has a minimum average age of 3 years.
Brandy de Jerez Solera Gran Reserva is the oldest of the brandies with a minimum average age of 10 years.
 The type can be one of those discussed or it can simply say “brandy”. If it does not have a particular type then look for the country of importation and the source used (for example, grapes, fruit or pomace). Choose by age after you have chosen by type. Remember that general age categories for brandy are very variable and differ according to the type.

