 You're doing some pretty intense workouts -- by anyone's standards. It is absolutely imperative that you stay hydrated and you get enough energy (carbs) to stay powered. Always, always, always, carry a water bottle with you in addition to eating the right energy foods.


Calculate the necessary carbs and fluids you will need. Then determine how many carbs are in the drinks and foods you’re consuming. You try to consume 30-60g (1-2 oz) of carbohydrates per hour, but remember that your size, gender, and age may alter what you need. Talk to your doctor and tell him/her what you're doing; they'll be able to point you in the right direction.
Carefully monitor your diet. You need whole grains, vegetables, fruits and lean meats. Stay away from processed foods! You want to carefully control any weight loss to a pound or two a week in order to maintain energy.
 If you don't, you'll probably end up not getting the right nutrition. Generally people fall into two categories: those who don't want to eat anything post-workout and those who want to eat everything in sight. Neither are good for you.


Make sure you have the right nutrition at hand at the finish (pre-planning makes this simple). Chocolate milk, salted nuts, or a peanut butter sandwich are good options to see you through until the next meal., If you're training in the afternoon or into the evening, the last thing you want to do is sit down to a big meal at 9 PM and have it churning away in your stomach as you sleep. Not only will it make it harder to get that much needed shut eye, but it'll lead to increased fat production and weight retention.


Eat a bigger meal for lunch and a smaller meal in the evening. Your evening meal could be:Beans
Eggs on toast
Vegetable bean soup with bread
Sushi and a fruit smoothie



, Don't go more than 4 hours without eating -- you are a calorie-burning machine and thus need (deserve, really) the energy. You also avoid the post-workout binging this way and your insulin doesn't spike needlessly (never a good thing).


Plan your snacks so you never go without food or drink for longer than four hours. Good snacks include low fat yogurt, a small handful of mixed nuts, fruit smoothies, fruit salad, good-quality bars such as Eat Natural or Nature Valley Chewy bars, malt loaf or Ryvita with cottage cheese and tomato.
 You definitely need energy, but a huge part of energy is nutrition. Make sure you're getting the right carbs and the right fats -- not piling slabs of butter on white bread.


Calculate your daily calorie requirement, but be sure to think about the calories you are burning while training., As with all physical exercise programs, make sure you stay hydrated. Strive to drink AT LEAST eight 8-oz glasses of water a day. Soda doesn't count! It actually dehydrates you.

