 When you smile, it presents you to the world in a very non-threatening and helpful way.People will respond much more positively to a person who is smiling than someone who is not.Additionally, smiling helps you act confident through your body language even if you are not particularly feeling it.Smiling will not only help you make a good first impression, but will also help decrease stress hormones helping you feel a little more at ease.;
, Unfortunately people make snap judgments in about one-tenth of a second based on your appearance.Knowing this occurs can actually help you prepare better. To make a good first impression and set yourself at ease, work towards creating the image of the person you want others to see. Knowing you are putting out a professional appearance may give you a confidence boost as well.


Make sure your clothes are professional and appropriate for the occasion or situation you will be in.
Wear something that you feel comfortable and attractive in to increase your confidence. Remembering to work within the appropriate dress guidelines for that type of occasion.
See to it that you are well groomed, showered, and deodorized. Pay attention to your fingernails, hair, and the use of perfume or cologne.Make sure your clothes are clean, neat, and well kept. This means to make sure there are no stains, wrinkles, or holes in your clothing.
 When speaking to a customer or co-worker, eye contact is essential to help maintain a good rapport between you and evoke positive reactions from them.Eye contact shows interest, respect, and intelligence, and helps avoid the perception that you are rude, shy, or introverted. Not making eye contact can additionally make you appear distracted or nervous.


Focus on making eye contact especially when someone else is speaking to you, or when you would like to connect with your audience during presentations.
 The handshake is so commonplace in the working world that we often forget how impactful it can be on a first impression. Try to develop a handshake that is firm and confident.Make eye contact if you can, rather than looking at your hands to illustrate directness and confidence.As silly as it may sound, find a friend and practice handshakes to get comfortable with the process and help you gain confidence in your handshake. According to Etiquette International a good handshake has the following qualities:


Keep your fingers together and thumb up as you enter into the handshake.
Your grasp should be firm but not too hard.
The handshake should last about 3 seconds including eye contact.
Release the handshake even if the introduction continues.
 It can be easy to become flustered or babble when you are shy or nervous in a work situation. Try to be as relaxed and pleasant as you can in the work environment. The more calm and relaxed you are the more your body will respond and help you to actually be calm. Be careful however, not to take your relaxed state too far. Try to avoid:


Being overly loud or boisterous.
Engaging in unprofessional conversation topics or office gossip.
Telling inappropriate jokes at work.
Interrupting or dominating any conversations.
 Know when to talk and when to let the other person talk. It may help ease some shyness or anxiety to know that, in general, it is a good practice to let other individuals speak first. Maybe they have a question for you that can direct the conversation, or if not, ask them a question about themselves or their job so they can still have the floor first.This will help take the pressure of making conversation off of you.

