 Changing rooms will refresh your energy. Studies have shown that changing your surroundings helps improve learning. If you're working in your bedroom, think about taking the work to your living room or kitchen. Better still, take it outside.


If you're living in a dorm, it's also fun to take your homework to a public learning space. A commons area is a good place to study, as are libraries.
 You would be surprised to know how much homework strain can be caused from simply being indoors for too long. Consider taking your homework outdoors. Provided the weather is decent, the time you spend working on school will pass by a lot faster. Going outside will reduce stress and improve your brainpower.So long as it's not raining, there's no good reason why you shouldn't give it a shot.


Vitamin D deficiency is a well-known cause of depression. During your exam weeks, you'll want every edge you can to feel good. Sunlight will give you an added boost if you're feeling down.
 Music is a tried-and-true way of making just about any situation better. Whether you're listening to something with headphones or speakers, your surroundings will be immediately uplifted. Because your homework might take a while, this ill give you a chance to really throw yourself into an album or playlist. Listening to music can improve your learning. It's recommended you experiment with a few different styles of music and see how they affect your work.

Instrumental music is preferable. Music with lyric can distract the language center of your brain, which gets in the way of your homework.

Some people simply won't be able to focus on their work while listening to music. If you're easily distracted, it's a good idea to steer clear of music for the time being.
Certain types of music, from neoclassical to dark ambient, are great for studying, because they can fit into the background without demanding anything of the listener.
During the test, if you think of the music you were listening to while you were studying, you might have a better chance at remembering the information you need., It's inspiring to be around other people who want to work, and the quiet atmosphere is suited for thinking. There are lots of resources at a library that can help you, including books and databases. Being at a library can make studying feel a bit more fun and exciting than staying stuck in your room all day.


Try to respect the other people in a library. Most people in a library are there for the peace and quiet.

