 You will need to discuss your symptoms with either your primary care doctor or a gynecologist. Don’t be embarrassed to talk about the pain you are experiencing. You need to make sure the pain is not caused by another medical problem before you attempt to treat it.


Vulvodynia has only one primary symptom – vulva pain. This pain is described differently by different women. It may feel like itching, burning, aching, throbbing, stinging or stabbing in the areas around the labia, clitoris or vaginal opening. It can come and go and be affected by touch or pressure.
Some women with vulvodynia experience pain only during particular times – while exercising, for example, or during sexual intercourse.;
, If your doctor suspects you may have vulvodynia, he or she will probably perform an examination of your vulva area. There are also a few procedures and tests that the doctor may perform. These procedures can help pinpoint any problems that may be aggravating your symptoms.


It is common for your doctor to order blood tests to check hormone levels, such as estrogen, progesterone and testosterone.
The doctor will probably perform a cotton swab test. He or she will use a cotton swab to put gentle pressure on various locations of the vulva. You’ll be asked to describe any pain this test produces and rate its severity.If any particular parts of your vulva appear to be especially painful, or if the skin looks inflamed or suspicious for any reason, your doctor may decide to take a biopsy., Vulvodynia is diagnosed only after a doctor excludes other diseases and conditions that may produce pain of the vulva. Your doctor may test you for sexually transmitted infections, skin disorders, yeast infections, hormone imbalances and other conditions that could be responsible for your symptoms. If all of these conditions are ruled out, he or she may diagnose you with vulvodynia.
 There are two kinds of vulvodynia: vulvar vestibulitis syndrome and dysesthetic vulvodynia. Your doctor will diagnose you with one or the other, depending on what your symptoms are. Be sure to give your doctor as much information as possible.


Vulvar vestibulitis syndrome (VVS) means you have a painful response to pressure or touch around the vaginal opening. Women with this type of vulvodynia usually experience pain during sexual intercourse, tampon insertion, gynecological exams and at any other time that pressure is placed on the vestibule (the area around the vaginal opening).
Dysesthetic vulvodynia (DV) means you have a generalized pain of the vulvar area, which may affect the labia majora, labia minora, clitoris, perineum, anus, mons pubis, urethra and/or inner thighs. It can happen suddenly, and while the pain is usually present to some degree, symptoms can come and go. Touch or pressure does not usually cause the pain but can make the symptoms worse., If you don’t think your doctor is taking your symptoms seriously, find a different one. Some doctors do not understand that vulvodynia is a real problem that isn't just in your head. You need a medical specialist who will listen to you, support you and help you find the treatments that work for you. Be persistent in pursuing a diagnosis, and don’t give up.

