 When speaking in class, it can help to have an idea of what to say going into a discussion. You may feel less nervous participating in a discussion if you have a thorough knowledge of your subject matter.Do your homework. If you know there's a debate or discussion coming up in class, preparing ahead of time can help. You'll be more at ease participating in class if you know what you're talking about, so do the reading and homework before coming to class.
Plan what to say before raising your hand. Think of a short sentence, or at least a couple of key points, before you volunteer to speak. It may help to jot down some of your ideas on a piece of paper before raising your hand to give an answer.;
, It can help to relax before speaking. This can make you feel more at ease, allowing yourself to speak with more confidence. Relaxing can also loosen your vocal cords, allowing you to talk in a loud, cohesive manner.Take a few deep breaths before speaking. Try to breathe in a way that draws breath down into your stomach. Inhale and exhale deeply before raising your hand, as this will allow you to speak louder.
Make an effort to relax your body before speaking. Relax your shoulders and neck, as tense muscles in these places will make it difficult to project your voice.
 Stand up with a straight back. Hold your head so your ears are in line with your shoulders. Keep your chin relaxed and avoid the temptation to jut it forward when you speak. Much like relaxing your body, maintaining proper posture boosts confidence. It also promotes air flow, allowing you to speak clearly., If you're not used to being vocal in class, you may be tempted to yell to make sure you are heard. Yelling strains the voice and makes you sound aggressive. It can cause tension in your neck and throat. Do not yell out the answer. Speak loudly, without raising your voice to the point you can feel stress in your body., Make a conscious effort to speak slow during class discussions. Talking too fast makes you come off as a nervous. Try to speak slowly, pronouncing your words one at a time. This will allow you to get your words out in an understandable manner.It may feel awkward at first. Many people, when nervous, speak fast.
If you're giving a longer answer, pause between paragraphs. This will help listeners absorb your words., If you want to be the loud kid, avoid using an affected or false voice when speaking in class. Speaking in a voice that is not your own can strain the vocal cords. If you're working to be the loud kid in class each day, you do not want to put stress on your voice. This will get tiring fast. Speak in your own voice clearly and distinctly., Oftentimes, people are hesitant to be wrong as they fear their own faults. Keep in mind everyone gives a wrong answer on occasion. If you want to be loud in class, and abandon any fears of public speaking, you have to risk being wrong. Remind yourself all your classmates have given wrong answers on occasion, and that the teacher will appreciate you trying even if you're not right every time., Another step to becoming the loud kid in class is working on being more outgoing. In addition to speaking in class, you'll want to branch out and talk to other classmates during downtime. If you're shy by nature, or otherwise nervous, becoming outgoing can be a challenge. Go slowly. It can take awhile to get used to putting yourself out there and socializing.Take small steps forward. Smile at a classmate in the hallway. Say "Hi" to a classmate at lunch.
As you progress, try not to back down. You may be tempted, for example, to turn away at the last minute when approaching a new table during lunch. Resist this urge. Succumbing to shyness will only reinforce it, so try to follow through.
 As with any behavior, being outgoing takes practice. If you practice engaging in social behaviors, like small talk during class, they'll get easier.Try practicing with your existing friends. You guys can role play scenarios in which you make small talk with kids from your school. You can also work on talking before the mirror. It may feel silly, but you may gain confidence by having mock conversations with yourself.
Practice in real life. Outside of school, chat with the cashier at a local coffee shop. If your parents have friends over, say "Hi" and ask them how their day is. The more you practice social behaviors outside of school, the more comfortable you'll feel being loud in the classroom.
 If you want to be more outgoing in class, it may help to join some extracurriculars. Pick activities that interest you and attend meetings. You may feel like you can be yourself when socializing with those with shared interests. If you meet people in after school clubs, you'll have a social network in your classroom. This can allow you to feel comfortable talking to others, allowing you to be loud in class.It may take some practice before you feel comfortable talking during extracurricular activities. However, it's important to give yourself a chance. Think of conversation starters before a meeting. For example, write down questions like, "What's your favorite subject in school?"
Once you've formed a group from extracurriculars, you'll have someone to talk to during class. You can talk, joke, and be loud together during downtime at school.
 Self criticism often prevents people from putting themselves out there and becoming outgoing. Try to remind yourself it's okay to feel nervous or awkward at times. Everyone is insecure, and it's inevitable you'll sometimes feel nervous when trying to become louder and more assertive in school.A good way to curb self criticism is to imagine a friend or loved one criticizing themselves the way you criticize yourself. Try to imagine how you would talk a friend out of nervousness or shyness. Then take your own advice.
If you're less insecure, and more accepting of the fact you'll sometimes feel awkward or out of place, you're far more likely to relax and socialize more. This can result in you feeling more comfortable being a loud student in class.
 While you may want to be seen as the loud one, you don't want to talk out of turn. Talking without raising your hand can get you in trouble with your teacher. Also, other students may get irritated if you're constantly interrupting. Wait until other students finish their sentences. Only talk when your teacher calls on you, and always raise your hand first.
 It's not always a good idea to talk during class. Avoid talking during moments where you may get in trouble for being loud. Do not talk during class lectures or during student presentations. Avoid the temptation to whisper to your friends. While it can be fun to be the loud one in class, you do not want the role to land you in detention.
 If you're a louder person by nature, people may not always want to listen. Make sure to stay in tune to social cues so you can catch when you're talking too much.Watch body language. People may break eye contact. They may fiddle with something or seem otherwise distracted.
Also, pay attention to what the listener is saying. If they're responding with only "Okays" and "uh-huhs," you're probably talking to much. You should allow the other person to speak.
 You want to make sure you listen as much as you talk. Being loud can get annoying if you dominate the conversation. When other people speak, genuinely listen to what they say. Do not simply plan your own response ahead of time. Also, encourage conversation. Ask people open ended questions, like, "What's your opinion on this subject?" and "What do you think about this topic?" If you provoke conversation and discussion, this can help solidify your reputation as a loud student without people thinking of you as dominating or difficult.