 The latter name will give you the best results of what stinging (or common) nettle looks like in order to better help you identify the species out in the field. Also, some extra information to know may be useful:


U. dioica is known by several other common names, including "Common Nettle", "Bigsting Nettle", "Tall Nettle", and "Slender Nettle." There are actually 35 to 40 different species in the Urtica genus in Family Urticaceae.
All true nettles are a part of the Nettle Family Urticaceae. There are many other species of plants with the common name "nettle" attached to it, but may not be part of the aforementioned taxonomical family. One such exemplary species is Hemp Nettle, Galeopsis tetrahit, which actually belongs to the Mint Family, Lamiaceae.
It may be of interest to note that not all species of stinging nettle have literal stinging properties. There are six subspecies of stinging nettle, five of which have stinging properties. This species, along with its subspecies, is distributed all over the world, from Africa to Europe and in North and South America. Stinging nettle is native to western North America, Europe, Asia, northern Africa, and introduced elsewhere.
The medicinal properties of nettles were first harnessed in medieval Europe. The plant has been shown to cleanse the body of metabolic waste and increase production of red blood cells. Even today, nettles are steamed and dried for stews and tea. However, this plant is often also seen as a noxious weed that dominates disturbed areas in or near forests, or in clearings with moist, fertile soil.;
, Stinging nettle is primarily single-stalked, and a perennial. A single plant you may find in an area will have been borne from a seed, whereas a group of plants are typically from rhizomatous colonies. The perennial nature of stinging nettle is due to the growth points found on these rhizomes., Stinging nettle stems (singular, never branched) can get as tall as about 1.5 feet (0.46 m) to 9 feet (2.7 m). The stems are sharply angled (typically 4-angled), often with bristly-pubescent stinging hairs. Occasionally the stems may be smooth.

Some stinging nettle subspecies may have green stems, whereas other subspecies may have purple stems.
 The roots are predominantly rhizomatous, with a parent plant capable of creating large colonies that can expand up to 8.2 feet (2.5 m) in diameter per year. This rhizomatous nature can also make these plants quite long-lived. Some colonies have been found and estimated to be as much as 50 years old or more. While the plants themselves are not long lasting, it's the rhizomatous nature and the pink buds that form on the roots that allow it to proliferate., Leaves are arranged as opposite on the stem. They are typically oval to lance-shaped and 2 inches (5.1 cm) to 4.5 inches (11 cm) long, and around 0.8 inches (2.0 cm) to 1.2 inches (3.0 cm) wide. Both upper and lower surfaces of the leaves are covered in stinging hairs, and have coarsely serrated edges. The stipules (membraneous structures at the base of each leaf) are 0.2 inches (5.1 mm) to 0.5 inches (13 mm) long. Stalks are around 0.4 inches (10 mm) to 0.5 inches (13 mm) long., These branching clusters are borne on the axils of the leaves, and bear green flowers, with only sepals, no petals. The sepals are 0.04 inches (1.0 mm) to 0.08 inches (2.0 mm) long. These flowers come as two types: Male and female. Flowers are wind-pollinated.

Male flowers are typically greenish-yellow, with 4 sepals and 4 stamens.
Female flowers are more green, with 4 pubescent (hairy) sepals and 1 pistil.
 Stinging nettle is primarily found in moist wooded, open, and disturbed areas, including pastures, farmyards, and roadsides., The next part below shows some species that are commonly confused with U. diocia, from those related to a couple completely unrelated to this species.