 Familiarize yourself with how shorthorns look by studying images online. You'll be introduced to their basic characteristics as well.


You can also order a book on shorthorns. One such book is: A Field Guide to Cows: How to Identify and Appreciate America's 52 Breeds.;
, Shorties (a slang term for shorthorns) tend to have the same kind of muscling that you will find in Angus, Red Angus, or Hereford cattle.


Shorties are a British breed and tend to be smaller, less muscular and not as lean. However, some bulls (often the best ones) can be quite deep, long, and muscular, with a lot of muscling on the hind quarters and shoulders.
Well-conditioned cows can be the same way, but are not as massive as bulls.
Bulls are medium-sized animals, typically weighing about 990kg. Cows weigh slightly less at 800kg.Shorthorn have moderate frames that are rectangular and low. Their backs tend to be wide and deep, as do their forequarters., Contradictory to their name, some shorthorns are naturally polled (without horns). Bloodlines vary greatly and are the determining factor for whether cattle will have horns or not.This breed is also less wide in the forehead, particularly between the ears.
Shorthorns look finer in the head and are somewhat longer from poll (horn) to nose.
 Shorthorns are still considered to be one of the best breeds to raise on ranch-like conditions because of their excellent forage convertibility, great maternal traits, and ruggedness.


This breed is also recognized for its docility traits. Though shorthorn bulls are considered quieter than other breeds, caution should always to be taken regardless of the reputation., Red shorthorns range from deep red to brownish-red and may have white specks on various parts of their body.


Look for white on their belly, from the brisket to the hind legs and possibly on their foreheads.
In crossbred cattle it's the red shorthorns, which are most often used to help maintain those solid colored cattle., The white shorthorn is most often used to breed with females, which is referred to as a crossing bull.White shorthorns are predominately white. However, they may have a few visible red hairs.
Look for their hair to be medium in length and soft.
 Roan shorthorns have a more interesting pattern. Most are red from their head to their shoulders, while the rest of their body is roan.


You can often find splashes of red and white on their lower body, legs, and possibly the rump as well.
There are all sorts of possibilities for coloration on the roan shorthorn cattle. Even Googling the word "shorthorn" and looking at the images will give you an idea of the variety of interesting patterns you may find on a roan shorthorn.
Look for a large star or diamond of white on their foreheads with red from the rest of their heads to the base of their necks.
 Do a Google search for, “local farms with shorthorn cattle.” Check out their website to see if they allow visitors.


If their website doesn’t mention visitation hours, call the farm and ask if you can come for a visit.
Explain that you’ve been studying different types of shorthorns and would like to take pictures if possible.
If there’s not a farm nearby, try looking for a cattle show. Visit: https://shorthorn.org/shows to learn more about shows near you.
 When you’re at the farm or fair, try your hand at spotting which types of shorthorn are present. Practice spotting white, red and roan shorthorns.


If you’re having issues differentiating between the cattle, ask the farmer or person showing the shorthorns.
 Bring your camera along to the fair or farm. Always ask the person in charge before taking pictures of the animals.


Don’t get too close. It may be best to bring a long-range zoom lens with you so that you can get detailed shots without getting too close.

