 Before seeking expungement, you need to know the details of your conviction. You should find the court papers that you received when you were convicted. You might not have those papers anymore, in which case you must get them from someone else.


You can contact your probation or parole officer. Also, the lawyer who represented you in the criminal proceeding might have a copy.
You can also stop into the courthouse where you were convicted. Visit the court clerk’s office and ask for copies of your conviction papers. You will have to pay a small fee. If you can’t afford the fee, then ask for a fee waiver. You will have to provide written proof of your income.You can also visit the California Office of the Attorney General’s website and request details about your criminal convictions.;
, Not everyone is entitled to get their felonies expunged. You qualify if your felony could have been charged as a misdemeanor, and if you were only given time in county jail or probation. Your application will be approved if you have completed all of your probation or were never given it in the first place.Once approved, your criminal conviction will then be changed to “dismissed in the interests of justice.”

, You might not meet the conditions for expungement. For example, you might still be on probation when you apply. Nevertheless, the judge has discretion to terminate your probation early and dismiss the conviction. In this case, you will have to attend a hearing to explain why the judge should expunge your conviction., Generally, you are ineligible for expungement if you were convicted of a felony and sentenced to state prison, or you were put under the authority of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation.


In this situation, you need to seek a “certificate of rehabilitation” or a pardon instead of an expungement.
 Generally, you can only get expungement if your felony could have been charged as a misdemeanor. Also, your punishment must have been limited to time in county jail, probation, a fine, or any combination of all three.


With some offenses, you can never get an expungement, regardless of the circumstances. For example, you cannot expunge a sex crime involving a child or statutory rape., You might have questions about the expungement process generally or about your situation specifically. For example, you might currently be on probation and want to discuss with a lawyer whether a judge is likely to terminate your probation early. You should find an attorney and schedule a consultation.


If you were represented by a public defender in your criminal trial, then you can contact the defender’s office again. They may be able to help you with the expungement. In some counties, they might help you even if you didn’t use a public defender when you were prosecuted.You can also contact the private attorney who helped defend you. They should be familiar with your case and can offer advice.
If you didn’t have a lawyer during the criminal prosecution, then you should get a referral to a criminal defense attorney. Contact your local or state bar association and ask for a referral.
 To be eligible for a reduction in California, the offense you were convicted of must be a "wobbler", which means you could have been charged with either a felony or a misdemeanor. Common wobblers include burglary, assault, battery, and fraud. Second, you must have been granted probation and completed it. If either of these requirements are not met, you will not be able to reduce your felony to a misdemeanor.


For example, if you were convicted of murder, which is considered a "straight" felony (i.e., it cannot be charged as a misdemeanor), you will not be eligible for a reduction.
In another example, if you were denied probation or if you violated your probation, and you were sentenced to serve time in prison (as opposed to jail), you will not be eligible for a reduction., Most county courts in California will have forms you can fill out to start the reduction process. The petition will inform the judge of your underlying felony conviction and the facts and circumstances surrounding it. For example, in Orange County, you would fill out Form CR-180, which asks for the following information:The date of your conviction, a citation to the penal code section you violated, and whether you are eligible for a reduction
Whether you were granted probation and whether you have completed your probation requirements
A request that your felony conviction be reduced to a misdemeanor

, Supplement your petition with documents indicating your efforts to become an upstanding citizen of California. If you can, provide the court with as much of the following as possible:Letters of support from family, employers, and friends
School diplomas or transcripts
A personal letter to the judge explaining your situation

, Your petition to reduce a felony to a misdemeanor must be filed in the same court that convicted you. This will be a county superior court in the state of California. You can choose to mail or personally deliver your documents to the court. The court will not charge you a fee when you file. However, the court may ask you to make a reimbursement payment of up to $150 after your petition has been heard and decided.Once your petition is filed, your paperwork will be stamped by the clerk of court and you will receive copies. Keep one copy for your records and use other copies to serve the appropriate parties.
The clerk will also schedule a hearing date when you file your petition. Work with the clerk to find a date that works for you.
 Each county has different rules on who needs to be served with a copy of your petition to reduce a felony to a misdemeanor. Check with the clerk who you filed your paper with to determine if anyone must be served. If your county requires service, your petition will usually need to be served on the district attorney.To serve the district attorney, have someone over the age of 18 who is unrelated to the case hand a copy of your petition to them. Once this has been done, the server will have to complete a proof of service form, which you will file with the court.
 On the day of your hearing, arrive to the courthouse early and dress conservatively.Give yourself enough time to get through security and find your courtroom. When your case is called, step to the front of the courtroom and address the judge. When the judge makes a decision as to whether to reduce your felony, they will take the following into consideration:The nature and severity of your offense
The particular facts and circumstances of your case
Your compliance with probation requirements
Your past criminal and personal history

, At the end of your hearing the judge will decide whether to reduce your felony. If your petition is granted, the felony conviction will be reduced to a misdemeanor conviction. However, depending on the fact of your case, you may still have to register as a sex offender, the conviction may still count as a "strike" with California's three strike rule, and the federal government may still bar you from having a firearm.If your petition is denied, you still have options. Try to get your record sealed, ask for a certificate of rehabilitation, or try to get pardoned., Most courthouses have created “fill in the blank” forms that you can use, depending on your circumstances. You should stop into the courthouse and ask if a form is available. Get the following forms:If you were convicted of a felony and have completed all probation or jail time, then you will need to file under PC § 17(b)(3) to reduce the felony to a misdemeanor. You will also need to file a petition under PC § 1203.4 for expungement.
If you are still on probation, then you will need to terminate probation early. File a petition under PC § 1203.3 to terminate probation. Then file the forms mentioned directly above—a petition to reduce the felony to a misdemeanor and then a petition for expungement.
 Make sure that you fill out the forms completely and accurately. Double check to make sure that you have provided all requested information. Remember that you will have to complete one form for each felony conviction that you are trying to expunge., You have the option of attaching a “declaration” to your application. A declaration is a sworn statement you make. It is like an “affidavit.” You should include the following in your declaration:A description of your goals for the future. Explain to the judge what you want to do.
The reason why you committed the crime. Don’t shade the truth or try to claim you were really innocent. That would sink your chances of getting an expungement.
An explanation of how your life has changed since you committed the crime. Talk about how you have grown and changed.
A statement whether your conviction is hurting your employment prospects.
A description of any 12-step program you have completed to deal with drug or alcohol addiction. Also identify your religious involvement, if any.
A declaration: “I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the state of California that the foregoing is true and correct.”

, Make a copy of the completed forms for your records. Then take the originals to the courthouse where you were convicted. Ask the court clerk to file. You will have to pay a filing fee.The amount of the fee varies, depending on the county where you were convicted. You should call ahead of time and ask the amount and acceptable methods of payment.
 Depending on your county, you may have to send a copy of your petition to the district attorney or the probation department (or both). You should ask when you pick up the forms., Not everyone will have a hearing. If you automatically qualify for an expungement, then there probably won’t be a hearing. Instead, you will check back with the court clerk on a certain date to see if you were granted the expungement.


However, some people will require a hearing. The clerk should schedule the hearing date and inform you.
Talk with a lawyer to check what will happen at the hearing.
 After being notified that you are applying for expungement, the prosecutor might decide to object. In this situation, the prosecutor will file objections with the court and probably show up at the hearing to argue its case.


You should read these objections ahead of time and come up with responses to each objection.
 At the hearing, you can also present the judge with letters of support from religious leaders, community members, or employers. You should probably talk to these people before you even apply for expungement, so that they can have enough time to draft a letter.


Make copies of the letters and take them to the hearing with you., You want to look good at your expungement hearing. If you stroll in wearing dirty clothes, then the judge probably will review your petition skeptically. Instead, you should shower and cut your hair neatly. Also follow these dress tips:


Men should wear a suit if they have one. If not, then wear dress pants with a button-up shirt and a tie. Dress in conservative, dark colors.
Women can wear a pant suit or a skirt suit, or else dress slacks with a nice blouse or sweater. Women can also wear conservative dresses. For women, it is key that the clothing fits well and is modest.
In no circumstances should men or women wear shorts, jeans, flip flops, T-shirts, any clothing that has writing on it, or hats., At your hearing, the judge might have questions. If the prosecutor is there to object, then you should have a chance to respond to the objections. Remember the following:


Speak clearly and loudly. Although you may be nervous, you want to make sure everyone can hear you.
Always call the judge “Your Honor.”Don’t interrupt anyone. If the judge asks you a question, then listen quietly. If the prosecutor is speaking, then stand silently. Don’t shake your head or raise your hand. You’ll have a chance to respond once the prosecutor finishes.
 The judge will hear all evidence and then make a decision. If your expungement is granted, then get a copy of the order and store it in a safe place.The judge will base their decision on the following factors:


Whether you have been arrested or charged with any more offenses.
Your general behavior, including your financial responsibility and your ability to get a job. The judge will also consider any volunteer or community work as well.
The reasons offered by the prosecution.
 The judge might deny your petition. If so, then he or she should tell you why. You have the option of filing your petition again at a later date. Be sure to make the changes that the judge mentioned.


Generally, you can file again six months after the original denial date., You might not qualify for an expungement. In this situation, you will have to ask the Governor for a direct pardon, or you could file for a certificate of rehabilitation. Neither the pardon nor a certificate erase the record. You should certainly have an attorney help you, since it is not easy getting either remedy. In fact, you have the right to legal help, either from the public defender’s office or from a court-appointed attorney.The Governor’s Office publishes a form you can use to apply for a pardon. It is available online.California also publishes a packet of information you can use to apply for a “certificate of rehabilitation.” You can get the forms from the courthouse or by downloading them from your court’s website online., You should provide all requested information. Print neatly using black ink or use a typewriter. Make sure to double check all of your information to see that it is accurate.


The forms will generally ask about your convictions and punishments.Keep a copy of the completed packet when you finish.
 Your application can be stronger if you submitted supporting information along with your application. You should consider getting the following:letters from your employer or teachers
proof of employment or schooling, such as copies of certificates and diplomas
character letters from people who know you
letter from a former parole or probation officer
a declaration explaining why you want the certificate
any awards or certificates of accomplishment
anything else your lawyer thinks would help your case

, You will have to mail the application for a Pardon to the address listed on the form. If you are applying for a certificate of rehabilitation, then you need to take the completed forms to the courthouse for the county where you reside. Ask the court clerk to file., You will have to attend a hearing if you applied for a certificate of rehabilitation. Only a judge can grant the certificate. The District Attorney will review your application and schedule a hearing if you qualify. He or she will also notify the District Attorney for any county in which you were convicted of a felony.At the hearing, any District Attorney who opposes your application for a certificate of rehabilitation will appear to state their opposition.
 You should explain to the judge why you are rehabilitated and how getting a certificate of rehabilitation would help you. Try not to be nervous but speak in a clear, calm voice.


For example, you could say, “Your Honor, I think I should receive this certificate of rehabilitation because I have completely turned my life around over the past few years. First, I graduated high school and completed a drug treatment program. I’ve been clean since then. Then I started working towards my associate’s degree this past spring. I’ve been trying to get part-time work while I’m a student, but I think the felony on my record has cost me a few jobs. This certificate could help show that I’ve improved myself.”

, After hearing from you and the District Attorney, the judge will decide whether or not you have been rehabilitated. The judge will consider the following factors when making the decision:your prior criminal history
how much time has passed since you were released from prison
your reasons for seeking the certificate of rehabilitation
how well-behaved you were in prison
evidence of schooling and employment
volunteer work in the community
your family life
the severity of your crime

, If you applied for a direct pardon, then the Governor will review your application and make a decision. Your certificate of rehabilitation will also be forwarded to the Governor’s Office for automatic consideration of a pardon. The Governor can take any amount of time considering your application since no one is entitled to a pardon.The Board of Parole hearings performs an investigation and may contact witnesses and the prosecutor who convicted you.
When you have more than one felony, then the California Supreme Court must recommend a pardon before the Governor can consider your application.

