 Animal highways, or trails, are natural paths found in forests, meadows and other natural environments that are used by many different creatures to get from one spot to another. They look a bit like dirt hiking trails used by humans, except they're usually narrower and less obvious unless you know what you're looking for.Animal runs are paths that connect the trails to the places where they find food, water and cover. Runs are smaller than trails and usually used by just one or two different species.
Look for animal beds, too - places where animals sleep and rest. It may look like a nest, or burrow, with bits of fur and broken foliage.
These places are usually not close to areas developed by humans. Check in areas where forests meet fields and meadows - areas where one type of terrain transitions to another. These are the best spots for animals to find food, water and shelter.
 Animals leave behind clues - "signs" - that belie their presence. Look for bare spots on trees where the bark was rubbed off, broken grass and shrubs, chewed plants, and so on. Each animal has its own unique sign to interpret.Pay attention to smells you encounter, too. Skunks and other members of the weasel family usually leave behind a particular odor.
Eventually you'll learn the differences between the bite marks left by different animals. For example, deer rip grass out of the ground, while felines nibble it.
Look carefully for animal scat, or droppings. First, there are big differences in the shape, size and color of different animals' scat. Second, you can tell more about the animal by examining the scat to see what it has been eating.
 If you want to know if an animal is still nearby, you'll need to check the age of the prints and sign. It's difficult to determine exactly when an animal was present, but if you look carefully you'll be able to tell whether a print or sign was left the same day, or many days or weeks ago.

Determine the age of prints by pressing your hand into the ground next to the print. Take a look at the difference. Fresh prints will still have sharp edges around the diameter, while prints that are a few days old will be rounded off. The weather and climate will also have an effect on how long the print stays visible.
Examine chewed and scratched plants. If they were freshly chewed, you might still see moisture there. Leftovers from an older meal might have dried out a little and turned brown around the edges.
Don't expect to see clear traces of an animal. You're more likely to see just a few toe impressions instead of a whole print, or a tiny nick in the bark of a tree. Look carefully for very small clues that indicate the presence of an animal. Where there's one partial print, you're sure to see another one close by, and the next one might give you a better picture of the animal you're tracking.

