 These teachers and grabbers come in a range of lengths and enable someone to retrieve items from the top shelf of a cupboard or closet, without standing on a chair or to pick up items that are on the floor, without having to get up from the sofa, and can even reach and grab objects that have fallen behind the washing machine. They are easy to use, even for people with arthritis or limited arm and hand movement.;
, We know this may seem like a weird idea, but think about it for a while. These cabinet organizers come in a variety of sizes for a variety of uses and would help all older people with storing and retrieving cooking pots and cleaning supplies, without having to get on their hands and knees to try to find something in the back of the cabinet. Of course, someone would have to help with the installation of these, but think how easy it would be for them to find and reach everything.
 Whether your recipient has a vegetable or flower garden these are perfect gift ideas that will allow them to cultivate their garden with little or no concern for the needed tools and with a comfy place to sit while they work.
 With low maintenance and easy set-up anyone can decorate their outdoor and indoor living areas with these cute and whimsical decorations. No tools or ladders are required to display these, making them senior-citizen friendly. Some nursing homes may allow these to be placed outside a resident's window.
 But they are not just for hauling groceries, they are perfect for transporting laundry to the laundry room or outdoors to the clothesline, for hauling groceries from the car to the house, and for moving a pile of stuff from one room to another.
 Even if they do not drive, one of these on the passenger seat belt will make their travels more comfortable by keeping the belt from digging into their neck. While on sheepskin ideas, a sheepskin wheelchair pad is perfect for someone who is wheelchair bound, but these can also be used on a living room chair for extra comfort and warmth. Be forewarned that if they have small pets, the cats and dogs will probably claim the sheepskin pad as their official napping mat!

, Plus, as we get older and wiser there is less and less items that we feel we have to iron. Putting up and taking down those large clumsy ironing boards, just to iron a collar on a shirt, is not easy.
 A fleece blanket is lightweight, easy to fold, easy to wash, and will keep them warm and comfy on those long, lonely winter nights.
, Again, these are great for those who have had to downsize their homes or who can't easily get outside to hang up items on the outdoor clothesline. These lines range from 8 to 40 feet (2.4 to 12.2 m) of drying surface and the units mount in any small space, such as the laundry area, a mudroom, even in the bathtub/shower.