 You or your lawyer should have received a copy of the indictment or other charging instrument. Read it to understand what you have been charged with. The indictment should list the different criminal counts.


If you are charged with only one crime, then you don’t have a multiplicity issue. Multiplicity exists where you could be given multiple sentences for the same offense.If there are multiple charges, then write them each out on a piece of paper.;
, There is no easy way to uncover whether two counts are multiplicitous. However, one thing you can check is whether each offense requires proof of a fact that the other does not. If so, then the two counts are not multiplicitous.For example, you might have been charged with battery for punching a bar owner in the face. If you were also charged with battery for kicking the same bar owner in the stomach, then the indictment suffers from multiplicity. An attack on one person is usually only a single assault.However, if you punched the bar owner and then tried to trap him in a closet, then you could properly be charged with battery and false imprisonment. The false imprisonment charge requires proof of an element (confinement) which the battery charge does not.
 There is no easy way to decide whether multiple counts qualify as “multiplicity.” For this reason, you should talk to an experienced attorney to decide whether or not you should file a motion to dismiss because of multiplicity.


As a criminal defendant, you should already have a defense attorney. Most defendants who cannot afford an attorney should qualify for a public defender if they are facing a jail sentence.If you made too much money to qualify for a public defender, then you should find a criminal defense lawyer who you can meet with.
Think about hiring the lawyer to represent you. The lawyer could draft and argue your motion to dismiss.
 You can generally dismiss a count of the indictment if the indictment suffers from multiplicity. You should find the relevant rule of criminal procedure. If you are in federal court, then you can bring a motion to dismiss for multiplicity under Rule 12(b)(3)(B)(ii).You must file this motion before trial. However, if you are on appeal, then your lawyer should raise the error of multiplicity in your appeal.
 You should have your lawyer draft your motion to dismiss for you. However, if you are proceeding on your own, then you will need to begin by opening a word processing document and setting the font to 14 point Times New Roman or Arial.In some courts, you will need to print the motion on “pleading paper,” which is paper numbered down the left-hand margin. Read your court’s local rules, which should contain information about how to format your motion.If you don’t already have a copy of the local rules, then contact the judge’s chambers and ask for a copy.
 You should take out any document filed in your case and use it as a guide. The caption information is the following: the name of the court, the name of the parties, and the case number. The caption may also contain the judge’s name.


Remember to title your motion “Defendant’s Motion to Dismiss Counts as Multiplicitous.”, In the introduction, introduce yourself and state why you are bringing the motion. You could write:


“Defendant, , hereby moves this Court to dismiss one of the counts of the two count indictment pending in this case because the counts are multiplicitous. In support of this motion, Defendant sets for the following facts and argument.”, You should begin by summarizing the counts in the indictment that you believe are multiplicitous. State what section of the law you are alleged to have violated. Look at your charging document to find this information.


For example, you could write: “Count 1 of the two count indictment charges Defendant with failure to pay child support from May 1, 2011 until September 2, 2015 in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 228.”, Explain to the court why the indictment charges one offense in more than one count. You should perform some basic legal research to find a case similar to yours where a court dismissed an indictment because of multiplicity. Be sure to cite to the relevant rule of criminal procedure and any helpful court opinions.If you are a lawyer or a law student, then you can find your cases using Lexis or Westlaw.
If you are representing yourself, then you can search using Google Scholar.Click on “Case law” and then select the court you are appearing in. Search for “multiplicity” and then the crimes you have been charged with.
 At the end of the motion, you should repeat your request that the judge grant your motion. In particular, you should ask the judge to require the prosecution to decide which count to proceed under.


Sample language could read: “Wherefore, Defendant respectfully requests this Court to require the State to elect whether it wishes to proceed on Count 1 or Count 2. The other Count should accordingly be dismissed.”, Include the words “Respectfully Submitted” and then your signature block below.Your signature block should include your name, address, and telephone number. In some courts, you also include your email address.
 You must tell the court how you have served a copy of the motion on the prosecutor and the date that service was made. On a separate piece of paper, type “Certificate of Service” at the top, in all caps and bold.


The body of your certificate could read: “I, , certify that on , I caused the foregoing document to be served by first class mail, postage prepaid, on .” Then include your signature., Make multiple copies. You need to file the original with the court clerk. Depending on your court, you may also need to file several copies.Ask the clerk how many copies you need to file. Always keep at least one copy for your records.


Remember that you have to give the prosecutor a copy of your motion. The rules of civil procedure will tell you how you can give notice. Generally, you can mail a copy of your motion.
In federal court, if you file electronically, then the electronic system should automatically notify the other side that you have filed a document.
 After you give them a copy of your motion, they will probably file a response with the court. You should be served with a copy. Read the government’s response closely.


Make sure to pull copies of any court opinion cited by the government. Read the opinion to see that it really stands for what the government claims it does.
 You might be able to file a short reply to the government’s response. This reply can only address arguments made by the prosecutor.You can’t add new arguments which you should have made in your initial motion. You should draft and file a reply only in the following situations:


The government misstates the facts. In your reply, you can correct the facts.
The government misstates the law. For example, the prosecutor could claim that a court opinion stands for something that it doesn’t. You can also correct this kind of error.
 The judge will probably hold a hearing on your motion to dismiss. At the hearing, you will present your argument and then the prosecutor will get to respond. You can prepare by doing the following:


Rereading all motions. You will want to understand not only your own argument but the prosecutor’s as well. The judge could ask you questions about either motion.
Sit in on a hearing. This isn’t possible if you are in prison. However, if you aren’t being held in custody, then you could find a day when the judge hears argument for motions and listen in.Pay attention to how much time the judge gives each side to talk and note the kinds of questions the judge asks.
Outline your argument. With a general idea of how much time the judge gives you to talk, you should create an outline of your argument. Hit your strongest two or three points.

