 Smoking is the biggest risk factor for developing lung cancer. The use of tobacco products in general is a risk factor for cancers of the mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, pancreas, bladder, cervix, colon, and ovaries.Quitting smoking or quitting using tobacco products can be difficult, but with a good plan, support group, and perseverance, it can be accomplished. The National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research provides some helpful guidelines to help people quit using tobacco products.


Decide to quit and make a plan. Many people find it helpful to write down reasons why they want to quit.
Choose a date about one week in the future that you will quit using tobacco. Prepare yourself for quitting, and stick to the date you picked.
Begin to taper your tobacco use prior to your quit date.
Gather support. Tell your family and friends about your decision to quit using tobacco products. Warn them that you may not be quite yourself for the next few weeks, but let them know you are determined!
Keep busy by exercising and participating in activities not associated with using tobacco products.;
, Being obese is defined as having a Body Mass Index (BMI) greater than 30, if you are over 20 years old.Obesity puts people at an increased risk of many types of cancer, including cancers of the pancreas, kidney, thyroid, gallbladder.Tips to maintain a healthy weight include: Get regular exercise.
Eat healthy foods.
Avoid foods that you tend to overeat.
Weigh yourself regularly to track your progress.
Consult a dietician or nutrition professional for additional advice and help with planning.
 Sunburns cause lasting damage to the skin. Children who have had at least one blistering sunburn are at twice the risk of developing melanoma (a type of skin cancer) compared to children who never suffered blistering sunburns.Exposure to intense sunlight can be limited by covering up with long sleeves, pants, and hats and by wearing sunscreen. The Skin Cancer Foundation provides guidelines for minimizing exposure.Seek out shady areas and minimize your time in the sun when it is most intense – typically between 10AM and 4PM.
Cover yourself with loose-fitting clothing, preferably made from fabric with Ultraviolet Protection Factor (UPF) rating.
Wear a wide-brimmed hat and sunglasses that block ultraviolet (UV) light.
Apply broad-spectrum sunscreen that is at least Sun Protection Factor (SPF) 30 when you will be out for an extended period of time. It is best to apply the sunscreen about 30 minutes before heading outside, and then to reapply sunscreen every two hours.
Do not use tanning beds.
 Alcohol is broken down in the body to acetaldehyde, which is a probable carcinogen (cancer-causing agent) that can damage DNA.The use of alcohol together with smoking increases the risk for cancer more than the use of either substance by itself The American Cancer Society suggests that people who do drink alcohol should have no more than two standard drinks per day for men, and one standard drink per day for women.One standard drink is 12 fluid ounces of beer, 5 fluid ounces of wine, or 1.5 fluid ounces of 80-proof liquor.
 If you work in a laboratory environment, a factory, or even in an office, you likely come into contact with known or probable carcinogens from time to time. Three agencies maintain lists of carcinogens. They are The National Toxicology Program, the International Agency for Research on Cancer and the Environmental Protection Agency.A non-exhaustive list of human carcinogens can be found at The American Cancer Society.Adhere to all workplace rules regarding personal protective equipment such as masks, respirators, gloves, goggles, and gowns.
Read the labels of household cleaners, herbicides, and pesticides. Wear appropriate protective equipment and follow all safety guidelines.
 Some viruses can be transmitted by sexual contact between individuals. Infection with certain kinds of these viruses can put people at increased risk for cancer. For example, the viruses that cause hepatitis B and hepatitis C increase the risk for liver cancer.Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) attacks immune system cells and kills them. A weakened immune system increases the risk of many types of cancer, including a type of skin cancer called Kaposi’s sarcoma.

