 Windproof jackets can come in light, mid, and heavyweight fleeces, but each has a windproof membrane layered between two layers of fleece. This severely cuts down on the amount of airflow, making it suitable for use as daily outerwear. Avoid windproof fleece for athletic activities, however, since the lack of airflow may cause you to overheat when you produce high amounts of body heat.
 While many fleeces repel small drizzles of water or snow, a moderate shower will likely soak through. Water-resistant jackets have a non-breathable layer similar to the layer found in windproof jackets, and many windproof jackets can even double as water-resistant jackets. Note that even water-resistant jackets may not be enough to protect you from heavy downpours, however.
 If you layer your fleece jacket with other forms of outerwear, or if you plan on wearing it during aerobic activity, you can unzip the front once you heat up to help you regulate your body temperature.
 These strips of fabric are located beneath the zipper and add a layer of material to block the wind. Without these flaps, cool air can leak in through the zipper, reducing the amount of warmth your jacket provides.
 While pockets may not be necessary on a fleece jacket meant only for style or everyday use, they often prove helpful on jackets worn while going hiking or camping. Pockets on the waist are often deeper than pockets on the chest, and pockets with snaps or zippers will prevent your items from falling out.
 If you plan on wearing your jacket while you exercise, you can unzip your mesh pockets. This action will cause your pockets to act like vents, improving airflow and helping you keep your body temperature regulated.
 Tight elastic sewn into the wrist or the bottom hem prevent wind from slipping in beneath your jacket. Similarly, draw cords at the bottom hem allow you to control the amount of airflow that slips in through the bottom of your jacket. These elements can make your warm fleece jacket even warmer.
 Many fleece jackets have a thick collar or thicker material at the neck. The extra material prevents heat from escaping through the top of your jacket. This feature is especially important if you plan on wearing your jacket for everyday use during freezing weather.
 Most fleece jackets do not come with hoods, but a few do. Hoods can add an extra layer of protection and reduce the amount of heat that escapes from your ears and the top of your head.

