 What you might quickly find is the immense potential Twitter may have on an aspiring business. Twitter is first and foremost a social networking site but when used for ways of commerce, this is when Twitter's abundant usefulness and resources truly become apparent.At the beginning you start out as a fledgling tweeter as everyone else does, but quickly realize that you have the opportunity to become somebody important! But how??? How does one find their niche? That is entirely up to you! This brings me to the reason for this post. Twitter, if used correctly, can be a marketing tool of enormous potential that reaches thousands! The best part of all, it's free! If this is the primary reason for you joining Twitter then I have a few tools that have helped gather me more exposure (followers) much more quickly than traditional means. And when you have followers, you have exposure! This is what I've been trying to get at! Keep in mind that others have discovered this process long before you...so tact and imagination are the order of the day. Do NOT spam! Do NOT become intolerable to those around you! This may be the BEST resource you ever find in your quest for success, so treat it with kid gloves and look before you leap. The following sites are all free and designed to get you more followers (potentially more money) in a short amount of time.;
, The main, or Home Glide. This is where you will see posts from all of your "friends" or followers. Posts made by you are a different color, which allows you to see your posts quickly and easily. The @Mentions and Direct Messages can also be turned on or off in the Home Glide and are also a different color! When others reply specifically to your tweets or you reply to others, the tweets become "threaded", so when you read replies, they are attached to the message being replied to. No more confusion or searching for the original tweet! 'Sponsored Tweets' - as the name implies, this is where you view ads by other TweetGlide members, as well as your ads. This Glide can be turned off, but can not be moved from the second column as long as it's turned on. Mentions - an easy way to view any mentions of you. Now you know quickly when people are replying to your tweets, or mention you in other tweets. Direct Messages - view all messages sent to you, or all messages you have sent to others!

, Unlike some of the other schemes out there that require you to follow a hundred people before they place you on the list, FastFollowers uses a fair credit system. When you follow people you earn credits from them, and vice versa when they follow you. You can decide how many credits you want to offer per follow, and when you run out you remain on the list so people can still follow you if they like. You can also bulk-purchase credits if you'd prefer to do less following yourself, and just want to grow your own followers.
 This is achieved by following accounts, a part of which must reciprocate by following you. The percentage of accounts which follow you in reply can vary greatly from 1% to 30%. You need the program if you've just started to post on Twitter and you only have a few followers.
 A great site for gaining followers that offers free and paid services. Free service enables you to follow all the people on the "twitter train". People that pay to be VIPs get to be first on train and get to be on it more often, therefore gaining more followers. A very effective way to start.
 Each Opportunity listing contains a description of the desired TWEET and the compensation to be paid by the Advertiser.
 A fun site that allows you to ask and answer questions on twitter. The principle behind this is, as more people ask or answer questions more people become involved. Yours and their answers are tweeted and more followers view them and become interested and involved. Here's a link to a video that explains the process firsthand.
 Basically, it’s a Flash application that fetches your friends and followers from Twitter when you click the “Whack!” button, then displays them for you, letting you quickly paginate through them. By default, the list contains all your friends and followers and is sorted by last update, showing those who most recently updated first. You can sort the list alphabetically either ascending or descending by Twitter ID. You can filter the list in several ways: only friends or only followers, all friends or all followers, and mutual friends. These are but a few of the better ways to utilize the full potential of Twitter. Hope this helps get you off the ground and tweeting with the best of 'em!

