 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the brownies, you must preheat it. Set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius), and allow it to heat fully.Keep an eye on your oven so you’re aware when it reaches the proper temperature. Most models will beep or flash an indicator light to let you know.;
, For the brownies, you’ll need an 8-inch by 8-inch (20-cm by 20-cm) or 9-inch by 9-inch (23-cm by 23-cm) baking pan. Line the pan with parchment paper that has some overlap on the sides to serve as a “handle” when you remove the brownies. Next, lightly grease the parchment paper with butter.You can substitute foil for the parchment paper if you prefer. Grease it as you would the parchment paper.
You can also grease the parchment paper with nonstick cooking spray.
 Add 4 ounces (113 g) of chopped bittersweet chocolate and ¾ cup (170 g) of butter to a large microwave-safe bowl. Microwave the mixture on high in 30 second intervals for 1 ½ to 2 minutes. Stir the mixture after each interval, and stop when it is completely melted and smooth.Be sure to work in no more than 30 second intervals. The chocolate can burn easily if you heat it for too long.
If you don’t have a microwave, melt the chocolate and butter in a double boiler on the stove. Place them in a heatproof bowl, and set the bowl inside a saucepan full of simmering water on medium or medium-high heat. Mix the chocolate and butter until they’re melted.
 Once the chocolate and butter are melted, add 2 cups (450 g) of sugar to the bowl. Stir well until it is fully incorporated.It’s usually easier to mix the sugar into the chocolate and butter with a whisk.
 When the sugar is fully incorporated, add 4 large eggs. Whisk the eggs in one a time, though, stirring until each one is just blended in.You can use egg substitute in place of the eggs if you prefer.
 After the eggs are blended into the batter, mix in 1 ½ cups (360 g) of all-purpose flour. Gently stir the batter until the flour is just incorporated.Be careful not to over mix the flour into the batter. You may wind up with tough brownies.
 Once the flour is just blended into the batter, add 1 1-ounce (30 ml) of bottle red liquid food coloring, 1 ½ teaspoons (7 ½ g) of baking powder, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract, and ⅛ teaspoon (1 g) of salt. Mix the batter gently until all of the ingredients are just blended in.If you used salted butter in the batter, you can omit the salt if you prefer.
 When the batter is fully mixed, carefully pour it into the lined, greased pan. Use a spatula to spread the batter so it’s in an even layer., Place the pan in the preheated oven, and allow the brownies to bake for 40 to 45 minutes. You’ll know the brownies are done when you stick a toothpick in the center and it comes out with only a few moist crumbs stuck to it.If you don’t have any toothpicks, you can use a fork to test for doneness.
 When the brownies are finished baking, remove the pan from the oven. Place it on a wire rack, and allow the brownies to cool completely, which should take approximately 2 hours.It’s especially important to cool the brownies completely if you plan to frost them. Frosting warm brownies will cause the frosting to melt off.
 Add 1 8-ounce (225 g) package of softened cream cheese and 3 tablespoons (42 g) of softened butter to a medium bowl. Use an electric mixer to beat the two together on medium until the mixture is creamy and smooth.You can use a stand mixer to make the frosting if you prefer.
 Once the cream cheese and butter are blended, add 1 ½ cups (188 g) of powdered sugar and ⅛ teaspoon (1 g) of salt. Use the electric mixer on low to carefully beat the sugar and salt in.Powdered sugar is also known as confectioners’ sugar or icing sugar.
 When the powdered sugar and salt are fully incorporated, add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract to the frosting. Use a wooden spoon or spatula to gently mix it in until it’s fully blended., After you’ve allowed the brownies to cool for approximately 2 hours, use the excess parchment on the sides to lift the brownies out of the pan. Discard the parchment paper, and set the brownies on a plate or platter.If you prefer, you can leave the parchment paper under the brownies until after you frost them. That can help keep frosting smudges off your plate or platter.
 After you’ve removed the brownies from the pan, use a butter knife carefully spread the frosting over the top of the brownies. Next, take a sharp knife and cut the brownies into squares as large or small as you’d like.You can cut the brownies into squares first and then frost them. That allows you to leave some brownies unfrosted if you prefer.
To make the brownies more festive, you can sprinkle colored sugar or sprinkles over the top of the frosting.

