 Technically, you don’t need even teams to play, but every extra person on the other team is one more person who might guess the answer. Once teams are decided, have each team head to a separate room, or at least opposite sides of the same room.Alternatively, you could play a less competitive version of this game where players act out a word or phrase and anyone can answer. The person who gets it right first is usually the next to act things out.If you aren’t playing with teams, you can have the player act out a phrase they have picked out on their own. This can simplify the game by eliminating the need for slips of paper.;
, Now that teams are in different rooms (or at least on opposite sides), write out common words or phrases on slips of paper with a pen or pencil. Keep these secret! These phrases will be given to the opposite team to draw at random when it’s their turn.


There are six common categories in traditional charades: book titles, movies, TV shows, song titles, plays, and well-known quotes or phrases.
Generally, long phrases and foreign phrases are not allowed. When in doubt, poll your teammates. If half have heard it before, it should be fine.
Avoid writing down a single proper name on the slip. Without context, if a player doesn’t know who the person is, they’ll have a difficult time., You’re almost ready to get started. Fold each of the slips of paper in half so the word or phrase is hidden. Put these slips in a container and rejoin the other team in the room you’ll play the game. Exchange containers, but don’t look at the slips of paper!Baskets or hats are commonly used as containers for the slips, but in a pinch, you can get creative. Pull an empty drawer from a coffee table or use a pillowcase.
 Flip a coin to determine which team goes first (or something similar). Each round usually has a set amount of time, but you can adjust this depending on the age group and skill level of players. Two minutes might be a good starting time limit.

If you don’t mind rounds going on for a long time, you don’t have to use a time limit. In this situation, teams would try to guess until they gave up.
At this point, you might want to agree upon a penalty for anyone who speaks when they should only be gesturing. For example, you might deduct a half point or forfeit the round.