 If you don't have uniforms, read the dress code, and ask students what they know they can get away with.


For those who have uniforms, make sure everything fits; you will look very odd if something doesn't fit. Uniform shirts are usually a bit big, so be careful what size you order. Don't be afraid to accessorize your uniform. Wear a watch, a headband, a hair ribbon, whatever. Cute clips and colorful shoelaces are adorable.
For those without uniforms - you're lucky! You can wear your normal-styled clothes.
Shoes tend to be very lenient style wise. Ballet flats or cute sneakers are great.
Wear natural makeup. If you want to do something more wild, make sure that you can pull it off, and that it's allowed.
Pertaining to hygiene, shower every day, but if you're a girl, try washing your hair only every other day. You won't have time to deal with your hair every day, and it's unhealthy to wash it every day.;
, It's a great way to meet people before school starts, and if you're really nervous, ask your school for a buddy if they don't give you one. A buddy is your personal welcoming committee; he or she will show you around school, help you find your locker and classes, sit with you at lunch, and just help you in general.
 In some schools the student-teacher relationship is weird; the teachers are a little more casual and friendly, and you'll enjoy talking to them about everyday things and having real conversations, but purely in school; never outside of school, unless it's school sponsored.
 Choose a durable lock and keep the combination somewhere safe such as your phone or a piece of paper disguised as something else.
 It's really embarrassing to show up in the wrong class.
 It's really helpful, and you'll meet other new students. You can also just go to orientation to reunite with old friends and meet the new students. Politely introduce yourself to the secretary or someone who looks like they can help so they can help you in the future.
, If at any time you can't see the board, tell your teacher and they can probably help/move you.
 This usually happens about two weeks after school starts. Sign up for at least one club if you're not on a sports team. Try to sign up for one even if you are on a sports team, whether it's for the fall season or the whole year.
 Cell phones are great, especially if you need to call a parent or a friend. Some schools require you to get a laptop. They are often picky about which one you get. Consider getting the extended warranty, because you will be getting a lot of use out of your computer and it can end up saving you hundreds of dollars. Some schools do allow students to use their phone while in class, to record the lesson.
 Don't be afraid to be supportive of your school. Besides, clothing with your school name on it is usually some of the comfiest stuff you may ever own. Go to a sporting game or two. A really big game is usually where you can find a friend; plus, the energy of the crowd is breathtaking.
 It's easy to fall behind if you don't study. There are many methods of studying, so be sure to find a method that works for you.
 If you fail a certain amount of classes, you will be put first on academic probation, and then get kicked out if you don't improve. Yes, people can buy their way back into the school, but that's not a good option now, is it?

,