 If for whatever reason you do not already have an email account in your name, now's the time to start one. You will need an email address to register a domain.The options for free emails are numerous, although Gmail is arguably the best for this purpose.


Password and email security is always important, but it's made even more vital if you're associating your email with a new domain name. Any hacking onto your email could lead to your domain being compromised, among a great many other bad things.;
, TK domains are sponsored by Tokelau, a small country in the South Pacific, largely as an investment to spread awareness about the country and attract tech ventures.These are very simple and easy to get, and you can attach them to existing addresses if you wish. The TK website is specifically intended for users to register free domains.


You will only be able to get the .tk domain if you insist on getting one freely. Paid domains may be registered at sites like GoDaddy., Choosing an address for your website is extremely important, and requires a bit of creativity. So many domains have already been picked out, and you'll need to choose something that's both relatively easy to remember and applies to the theme or content of your website.You can check availability of certain URL domains. Don't be discouraged if the first few you think up are already taken.Anyone potentially using your site should have an idea as to its contents based on the domain name.
 On the TK server page, you will be asked to go input details of your domain, including your email contact info and chosen domain name, among other things. The process itself is quite straightforward and should not take you more than a couple of minutes to fill out entirely. Once the info is inputted to your satisfaction, complete the registration with your TK account. Your site should be up shortly thereafter, although you may have to wait up to 48 hours depending on the traffic they're handling at the time., When the registration goes through, it's a good idea to give the domain name a test run to make sure everything's gone through without a hitch. Type the chosen .tk URL into your address box and see how it goes. If it takes you to the website you assigned it to, the registration has gone through successfully and you now have a free domain to work with.


Give it some time. TK domains can take up to 48 hours to come online following your registration. Don't assume the worst if you can't find it right off the bat.

