 One way to get a jump on being a professional counselor is to start in high school. Try to take as many psychology classes as you can so you can already get to work in your field.


You can also take concurrent classes at a local community colleges if your school lets you do that. Talk to your guidance counselor to find out more.;
, To be a professional counselor, you must start with a bachelor's degree. It doesn't necessarily need to be in psychology or counseling, but if you plan to pursue that field, it's a good idea to start learning it in your undergraduate coursework. Plus, having a degree in a related field can help you get into the graduate program you want.During your time as an undergraduate, try to focus on courses that offer training in anger management. You can also take related courses, such as family counseling or substance abuse and addiction. Classes in communication could also be helpful.
If you want to develop your skills, consider joining a peer mediation group on campus, which can help you develop skills you need as a counselor.
While you don't need to be a professional counselor to provide anger management counseling to individuals, you need to take these steps if being a professional counselor who specializes in anger management is your goal.
If you want to just provide counseling in anger management while working in a related field, such as a school counselor or pastor, you can just work on certification for anger management. However, you'll still need a bachelor's degree.
 To work as a professional counselor, you must get a master's degree. Generally, your degree needs to be in psychology, marriage and family therapy, clinical mental health counseling, or something similar.You will need to narrow your field a bit when you enter graduate school. That is, you can work on a general psychology degree, but you can also narrow down to a specific type of counseling, such as marriage and family counseling. Which you choose depends on your own inclinations and desires. You can also find programs focused specifically on anger management. Most programs offer a degree in another type of counseling, such as marriage and family or youth counseling, with a focus on anger management.
To help increase your chances of finding a job, choose a program that is accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP). You can find a list of programs on the Council's website, or check on your school's website to see how it is accredited.To increase your chances of finding a job, you may even want to pursue a doctorate in your field.
 Once you graduate, you can't immediately start practicing as a counselor on your own. Instead, you must gain an internship or residency to work as a counselor with supervision.Each state varies on how many hours you must work before you can gain your license. Check with your state's licensing board to find out how many hours it requires. You'll need to put in somewhere between 2,000 and 4,000 hours to work towards your license.
To find an internship or residency, check with local clinics and hospitals. Your school should also know of available opportunities.
In some cases, you may not need this experience after school if you're in a CACREP-accredited program.
 Working on national certification is important because it shows you meet certain national standards. However, it is not a license to practice in the state you live in, meaning you'll still need state licensing. Nonetheless, national certification can sometimes help you get state licensing.The main step you need to take to become nationally certified is to take the national examination, the National Counselor Examination for Licensure and Certification (NCE). You can take this exam through the National Board for Certified Counselors (NBCC), the primary certification group in the United States. The website also provides prepping guides before you take the exam.
The NCE is focused on assisting people with relationships, human development, diversity, career development, and assessment. It also covers how to conduct yourself professionally and ethically, as well as the ways you are able to counsel people and provide diagnosis.Besides passing the examination, you need to meet the basic requirements for certification, starting with a master's degree and 3,000 hours of experience (with at least 100 of those supervised), though the experience may be waived if you completed a CACREP-accredited master's degree.To take the exam, you register with the site and sit the exam on a specific date. You will need two forms of ID when sitting the exam. You will know your score immediately after the exam, and you can retake the exam if you fail it.A perfect score is 160 out of 200 questions, as 40 questions are used for field testing and do not count against you., Start by finding the licensing board for your state, which you can do through the directory on the NBCC website. The website or board for your state can give you more information on requirements specific to your state.For instance, in some states, you need to be approved by the board as a candidate. You may also need to pay a fee in addition to the exam you take.In some states, the NCE will suffice for licensing. Other states require the the National Clinical Mental Health Counseling Examination (NCMHCE), also administered by the NCCB.The main difference is this test includes clinical simulations, ten of them, where you must apply your knowledge, rather than just answering questions as you do in the NCE. In the simulations, you must choose one or multiple answers from a group of answers., While Anger Management certification doesn't have the national accreditation in place that counseling does, you can find nationally accredited programs. The main certification program is the National Anger Management Association (NAMA). Going through this association means your certification is likely to be recognized by courts that mandate anger management counseling as a part of sentencing.The first component is taking a course in anger management. In the course, you will learn the basics of providing anger management counseling for patients.
Your program should include things like a discussion of what anger is and how it can be managed. It should look at the use of logging anger moments to help figure out what causes episodes. It will also examine other concepts that play into anger, such as lack of empathy and communication, as well as stress.
NAMA has programs across the country where you can begin your certification. Basically, they hold small conferences at different locations where you can become certified. You can attend one near you or go fly across country if you prefer. You'll find a list of these conferences on NAMA's homepage.You can also take NAMA-approved courses through other organizations., The experience you need for anger management is fairly minimal. You need about 2 hours, spread out over 4 sessions, working under a anger management supervisor.You can also gain this training at one of the conferences.
Another option for this training is doing it by teleconference or phone through the NAMA.
 You need a bachelor's degree for basic anger management, which of course you'll meet if you're already a counselor. You'll also need to pay a fee and provide a resume to the NAMA., These requirements only provide you with a basic certification. If you want a more advanced certification, the requirements are tougher. For instance, you'll need to complete at least 500 hours over half year as a basic specialist to become a more advanced specialist.Mostly, achieving higher levels of certification is about putting in the hours. However, the hours need to specifically be in anger management, not just counseling, as you did with your counseling certification.
For more advanced certification, you'll need a master's or a doctorate, depending on what track you want, plus state licensing, which you should already have.
 Just like with most fields, your first step is to apply for positions. Consider local mental health clinics and hospitals. Your local government may also hire anger management counselors for individuals who must take anger management classes, so check government listings as well.You may need to gain some experience as a counselor before you are able to work specifically as an anger management counselor. However, many counseling positions will allow you to do at least some anger management work. Choose positions to apply for that will allow you to do at least some of the work you would eventually like to do full-time.
Remember to tailor your cover letter to each place you apply. It should identify the specific skill set that makes you the perfect match for the position you're applying for.
Don't forget to consider alternatives to these counseling positions. For instance, your experience and training may help you work as a social worker or in a rehabilitation facility. Alternatively, you may do well as a college counselor. Consider all the possibilities when looking for a job.
 Joining professional organizations like NAMA or other national and local counseling associations can you give opportunity to network with other counselors. In turn, those networks can help you make connections and find positions.Also, many professional organizations have jobs lists on their sites, which you can use in your search for a job. Many offer these to insiders and outsiders, though some offer the list to members only.
 Another option is setting off on your own. In this case, you'll be your own boss, but you'll also need to find office space and funding. One option to make this process less scary is to go into business with another counselor or a group of counselors with similar ideas.To find funding, consider applying for a business loan to jump start your business in the beginning. If you're scared about funding it in the beginning, consider renting office space just when you need it. In fact, some buildings will rent to you by the hour, if that's what you prefer.
While it may seem necessary to advertise heavily, counseling is often a referral-based business, meaning it's more important to start leaning on your network to see who can use your services. In turn, those people will likely refer other clients to your services, if they were happy with how things turned out. If you do advertise your services, emphasize that you specialize in anger management.
If you own your own business, you'll do some of the same things every anger management counselor does. That is, you'll provide counseling on anger management, including how to helping the client to figure out what internal and external triggers leads to the anger. You may do all the scheduling on your own or work with an administrative assistant to coordinate scheduling. Because you own your own business, you'll also need to deal with things such as invoicing clients for payment, making payments on your office, hiring cleaning services, and doing your taxes or hiring someone to do them for you.
 Each court system will be a bit different, but many court systems have recommended counseling services. Generally, you need to meet certain criteria to be on the list.For instance, most courts will require that you at least have the anger management certification.
Also, most will require that you be a licensed counselor, or at the very least, be supervised by a licensed counselor.
Contact your local criminal court system to find out more about registering in your area.

