 Do not get the brand Royal. They fade extremely fast. These are the best cards (in the order of best to worst): Bicycle, Tally Ho, Accro, and Aviators. Bicycle is the most popular playing card.;
, You really have to care for your cards if you want them to stay good for a long time. Watch the result of when you do a riffle shuffle or a spring. You'll actually notice that your card is starting to bend.
 Know when to replace your cards. Don't use them if they've gotten wet from rain or if you see that the edges are starting to split. These are signs that they are going to fall apart. You might as well replace them now instead of waiting until you have 104 cards instead of 52.


Yes, Bicycle cards can be used for years. But even they will wear with bad handling.
 If you notice, new cards tend to have a sliding attribute. Place a brand new deck out on the table and the top card will slide slightly. This may not seem like a big deal, but when you try to do something like a Charlie or Swivel or some other cut, it will matter. The cards will just slip out most of the time because it hasn't been worn in. You know that it's worn in well when the top card doesn't slide or when you can riffle shuffle comfortably.
 If you look, whenever you don't wash your hands, they feel kind of sticky. It will get your cards dirty and sticky.
 You may notice a while after that your cards get sticky. The best way to unstick them is to take a few cards out of the box first and let them sit for a couple weeks/months. The reason for taking the cards out of the box is to let the cards inside and out air out.
 The other option you have is to spread the cards in a cool environment and allow them to sit for 24 hours or more, face up for half the time, and face down for the other half. You can also do this by laying the cards individually instead of spreading them.
 All of this is good, but the best way to get cards back into usable condition is just simply not to do anything with them for extended periods of time.

