 You can request up to 26 weeks of unpaid leave to care for a seriously ill or injured family member who is a current service member or veteran. The service member's injury or illness generally must have been incurred in the line of duty, or while the person was on active duty.The definition of "family member" is expanded for military caregivers relative to the usual FMLA leave. While the FMLA generally only covers leave to care for your spouse, parents, or children, you also can request military leave to care for your "next of kin," which includes other blood relatives such as siblings, grandparents, aunts, uncles, and first cousins.
However, if you are requesting military caregiver leave under a next-of-kin designation, you must be able to prove that you are the only relative of the service member who qualifies for FMLA leave.
Your leave request must be to care for your family member while he or she is treated or recovers from a serious injury or illness incurred in the line of duty. The injury or illness also can be pre-existing if service in the line of duty exacerbated the condition.
An injury or illness generally is considered serious if it renders the service member medically unfit to perform the duties of his or her military office, rank, grade, or rating.
If your family member is a veteran, he or she must have been discharged within five years of your first leave request.
 While the FMLA allows you to take as many as 26 weeks, this leave is unpaid. Before you max out the leave available, evaluate exactly how much time you need to care for your family member.The FMLA allows 26 weeks within a single 12-month period. This 26 weeks is not in addition to any other leave, so if you've already taken FMLA leave you must consider that amount in your calculation of the amount of leave you have available.
As with other types of leave, you can request time off intermittently, or in the form of a reduced schedule. For example, if your family member has physical therapy for three hours every morning, you may want to work until lunch time and then take off in the afternoons.
 Under the FMLA, you're generally required to notify your employer at least 30 days before you need to take your leave. If you are unable to provide that much notice, you should be prepared to tell your employer why.When you make your leave request, you should state specifically that you are requesting military caregiver leave under the FMLA.
Outline the reasons for your request, and let your employer know that you are willing to supply any evidence needed to support your request.
Within five days of receipt of your request, your employer must notify you whether your leave is covered by the FMLA and provide a list of any documents required to certify your request.
 Your employer may request documentation proving your relationship to a covered service member and the reason for your leave, including evidence of the service member's serious injury or illness.If your employer requests supporting documentation, you have 15 calendar days to provide sufficient information or your employer may deny your request for leave.
Your employer may request contact information for the service member's authorized healthcare provider, the type of medical practice, and whether the practice is affiliated with the military.
You also may have to provide facts about the service member's condition, his or her diagnosis, the likely duration of the condition, and estimates of the time period and frequency of necessary treatments.
Your employer also may request proof of the service member's branch, rank, and unit assignment, as well as his or her date and type of separation in the case of veterans.
 Once your employer receives your request and any required documents to certify the reasons for your request, you will be notified within five days of whether your employer has granted or denied your request for leave.Keep in mind that you are not protected by FMLA if you take time off before your employer has approved your specific request. If you have to leave early or miss work before then, you must follow your employer's normal policies for calling out.
If your employer approves your request either in whole or in part, the notice will include the dates or times for which you've been approved to take FMLA leave.
If you have health insurance through your employer, the notice also may contain information on how to continue to pay your health insurance premium while you are on leave.
Your employer may require you to substitute your requested FMLA leave with any accrued paid leave. These amounts will be included in your notice.
 If your employer refuses to grant you leave under the FMLA and you believe your employer's reasons are false or inadequate, you can file an administrative complaint with the DOL's Wages and Hours Division.If you have questions or want to file a complaint, you can call the DOL's helpline from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Eastern time Monday through Friday. The toll-free number is 1-866-487-9243.
You also can file a complaint in person by visiting the DOL office nearest you.
If you plan to file a complaint, make sure you have information ready, including the name and contact information of your employer, details about your leave request, and the stated reasons your employer denied your request.

