 That means go take a shower. One contributor suggests putting a light amount of cologne on, but use it extremely lightly as overdoing it is a real turn off. Some nice shampoo and conditioner or fragrant botanical body lotion are a valid alternative if you're not prone to body odor.


Choose your best clothes, make sure that they are spotless (means no stains) otherwise you will not give a good impression. (This could backfire by giving off the impression that you're desperate, so don't overdo it.)
Take the time to make yourself ready, you do not want to look sloppy.
Shave and have a clean face.;
, You can make a comment on her clothes, her hair or something else. Be as specific as possible, then it sounds like you've paid attention. But don't over-do it either, you really need to mean it; otherwise it will sound fake. If you can't really find anything great to say just tell her that she looks nice or pretty or even go as far as saying gorgeous, but try not to sound too desperate.
 You score with her and it will sweep her off her feet and also adds to a great first impression.She will love it when you act nice

, If she makes a fuss about it and offers to pay for it herself then just ask her if she's sure.


She may just be saying that so she doesn't look like a gold digger.
Though she may actually just want to buy the ticket herself. If she keeps persisting to let her buy the ticket, ask if she is sure, but offer to buy the popcorn . Also, pay with an appropriate amount of money. If you pay for a grand total of something that is fifteen dollars with one dollar bills, you will appear cheap to her.
 It is thoughtful and otherwise you'll risk the chance on having an awkward date.
 Partway through the movie if you notice that she is getting suspiciously closer and flicks her hair a lot or isn't really concentrating on the movie then she is most likely thinking about how the rest of this date is going to go.


If she gets very close and somewhat cuddly (how cuddly can you get with an armrest jabbing you) then put your arm around her, if she tries to shrug it off and make it look like she was shivering or something then take your arm back, she's not ready for that.
Ask if she likes the movie so far.
If you feel comfortable enough, hold her hand during the movie and it doesn't have to be during the whole two hours. This will reassure her that she is not completely forgotten during the movie. Plus it will put you both in a better mood for the rest of the date.
 Comment briefly on the movie, and ask her if she wants to get a cup of coffee or a hot chocolate at a coffee shop (e.g. "Hey that was a good movie, do you want to talk about it at Starbucks and get a coffee?" or, "That movie was... interesting, do you want to go to Tim Horton’s and talk?"


If she declines brush it off and take her home or wait for someone to pick her up(if you don't drive). If you act hurt about it then she'll just think that you're a bit pathetic and ditch you there.
If she accepts then go get some coffee and try to keep the conversation about her. She may not like all the attention so if she tries to switch the conversation to you then go along with it, maybe she doesn't know much about you or she thinks you’re a bit of a stalker.
 If she says she had a really nice time or something like that then say you had a good time too and ask if you can call her sometime.
 After she's in her house, leave. If you catch her looking out of the window, smile and wave at her. It'll give her the lasting impression that you want to go out again.
 This could be difficult for some, but in order to accomplish this you don't have to know everything, but having a little knowledge about a lot things will help with this.
 This should be a place where you feel most comfortable. One could hope that upon meeting her you got a vibe from her or a conversation with her that could help in your choice as well. The location also says a lot about a person.
 If a woman finds very little attractiveness in you physically, then when you make her laugh you will have her.
 If you are meeting her at a location, try to get there early to scout the place out. Most restaurants have great ideal locations that promotes closeness.

