 You really have opportunity to save yourself from developing a form of diabetes, high blood pressure, heart trouble and cancer that are often "sponsored" by bad diet choices! How often can you eat the no-nos? Do not eat them:


Not once in a month (not 12 times yearly).
Not even once in two months (not 6 times yearly).;
,,", not a different-one each month!) — for example, (1st) once when you’re at a big ball game, and (2nd) once at the beach, or (3rd) a big holiday, and only one other time in a year! (based on 1% of 365 days in a year is 3.65 = about 3 to 4 servings per year). Avoid:Pickles and olives. Avoid loads of sodium/salt— "one, single dill pickle contains a whopping 1,400 mg! of sodium" If you live and die for pickles, see whether you can find low sodium fresh pickles at health or food stores that are low sodium, preferably sodium free!

High fructose corn syrup (HFCS). This dangerous sugar silently contributes to deadly cardiovascular problems. Check food labels, fruity (5, 10 or 15% fruit juice or such) and soft drinks, sodas (almost syrup) -- if HFCS is an ingredient, drop it (but not in your basket). Cancer caution: research shows that fructose increases a certain enzyme that made sugar more available "to promote cancer cell growth".Slash sugar and instead consider occasionally using a very small amount of fruit juice or fruit, real maple, raw (not just brown colored) cane sugar/or honey/molasses -- for only 'slightly-sweet' foods.

Hot dogs, wieners, bologna, spiced luncheon, etc. Muzzle your front-loading food packer device (oral cavity) from stocking up high levels of nitrates, nitrites, 50% fat and gobs of sodium/salt. If you crave hot-dogs or such, too often to avoid them -- then seek light, "nitrite-free, or organic" hot-dogs.
Instead eat Italian sausage that should be "fresh sausage", so although they are fatty, they should not be laden with chemicals! Italian sausages can be split-open to cook out some fats -- or look for the sausage packed fresh, not in skins.

Deep-fried foods. Kick out the trans-fatty, artery clogging heart-endangering deep cooking oils, stop "fats". You lose all the benefit of fish by frying them (to say nothing about fatty cottage/or french fries. Frying fish completely destroys the healing power of fish. A study showed that opposing effects:Don't deep fry fish: Raises Risk by 48 percent -- by eating "more than 1 serving of fried fish per week"!

Instead bake or broil: Lowers Risk by 30 percent -- with over 5 servings of baked or broiled fish per week.



Flame broiled fast food chicken. Usually containing over 1,200 mg of sodium per serving, makes much more than anyone should ever eat in one meal -- instead cook (broiled/baked) at home.Avoid cancer, mutations, toxicity. Meat cooked at very high temperature including much smoke from fats of grilling, roasting, frying and, also, smoked fish have high levels of certain aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) that have been shown to "promote cancer, damage genes, and cause child developmental toxicity".White flour. Turning to sugar quickly, it spike your blood sugar -- instead choose whole grain (severely limit any breads).

Sugar (sugary foods/drinks). Of course, that spikes your blood sugar -- instead sweeten your coffee or tea with ribose or Stevia.Strictly limit alcohol. Wine, beer and liquor are "hidden carb/sugar/fat sources". Alcohol can change to either sugar or fat!




Veal. Full of newborn calf's hormones, it’s one of the most inflammatory foods you could eat(!) -- and:
"inflammation is at the root of heart disease"-- instead choose fish and skinless chicken, very lean or pricey "range-fed meats".


Dehydrated, packaged soups, dip mixes and seasonings. Avoid all the ones loaded with sodium (are there any others?).Instead, season with zesty, salt free herb blends such as Mrs. Dash! -- or store brand/generic


Sherbet. It spikes sugar, but many people choose the sherbet over ice cream thinking it’s healthier:Instead, enjoy the ice cream since it contains fat which slows down your insulin response, (consider no sugar added ice cream/frozen yogurt).



Eat 4 or 5 tiny fairly-balanced meals. Eating little portions several times each day, being more satisfied, then use less carbs, sugary, salty, fried, or charred foods.
 One example of heart-healthy eating plan includes 45 to 50% slow-burning, low-glycemic index carbs; 30 percent healthy fats; and 20-25 percent protein—all of which help to reduce inflammation.Fight off developing Type 2 Diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, strokes, heart problems -- a "variety" of health issues and cancers. Variety is not always the spice of life...


Our bodies are attacked in various amounts even as we sleep. The attackers are in the air and on surfaces as household cleaning products, synthetic fabrics, carpet, fragrances, and pesticides that do emit chemicals, dangerous particles of compounds that seep and sift in, dragging us downward. For one thing, they lower the efficiency of our mitochondria (the energy-producing "generators" inside our cells). Then, at the very least, noxious chemicals create mild discomfort, and on to fatigue, headaches, digestive disturbances and avoidable moodiness. Eventually, toxins become the center for inflammation, many degenerative ailments and diseases.