 Do you want to consider taking up a career as a professional artist full time? Do you just want to take on this activity as a hobby part time? These are very important questions to ask yourself before you design your creative workroom. After this you'll need to consider what kind of creative work you'll be doing and what mediums (materials) you'll be using.

Tailor your arts and craft studio to your own needs and preferences. Some artist for example work best in total chaos and mess. Others work best in organization and peace.The steps in this article are really only a starting off point. You can always look through art studio sites, read magazines and books or watch videos and show on the subject to get ideas. It can also do good to chat with an artist who does similar art work or work that inspire you and chat with that person for tips advice and ideas. Different materials and procedures also require different settings. A paint project usually needs more space than a pastel or colored pencil.
Colored pencils and pens don't require much space and can be carried out efficiently in a spare small room. If the majority of your art takes place outdoors or away from home, like on location, you might just need to room to store finished pieces and a nice way to tote materials to the location.
Sometimes an artist just needs a retreat all their own from everybody or a safe place where the kids or pets don't have access to things like paints, sewing machines, and materials. Sometimes artists need to have all their supplies in one place. Sometimes an art studio is just a place to storage art and craft supplies.;
, It's best not to try to make a shared part of the home or a major living area like the bedroom, kitchen an art craft studio. Toxic art materials if not handled correctly may end up contaminating the food, being eaten by accident or the artist burning that nights dinner. The living room or family activity can work if the artist can find quiet time away from the noise and distractions of other members. It can became really distracting and stressful for the artist and others the person lives with. Creating an art studio in the bedroom will cause problems not only with the sleeping partner but can cause sleeping problems for the artist. Also if you work at home or use the home office, crafts or arts can distract you from getting an important job done.

No spare room? You can also just invest in a nice modern craft station and/or easel and use that one place to use as an art studio. You can also further separate from the room with boundaries like houseplants, shelves or hanging fabric from the ceiling. Place it in the corner somewhere in a room. Just have a place to storage art supplies away when not in use.
 You need to not only think about what materials you are using but other additional supplies you are going need and how are you going to store and work with them.

Painting for example can easily go well beyond paints as the career progresses. Where are easels, canvases, paper, or big bottles of gesso going to go? Also many painters also in time will want to use another technique or new material. Each new container of paint takes up space. If one takes up sewing there is a possibility that maybe another additional sewing machine that does a completely different function from the one that person already owns will need to be stored along with the first one . If you plan on photographing and blogging your artwork plan a place to store and keep the camera and computer.
Another thing to consider is that some materials need to be stored under special conditions. Many glues and some paints can't be placed in cold temperatures, some fabrics can't be placed in full sunlight.
Some drawing medias like pencils, chalks, pastels, charcoals will get brittle and dry in exposed locations. Others will melt in moist humid locations. There a many locking and air tight solutions in the food storage department of many stores that can easily solve many of these problems.
 Kind in mind that some materials may have sticky vapors that will cling to walls and ceilings and form "blobs" that are impossible to get off.

Chalks, charcoals, and some kinds of pastels can get very dusty and coat anything it touches. Cover sensitive objects and surfaces with protective covers or place these delicate items in containers.


Many paints and glues give off fumes when your working with them and need to be used in a well-ventilated room such one with an open window.
Also many craft materials can cause problems with health if ingested or if the material gets on the skin. Chalk dust can also cause sneezing and coughing.Some paint pigments are also toxic if ingested or absorbed through skin.
When doing any art or crafts that require heat like using a hot glue gun, melting wax or wood burning make sure there is ventilation or cooling available so the room temperature is comfortable. This also includes working with machines that get hot while in operation. Anytime heat or electricity is involved have an fire extinguisher ready to go.
 The space doesn't have to be huge but it should be adequate enough to do whatever it is you're doing.

Any artist can make masterpieces in any size room however the artist shouldn't have to bump their head or hands on the walls or ceiling. Consider whether a room is big enough for you to move around freely in as well as doing artistic activities.There should also be ample room to spread an adequate amount of your supplies out in one place instead of having to go back and forth getting supplies.
The smaller the space, also the higher the concentration of fumes and smells coming from the paints in the room in most cases. Small rooms can also be noisy when using loud equipment.
You can use small working places more efficiently by prioritizing your projects and with good placement of materials and workstations. When you are painting and don't have a lot pf room you may for instance get only the colors you are using for the step your doing now and as the paint dries up get your colors ready for the next step. Many awkward small nooks can hold many great storage or activity spots like storing the washing solution bucket and containing the splatters to one spot. A small room can also encourage an artist to leave the room more frequently and take a break.
Big rooms can be overwhelming. The size of a room might make an artist take on too much or too big of a project because the artist feels it needs to be full. Also it's easy to get involved in too many different projects at one time. Bigger rooms also need more maintenance, lighting and cleaning.
 This is not just the paints and brushes.But also the worktable, canvas, easel, paint thinner, palette and drop clothes. A crafts person will also need more than one kind of glue for different crafts. Safety equipment and first aid kits are great in case something goes wrong., Or at least consider going to a professional art store for more traditional versions. There are many relatively inexpensive worktables that are sleek and stylish made of tempered glass and steel. These often also will have drawers and pockets to easily place your pencils, paints etc. A glass table is also good for tracing things without the having to use projector all the time.Tables that tilt at angles are also good. Wood tables can also be a great choice with some of the features as above.


Get a workstation that's the correct height and width. You don't want to be crammed into a corner without ample room to stretch and move about nor should you have to stretch out of shape to reach supplies. Don't forget to have comfortable seating.
 It's best to pick a nice clean white with no other colors.

Picking any other color may cause trouble. Dark colors will absorb lights and make the room darker which is not appropriate for most crafts. Picking any other color besides white will reflect that particular color unto the project affecting it's colors and your project will turn out different colors in a different room or outside. You can always decorate the other parts of the room with your favorite colors keeping the white dominant.
 Excellent lighting is the fundamental of a well designed art studio.

Too much can be just as bad as too much. Poor lighting makes it difficult to do fine details in the work like adding the fine strands of hair to an oil painting or stitching on glass beads to a lace linen. Too much lighting causes glare (reflections off shiny items) and can make colors look faded. Both scenarios will cause eye problems and eyestrain.
Choose your light color correctly. Light colors like paint will affect the tones and hues of your projects and materials. Not all light bulbs and colors are created equal. "Warm white" with yellow in it like candlelight or traditional lights can fade colors and make them look duller. "Cool white" with blue in it is said to be the artist light because electric companies claim it enhances the colors of the materials.This white color is also called daylight. There is also one called "pure white" which has no colors in it and it's the same color as bright white typing paper. The best option in light is a cool white or a good quality pure white.
Consider cool LED bulbs for detail up close lighting. Incandescent, Fluorescent or Halogen lighting can get extremely hot and make it uncomfortable to work around. LED also perhaps won't hurt most materials sensitive to light.
Natural light may or may not be good. The tones of light the sun gives to a room not only varies by the time of day but by many factors. Morning light has more blue in it than Dusk or Sunset light. The storm clouds and also pollution can color the sun an infinite array of colors.Also the colors of things around the window can influence colors in the room.


Keep materials organized in appropriate containers. Categorize your materials by brand, type, material or by project. There many specific containers for specific materials. Some storage containers also have locks to keep unwanted guests or curious pets and kids out of potentially dangerous materials.
Don't just dump materials in a huge box or plastic bin. It's practically creating a pile of mess in a box that one has to dig about like a pirate searching for treasure. Don't also put loads of different tiny boxes in one huge container.It's much better to keep lots of smaller boxes on shelves. Save the big bin for larger items.This also will save on straining the muscles and hands.
Think beyond the craft stores when it comes to storage. Many times a hardware or tool shop will have storage solutions often at lower prices and have more possibilities. Tool boxes and chest can provide roomier storage than a tiny plastic case. Pegboards, wine racks, hangers for clothes, can become great solutions for awkward items. Many common place containers that are dark colored like iodine glass bottles after rinsing off can help keep sunlight sensitive liquids from being damaged.
A great way to store things like colored pencils, markers, pens, crochet hooks, is to create a carousel storage compartment or buy one. Get a lazy Susan at any home decorator shop or cake stand that rotates and use plastic storage cylinders or food cans properly rinsed and cleaned or cups and mugs and place your items in there. Old CD and DVD spindle cases can also be used for many storage solutions.If the compartments of the carousel are not permanently built in there's a great advantage of flexibility and more options.






Consider using vertical shelving for small lightweight items. Flat storage up against the walls will save on valuable floor place.
Don't put heavy items on high shelves. Heavy items should be placed on lower shelves and at shorter distances from your workstation.


Consider having a portable form of a workstation or table. Whether it has doilies (wheels) or one of those tables that fold up or let the user change the dimensions of the table.
Invest in adjustable shelving systems. These are better options than more traditional shelves because as your creative taste change you can change the space as well. Also if the room has to become a child's room or you need a guest room it easily be converted into another different place.
Give your studio a nice place for lounging. Sometimes you might want to look at the works you created with a cup of tea, play on your Android while waiting for the paint to dry or use your studio as a restful retreat to catnap.
 It's important to have a place to keep samples of materials and all your little notes. It's important for any creative person to have access to color or fabric swatches, inspirations, notes, tutorials.

Keep your color swatches, fabric swatches in real not digital form. Even the best computer screen can not display all colors accurately nor can it display finishes or textures. There is no such thing as "feel-a-vision" yet. Also the display settings on any computer can vary causing colors to look different among different screens.
Keep you color swatches in a sheltered place. Some materials are easily faded by exposure to moisture, dust, air or the sun. This also prevents paint or glue from spilling on those precious swatches.
Use the computer and it's many ways of storage to store things like detailed instructions, store information, magazine articles, model numbers. Many manuals are also downloadable via .pdf format online.
(option) Looking at what you achieved can be awarding and inspire you to be more creative. If your home lacks room to display your finished pieces use your own craft room as a display room as well. This is your place to be yourself in purest form. Don't be afraid to change the display as needed or as you wish. Display your finished works in your studio as you wish.

Be sure to protect painted or stained projects with the appropriate sealer that is waterproof. Also store these things in appropriate containers.
Place paper works in an acid free album or frame with acid free mounting inside. Acid in some framing materials (also fabrics) will cause them to age quickly and become yellowed, discolored or have fine cracks in the material.
Store your finished projects in appropriate containers to ensure that they will last for a long time.
 Making messes is inevitable in an art craft studio and it's best to keep surfaces safe and clean as possible. If the room or floor is not really in good shape or you're into the spill design trend you can skip this step.

When doing a potential messy craft or painting cover the surfaces of the work station with a drop cloth. Use weather tarp, drop clothes or even rags to keep your surfaces clean and usable. When using things like glitter or beads that can be messy getting all over place, keep these medias in a container such as a paper plate and keep a properly sized funnel so they don't roll or fall all over the place. Keep the container being used in another container rather than on the main surface glitter and beads can also be returned to the original container saving inventory and money. This also is a great way to keep crumbly messes to a minimum.
Have anything thing you need handy for cleaning up the media in case of a spill. Water washable material can only needs a nicely sized pail of water or access to a sink.


Don't buy what you really don't need! Many of the "useful" items like, the colored pencil storage case or that carrying tote for brushes will sometimes just get in the way. Also it's not really necessary to buy huge containers of paint, or multitudes of the same color if your doing only a small project. Paints and glues will loss their quality very often when first opened. It's also easy to forget which identical glue container is already opened or brand new.
Tame those cords, ribbons, wires, threads and chains. It's best to keep long items on a reel like a thread is on a spool. If these are not storage correctly prepare yourself for a jungle of tangled mess and tripping hazards. Try to also keep those electric wires or air gun hoses under wraps with wire organizational products. You might want to use portable, chargeable, battery operated equipment to minimize cord hassles.
Do not keep old catalogs from art stores after a year or two! Prices and products change very often.
Many hobby and craft magazines have their articles online somewhere on the web or are often revamps of older articles and information written somewhere else or on a video site like Youtube. These subscriptions can get annoying and costly for the artist in the form of mental and spacial clutter. Before you subscribe to or buy that book or magazine make sure it's not available in some other more convenient, neater form. Also many magazines only describe the project in the magazine and then the reader has to go online to get the instructions.
Place paper in a container that keeps it from folding/rolling up the edges (becoming dog eared).
 Good labeling that is easy to spot and read will help keep you organized and prevent costly mistakes caused by confusion. If you are a visual person who keeps organization better with pictures use photos or drawings on the storage container. Keep different categories of things in different color containers in a color code system or simply put all similar colors in it's own container or section of the container.

Also if you use more than one of anything that looks very similar like unlabeled crochet hooks, make sure to label them or use a color code system with a color key written down. A color key tells what each color means.Green can be for synthetic brushes and blue for natural brushes. Good labeling also help you seperate your identical paper scissors from your fabric scissors if necessary. Nail enamel or a thin colored tape works great for this purpose.
Do not put any important thing of the studio in a nondescript , unlabeled or poorly labeled bag or box! It's too easy to assume such a container has nothing important in it and later realize that that box or bag going to the trash plant has your new ordered paper or finished project you love so much! Avoid this mishap by investing in clear containers or bags and labeling things in them with a fade proof permanent marker or label. At least you'll be able to see what's inside.
 Oil and/or clean machines and utensils regularly. Tape the ends of delicate ribbons or use fray prevention glue to keep them looking their best. Close glue and paint projects to increase shelf life. Protect delicate and sensitive materials from their enemies. When not in use cover sewing machines, glue guns etc to protect them from dust and grime., You'll want your masterpieces to last forever so you can proudly cherish them for years to come.

Be sure to protect painted or stained projects with the appropriate sealer that is waterproof.
Place paper works in an acid free album or frame with acid free mounting inside. Acid in some framing materials (also fabrics) will cause them to age quickly and become yellowed, discolored or have fine cracks in the material.

