 If you notice that your rabbit has fleas, talk to your vet about using a flea solution made for rabbits. Advantage, Program and Revolution are all designed specifically to get rid of fleas on rabbits without damaging their delicate skin or otherwise impacting their system.Do not use a solution made for cats or dogs, even if it says it is also safe for use on rabbits. It's better to use one of the formulas made just for rabbits.
Never submerge your rabbit in a flea dip of any kind, even if the packaging suggests it's safe to do so.
 Follow the instructions from your vet or on the packaging to apply a small amount of the liquid solution to the area between your rabbit's shoulder blades. This is the safest spot to apply it since the rabbit can't reach back and scratch or lick it away.


Most flea solutions require multiple applications over the course of a month.
If you're not sure how much to apply, talk to your vet before taking action.
 If you prefer a natural solution, an old-fashioned flea comb does the job. In order to use this method, it's important to have a good relationship with your rabbit, since combing out fleas and nits can be quite time consuming. Have a partner hold your rabbit while you meticulously comb through its fur to pick out fleas and nits. Be sure to cover the rabbit's entire body.


Check the rabbit again after a few days. In most cases you'll need to repeat the process two or three times to account for new nits hatching. After a few weeks, the fleas and their nits should be gone.
In between cleanings, sanitize the flea comb by boiling it in water for five minutes.
 If you found fleas on your rabbit, they have probably infested its living space (and yours) as well. Sanitize the rabbit's cage and change the bedding several times during the treatment period. Boil the rabbit's dishes and toys for five minutes to get rid of all traces of fleas, and wash blankets in very hot water. If fleas have infested your carpeting, do the following:


Cover the carpet with a layer of diatomaceous earth or baking soda. Let it sit there for eight hours or overnight. This dries out the fleas' eggs.
Vacuum the powder and dispose of the vacuum bag.
Repeat the process every few days until all traces of fleas are gone.
When your rabbit is safely in its cage, you can also catch live fleas by plugging in nightlights close to the floor. Place a bowl of soapy water under each light, and the fleas will jump in. Remove the bowls before letting your rabbit out to play.
 Rabbits are quite sensitive to chemicals, and the heavy pesticides used in flea bombs are no exception. Avoid using any type of chemical solution around your rabbit. If you feel using a flea bomb or spray is the only way to get rid of the fleas, keep your rabbit in a safe location during the application process. Clean the room thoroughly with water and white vinegar to get rid of traces of the pesticides before reintroducing your rabbit to the area.