 Many travelers use prescription or over-the-counter sleeping aids to help them get to sleep. However, prescription medications should only be taken if prescribed by a physician. Risks associated with sleeping pills include DVT (deep vein thrombosis) and feelings of drowsiness and disorientation upon awakening.Over-the-counter sleep aids have a more moderate effect but it is still recommended that you only take them if you can ensure that you have four uninterrupted hours to sleep.
 Melatonin is a naturally occurring hormone produced by the body, it is also available as an over-the-counter supplement. Sleep researchers have found that melatonin levels are elevated after dark and remain elevated throughout the night, suggesting that it can promote sleep.Some studies also suggest that if you continue to take it when you arrive at your destination, it can ease the symptoms of jet lag as well., Essential oils such as lavender, chamomile and valerian have a relaxing effect and may help you drift off to sleep. When traveling, pack a small spray bottle with your desired essential oil mix and spray on your pillow or clothing.
 There are various apps and gadgets that you can use to help you settle down and get some rest.


Noise-cancelling headsets can reduce the noise of the plane engine quite effectively. This can help you to feel relaxed enough to sleep, especially if you are a nervous flyer.
Play white noise sounds. Research suggests that white noise, which you can download on your phone or music player, can also help promote sleep.Bring a music player with a relaxing playlist that will soothe you to sleep.
 Get comfortable, shut your eyes and then try to stay awake. Research suggests that this method, known as paradoxical intention, works and helps people fall asleep quicker. , Above all, don’t worry if you find you really can’t sleep. Traveling can be a stressful process, it may simply be difficult to relax and to drift off. Accept this for what it is and remember that it’s only a short-term problem. You can sleep once you get to your destination and it won't affect your whole trip.


Don’t compare yourself to other passengers who seem to be sleeping soundly, chances are that they aren’t sleeping as deeply as you think.
Even if you do sleep you may still be affected by jet lag, which is about how your body adjusts to the change in time zones and the disruption of its circadian rhythm.

