 Tonic water containing quinine has been shown to help people suffering from nighttime leg cramps. On the other hand, the FDA has just advised against using larger doses of quinine, found in the drug Qualaquin, to treat muscle cramps. 1997 Cohrane Review of published and unpublished trials on the quinine trials have concluded that although improvement was seen in the patients taking the drug compared to those taking placebo, the side effects, tinnitus in particular, was also more often associated with the group taking quinine. The authors have concluded: "owing to the side‐effect profile of quinine, non‐pharmacological therapy such as passive muscle stretching is the best first‐line treatment, though the use of quinine is warranted if this therapy is ineffective. Prescribing physicians should closely monitor the risks and benefits in individual patients.".;
, A hot water bottle or electric heating pad could relax and loosen up the muscle, easing the cramps. Just be sure not to fall asleep with an electric heating pad on if you choose to use one.


If you both have a heating pad, try massaging a generous amount of VapoRub into the cramp area. Eventually, the cooling effect should kick in and relieve the cramp.
 It's possible that a potassium deficiency could lead to nighttime cramps in your extremities (usually your legs).If you're not getting enough potassium, consider eating more sources of potassium, listed below, or begin to take potassium supplements with meals. Good natural sources of potassium include:


Fruits like bananas, nectarines, dates, apricots, raisins or grapes.
The cabbage or broccoli family of vegetables.
Oranges and grapefruit.
Saltwater fish, pork, and lamb.
 Younger pregnant women are more likely to benefit from magnesium supplementation, which is critical to normal bodily function.Unfortunately, for older or non-nursing adults, studies show that magnesium supplements are far less conclusive.
 Nighttime cramps can sometimes be a result of not drinking enough water. Make sure that you're drinking enough H2O during the course of the day in order to prevent cramps during the night.


How much water are you supposed to drink during the course of the day? According to the Mayo Clinic, females should aim to drink about 2.2 liters (0.6 US gal) a day, while males should aim to drink about 3 liters (0.8 US gal) of water a day.How can you easily tell whether you've had enough water to drink? Look at the transparency of your urine. Clear urine signals adequate hydration, while yellowish urine signals less adequate hydration.
Steer clear of alcohol. Excessive alcohol consumption robs the body of water, making the possibility for cramping that much worse. Cutting back on alcohol consumption is great for your overall health as well.
 Calcium channel blockers keep calcium from entering various cells and blood vessel walls in the body. Though they are primarily used to treat high blood pressure, they can also be used to help with nighttime muscle cramps.See your doctor for a prescription and specific dosage information.
 Tight bedsheets or covers can cause you to unconsciously point your toes downward while sleeping. This movement can trigger calf cramps. Stick with looser bedsheets to minimize the chance of toe-pointing; pull your toes back toward your body if a calf cramp suddenly sets in., Stretching your calves before retiring to bed at night can help ease muscle tension. See section below for specific calf muscle exercises to try.

