 When you've picked (or bought) a selection of ripe, juicy blackberries, give them a gentle (but thorough) washing. Pour the berries into a colander and run cool water over them while you gently shake them or sift through them with your fingers. Allow to drain well and gently pat dry with a soft towel to remove excess moisture.


As you wash and dry your berries, take the opportunity to remove any rotten, under-ripe, or damaged berries. You'll also want to remove any leaf litter, dirt, or other debris.;
, Line a metal pan or tray with parchment paper and spread your blackberries out on it so that none are touching each other. Do not forget the parchment paper -- without it, the berries will freeze to the pan and can break up when you try to remove them.


If you have too many blackberries to give each their own space on your baking tray, it's alright to simply pour them all over the tray. However, if you want separate, individual blackberries later, you'll have to break up the frozen block of berries that you'll get from this method.
If you've got lots of berries that you want to keep separate, an even better idea is to lay down a second layer of parchment paper over the top of your first layer of berries to double your working space.
 Set your tray on a level surface in your freezer (so that your berries don't roll to one side of the tray) and allow your berries to freeze completely. You may want to leave your blackberries in the freezer overnight to ensure that they're completely frozen through. If you do this, don't forget about them — left uncovered in the freezer, berries can easily develop freezer burn within a few days., When your berries are frozen solid, pour them into a plastic freezer bag. Squeeze as much air as you can out of the bag, then seal it and return it to the freezer. The thicker the plastic and the less air in the bag, the better — thin bags and air pockets can both contribute to freezer burn.


If you own a vacuum-sealing device (like, for instance, the FoodSaver), use it here to remove the air from your bag for the absolute best possible protection against freezer burn.
Alternatively, if you're not worried about your berries freezing together, you can skip the baking sheet altogether and simply place the washed and dried berries into a freezer bag directly. If you do this, the berries will freeze together into a large block, which can hurt their visual presentation, but shouldn't effect their taste.
 Berries frozen this way are good for at least six months, though some sources recommend using them up to eight months after the date of freezing.The frozen berries can be used in cooking and baking recipes (like blackberry pie, for example) and can even be enjoyed as a semi-thawed dessert on their own or with a sprinkling of sugar.


As a general rule, you shouldn't thaw berries before using them in baking recipes, as this can throw off their moisture content.For more information on using frozen berries, see the corresponding section below.

