 Instead of erecting a tree or displaying a menorah in your home, find a metal pole and place it in a corner of the living room. Festivus is all about low maintenance, so it’s ideal to rummage through your basement, attic, or garage for the metal pole, or for something else such as a tall lamp, that can act as a festivus pole.If you want to buy a Festivus pole, you can purchase one online.
You can also make your own Festivus pole. Head to a local hardware store, buy an aluminum pole and supplies to make a stand, and put it together at home in your workshop space.;
, There’s no need to add any decorations to your metal pole, so leave it bare. After all, tinsel is distracting according to Frank Costanza., You can also go the traditional route and nail a clock to a wall in place of a metal pole. While the metal pole served as the main Festivus decoration in the Seinfeld episode called “The Strike,” the bagged clock represented it in the original real family holiday that Seinfeld writer Dan O’Keefe used as inspiration., In “The Strike,” Festivus dinner consisted of meatloaf on a bed of lettuce. Make this as the main entree to celebrate festivus dinner correctly., Dan O’Keefe’s family always had either turkey, ham, beef stew, or lamb chops for Festivus dinner. You can also celebrate Festivus by serving one of these foods. Also, serve some pecan pie for dessert., If you aren’t feeling meatloaf, turkey, ham, beef stew, or lamb chops, you can also serve any food eaten in the Seinfeld series for Festivus.

Make it easy on yourself and go pick up some food from Arby’s.
Choose from many different foods, including shrimp, pizza, risotto, bagels, home-made sausages, egg rolls and more.
Serve a soup such as wild mushroom or crab bisque and make sure to quote the “No soup for you!” line at least a few times over the course of the meal., After dinner, it’s time to air the grievances. To get ready to do so, keep everyone seated at the dinner table., The airing of grievances is all about getting things off of your chest so that you can feel better. Pick a few things that you’ve been wanting to complain about.Have everyone take turns standing up and talking about what and who has been bringing them down., While Frank Costanza’s directness is pretty humorous in “The Strike,” keep in mind that real life is different than sitcoms. Be considerate and careful if you choose to air grievances about other people., Festivus isn’t over until the feats of strength take place. If you’re the head of the household, it’s your job to select your wrestling opponent at this point in the evening.

The person that you select can decline if they have a good excuse, such as having a broken leg or having worked a double shift at work., The selected individual must pin down the head of the household in a wrestling match in order to break down their authoritative power. This is the final ceremonial stage of Festivus., Wrestling can be a little dangerous, so feel free to have another strength-based competition that everyone can be a part of. Consider doing one of the following:


Arm, thumb, or leg wrestling
Board game tournament
Staring contest