 If you have many fish or exotic breeds, do not remove your fish from the tank for gravel cleaning. Doing so for the extended period of time required to clean a larger tank can be stressful for the fish. It’s also not necessary when using a gravel siphon, a special gravel-cleaning tool for larger tanks that you are going to use., Buy a clean bucket that you only use for fish tank maintenance. Place it at a lower level than the aquarium so gravity can do most of the work for you.Do not use a household bucket that might have chemicals from prior cleaning projects. Although you are only using this bucket to discard fish water, it’s really best to keep your pet’s supplies separate to avoid confusion.
 Place the cylinder end of the gravel siphon in the tank, such that the opening is resting at the bottom in the gravel. Guide the plastic tubing at the other end over the edge of the tank, holding it in your hand over the waiting bucket., Immediately place the end of the tube in the waiting bucket after doing this. As soon as you suck, negative pressure will be created in the tube, and dirty fish tank water will flow through the tubing to the bucket. This is what you want but be careful not to suck too long, as you might get a mouthful of aquarium water.If you can’t stomach sucking on the tubing, some siphons make special priming balls that start the siphon for you. Seek one out at your local pet or aquarium store.
If you do end up drinking a little water, rest assured this is not harmful.
 Once the siphon is going, you don’t need to do anything to maintain the pressure. While the water flows freely, press the open, submerged end of the siphon down into the gravel. Move from one end of the tank to the other, pressing the mouth of the siphon down into the gravel with a circling motion to vacuum up debris.The suction may lift a piece of gravel or two into the cylinder of the siphon, but it will not be able to suck it into the tubing; simply shake loose any gravel bits that rise up.You should see matter being sucked out of the gravel as you work. If you don’t, press the opening deeper into the gravel.
As you move the siphon about the tank, be careful not to bump or frighten your fish. Work slowly.
 Plus, your fish are still in there, and they need it even though you’re cleaning., Once you have vacuumed the gravel to your satisfaction, remove the gravel siphon and set it aside. Discard the dirty water in the bucket by pouring it into your sink or into your toilet. Wash the siphon in hot water.
 Once gravel cleaning is complete, refill your tank to its normal level with non-chlorinated water.If your fish have any special requirements, such as PH adjustments, be sure to perform those as well.

