 Your rabbit may become nervous during the trimming process. Therefore, get your supplies together ahead of time. Lay them out around the area where you're going to clip your rabbit's toenails.You will need a pair of nail clippers. You can get clippers specifically made for small animals or you can use a regular pair.
You will need some kind of blood stopping powder. In the event you accidentally cut into your rabbit's quick, you will have to apply blood stopping powder. This powder can be purchased online or at a local pet store.
You will need an old towel to help restrain your rabbit while you clip.;
, In the wild, rabbits are preyed upon by larger animals. Your rabbit may become startled easily, especially if approached unexpectedly. When you approach your rabbit, speak to it in a calm voice to put it at ease. You want your rabbit to be relaxed going into the nail clipping process.


Use soothing, low tones as you speak.
Before touching your rabbits, put your hands out so your rabbit can see them. Do not simply grab your rabbit, as this can cause it anxiety.
 You want to make sure your rabbit can't squirm or kick too much during the trimming process. Gently wrap your rabbit in an old towel before you begin trimming its nails.Go slowly as you wrap your rabbit in the towel. Your rabbit may be frightened or squirm slightly. Talk softly to your rabbit throughout the process to keep it calm.
Wrap your rabbit loosely. Rabbits dislike being restrained.You do not need to cover your rabbit's head. Just cover its body.
 You want your rabbit to be seated on your lap with its paws exposed. Make sure the rabbit has all four feet somewhere on your lap. Rabbits get nervous if all their feet are not on a solid surface. This may make the clipping experience more stressful for you and your rabbit., There is a vein located inside each nail known as the quick. If you trim into the quick, this will cause your rabbit to bleed excessively. Make sure you locate the quick before you begin to trim a nail.The quick should be visible to the naked eye if your rabbit has clear claws. It will be a thin pink or red line just inside the nail.
If your rabbit has darker paws, try shining a flashlight under the nail. This may make the quick more visible.
 You want to keep a safe distance from the quick as you clip your rabbit's nails. You only need to clip the sharp tip of the nail. Never clip into the quick. Work with one nail at a time to assure precision.If your rabbit is particularly nervous, you may have to ask a friend to help. One person can hold and soothe the rabbit, while the other person clips the rabbit's nails.
 Rabbits dislike being restrained. Try to avoid holding your rabbit too tightly as you clip its nails. Keep the rabbit seated in your lap and pull it gently against your stomach. If you use too much force to keep your rabbit still, it will become agitated.If your rabbit is squirming too much, it's better to take a break and try again later than to restrain the rabbit too forcefully.
 If you trim into the quick, your rabbit's nail will begin to bleed. You should treat the bleeding promptly to reduce blood loss. You can apply your blood stopping powder to the bleeding nail. Follow instructions on the package. Then, apply pressure with a cotton ball.If bleeding does not stop on its own, you should contact a veterinarian.
 Not all rabbits will allow you to trim their nails. Some rabbits may be too skittish to adequately restrain at home. If you're nervous about trimming your rabbit's nails, take it to a vet. It's better to have a vet trim the nails safely than risk injuring your rabbit., It's best to set your rabbit on your lap when you trim its nails. However, if you choose not to, be careful of what surface you use. Avoid a slippery surface. This could cause your rabbit to slide and injure itself during the clipping process.Place a towel down on the surface you choose. This will make the rabbit feel more secure.

