 This is a person who is rooting for no team, but whose goal it is to make it to shore (the shore or other goal is where they become "free").


There should only be one Willy. But if there is an uneven number of players, a second Willy could be added to change the game a bit (both Willys must make it to shore for the guardians to lose).
The Willy starts deep enough for people to swim around him/her. Neck-deep on a shallow shore seems to work well. The Willy also starts frozen (at the pre-determined starting locations).;
, This team is the only team that can get points. The guardians guard the Willy and prevent the "freers" from getting to Willy, to prevent Willy from getting to shore, and ultimately freeze all the freers.


There should be one guardian for every two freers.
The guardian(s) are near the Willy, but should be required to maintain a set distance away from the Willy (depending on the talent and difficulty of the players).
 Their goal is to allow the Willy to make it to shore. The freers can remain anywhere else in the play-area, as long as they remain partially in the water (in a pool, they may be required to stay completely in the water).
 The circle in the middle represents the area that the guardians can't go, and the zigzags above the Willy represents the area that the guardians shouldn't be allowed to "camp".
 to free Willy by unfreezing him/her. If Willy is tagged by a freer, the Willy needs to try to get to the shore as quickly as possible.
If a guardian tags Willy before he/she reaches the shore, Willy is frozen in place again.
If a guardian tags a freer at any point, the freer is frozen in place. Another freer can come and unfreeze the frozen freer.
If a freer accidentally touches a guardian, the freer is not frozen. A guardian must touch the freer with his hand.
If the Willy makes it to shore, the current guardians receive -1 point.
If the guardians freeze all of the freers before Willy can make it to shore, the guardians receive +1 point.
After each round, one of the guardians will become a Willy. The Willy becomes a freer, and a freer becomes a guardian. It should be arranged so that every player has the same number of times playing as each role, but primarily as guardian, as that is the only role that can gain or lose points.
