 If you want to know how to actually play the minigame, you have to get to its location first. The cave can be accessed north of Falador. Once inside, take a right and enter the portal.
 Fiara is a huge creature. Once you enter, she will be at the end of the cave. Talk to her. She will tell you all about playing Fist of Guthix, but not telling you any strategies.
 The key to winning is to use strategies. If you do this, you can win either being "The Hunted" or "The Hunter." Here are most of the strategies.
 Use the picture above as a sample (note the graphics are outdated). Group things together so you can easily find and click things.
, You know your opponent is on the other side of the arena, so he/she will most likely go to the center. He/she will go to the other side, where you started, and you will end up on their side.


After you get about 60-100 charges, go to the center where you will get the most charges. 60 charges is the ideal number of charges until the hunter gets bored and starts looking for you. (Keep in mind that this is not a concrete number - different people get impatient at different times. Just rely on your instincts.) Also, you can stay 3 steps away from a door in the house, and it gives you 15 charges. If they see you, you can just run around the house, or if you want, go inside the house and repeat.
 You will get 15 charges every 3 or 4 seconds, and when your opponent sees you, you can simply go inside a house. Chances are that 1/8th of the time, you will end up somewhere inside the arena again, but the other 7/8ths: You will end up somewhere in another house. If you see a flashing arrow on your mini-map, keep doing it, but don't do it for too long or else you will have a chance of going back inside the arena.
 You simply stand near the edge and when your opponent sees you, run or you can use the tele-orb. Use the tele-orb after you run until your opponent can't see you anymore.
 This is useful if your opponent is a melee guy and has to go around the rocks (which is not realistic) to hit you. If you master this, and he tries to use magic on you, you can put that protection prayer on and you should get at least 1,000 charges unless you are below level 30.


Using this same method, hiding behind houses also works.
 Make sure that first you run for a about 15 seconds so that when your opponent runs straight past, he can't see you. After that, walk on the edges and try to gain your advantage by walking on the boundary between getting 6 charges and 10 charges, while getting 10 charges at a time. This is not useful if you have used your tele-orb.
 The Fist of Guthix teleport is particularly strategic.
 This method, if your opponent is a mage and training, is beneficiary to both.
 When the hunter starts attacking you, activate the appropriate protection prayer. Don't go into the houses, they are a waste of charges, and damage will be dealt when you enter them. Plus, there is a chance that you end up in the center when you use the portal. Besides hiding behind rocks (next step), hope for the best!


If the hunter is a melee, then hide behind a rock that is closest to the center. The rock will block the hunter and prevent him from attacking you by melee until he clicks and attacks you again. Keep doing this as the additional time adds up to a significant number of charges.

If the person is of a low level, and instead switches to magic, then activate your mage protection prayer. This way, you are protected against magic, while using the rock to your advantage.
Beware that there are some people that have trained specifically to counter this by aggressively clicking and attacking you. If this happens, keep your melee prayer on.


If the hunter is a mage, simply stand at the center and activate the mage protection prayer until you use all of your medications and die. If the hunter is a ranger, then activate the range prayer.
The most dangerous hunter of all is one that is able to use all three combat methods efficiently. You will have to watch your opponent very closely and select the appropriate protection prayer. Sometimes, they will switch so fast, the prayers may not have much of an effect if you simply react to their attacks. You will have to anticipate their attacks.

Hide behind the rocks to counter their melee. As for the range and magic, you have to switch between prayers. Keep in mind that micromanaging prayer may cause you to forget about your HP and meds. Keep using meds as you approach orange health (or, safer yet, yellow). After all this, there are several things you need to do for these types of hunters:

Hide behind the rocks.
Switch between protection prayers.
Use the meds - don't forget about them.
 Your target spawns right across you (or 1 orb to the side), so if you are fast you can find them close.;
, If they use a protection prayer make sure that you have at least 2 different types of attacks (3 would be the best in this case). Unless you are at least 65 ranged, try to limit the amount of arrows you consume, preferably adamant and rune (members) arrows and use a scimitar or magic.
 It is recommended that you get a staff to help you accomplish this. If your opponent is a runner, cast the binding spell so you may catch up. Use your Explorer's Ring 3 if you end up running out of run energy.
 If he is not coming out, start circling around the houses. If you are lucky, the mini-map should show all of the houses clearly with ease, and if you are unlucky then you can only monitor 2 to 3 houses at once.
 Melee is required for this ironically, because if you master this being the hunted and attacking them simultaneously, your time of killing them will shrink.
 They may play a trick by entering the portal chamber but not actually teleporting; watch out for that ruse.