 If it's a non-linear, explore-everything game like Banjo-Kazooie or Legend of Zelda then every level should be a different theme and be very spread out. If it's a linear war game like Halo or Call of Duty make it a campaign and each level is in a predesignated order.


If it's the latter it's rather easy to think up of levels so long as you have a plot.






If it's the former than it's a lot trickier since you have to think up of various themes to run through with 5-10 levels.





;
, For example if its covered in cemeteries and graveyard it's horror-themed and if it's taking place in a Himalaya-like place it's ice-themed.


One of most frequently-used (and clever) themes is horror. Of course when it comes to horror make it Halloween-ish horror (the holiday) not Hellraiser-ish horror.






An absolute must for every non-linear game is a water-themed level. Try to introduce it early on such as Level 4 or Level 5 which is when the game should begin turning difficult. The point is to get the player more oriented to swimming (no matter how badly the controls handle) for later in the game.
 Banjo-Kazooie is ground-breaking in this regard since every level's music sounds exactly as it should. The level that consists of a polluted harbor is dark whilst the level that consists of the 4 seasons each has a different music for each season: chirpy for spring, a slow violin tune for summer, a horn for fall and a harp-like tune for winter.
 If the level is themed to the Amazon rainforest have a tapir or sloth be the boss. Make sure that under any conditions you don't interchange it (e.g. in a water-themed level you have a desert lizard boss).
, once more Banjo-Kazooie is a good example of this. For example beforehand no one had ever tried to make a level out of pollution or prehistoric times or the 4 seasons of the year. Try to think outside the box.
 If the level is wind-themed perhaps you need to get something out of a cloud without being set afire away by a strong wind.

