 Before you can even think about owning a golden net, you’ll have to become well-acquainted with the regular bug net. If you do not already have the bug net, head over to Nook’s store, which can be found by locating the leaf icon on the map at the bottom of the screen.


The net can be found on the centermost shelf in his store, next to some other tools. If you approach it and hit the A button, you can purchase it for about 300 bells.;
, To earn the golden net, you must first use the regular bug net to capture every bug in game. Below, there is a comprehensive list of every bug in the game. Looking at the huge list below, it is clear that capturing all kinds of bugs is a year-long effort, making the golden net quite a difficult item to acquire. Take a stroll around the area to find bugs.
 If you see a bug, quickly equip your net. You can do this by scrolling left/right on the D-Pad or by opening your inventory with the X button. Select the net and drag it over to your character.
 Depending on the bug’s location, catching bugs will vary.


To catch bugs that perch on trees, quietly and slowly approach them; only push forward on the D-Pad gently. When you’re about 3 steps away from the tree, hit A to capture the bug. If you move too quickly or too close, it will fly away.
Bugs that fly through the air can be chased by running after them, and caught once you’re about 3 steps away.
Bugs by flowers flock around the plants and can be caught by slowly approaching the flowers.
 Once you have caught all bugs, you will be awarded the Golden Net by Tortimer.


You do not need to keep all the bugs you catch; as soon as you capture a bug, it is entered into your encyclopedia and counted as caught.
 Common Butterflies and Yellow Butterflies can be found near any flowers, and are available from March-September from 6 a.m. to noon.


Tiger Butterflies can be found near Red and Pink Flowers, and are available from March-September from 6 a.m. to noon.
Peacocks should be near blue, purple, and black flowers, and are available from March-September, from 6 a.m. to noon.
Monarchs can be found near any flowers, and are available from September-November, throughout the entire day.
Emperors, Agrias Butterflies, and Birdwings can be found near any flowers, and are available from June-September, throughout the entire day.
 You can find regular Moths near outdoor lights, available May-September, during 8 p.m. to 6 a.m.


Oak Silk Moths can be found on trees. These are available June-September, during 6 p.m. to 5 a.m.
 Long Locusts and Migratory Locusts can be found in grass, and are available August-November around noon.


Mantis can be found on any flowers, available August-November around noon.
Orchid Mantis can be found on white flowers, and are available September-November, around noon.
 Brown, Robust, Walker, and Evening Cicadas can be found on trees, available July-August from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.


Evening Cicadas can be found on trees, July-August, from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Lantern Flies can be found on trees, June-September, from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.
 Red Dragonflies you’ll have to catch in the air, September-November, from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.


Darner Dragonflies can be caught in the air, June-August, around noon.
Banded Dragonflies can also be caught in the air, July-August, around noon.
 Fruit Beetles can be found on trees, July-September, all day.


Scarab Beetles can be found on trees, July-August, from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m.
Dung Beetles can be found near snowballs, December-February, from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m.
Goliath Beetles can be found on palm trees, June-August, from 8 p.m. to 12 a.m.
Jewel Beetles can be found on trees, July-August, around noon.
Longhorn Beetles can be found on trees, June-August, around noon.
Saw Stag Beetles can be found on trees, July-August, from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.
Stag Beetles can be found on trees, June-August, from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.
Giant Beetles can be found on trees, July-August, from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.
Rainbow Stags and Dynastid Beetles can be found on trees, June-September, from 8 p.m. to 12 a.m.
Atlas Beetles, Elephant Beetles, and Hercules Beetles can be found on palm trees, July-August, from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.
 Regular Crickets can be found in the grass, September-November, from 7 p.m. to 12 a.m.


Bell Crickets can be found in the grass, September-October, from 7 p.m. to 12 a.m.
Mole Crickets can be found underground (found by digging holes with shovel), November-May, from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.
 Spiders can be found in trees, March-November, 6 a.m. to 9 p.m.


Tarantulas can be found on ground, June-August, 7 p.m. to 12 a.m.
 Honeybees can be found near flowers, March-August, around noon.

Bees can be found in trees (get a hive to drop by shaking a fruitless trees), available all year at any time.
Lantern Flies can be found on trees, June-September, from 7 p.m. to 12 a.m.
Ants can be found on the ground, around spoiled turnips, available all year at any time.
Pond skaters can be found on ponds, June-September, around noon.
Snails can be found on any flowers, April-September, any time of day.
Grasshoppers can be found in the grass, July-September, around noon.
Walking sticks can be found on trees, July-November, from 7 a.m. to 12 p.m.
Ladybugs can be found on flowers, March-June and October, around noon.
Fleas can be found on neighbors, April-November, any time of day.
Pillbugs can be found under rocks, available all year round, from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.
Mosquitoes can be caught in the air, June-September, from 7 p.m. to 12 a.m.
Flies can be found around spoiled turnips or garbage, available all year round, any time of day.
Cockroaches can be found on trees or rotten turnips, available all year at any time of day.
Scorpions can be found on ground, July-September, 7 p.m. to 12 a.m.

