 This is designed to make up for the greenhouse gas emissions you create on the other 364 days of the year.Carbon offsets fund reductions in greenhouse gas emissions through projects such as wind farms, that displaces energy from fossil fuels.
 Use your bicycle or other forms of human powered transportation to commute to work or school and to run errands. This is a lot more environmentally friendly than relying on cars to get wherever you're going.


If your school or work is too far to bike, look for a form of public transportation you can take. A bus, train or shuttle is better for the environment than driving alone in your car.
Or consider carpooling with a few friends who are going in the same direction.
 Do you tend to use more water than you need while going about your daily chores and business? There are little things you can do that make a big difference in how much water you use. Plus, conserving water will keep your water bill down.Try adopting these habits:


While brushing your teeth or washing your hands, turn the water off when not in use. Turn the water off when you are brushing.
If you are washing your hands, turn the water off when you are scrubbing your hands with soap.
Take shorter showers every day from Earth Day on.
Install a grey water system in your home. Recycle water from the house for the garden.
Wash your car using a bucket rather than the hose. Drive the car onto grass for cleaning, so that the water you do use also waters the grass.
 It's one of the first ways many of us are taught to be environmentally friendly, yet we all need help remembering how important it is to do things like turn off the lights when you leave the room. There are many ways you can save more electricity on a daily basis:Vow to use less air conditioning in the summer, and less heat in the winter.
Turn off all appliances and electronics when you aren't using them.
Use energy-saving light bulbs or install skylights on your house's roof. You could also make mason jar luminaries as well.
Switch to low-energy appliances.

