 For example, your computer may detect your broken hard drive but not let you access the data that was saved on it. At times, you may even see file names and icons appear but the files will not open. All of these hints suggest that you have a software malfunction.;
, Many hard drives come with built-in software that allows you to store files more efficiently. However, a virus or other glitch in the software of the hard drive can make saved data inaccessible even though your hard drive has not suffered from any physical damage. The rescue and recovery program will try to fix the built-in software.
, You can find the Rescue and Recovery utility wizard by going to "Start" and then clicking on "Search" to search for the utility.
 If you hear a repetitive clunking when you try to access saved data it means that the head is having difficulty in reading stored information. In terms of physical damage, it means that either the arm or disk inside your hard drive is broken. At this point you may want to consider hiring a data recovery professional because the intricacies of opening a hard drive are very complex. Find a local HDD repair or data recovery company. Ask them which tools they use. If it's PC-3000, there is high chance your drive can be saved.
 If your hard drive is not even being detected there may be a problem with the board or access ports. If the problem is with an external hard drive, you can try to replace the access ports by shifting the hard drive into a new enclosure. If the problem is with your hard drive board you will have to replace the board. Use the methods suggested for your specific hard drive model to locate and replace the board. Make sure the new board is compatible with your hard drive.
 This may enable you to access a damaged hard drive for a very short amount of time, so connect the hard drive to your computer as quickly as you can after it has been frozen to transfer files to a safe location. Be aware that freezing a hard drive can cause further data deletion.

