 The most recent software release of Facebook for the iPhone will contain the synchronization feature.


Open iTunes and download the latest version of Facebook for the iPhone.
If you already have the Facebook app installed on your iPhone, you may have received an over-the-air update from iTunes that updated your Facebook app at an earlier date.
If you are unsure if your Facebook app needs to be updated, open the App Store on your iPhone, then tap on the "Updates" icon that depicts an arrow pointing down. Tap on the Facebook app for an update if one is available.
To check for available Facebook updates from iTunes, select "Applications" from the column on the left, then click "Check for Updates." If an update for Facebook is indicated, click on your Facebook app to update to the latest version. You will then be required to synchronize your iPhone with iTunes to update Facebook on your iPhone.;
,


Immediately upon opening the Facebook application, you may be prompted to synchronize your Facebook phone book with your iPhone. Tap on "Yes" to synchronize your contacts; otherwise, continue following the steps provided in this article.
 The "Friends" icon will be located in the upper-right corner of the main menu in Facebook.
 The "Sync" button can be found in the upper-right corner and will allow you to access your synchronization settings.
 In addition to synchronizing your phonebook contacts, you can also synchronize the photos for your contacts.


Slide the "Off" button into the "On" position next to the Sync field. This feature will allow you to merge and synchronize the contacts between Facebook and your iPhone.
If you want to replace the photos of contacts in your iPhone with your friends' Facebook icons, slide the "Off" button to the "On" position next to the "Replace Photos" field.
 The Notice will explain that agreeing to use the synchronization feature will export and share contact information between your iPhone and Facebook.


Tap on "I Agree" to accept the Notice.
 After tapping on "I Agree," your iPhone will begin to download and synchronize contact information from Facebook's server onto your iPhone.


When the synchronization process is complete, you will now be able to see your friends' contact information from Facebook in the Address Book on your iPhone. A link to your friends' Facebook profiles will also be provided next to their contact information in your Address Book.

