 You should be able to find these in your local drugstore or beauty supply store. They will range in price from $10 to $15 (USD). Try to stick to smaller shears with blades around 2.5 to 3 inches (6.3 to 7.6 cm) long. The shorter the blades, the easier it will be for you to control what you cut.;
, Knowing what sort of haircut you want before you get started will keep you focused and less likely to make mistakes.


To decide on a style, browse celebrity pictures online; flip through hairstyle magazines (available in magazine racks at most drugstores and bookshops); play with your hair in the mirror to see what it looks like at different lengths; print out photos of yourself and sketch different hairstyles on to your face.
There are some phone apps and websites that will let you try on different hairstyles over a photograph of yourself.
It’s important not to be rash with your decision. If you decide that you want to go from very long to very short hair, give yourself at least a few days to think about it before you decide to do it. You may find that you’re just feeling unhappy, and once that passes, you might miss your long hair.
If you're planning on making a significant change to your hairstyle, you might want to consult a professional to make sure that it goes exactly right. You can always trim your hair at home.
 Many professionals recommend cutting your hair wet, as it is easier to manage and control.Some professionals also recommend cutting hair dry, as it allows you to see the effects of the cut right away and adjust for any quirks such as cowlicks or curls.If you cut your hair while it’s wet, cut it at least a few inches longer than you want it, as it will shrink up and look shorter once it is dry. (Some people have reported that their hair shrinks up to 4 inches from wet to dry.)
Dry cuts are more likely to produce uneven hair.Cutting hair dry requires very sharp sheers. Cutting dry hair will dull the blade edge very quickly, which pushes ends instead of cutting them, leading to uneven lines.
Most professionals cut the hair while it is wet and refine it once the hair is dry. Doing this will let you produce better looking results while giving you a chance to fix minor errors.
 If you’re cutting your hair wet, shampoo and condition it, remove excess water by wrapping your hair in a towel and squeezing it, then comb your damp hair straight. If you want to dry cut your hair, wash and dry it, part it where you would normally part it, then get it as close as possible to how you would normally wear it.


If you normally straighten your hair, straighten it before cutting.
Avoid putting any products into your dry hair before cutting it, as these could make it more difficult to properly evaluate your cut.

