 Holding your wedding at a beautiful location may enable you to replace decorations with scenery. An art gallery, aquarium or even an outdoor setting can be the perfect backdrop to the wedding, reducing the need for elaborate decorations.
 If you happen to have a talent for making crafts, weddings are a great opportunity to save money by crafting yourself. For example:


Large satin bows are easy to make, and make great simple decorations.
Are you a gardener? Consider growing flowers for your tabletop decorations.
Can Nana sew? If she is a skilled seamstress, maybe she could sew your dress. If she is capable but not at expert, things like chair covers can be easy projects.
Many websites offer great wedding craft ideas, as well as sites like Pinterest.com.
 Visit multiple florists to shop around for flower arrangements. Request flowers that are in season and native to your area instead of exotic arrangements that are expensive or out of season. There are also flowers that are just normally less expensive, such as carnations and daisies.


Alternately, buy flowers in bulk; Costco, for example, has flowers for purchase. Arrange the flowers yourself.
Also consider live plants. Pretty pots of daisies on the reception hall tables can be just as attractive as cut flowers.
 Candle arrangements, even in combination with some flowers, can greatly reduce your costs.Be sure to carefully enclose the candles or arrange them so that they don’t catch anything on fire.
 Talk to the manager if you are buying a large lot of goods; he or she may be able to give you a further discount. For wedding basics, dollar stores can be a great resource of party, crafts, and paper goods, including:


Candles, both regular and battery operated.
Glass vases (great for table arrangements)
Craft stones, such as "river rock" and glass pebbles.
Balloons
Ribbon, tulle, and bows.
Gift bags, tissue, and other items for gift-giving.
Picture frames
Poster board, glue, tape, markers, and other supplies for signs, decorations, and more.
Creative decorations. Dollar stores are full of surprises!

, If you are having an evening wedding, achieve a romantic, soft look by hanging holiday lights around the venue. Stock up on extra lights when they go on sale after holidays such as Christmas.Be sure to tuck away any extension cords or run them underneath rugs so that guests don’t trip on cords.
Do not overload circuits and extension cords!

