 Scan craigslist ads for "appliances." You may be able to find a variety of refurbished appliances for sale. These appliances are likely refurbished by independent repairmen or independent companies, and may not have any existing warranty by the manufacturer. Focus on sellers who have:

Multiple products for sale. This will signal that they refurbish appliances professionally.
A storefront of some sort.
A business phone number.;
, Search on the internet for "refurbished appliances" in your city. In addition, look in the Yellow Pages for independent retailers in your area. Depending on the region you live, you’ll likely find several retailers who offer a variety of refurbished appliances. These appliances are usually fixed and refurbished on the spot, rather than by the manufacturer., Talk to sales representatives at local box stores near you. Major retailers like Best Buy, Home Depot, and Lowes often have a decent selection of scratch-and-dent and refurbished appliances -- it may be fun seeing what they have in stock. These appliances have likely been sent back to the manufacturer, refurbished, and returned to the retailer for sale.

You may be able to search for refurbished appliances on the websites of popular box stores, like Best Buy.
Consider calling the appliance department of a box store and asking them if they have any refurbished stock on hand., Visit outlet stores in your area when shopping for a refurbished appliance. Manufacturer outlets, like the Whirlpool outlet or General Electric outlet, are one of the best places to find certified refurbished products. The good thing about this is that the manufacturer will stand behind the product. In addition, you can visit a wide arrange of general retailer outlet stores, like the Sears outlet., Before you buy the appliance, you should look on the internet or ask around to see if anyone you know has experienced buying a refurbished product from the seller. This is important, as not all retailers or sellers are honorable, and some may misrepresent the term “refurbished.”

Check Yelp and other online review sites to get an idea of the seller’s reputation., When looking at refurbished appliances, you should ask who refurbished it. Inquire about their experience with the brand and model. In addition, ask if they hold any certifications or are an authorized repair person for the manufacturer of the appliance.

Look for the “Certified Refurbished” phrasing on refurbished products. This often means that the manufacturer stands behind the refurbished product, or that the product was refurbished by the manufacturer. These products will often have a manufacturer warranty in effect., Whether you’re in a big box store or an independent retailer, you should ask for a demonstration of the appliance. This way, you’ll be able to see that the product clearly works before you buy it.

It may be difficult to test out some appliances, like dish washers, before buying them. However, you should verify that the appliance powers on and at least appears to work properly.
 While refurbished appliances may look good and work good, purchasing them does come with a certain amount of risk. The product has still been used, fixed, and transported several times. There is a real risk that the appliance may not work as advertised and/or could break down easier than a new product., When it comes time to pay for a refurbished appliance, you should expect big savings. The savings might depend on the retailer, the age of the appliance, and more. However, you should expect at least a 20% savings and sometimes as much as 50% or more.Don't be afraid to haggle the sales person down. In fact, if you enjoy haggling, make sport of it. The chances are high that the sales person wants to sell the item quickly.
If the savings is not substantial, you should consider purchasing a new product.
 When you go to purchase the appliance, inquire as to whether the item is covered by a manufacturer warranty. In addition, ask if the retailer offers a warranty on the product. If not, inquire as to whether you can purchase a warranty on the appliance. This way, you’ll have some assurance as to how long the appliance will work for you.

A retailer might offer to sell you a third-party warranty on the product. These typically cost a percentage of the price of the product. This could range from 1% to 10%.
If you purchase a warranty, get the longest warranty period possible (if reasonably priced)., Before paying for the appliance, ask the sales associate about the retailer’s return policy. While some retailers might extend a normal return policy (30 days) to a refurbished appliance, others might not. As a result, you need to inquire before purchasing. There would be nothing worse than having an unwarranted appliance breaking just days after purchasing it.