 In order to enjoy the most color from your paper rainbow rose, choose a square of paper with a rainbow print on the front and back.

You could also choose a square sheet of paper with a white side, plain color side, or a pattern on the opposite side. Play around with different types of paper to find the look you like best.






Origami paper works especially well. The standard size for origami paper is 9 by 9 inches (23 by 23cm).






If starting with plain white paper, you can use crayons or colored pencils to color a rainbow pattern over the entire sheet of paper. For best results, try layering the colors diagonally across the square from one corner to the opposite corner.
 Start from the middle of one edge and begin to cut a circle into the square paper, coming as close to the other three edges as possible.


Do not yet cut the edges off at this point.
 Once you get close to the starting point of your circle, shift the cutting line in by about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm). Continue cutting around the inner perimeter of your spiral until you reach the center.


The thickness of the spiral should be similar all the way around, meaning that the approximate thickness of the spiral should be about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) evenly.






Cut the spiral free-hand. You do not need to be precise with this technique. In fact, this rose looks best when you maintain a principle of “wabi-sabi,” a Japanese aesthetic focused on the beauty of the imperfect.
 At the end of the spiral, which should fall out at the exact center, you will naturally end up with a little tab that looks a little wider than the thickness of the spiral.


The tab should be fairly circular with a slight notch in it.
 Snip off the outside square shape simply by cutting it off at the point where you began your spiral circle shape.


The sharp angles and edges of this section will only get in the way of the final rose shape.



As you start, the roll should be as tight as possible. Use both hands to roll up the paper spiral. Hold the developing roll in between two fingers on one hand and use your other hand to maneuver the remaining paper around the roll to incorporate it.






Initially, the final roll will look very tight and not very rose-like.






Adjust the tightness of the spiral. Slowly release the tension holding the spiral together, allowing the roll to loosen and unravel slightly while still maintaining its basic form. Let the tension drop less for a tighter roll and let it drop more for a looser rose.
 Add a drop of hot glue onto the top-side of the tab and firmly press it against the bottom of the rose. Make sure that each spiral is caught on the glue.


Make sure to use hot glue or a glue that dries almost instantly.






You also need to make sure that the edge of each spiral sticks to the glue. Otherwise, the rose may unravel once you release it.






As soon as the glue dries, set the rose down. Your paper rainbow rose should be complete.
