 Walk into legal hunting grounds where there are woods. If you're hunting or tracking deer on someone else's property, ask where deer tend to bed and where the most common place to see deer is. This will help you decide where to start.


Typically, deer prefer covered areas to make their beds in. Look for ditches and hollows with dense cover or thickets crowded with brush. They often bed along stream bottoms or on southward-facing slopes to keep warm in the sunlight.;
, Deer are mostly nocturnal, but they can also be seen out in the daytime. However, since they usually sleep during the day (and it is hard to see them at night), the best times to search for deer are early in the morning or at dusk when the sun is going down. These are their normal feeding times and the time you will be most likely to catch a glimpse of them., There is often evidence of deer all around you if you know where to look for it. Keep an eye out for indicators that deer have been in the area like tracks or droppings.


Deer droppings are usually small, jellybean shaped pellets that are dark brown in color.Sometimes the droppings appear as a bunch of separate pellets, sometimes as a bunch of pellets clumped together.
You can also try staying stationary in an area that is known to often be frequented by deer so that you can simply wait and watch/listen for the deer.
Make sure you are moving through the woods as quietly as possible to avoid spooking any deer that might be nearby.
 Deer usually bed in areas of thick brush; these are good places to begin your search. You can also search for edible vegetation that deer feed on like wild grasses, greenbriar, dandelions, or acorns.
 Deer have very keen senses of sight and sound. Try to be as silent as you can while you are tracking through the woods. If you are too noisy, they will hear you long before you notice them and you will miss your chance., Follow the tracks and keep searching for signs of deer until you encounter the animals. This takes patience, but is worth it in the end.

