 There are a variety of foods that you can mix in with ground beef to help stretch it. However, dry extenders, such as breadcrumbs and oats, require some type of binder to help hold the mixture together for burgers, loafs, or balls. Eggs are an ideal option because their proteins can easily hold the meat mixture together when heated.As a general guideline, use 1 egg for every ½ pound (227 g) of ground beef that you’re mixing an additive into in order to stretch it.
You can use egg substitute in place of the egg if you prefer.
You can also replace every whole egg with two egg whites if you prefer.;
, One of the most common extender for stretching ground beef is breadcrumbs. They work especially well in meatballs and meatloaf, but you may enjoy them in burgers as well.Some recipes call for mixing equal amounts of breadcrumbs and ground beef when trying to stretch the meat. However, that may alter the texture more than you’d like. Start with a smaller amount and only add more if you need to stretch the beef further.
White breadcrumbs work fine for stretching ground beef, but wholewheat breadcrumbs are usually a better option.
 Just like breadcrumbs, whole or rolled oats can help stretch ground beef a little further in your favorite recipe. They mix easily in with the beef and won’t be noticed once you cook the meat. Best of all, the oats are high in fiber so they can help make your meal more filling.In general, use ¼ to ½ cup (23 to 46 g) whole or rolled oats for every pound (454 g) of ground beef.
To stretch ground beef in dishes such as tacos, chili, casseroles, and pasta sauces, you can also substitute bulgur wheat, which is a type of whole wheat. A cup (250 g) of cooked bulgar wheat can replace a pound (454 g) of ground beef, so if a recipe calls for two pounds (908 g) of browned ground beef, you can use 1 pound (454 g) of the beef and 1 cup (250 g) of the cooked bulgar wheat., For tacos, chili, and casseroles, adding precooked beans to your ground beef can help stretch it. In particular, black and pinto beans mix well with the beef. Brown the beef first, though, and blot the excess grease before adding the beans.In most recipes, you can mix an equal amount of beans and ground beef.
If you aren’t a fan of beans, you can mix precooked lentils in with raw ground beef. When they are mixed, you can cook the mixture just as if it was regular ground beef. In general, use 1 cup (75 g) of cooked lentils for every pound (454 g) of meat.
 Whether you’re making burgers, meatloaf, or meatballs, mixing some grated vegetables in with the ground beef can make it go further. Grate carrots, zucchini, and onions and mix them in with the raw beef before shaping it.As a general rule, add ¾ to 1 cup (40 to 50 g) of grated vegetables for every pound (454 g) of ground beef.
Mushrooms also make a good mix in with ground beef, but you should saute them first so they release their liquid and don’t add too much moisture to the meat.
Caramelizing onions before you add them to the ground beef can help add rich flavor to burgers, meatloaf, or meatballs.
Other firm root vegetables, such as beets and parsnips, also work well as an extender for ground beef.
It may seem strange, but fruit can be a tasty contender  for ground beef. Mix crushed pineapple into meatballs, finely chopped blueberries into burgers, or peeled and shredded Granny Smith apples into meatloaf.
 If you’re making tacos, chili, or sloppy Joes, you can mix some cooked rice into the beef to help extend it. Brown the meat as you normally would and drain the excess grease before mixing in the rice.As a rule of thumb, add 1 cup (250 g) of cooked rice for every pound (454g ) of ground beef.
Both white and brown rice work well as an extender for ground beef.
 Fresh herbs have a bright taste that can help balance any flavor that might be lost by cutting back on the meat. Add finely chopped fresh herbs such as basil or parsley to the ground beef before you cook it or form it into burgers, meatloaf, or meatballs.Basil, parsley, and cilantro can work well for burgers.
Basil, parsley, rosemary, thyme, oregano, and sage can work well for meatloaf.
Basil, parsley, rosemary, thyme, and oregano can work well for meatballs.
 The right spices and dried herbs can also help make up for any flavor that might be lost if you cut back on the ground beef. Season the raw ground beef with spices and dried herbs, such as crushed red pepper or marjoram, before forming it into burgers, meatloaf, or meatballs.Crushed red pepper, cayenne pepper, garlic powder, onion powder, and steak seasoning can work well for burgers.
Crushed red pepper, cayenne pepper, garlic powder, onion powder, steak seasoning, dried oregano, and dried basil can work well for meatloaf.
Crushed red pepper, garlic powder, onion powder, dried oregano, and dried basil can work well for meatballs.
 Mixing some grated hard cheese into the ground beef before you form the burgers, meatballs, or meatloaf can help boost the flavor so you don’t notice that there’s less meat. Parmigiano-Reggiano and pecorino Romano are both ideal options.Parmigiano-Reggiano and pecorino Romano are obviously ideal for mixing into ground beef that you plan to make into meatballs, but you can also use them for burger or meatloaf mixes.
 Mixing a little sauce or your favorite condiment into raw ground beef before you make your burgers, meatballs, or meatloaf can help make up for any missing flavor from the decrease in meat. For example, add some ketchup, thick pasta sauce, whole-grain mustard, barbecue sauce, or thai curry paste to your ground beef mixture.Be careful not to add too much of the sauce or condiment. Excess moisture can lead to mushy burgers, meatloaf, and meatballs. Using 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 ml) for every pound (454 g) of meat is a good rule of thumb.
 If you’re trying to stretch ground beef to make your meals a little healthier, it’s best to start with a leaner cut of ground beef. While fatty cuts tend to be juicier, leaner cuts are lower in saturated fat and calories so you don’t have to feel as bad about using them in your recipes.Ground sirloin and ground round are usually the leanest cuts of ground beef that you can get. Ground sirloin has 10 to 14% fat, while ground round has about 12% fat.
Avoid regular ground beef, which usually has 25 to 30% fat.
 It may seem pretty obvious, but the easiest way to stretch your ground beef is just use less of it. If a recipe calls for 2 pounds (908 g) of ground beef, cut it down to 1 ½ pounds (680 g). In most cases, you won’t even notice the difference.If you’re worried that your dish will be lacking, trying mixing in more of other ingredients, such as vegetables or starches, to make up for the ground beef that you’ve cut.
If you’re making burgers, meatloaf, or meatballs, shape your patties, loaf, or balls slightly smaller than usual so you don’t need as much ground beef.
 Whether you’re adding an extender, binder, or spices and seasonings into raw ground beef, be careful not to overmix it. Mixing it too much can lead to tough burgers, meatloaf, or meatballs. Use clean hands to gently mix the beef and other ingredients until they’re just combined., When you’ve added extenders or other ingredients to the ground beef, the mixture is usually more fragile than straight ground beef. Lightly pat the meat mixture to form the burgers, loaf, or meatballs, and gently flip the burgers and meatballs with a spatula to avoid breaking them.When you’re shaping the meat mixture, do not pack the burgers or meatballs together too tightly or they may crumble.
Spoon a ground beef mixture for meatloaf into the pan without packing it too tightly against the sides.
