 You want to make sure you get your ultrasound in during a time in pregnancy where good pictures are more likely. It's recommended that you wait until after 26 weeks, as this is when fat begins to form in a baby's face. You should get the ultrasound done before 30 weeks. After 30 weeks, your baby will move deeper into your pelvis and this can make it harder to find the baby's face.Ask your doctor about the position of your baby's placenta. If it's at the front of your womb, known as an anterior placenta, it's best to get an ultrasound done around 28 weeks.
Even with proper planning, your baby may be turned away from the camera at the time of the ultrasound. Even if you do not get an image of your baby's face, you'll still have some 3D images of your child prior to birth.;
, If your baby is awake, you may end up getting better 3D ultrasounds. It can be hard to gauge when a baby is sleeping, but you may notice your baby tends to move more during certain hours of the day. If your baby is usually kicking around 3 in the afternoon, for example, try to schedule an ultrasound around then.
 Many doctors who administer 3D ultrasounds report that increased fluid intake can help with 3D ultrasound images. This can help clear up the amniotic fluid surrounding the baby, resulting in clearer photographs.Try to drink at least 8 glasses of water that contain 8 ounces each day in the weeks leading up to the ultrasound.
As your appointment gets closer, make an effort to drink more water than normal. Carry a water bottle with you to work or around the house. Have a glass of water nearby at all times.
If you're not a big water drinker, consider trying flavored water or adding slices of fruit or veggies to a glass of water to make it tastier.
 You want to make sure your baby is awake for the ultrasound, if at all possible. Some doctors think eating natural sugars may wake a baby up, causing the baby to move around more during the scan. Before going in for your ultrasound, try eating a couple servings of fruit.Bananas, dates, cherries, figs, and pomegranates tend to have high sugar content. Try eating some of these fruits just before your ultrasound.
Fruits like berries, watermelon, and cantaloupe have a somewhat low sugar content. While they won't hurt to eat before an ultrasound, they may not have as big an impact on the results.
 Talk to your doctor before the appointment about how to dress. If you're having a transvaginal probe, you may want to wear clothing that fits loosely around the abdomen.This can make the exam easier for you and your doctor, increasing the likelihood of your doctor finding good images.
 You may find, during the appointment, you are not getting the best images of the baby. If this is the case, ask your doctor if you can take a break. Walking around and stretches may stir your baby, causing him or her to shift positions. You may get a better look of your baby's face after walking around for a bit.If you cannot wake your baby up, try not to be too disappointed. While it can be a let down to not get photos of your baby smiling and moving, sleeping pictures can also provide you a good look at your infant.
 It's important to relax during an ultrasound. Some doctors believe babies can sense when their mothers are tense, which could lead to less movement during photos.


Bring your partner or trusted friend with you. Choose someone who's good at keeping you calm, especially during times of stress.
Try engaging in deep, calming breaths if you feel yourself getting tense. It can help to focus on the rhythm of your breathing to try and stay calm.
If you're uncomfortable, ask the technician or doctor if you can shift slightly. You'll be more calm if you're in a position where you feel at ease.
 The American Association of Obstetricians and Gynecologists recommends against 3D ultrasounds. Such procedures are not medically necessary. There are currently no known risks, but the technology is fairly new and risks could be discovered in the future.A 3D ultrasound is meant only to obtain a picture of the baby. Therefore, those conducting exams may miss abnormalities. Conversely, a minor issue with the baby may be misdiagnosed as a major abnormality. This can cause unnecessary stress during a pregnancy.
If you choose to have a 3D ultrasound, have a regular ultrasound conducted by your regular OB/GYN as well. You want to make sure you catch any abnormalities with your baby. A 3D ultrasound is not a substitute for proper medical care.
 As they are not medically necessary, your insurance may not pay for a 3D ultrasound. The ultrasound can be expensive. If you choose to get an ultrasound done, make sure you're prepared for a large bill. Weigh the costs of medical care during pregnancy, as well as the coming costs of childcare and preparing your home for a new baby. Make sure a 3D ultrasound is within your budget., A 3D ultrasound is not usually harmful to a developing fetus. However, talk to your regular OB/GYN before scheduling a 3D ultrasound. You want to make sure your regular doctor thinks the procedure is safe for you and your baby. You also want to make sure you're getting medical ultrasounds throughout your pregnancy to assure your baby is healthy.

