 In this version, you will be using stencils and paint to create your poster. You should be able to purchase the stencils from any craft store, but if you cannot find the right ones, you will have to make your own. Here's a list of what you will need:


Rectangular sheet of paper
Pencil
Eraser
Ruler
Stencils or Cardstock and craft knife
Acrylic paint
Foam brush
Paper plate or palette
Masking tape or painter's tape

, You can use poster paper or even construction paper. If you want a poster that has a pattern on it, then consider using scrapbooking paper. You can find it in the scrapbooking section of a well-stocked arts and crafts store. If you decide to use scrapbooking paper, however, keep in mind that you will have to cut it down to make it a rectangle.
 Use a long ruler and a pencil to draw light lines across the poster where you want the crown and letters to go. If necessary, lightly sketch out the word. This will help you place the letters later on.
 To make the stencil, print an image of a crown silhouette onto a sheet of cardstock. Use a craft knife to cut the crown out. You will be placing the paper onto your poster and painting over the crown-shaped hole.


You can also use a different shaped stencil if you don't want a crown.
The crown should be approximately one third of the width of the poster.
If you can't find cardstock, you can use any other thick sheet of paper or even cardboard. Keep in mind that if it won't go through the printer, you will have to draw the design onto it by hand, and then cut it out.
 Carefully position the crown near the top of the poster. Make sure that it is centered, then tape the edges of the stencil down onto the poster using masking tape or painters tape.


If you are using an adhesive stencil, you do not need to tape it.
 If the paint is very thick, you might get some visible brushstrokes when you paint. To keep this from happening, add a few drops of water to the paint and stir it. You want it to have a cream-like consistency.
 Dip your foam brush into the paint and tap off any excess paint onto a paper towel. Carefully tap the paint over the stencil. Avoid using too much paint, or the paint will seep under the stencil., Carefully pull off the tape, and then lift the stencil off. Be careful not to smudge the paint. You want to remove the stencil while the paint is still wet to avoid chipping it.
 Most letter stencils will come on a large sheet of paper, and there is usually one of each letter. You will have to do each letter one at a time. Position the letter where you want it to go, and paint over it. Lift the stencil, and move on to another part of the poster; make sure that the stencil sheet doesn't touch the painted letter. This will help prevent the paint from smudging.


If you cannot find any letter stencils you like, you will need to make your own. Use a word processing program to create the text, and print it out onto a sheet of cardstock. Use a craft knife to cut the letters out. If you are having troubles cutting in a straight line, use a metal ruler to help guide you., Most acrylic paints dry to the touch quickly, about 20 to 30 minutes.Each brand will be a little different, however, so you might want to check the drying times on the paint bottle you have.
 Make sure that the paint is absolutely dry before you do this, or you will risk smudging the paint.

