 Grab a nice camera and hit the road. Try and get 2-3 set options for each scene you have to design. Take shots of every single angle of the room, using as much lighting as you possibly can, so that the director knows exactly what the space looks like. On the way take pictures of furniture, decorations, or props that you think are a good fit in the set. Other things to jot down include:


The dimensions of the space. Whenever possible, make accurate measurements with a tape measure-- there is a lot of film equipment you'll need to fit in the set.
Any fees or stipulations for the set. For example, you might be able to shoot in a public school classroom during the summer, but it will be nearly impossible to film in fall when all the students are back.
What are the power capabilities of the set? You need to plug a lot of things in to make a movie.
Hows the ambient sound? Will people be walking through the set, and is that okay for the script?

, In most cases you will need to design 2-3 walls, such as the ones behind two chatting characters. However, if the director wants to use the entire room for filming then you need to be sure that the entire set looks like it could be in a movie.


Where are the characters moving through the set? This is called blocking, and you should push the director to make a decision now so that you aren't redesigning the set on the fly when shooting starts.
 Lines create the illusion of movement for the audience, which makes a set design dramatic and engaging. Line is everywhere -- the tops of couches, the floorboards, the horizon-- so don't interpret this as pinstripes. Remember that a set is a 3D space, but the audience perceives it as a 2D space, like a photograph. Thinking of your set like you were composing a photograph will always lead to more interesting designs.How can you get the illusion of depth in your set? What lines of perspective, furniture, and decorations will lead the eye to the most important prop/character in the scene?

, There are hundreds of DIY solutions to set design, but these take time. You need to use your budget to balance the speed of buying everything with the creative control of building the whole set. Your design needs will change from set to set, but there are some key principles to keep in mind:


How essential is a prop to a shot? If it is just a piece of background material you can often get away with a cheap, quick prop, as it will likely be blurred out anyway.
Posters may help decorate a room, but they can also look cheap. Buying several inexpensive poster frames, however, can give the room a much more high-class feel.
Make or buy one large centerpiece if you are on a budget. What is the focal point of the scene, and how can you make that as great a prop as possible? 90% of viewers will be focusing on that object the entire time, such as the couch two characters are sitting on., Unless the point of the scene is that things are cluttered and chaotic, less is more in the scene. You don't want the audience focusing on your set, you want them focusing on the actors and action. A great set is unobtrusive -- it feels natural and realistic, less like a set and more like a room you could visit in real life.


While you can think of many extravagant, complex sets (The Royal Tenenbaums, The Great Gatsby, Blade Runner, etc.) these are not exceptions to the rule. Rather, the sets in these movies are made to fit a lush, extravagant, or chaotic script. Thus, they appear natural in the world of the movie.
 It actually costs money to show that "Kitchen-Aid" logo on the mixer in the corner. While it is unlikely that you'll get sued for anything, there is no need to take the risk. Whatever brand logos you can remove, cover up, or hide need to be covered up.This is done because a brand may not like how you use it in a movie. No toilet paper company, for example, want to see their product used by a serial killer to wipe up blood.
 After lighting, there is a good chance you'll need to redesign the set a bit to eliminate awkward shadows or fit in lighting stands. This is also a chance to put in any "practicals," which are lights that appear as part of the final movie, like lamps or ceiling lights.


The cinematographer is also in charge of camera placement, meaning this is the time to work out crew placement and check how your scene looks at specific camera angles.

