 If your scalp is itching or you notice a smell, it's time to wash your helmet. You may wish to wash it on a regular schedule, such as every two weeks, or after a long ride. If your helmet does not have a liner, it may be a good idea to get a helmet pad to put inside the helmet, as this can make cleaning easier.

To wash the inside of your helmet, fill a bucket with warm water and a mild shampoo. Agitate the water until it is sudsy. If there is any dirt or grime on your helmet, rinse that off with water before submerging it in the bucket of soapy water. Allow the helmet to soak for a few minutes.Use your fingers to gently scrub the liner inside the helmet. Then rinse the helmet in your shower or sink until you have rinsed out all the soap.
After cleaning your helmet with shampoo, let it air dry instead of blow drying, which can damage the liner. If can, however, place the helmet in front of a fan to speed up the process.
You can also use a spray cleaner to eliminate odors, though this will not replace a proper cleaning.;
, Helmet lining should be cleaned on a regular basis; after all, you’re likely sweating into your helmet lining regularly when you wear it.Your helmet liner should be removable. If it’s not removable, you should still be able to clean it while in the helmet.
The best way to clean a helmet liner is to get helmet interior spray. You can let this spray sit overnight on the liner and it should improve the cleanliness (and smell) of the liner.
 Static build up is common in helmets, since your hair and the material of the helmet liner are conductive to static electricity. If static is a problem for your helmet, there are a few ways to combat static buildup.The material of your helmet liner may be causing static build up. If you use materials like cotton or cashmere, they are less likely to have static buildup than synthetic materials.You can also change the shampoo you are using with your hair. Leave in conditioners can fight against static due to dry hair, while hair styling sheets can be rubbed over the helmet’s interior to smooth over any static cling.
 If you find your scalp is even irritated by the helmet lining, it may be a good idea to wear something to protect your scalp from the helmet itself. There are a lot of options of coverings for your head that will differ based on the type of helmet you are wearing.

Do rags or skull caps may be best to wear if your helmet has a tight fit. These coverings are relatively tight and should fit easily under your helmet.
Bandanas usually fit looser and are bulkier. If your helmet is roomier, a bandana may be a better option for a covering under your helmet.
When purchasing any physical barriers for your helmet, make sure to buy products that are of high quality. If possible, products designed to wear under helmets may be the best to prevent helmet itch.
 If you are traveling for a long distance, such as a cross-country motorcycle ride, it's a good idea to bring additional replacement liners. When one gets dirty and causes itching of your scalp, you can replace it with another liner.

Replacement liners can be purchased at many motorcycle or biking shops. You can also get additional helmet pads if your helmet does not come with a liner.
You can wash your liners when you stop for the evening on your trip. This will enable you to have clean liners to use for each new day.

