 Pansy seeds will grow in long fall climates or they’ll remain dormant until the next spring in many areas. Therefore, in order to fool pansies into blooming again, you will need to remove the seed pods before the seeds fully form.


This can be achieved by pinching the spent blooms from the plant, cutting back extra growth, and fertilizing for blooms rather than leaves.;
, Check your pansy twice a week for any blooms that have died. Remove all dying blooms from the pansy plant to encourage the plant to put its energy towards new blooms and growth.


Remove any damaged blooms when you remove dead blooms.
Be careful not to accidentally remove any new blooms.
 Water the plant to keep the soil around the pansy moist. Pansies enjoy soil that is damp. Try to apply a phosphorus fertilizer but avoid applying nitrogen to the area unless the fertilizer is a slow release variety, as pansies generally can’t handle high levels of nitrogen.


If the plant is allowed to dry out or receives too little nutrition it will stop producing blooms and need to be replanted.
 Cut back growth and leggy stems from the plant because these areas will not produce new blooms. When these parts of the plant are allowed to grow unchecked, they can drain the energy of the plant, causing it to produce less blooms.
 If you find any existing seed pods, remove them right away.


If your plant is an heirloom you may be able to save the adult pod and collect seeds to start more pansy plants indoors.
 If the plant stops producing blooms and begins to die back, you will most likely need to replace the plant with a new blooming pansy in order to benefit from new fall color.


If this occurs frequently do not feel like you’ve failed; certain areas of the country simply are not suited for year round pansy growth.
If you can’t find new pansies at your greenhouse to plant in the fall, remember that pansies are simple to start from seed indoors.
Plan ahead for next year and start the seedlings indoors four to six weeks before fall. After the temperatures get warmed, plant the new seedlings outdoors.

