 The mark that you create should be eligible for registration. This means that it is not likely to be confused with other marks. In other words, the mark should not be similar to other marks in how it looks, sounds, or is understood and it should not represent identical or similar goods or services.


You should strive to create a mark that is strong, that is, one that is distinctive enough so as to prevent another party from using it. If the trademark includes text it should be easy to read, spell, and pronounce. It also should be easy to remember in all the languages that are relevant.
Avoid marks that have negative or undesirable connotations in any language and strive to create a mark that is adaptable to advertisements in all cultures it will promoted within. ;
, Most countries have a specific procedure to follow in order to register a mark domestically. For instance, in the United States, to register a trademark, a registrant must file an application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). To create a basis for registering a mark with the USPTO a registrant must:


Identify your mark format and determine if your mark will be: (1) in standard character format, that is, that the trademark only consists of words, letters, numbers, or any combination of such without an accompanying style, font, size, color or design; (2) a stylized/design format, or a (3) sound mark. Identify the applicable goods and services that the mark will apply to. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) ID Manual contains a list of appropriate goods and services identifications. Search the database on to the USPTO website’s Trademark Electronic Search System (TESS) to conduct a free search to determine that your mark is not likely to be confused with an already existing mark. Be sure to understand how the TESS system works, what it includes, and how to interpret search results before using it. Decide if you should file under the “use in commerce” basis or the “intent to use” basis. If you have already used the mark in inner-state commerce or commerce between states or between the U.S. and a foreign country, you can file under the “use in commerce” basis. If you have actual intentions of using the mark in the future, you should file under the “intent to use” basis. , Log on to the USPTO website and filling out and filing the application through the Trademark Electronic Application System (TEAS). Paper applications can also be obtained by calling the Trademark Assistance Center (1-800-786-9199). The examining attorney will review the file and determine if the mark complies with the rules and law, examine the mark, and determine if it conflicts with other marks. The attorney will issue a decision to approve the mark or reject it. The rejection will be in the form of an office action, which explains the reasons for the rejection.
The office action must be answered, to explain how the deficiency will be corrected, within six months or the application will be considered abandoned. , An attorney can help you create a strong mark, fill out your application, and file it correctly. An attorney's help will also be invaluable when it comes to protecting your trademark once it is registered. Find an attorney who specializes in trademarks and intellectual property, rather than a generalist.
 Consider where you want the mark to be protected in addition your country of domicile.


To decide which countries you might want protection and recognition of your mark in, consider which countries your goods or services are currently available in.
Additionally, consider what countries your goods and services might be available in in the future, since actual use is not a prerequisite for filing. , Just as the USPTO office requires a domestic search for already existing identical or similar marks, it is wise to determine whether similar or identical marks exist on an international level, or within the foreign jurisdictions where you have determined protection and recognition is necessary. Some, but not all, countries have their own searchable databases.
For other options for conducting a trademark search on an international basis, contact a firm specializing in such research or using the national trademark registry. , Investigate whether your country has trademark agreements with other countries. Certain international agreements, which will allow for one trademark registration to be recognized in a number of other countries, exist. While further steps are necessary, the domestic registration may act as a basis for the application with the collection of countries that are party to the agreement. For example:


A U.S. trademark does not automatically protect the mark in another country but a pending application before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) or a registration with the USPTO can form the basis of an international trademark application that can be recognized in a number of other countries if certain additional steps are taken. The U.S. is a party to the Madrid Protocol, which allows a registrant to file one single "international application" and if that application is successful, the mark will be recognized and protected in the countries that are also a party to the Madrid Protocol. , If the country where you initially registered is not in an agreement with the countries you seek protection in, look for other agreements that cover the countries in which you wish to register. These may include:


the Community Trade Mark (CTM), which offers protection within the countries of the European Union (EU);
the Paris Convention, which covers 175 countries;
the African Regional Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO), which was created by English-speaking African countries;
the Organisation Africaine de la Propriete Intellectuelle (OAPI), which was formed by French-speaking countries in Africa; and
the Andean Pact, which provides protection in Bolivia, Columbia, Ecuador, and Peru., If the desired country in which you seek international protection is a party to an agreement, pact, or treaty, contact that organization to file the correct paperwork in order to obtain registration of your mark. If the country is not a party to an agreement or pact, find the countries' individual trademark office.


For instance, if the country you are seeking protection in is a party to the Madrid Protocol, file an international application with the International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). International protection of a trademark may also be achieved through the registration of the mark in individual countries. Visit the WIPO website for a directory of individual country’s trademark offices. , If filing pursuant to the Madrid Protocol, visit the WIPO website for a fee calculator to determine the correct amount to pay for an international application under the Madrid Protocol. Visit the other organization's websites or the directory of individual country’s trademark offices to calculate the required fees if you are filing in with another organization or the specific country outside the U.S. where protection is sought. , Part of maintaining your mark requires your own use of the mark and the policing of the mark's use by other parties.


To ensure your rights do not expire due to non-use, ensure you are using the mark in the places it is registered. While the rules regarding expiration of registration due to non-use vary, in some jurisdictions five years of non-use is enough to revoke the ownership of the mark.
If a party is improperly using your mark, or infringing, it is important to take swift action to protect your mark. The appropriate response to infringement ranges from issuing cease and desist letters to filing an infringement lawsuit. 