 Typically, a qualified guardian must be an adult who is closely related to the child and lives in the same state.Most states don't allow anyone with a prior felony conviction to serve as a guardian, regardless of their relationship to the child.;
, Other people who are close to both you and your child might have good ideas for who you should select as a guardian.


Guardians have the same responsibilities as a parent would, and must make all decisions related to the child's life such as where she goes to school and whether she is raised in a church or synagogue. Your candidates should be people you trust to fulfill those duties the way you would if you were able.This also gives you the opportunity to explain your thought processes and choices to close relatives, in the event someone disagrees with you on who should be your child's guardian. Close relatives potentially could challenge the petition for guardianship., If your child is old enough to have a preference, you should find out who she would like to live with.


The guardian should be someone your child knows and is comfortable around.
 Let the person you've selected know so that both of you can begin the court process.


Make a list of the child's needs and preferences for the guardian so they know how to fulfill those needs and can accommodate your child's preferences as appropriate., You typically can use the website of your state court system to find out which court hears guardianship cases. Some nonprofit organizations also have lists online of the courts in each state that handle guardianships, along with links and contact information.Most states handle legal guardianships through either family court or probate court.
Once you've determined which kind of court you need, you must also decide on a location. Usually a guardianship case must be filed in a court located in the county where the child lives.
 Most states have prepared forms you can use by filling in the blanks. You can find these forms at the clerk's office in the courthouse or on the court's website.


Typically you have the option of either filling in these forms on your computer, or printing them out and completing them by hand.You may have to pay a small fee if you want paper forms from the clerk's office.
 Some states require additional documentation such as financial affidavits or criminal background checks.
 Fill out the required forms with all the requested information, providing proof as necessary.


Although you may not need an attorney to represent you throughout the process, particularly if no one is challenging your choice of guardian, it may be best for you to have an attorney familiar with the guardianship process look over your forms before you file them and make sure they're correct.The guardianship forms will include a document providing information about the child, a petition requesting the court to appoint a guardian and the reasons for that request, and information about the proposed guardian., Once the appropriate forms have been completed, you must sign them. Any forms that include a notary block must be signed in the presence of a notary public.


You may be able to find notary services free of charge at your bank. Notaries also work in private companies such as packing and shipping companies, or in courthouses. These notaries typically charge a small fee for their services.
If you are filing a joint petition with your chosen guardian, she will need to sign the forms as well.
 After you've signed everything, make enough copies so that all parents, guardians, and other parties will have their own copy of the entire packet.
 Take your original forms to the clerk of the court that will hear your case and have them filed.


Once you've paid the filing fee, the clerk will stamp your documents "filed." He will keep the originals for the court and return to you all your stamped copies.
The filing fee varies by state and county, but could be as much as several hundred dollars.If you can't afford the fee, the clerk will have an application you can fill out to see if you qualify for a fee waiver.The clerk will assist you in scheduling a hearing date for the judge to review your petition.
 Most states require a preliminary investigation. A social worker will be assigned to interview you, the other parent, the potential guardian, and the child.


Typically the investigator files a report with the court that the judge will use to assist in determining the best interests of the child., If you filed a joint petition with the guardian you want, you may not need to serve them. Anyone else listed as an interested party, including the child and any other parent, should be officially served with a copy of the documents.


If you need to serve anyone, you can pay the sheriff's office or a private process serving company to serve them, or mail them using certified mail., Make a note of any court dates and show up on time for each and every one until the guardianship is settled..


Even though you are not contesting the guardianship, the judge still may have questions for you.
Dress in clean and conservative clothing and treat all court staff with respect. While in the courtroom, don't speak unless the judge asks you a question, and speak only to the judge, not to the guardian or anyone else in the courtroom.The judge reviews the request to appoint a guardian using the "best interest of the child" standard. Typically this includes consideration of the child's relationship with the guardian, the child's preference for a guardian, the guardian's ability to provide for the child's needs, and the character and fitness of the proposed guardian, among other factors., Some states require the guardian to attend classes so they understand their duties and responsibilities, or to undergo an evaluation to determine whether their guardianship would be in the best interest of the child.


The court may order a home visit or inspection of the location where the child would live if the guardianship were approved., Once the judge has appointed your chosen guardian, you must make sure you have enough copies of the order for yourself, the guardian, and anyone else who might need a copy such as your child's school or doctor's office.

