 It's the grey gear icon on the Home Screen.
 This option is about a third of the way down the Settings page., It will turn white. Now any emails that you open in the Mail app won't load images, which will disable the majority of email tracking on your iPhone., It's the red "M" on a white background in either your App Drawer or on the Home Screen.

Gmail is the Android's default email client.
 If you only have one Gmail account, your Gmail app should open to that account.

If you aren't already signed in, enter your email address and password and tap Sign In.
 It's in the top left corner of the screen., It's at the bottom of the pop-out menu., You'll find this on the left side of the screen., It's at the bottom of the screen., This setting will prevent your Gmail app from loading email images until you approve them, meaning email trackers won't load as soon as you open the email., It should open to your default Gmail inbox.

If you aren't already logged into Gmail, enter your email address and password.
 It's in the top right corner of the Gmail window, directly below your user profile picture., You'll find this option about halfway down the Settings gear's drop-down menu., It's the fourth section of options on this page., It's at the bottom of the screen. Now Gmail won't load any images by default, which will prevent embedded images from recording your location or the time at which you opened the email., Doing so will open the Yahoo home page., It's in the top right corner of the screen.

If you aren't already logged into Yahoo, click Log In and enter your email address and password.
 You'll find this option in the top right corner of the Yahoo page., It's near the top of the drop-down menu., This option is on the left side of the Settings window., The box will likely say "Always, except in spam filter.", You'll see this appear below the Show Images in Emails box., It's at the bottom of the screen. Now Yahoo won't display images in emails, which will render most email tracking attempts unsuccessful., Any time you receive a promotional email from a site (e.g., Facebook or Amazon), there's a good chance that it's tracking your response. While you may be comfortable with this on social media or other secure sites, entering your email address on an unsecure or dodgy site will almost certainly result in email tracking., Your Spam folder will likely take care of obvious junk mail, but that doesn't mean you should open emails from services, websites, or even people whom you don't know.

Similarly, don't open unnecessary emails even if you do trust the recipient (e.g., Best Buy or Tumblr).
 In rare cases, email trackers will use links to indicate whether or not their recipient has opened the email. In cases such as these, merely right-clicking the link or hovering over it with your cursor may be enough to trigger the "read" notification., Unfortunately for non-Chrome users, the only reputed tracker blockers are for Google Chrome as of February 2017.PixelBlock - Identifies and blocks trackers in all incoming emails.

UglyEmail - Identifies (but doesn't block) tracked email.
To install an extension on Google Chrome, click the blue Add to Chrome button in the top right corner of the extension's window.

