 It’s a bummer to break your ankle! Your patience and physical comfort are going to be tested. You will be experiencing more disappointment and irritation than normal. You can handle it. Put yourself in the right mental space to do so. Accept the reality of your situation to empower yourself emotionally.Practicing acceptance is a good way to feel better about your situation. As the Serenity prayer states, “Change what you can and accept the things you cannot change.”


Stay calm and recognize that you will recover. This will make the recovery process go more smoothly, and allow you more pleasure along the way. Recognize that you have an opportunity to organize your time and energy however you’d like to do so. Though it may seem forced, tell yourself that you have the freedom to choose how you’re going to benefit from (and enjoy!) your new found time.
Try meditation, deep breathing, and practicing mindfulness to help you stay calm.;
, Throughout the recovery process, you can remain active in plenty of ways. However you choose to do so, the important thing is to get some type of exercise despite your injury. For instance, you can use exercise tools such as weights or resistance bands, or go for a walk (with crutches! – instructions in this article).


Be sure to stretch after doing any kind of physical activity. You can do upper and lower body stretches while sitting.
 Many parks are designed to be extremely accessible. Find a park in a neighborhood you haven’t been to. If the weather is dreary, movie theatres often have seats with more room for those with things like crutches and casts.
 The blues come quickly to those who have to spend large amounts of time sitting around at home.This is part of the reason it is important to stay active. Join an online support group if the stress and discomfort of recovering from an ankle injury do get to you. There are even support groups online specifically for people recovering from leg injuries!


Keep in mind that to be diagnosed with depression you have a to have at least one or two depressive symptoms ongoing for at least two weeks.
 Everyone has a project they’ve been wanting to do but haven’t had the time for. Here’s your chance! Or pick up a new skill you’ve always wanted to learn. Who knows, this injury might end up leading you to a new hobby. One idea: learn to knit. This will pay of next winter, when your ears are the warmest on the block, and you’re ready to make inexpensive, high utility, and heartfelt gifts.
 Cooking is a creative and practical pursuit that you can still do with a broken ankle. Check out online resources for getting different recipes. You can find recipes for everything from dinner to baking a cake.
 Check the course list at your nearest community college. Classes are often remarkably cheap, and you’ll likely see something that peaks your interest.


Alternatively, there are many high-quality learning opportunities you can access online, including free lectures from universities like MIT.You can even learn specific and highly marketable skills like coding or photo editing online at no cost!Maybe it’s fall and you want to take a photography class, or perhaps it’s summer and you want to take a gardening class, either way this is great for self-improvement and personal growth.
 Writing is great way to express yourself creatively. It can also help you organize your thoughts for future plans. Best of all: contribute productively to an online organization or website that you already enjoy, and would like to be a part of. You could even write your own “How To…” article for WikiHow, or edit this one!

, Whenever you’re feeling yourself get frustrated or demoralized by discomfort or malaise, throw your brain a curve ball and congratulate yourself for getting through a tough week, or even just a tough day. Likewise, after moments of unexpected (or totally expected) joy, congratulate yourself for enjoying life despite your injury!

