 To kids, parents are strong, courageous, and have it all figured out. This impression can cause your kids to stay tight-lipped about their back to school worries. If you notice your child showing signs of anxiety, such as trouble going to sleep, clinginess or fear of being alone, tearfulness, or they are simply less-than-enthusiastic about the first day, start a discussion.You might say, “Robbie, I noticed you don’t seem as excited about the first day of school as your sister. When I went to high school, I was really nervous about making new friends when I went back to school. Do you feel that way this year?”
Sharing your own experience may help your child to realize that their fears are common. As a result, they might be more willing to open up about any worries they have.
 If your child is feeling stressed out about going back to school, it may help to get some practice. Help your child pinpoint what’s causing them anxiety and act out scenarios to ease their anxiety.


For example, if your child knows they will have to introduce themselves in front of the class on the first day, they may be worried about embarrassing themselves. Let them practice what they will say, then praise them for their efforts., Never diminish your child’s fears with false reassurances. Saying, “Oh, you’ll be fine,” or, “There’s nothing to worry about,” won’t make your child’s stress disappear. It will make them less likely to talk to you about anxiety in the future.Even though it may seem trivial to you, your child’s fear is real. Give it your full attention by talking it over, explaining how these fears are very common, and helping your child brainstorm ways to cope with their worries.
Sit down or kneel to their level, look them in the eye, and touch them reassuringly so as to indicate active listening and provide some comfort.
 Sometimes, having an ally at the school is enough to help your child defeat back to school stress. In addition to meeting the teacher, getting acquainted with the school counselor may help your child feel better.


You might explain to the school counselor that your child is a bit reluctant to return to school. Then, let your child know, “Sarah, if you’re ever feeling worried or nervous at school, you can come and talk to Ms. Timms. She’ll help you work through your anxiety.”, Re-creating the school day routine can help ease your child back into the swing of things. It may be practical to start waking your child — or setting an alarm clock — a few weeks before the first day and letting them get ready like they would for a typical day. In the same vein, get your child settled into bed at an earlier time, too.


It can also be helpful to start having them lay out clothes the night before, making lunches (for older kids), and reviewing old homework or worksheets to get back into the school mindset.