 A caddy is the essential foundation for a housecleaning kit, as it is used to store and carry all of your cleaning supplies. Plastic caddies are available in a variety of sizes from both general merchandise retailers and specialty stores that sell cleaning and organizing products.;
, Perhaps the most important and useful cleaning product in a kit is an all-purpose cleaning spray. This spray can be used for wiping down many surfaces, including walls, countertops, railings, vanities, tables, and other furniture. Many of these sprays are available in all-natural formulations with pleasing scents.
 Abrasive cleaners are often packaged as either powders or thick creams. This type of cleaner is suitable for areas that tend to build up thick grime and therefore need to be scrubbed rather than simply wiped down. Bathtubs, bathroom tile, toilet bowls, and utility sinks are all areas that are best cleaned using a mild abrasive.
 Cleaning products designed specifically to kill microorganisms are available in both spray bottles and pre-moistened wipes. This type of cleaner is useful for cleaning bathroom surfaces (such as toilet flush handles) and areas of your kitchen countertop that have contacted uncooked meat or fish.
 Vinegar and baking soda are 2 natural, inexpensive, and versatile products for cleaning. Vinegar can be diluted with water and used to clean windows or kill mold and mildew. Baking soda can be used alone as a scrub, added to other cleaning products, or used to absorb odors.
 Microfiber cloths are great in conjunction with all-purpose cleaner for wiping down surfaces. You should also have several terrycloth towels on hand, as they are more absorbent than microfiber and can be used to clean up spills and other large messes.
 Toothbrushes are effective for cleaning around hard-to-reach edges, such as around faucets and handles. They are generally cheaper than specialty brushes designed for cleaning these areas.
 A broom has long been an essential tool for cleaning floors, although in many applications it can be replaced with a disposable microfiber cleaning tool. Long-handled brooms are best for general use, while a handheld brush is effective for cleaning hard-to-reach spots like underneath furniture.
 When buying a mop, make sure to buy a few replacement mop heads as well, as they get soiled quickly. Mops can also be replaced in many applications by disposable microfiber cleaning tools.
 A vacuum cleaner is an indispensable tool for cleaning dust from soft surfaces like carpet. A small "stick" vacuum will usually be adequate for small apartments, but for cleaning a larger home you should opt for a more powerful upright vacuum.

