 If you are suffering from hyperuricemia, your health care professional will conduct a thorough history of your health background.


Your doctor will ask about your symptoms, factors that trigger your symptoms, and any other relevant medical problems that could provide information.
Your doctor will also carefully examine you, looking for symptoms that suggest the development of hyperuricemia.
 In order to confirm a diagnosis of hyperuricemia, you can have certain lab exams performed by your doctor, such as:


Serum uric acid. A blood sample will be drawn, put in a sterile container, and examined to determine the level of uric acid in your blood.
Urinary acid excretion. This test is done if you exhibit a high amount of uric acid excretion. For 24 hours, you will collect your urine while maintaining your normal diet and alcohol intake. After 24 hours of monitoring, you will be put on a low-purine, zero alcohol diet for 6 days and then collect your urine again. After both collections, the urine will be compared, looking for a decrease in the levels of uric acid.
 Imaging tests can determine if you have joint swelling due to uric acid build up. There a few tests that can provide your doctor insight, such as:


Skeletal c-ray films. This test may detect the presence of swelling in the joints and the development of subcortical cysts (cysts that form in the skeleton) if you have gout.

This test uses x-rays that pass through your bones in order to create images.


Renal ultrasound/sonogram. This test is used to evaluate kidney function in order to find the presence of uric acid stones.

It is a painless procedure that makes use of sound waves to create images of the kidneys that are recorded by a computer.
During the procedure, a cool gel or lubricant is placed onto your pelvic area (between your hipbones).
An instrument called transducer (marker shaped instrument) will be placed over the lubricated area to create images of the kidneys and the surrounding area, which your doctor can view on a computer.
 During a joint aspiration procedure, your joint will be drained of fluid for analysis.


Before the procedure, the skin over your joint will first be cleaned using an antiseptic solutions such as betadine.
A sterile syringe will be inserted into the joint to collect and drain fluid that will be examined in the laboratory.
The punctured area will then be covered with sterile gauze to prevent bleeding.

