 A membership gives you access to a huge range of items and activities to do. Many rares can be rewarded from membership adventures, however, non members still have access to some great rares too. Don't feel left out if you are unable to buy a membership. You don't have to be a member to look cool.
 Arctic Wolves, Tigers, Foxes, Wolves, Snow Leopards, and Cheetahs are great. There is a wide selection of animals to choose from. Remember to choose wisely if you are buying an animal from the Diamond Shop.
 Experiment with the colors to find out what you think matches best together. If you like light blue but can't find the right kind, learn how to get the secret color.



Mix and match the primary and secondary colors to find out the combination you like best. Choose whether you prefer neutral or bold colors. Sometimes having a soft color with a strong color looks very nice (e.g. a deep purple with a pastel blue).

Choose your preferred eyes. There are many different eyes you can choose from. Flip through them to find the one you like best. Choose an eye color too. It may take a bit of time to find the right eye color.







Add a pattern. This is only optional because some people prefer not to have a pattern. Some animals look great with patterns while some just don't need them. A dark pattern on a light colored body looks just as great as a light pattern on a dark colored body! Test out the various colors to find the one you want.
 Bows, Spikes, Fox Hats and different types of tail armor are great. Do hard adventures to obtain rares. If you obtain more than one of the same kind of rare, put it on trade to see if you can get a different rare. Buy rings, bangles and head flowers etc. or pirate swords, eye patches and fancy hats etc.
 Make signs like XD and :D and lolz.
 Socialize with others and don't be afraid to trade and play games. But, never play any trust trading or gifting games. Whoever you are playing the game with may take your rares!

, Invite all your friends and invite people from Jamaa to join.
 If people begin watching them they will get to know you better. (Never ever ever put any personal information in a video! Personal information contains your name, where you live, what school you go to, usernames, etc.)

, To keep up to date, visit the Daily Explorer every now and then. AJHQ always notifies everyone when a rare Monday is coming up.
 That is what truly makes you awesome.
