 If you're not happy with who you are, it'll show from a mile away. Men are most attracted to women who look like they're having fun with who they are, not those who are desperately seeking someone to fill a void in their lives. Here are some tips for improving your self-confidence:


Tell yourself what an awesome person you are! Remind yourself of your best attributes and skills, and be proud of what makes you unique. Keep a journal where you can highlight some of your strengths as a person to make you feel that you are worthy of a man's attention. Always keep a positive attitude! Set your mind to it!
Remember that you're beautiful on the inside--and the outside. Though we are all far from perfect, before you spend an evening out, it's important to look in the mirror and remember your best attributes, whether it's your rocking smile, your perfect teeth, or your mile-long legs. If you focus on the positive aspects of your appearance, men will see them too. If you have crooked teeth or hairy legs, who gives a damn! Be yourself, and don't be afraid to show that crooked smile of yours or your beautiful hairy legs! NEVER be ashamed of yourself!
Be confident when you meet new people. Interacting with new people can be scary, but if you're alert, ready for anything, and reserve judgment, people will want to get to know you. A man will be more attracted to a woman surrounded by friends than one who is looking sad and lonely. He'll want to be a part of your positive energy. Read more about how to feel good about yourself here.
Continue to improve. It's one thing to be self-confident and another to be self-absorbed or blind to one's flaws. As you focus on your good qualities, work to improve that which can be improved. Consider all constructive criticism before dismissing it.;
, A man is attracted to a woman who feels comfortable with where she came from, where she is now, and where she is going. He wants someone who is comfortable with her desires, her limitations, and her aspirations.


Developing your own identity before you meet a man will ensure that you don't completely change who you are for him, or follow his lead all too often.
Knowing who you are before you meet a man will also make it ten times easier to talk to him, and to attract him. Men want women who look like they'd be just fine without them. Just find yourself and really think about it!
Compare me not! A lot of people fall into a cycle of comparing themselves to the people around them instead of their own standards. If you like your outfit when you leave the house, you should still like it when you get home. Don't let other people or your perceptions of other people influence how you feel about yourself.
 The key to feeling good about yourself is to have a space to be yourself and be loved for that self. Friends, family, and other personal interactions are necessary for you to feel loved and deserving of love.


Make sure your personal connections are beneficial to your emotional state. Toxic and detrimental relationships, past and present, can affect the way you feel about yourself and the way you carry yourself. Find friends who focus on your positive attributes, offer helpful advice, and are honest about who you are and who you can be.
Have a warm relationship with your family members. Making time to speak to the people who have known you the longest can remind you of your roots, and of how much you've grown.

