 Begin by creating a guest list for the party. Having a set guest list will help you get a sense of how big the location needs to be as well as how much party supplies you will need. You can write the invited guests on a piece of paper or in a spreadsheet. If you are inviting a lot of people to the party, a spreadsheet may be the way to go.You may base the number of people you invite on your budget for the party. If you have a large budget for the party, you may invite a lot of people. A small budget may mean a smaller guest list.
When you make the guest list, be sure to consider any spouses, children, or plus ones in your total tally for the party.
If you are planning the fall themed birthday party for someone else, ask them who they would like to invite.;
, An indoor space may be a good option if you want the party to feel intimate and cozy, especially if it’s going to be a bit nippy outside. You may host the party in your home or rent an indoor space. Look for an indoor space that has a lot of natural light and big windows so guests can admire the fall colors outside.If you have a smaller guest list, an indoor space may be ideal. If you have a lot of people on the guest list, make sure the indoor space can accommodate them all.
 An outdoor space may be ideal if you know the weather is going to be crisp and fall-like outside on the date of the party. You may host the party in your backyard or rent an outdoor space. Having the party in your yard can give it a casual, friendly atmosphere.If you decide to use an outdoor space, make sure you have a plan B in case the weather is bad. Your plan B may be moving the party to the following weekend when the weather is better or having it indoors at your house instead.
 Make the party feel festive by getting plates, cups, and bowls that have fall images like leaves, pumpkins, and hay bales. Go for plastic cutlery in fall colors or wrap metal cutlery in fall themed napkins.You can also be extra crafty and use halved pumpkins as bowls for the party. Get a large pumpkin, cut it open, and remove the seeds. Then, line it with napkins or use a small plastic bowl and fill it with snacks.
 A welcome table in fall colors can be a great way to greet guests as they walk into the party. Get small and large pumpkins for the table as well as fresh flowers in fall colors. You can also add acorns, leaves, and tree branches to the table.Create a birthday garland to drape over the table, spelling out “Happy Birthday” in fall colors.
If you are planning to have a guest book for guests to sign to wish the person happy birthday, put it on the welcome table. Pick a guestbook in fall colors.
 If you are having food tables at the party, make centerpieces for them. Put fresh flowers in mason jars or tin cans. Use flowers in reds, oranges, and greens to add to the fall theme. You can also include small pumpkins and gourds as part of the centerpieces.To make the centerpieces more personal, include a funny photograph of the birthday guest of honor.
For a children's party, put toys on the tables as part of the centerpieces.
 Hay bales add just the right amount of fall flair to a party. Place hay bales at the welcome table as well as at the food tables. Use hay bales at any activity or game stations at the party.If you are short on chairs, you can cover hay bales with blankets and use them as seats.
 If you are going to have food or drinks at the party, determine if you are going to prepare them yourself or hire a catering company. You may hire a bartender to run the bar and ask them to prepare fall-themed cocktails. You can also work with the caterer to come up with a fall themed food menu.Possible food ideas for the party include berry pies, cinnamon donuts, and fried chicken. Drink ideas include apple cider, hot toddies, and cinnamon hot chocolate.
For a children's birthday, you may have fall-themed cupcakes and kid-friendly snacks like chips, mini pizzas, and pigs-in-a-blanket. Make sure you also have kid-friendly drinks like juice, soda, and water.
 Make sure you decorate the party space a few hours before the party is set to begin. Ask friends and family to help you set up the supplies and decorations. Assign each person a task so the decorating can get done quickly and efficiently.You may prepare items like the table centerpieces ahead of time so you can just put them out the day of the party.
 If you are serving food and drinks at the party, create stations with tables so guests can access the food and drinks easily. You may have a long food table with plates where guests can serve themselves, family style. You can also have a main bar area where guests can order drinks.


If you have a lot of people at the party, you may have more than one food or drink station set up so guests do not have to wait in long lines.
If you are having a fall themed birthday cake for the party, you may set up a separate cake table to showcase the cake.
 Have apples in large buckets of water setup for apple bobbing. Put out a craft table for fall themed crafts like leave stenciling or decorating acorns. Have a games table with board games or outdoor games like soccer, badminton, or crochet.You can also arrange sack races or three-legged races, especially if there are going to be kids in attendance.
 Another good entertainment for the party could be a live band. Maybe you get a cover band of the birthday guest of honor’s favorite band. Or you may find a fun local band and ask them to play the party.If you can’t afford to hire live entertainment, an iPod or a good playlist on your computer is always a good option. Set up speakers so the music can be heard throughout the party, creating a festive vibe.

