 Drinking water throughout the day can help you to feel fuller and it can also stimulate your metabolism. Try to remember to drink 8 ounces (237 milliliters) of water before every meal and to sip on a water bottle throughout the day to ensure that you are getting enough water. This will help to reduce the chances that you will overeat and provide an easy way to boost your weight loss., Not getting enough sleep may affect your body’s metabolism and impair your body’s response to insulin, which may lead to obesity and diabetes.Make sleep a priority and aim for seven to nine hours of sleep every night.


Make your bedroom a relaxing place to help improve your sleep.
Shut off electronic devices at least 30 minute before bedtime.
Don't drink caffeinated beverages within a few hours of bedtime.
 Eating in front of the television is a common practice for many people, but it is a good way to end up eating more than you’d planned. Being mindful of what you eat can help you to eat less, so you might want to get into the habit of eating at a table.Try sitting down for each of your meals without anything in front of you to distract you from what you are eating. Turn off the TV, power down your laptop, and put away your phone. Just focus on the look, taste, and smell of your food.
 Snacking on dark chocolate has been shown to improve satiety, so you may be less inclined to overeat. Try snacking on a small piece of dark chocolate that is about the size of a quarter once per day to help yourself feel more satisfied.For example, you could have a square of dark chocolate as an afternoon snack or as your dessert for the day. Your piece should be about the size of a Dove chocolate.
 You don’t need to get in one long workout per day to reap the benefits of exercise. You can get a few smaller workouts in throughout the day, such as three 10 minute walks or three 10 minute dance sessions. Breaking your exercise into a few 10 minute sessions may even provide greater benefits to you than working out for an hour straight.Aim for a total of 30 minutes of exercise daily. For example, you could take a brisk 10 minute walk before breakfast, on your lunch break, and after dinner to get your 30 minutes of cardiovascular activity for the day.
 Little things like parking further away from the entrance at your workplace, taking the stairs instead of the elevator, or using your bike instead of your car to run an errand can help you to increase the amount of calories you burn in a day. As you go through your day, be on the lookout for little ways that you can move a little more. This will help you to meet your daily activity requirement without any fuss.
 People who fidget burn more calories when they are just sitting or standing because they are constantly moving. If you are not a fidgeter, then you might consider becoming one to reap the benefits of fidgeting.To become a fidgeter, try shaking your leg slightly while working at your desk, or try shifting your weight from one leg to the other while standing.
 Standing up burns more calories than sitting down, so simply standing up can make a difference in your weight. Avoid activities that require you to sit a lot, such as watching TV and playing video games. Alternatively, try standing while you watch TV.