 As with any plant, it is possible to be allergic to kudzu. Before you start harvesting the plant, take one of the leaves and rub it onto the back of your hand. If you are worried about a reaction, do this at home. Watch to see if your hand looks irritated or red., Use scissors or garden shears to sever the flowers from the small stems that attach them to the larger vines. The flowers will be purple in color and will smell strongly of grapes. Look for the flowers that are open if you plan on using them for cooking.It is possible to keep the flowers for up to one day in the refrigerator.Remove the stems from the blossoms before using. Boiling them will also cleanse them of dirt and remove any bugs., If you plan to use the leaves for cooking, then choose those that are young and green. Gently pluck them off the stems using scissors, garden shears, or your gloved hands. Place them into a basket being careful not to crush them., Some people use kudzu bark for various craft and sewing projects. Remove the bark from the larger vines by going to the base where it meets the ground. Use a pair of sharp shears or a knife to peel away sections of bark. Be prepared to tug a bit to remove it, as the bark will be stuck rather firmly to the inside of the vine.The bark itself can be rather easy to tear once removed, so be careful when handling it if you want it intact.
 The green, thin vines that climb well into the trees can be used for weaving and other projects. Start by pulling them out from the trees as much as you can. Make any cuts with garden shears to separate the vines from others. Try to get as long of pieces as possible., Kudzu roots range widely in size and depth. Surface roots are about 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) in diameter and only go a few feet deep. Mature roots can weigh over 200 pounds and be over eight feet deep. To access the smaller roots, use a hand and push shovel. Carefully remove the dirt around the root before severing it and pulling it out.Roots taste the best when harvested in the fall. Older roots are tougher in texture.
 If you plan to work with the vines and need them pliable, place them in a large pot with some water. Steam them for a bit and then remove. After they’ve cooled, use a sharp knife to make a cut at the end of the vine and peel downwards from there. Apply pressure to the vine halves to separate the fibers., After you’ve removed the leaves, place them in boiling water and remove after one minute. This will clean off any extra dirt and kill any kudzu bugs. If you plan to eat the leaves, boiling them will also remove the fine hairs on their surface., Kudzu will keep growing no matter how much you harvest. As long as you are careful about where you pick in order to avoid pesticides, you should be able to harvest as often as you choose as much as you choose. In fact, many people will consider it a public service.