 If there’s no other way for you to get exercise, take half an hour and workout in your hotel room. You can do a variety of HIIT cardio routines and strength training exercises right in your hotel room.Try starting your routine with jumping jacks, high knees, and butt kickers. This gets your cardio going and helps you warm up.
Think about including powerful full body moves, like burpees, jump squats, and mountain climbers.
Add in strength training with pushups, squats, lunges, planks, bicycle kicks, and tricep dips.
Do each exercise for 15 to 60 seconds depending on the exercise and your fitness level. Use the stopwatch on your phone or the second hand on your watch to keep time. Keep this up for no more than 30 minutes.If you know you’ll be working out in your hotel room, you can pack resistance bands or a jump rope to use., When you book a hotel, book one with a fitness center. This gives you access to a free exercise room right where you’re staying.Hotels will provide any fitness center info on their website. If you’re booking through a third-party website, it will list a fitness center under the amenities.
Most fitness centers include at least a treadmill and a few free weights. Some include elliptical machines and stationary bikes along with weight machines.
If your hotel has a pool, use the pool to swim laps and get some aerobic exercise.
 Whether you vacation in New York, Rome, or the Amazon, you will be able to get outside and get physical activity. Use a pedometer and walk around the city, sightseeing or just enjoying being in a new environment.Bring your running shoes so you can get up early and run or get a late evening run in before bed. Run on the streets around your hotel, find a nearby trail, or drive to a local park or running spot.
If you’re using a pedometer, give yourself a daily mileage or step goal. Aim for around 10,000 steps at least. Wear it all day and try to hit your activity goals.
 When possible, take the stairs. This can be in your hotel, tourist attractions, museums, stores, or anywhere else.Avoid elevators and escalators. Instead, make it a fun goal for your family to tackle the stairs each time you can.

