 If you are bleeding very little (only a few drops), the blood is brown in color, it lasts less than one or two days, and is not associated with pain or cramps, then you can usually ignore it. Most likely it is implantation bleeding or the result of stretched blood vessels.


Regardless of how light the bleeding is, you should avoid heavy work for a few days and meticulously monitor the amount of bleeding.
 Any type of profuse bleeding during pregnancy should be regarded as an emergency. Profuse bleeding roughly means any amount of bleeding more than usual menstrual bleeding. , Pain that comes and goes indicates contractions of the uterus, which means that the uterus is trying to expel the fetus. In early pregnancy, pain and cramping may be a sign of miscarriage and in third trimester it may indicate that you are going into labor.Therefore, if you experience any pain or cramping, you should contact your doctor immediately.


True labor pain is regular and occurs at intervals. It gradually increases in intensity and duration and it associated with "show" (expulsion of mucus mixed with blood).
 Dizziness or feeling faint are symptoms of massive blood loss. , Bleeding accompanied by fever usually indicates an infection, such as infection in your uterus following natural miscarriage or abortion. As a result, any signs of fever should be brought to the attention of your doctor immediately. , Passing a fleshy mass through your vagina is a serious indication of miscarriage. If this happens, you should contact your doctor immediately so he can evacuate the uterus if needed and thus control the bleeding. , Regardless of what caused vaginal bleeding (whether it was a miscarriage, an ectopic pregnancy outside the uterus, an infection, or the onset of labor), it will have caused significant stress to your body. In the great majority of cases your doctor will strongly advise rest, no strenuous exercise, often abstaining from sex for a little while, and drinking lots of water. Be sure to heed your doctor's advice for recovery in order to maximize the speed at which you recover, as well as to prevent any other complications.

