 Call them within a week after the purchase or meeting to thank them and ask how the product or service is working out so far.Doing so might also give you clues as to what they might need next.


Consider sending a handwritten thank you note for big purchases or long-term customers and/or clients. Use a nice notecard or stationary and sign it yourself.If they write a review praising your business or recommend you to a friend, send a personal message to thank them for doing so.
It's ok to leave a voicemail letting your customer know you called and wish to speak to them, but don't just say "thank you" over a message. It's impersonal at best.
If you have a large client base and cannot physically take the time to call each person, sending an email is acceptable for smaller purchases or single services. Make sure to personalize your message, though, and always send a handwritten note also for large purchases or contract agreements.
Follow up on a first purchase to be sure that the product the buyer received met their expectations. This makes them feel like you are invested in their well-being and sets up your next sale to them.Keep records of purchases and send emails to those customers who have purchased similar products or expressed an interest in a product or service when a similar product or upgrade is available.
 Easy returns and money-back guarantees are hallmarks of good customer service. Both can help make the customer feel that you, as a vendor, are interested in a long-term relationship, not just a single sale., Give out rewards cards for use at the current and each subsequent visit that can be redeemed for a free product or service after a certain number of purchases. The most successful rewards programs start off with artificial advancement, like an extra credit if you schedule your next appointment immediately, or 2 free credits for a first-time purchase.Even if the combined visits required to redeem the card costs the same for the customer, they are more likely to work towards the end goal if you give them the illusion of a head start.
This can increase repeat business up to 82%, but only if the extra credits are explained as appreciative gestures, as in for first-time customers or to a one-time purchaser you would like to return.
Loyalty rewards also make long-term customers feel important by giving them something new customers can't get. Another option to do this might be offering a bonus product after spending a certain amount., A returning customer or client will be extra impressed if you remember not only their name, but something specific about their last visit, as well.If you know that a restaurant goer prefers a table near the window, offer them one when they return instead of waiting for them to ask for it.
A client who prefers coffee to tea should be offered a coffee on their next visit, not a list of all the drinks you serve.
 Use this mass mail as an opportunity to let your customers know that you are still thinking of them and their needs. Give any news or product updates, inform them of upcoming sales or venue dates, and offer tips for getting the most out of your products or services.Make sure to let your individualism show through in this type of mass communication. You don't have to personally address each customer, of course, but make your style distinctly different from that of your competitors.
Never use automated or spammy phone calls to contact customers. This can lose you return business as quickly as a personalized call can earn it.
Include amusing anecdotes or a short personal story to turn your product notice or mass thank you into a personalized letter from a caring business owner, not just a corporate email.Take steps to maintain the security of customer or prospect information. That is, don't sell your customer list to others, and don't abuse mass emails. Send messages no more than once or twice a week and only do so if you are offering a real benefit.

