 Set the heat to medium high, and coat the surface with cooking spray.;
, Try to use a thicker toast slices; they will hold up a lot better. Many people also find that stale, day-old toast yields crisper and sturdier French toast sticks., For a richer French toast stick, use heavy cream instead. You can also use part milk and part heavy cream.You will be dipping the bread sticks into this mixture first.


If you can't have dairy, try coconut milk or almond milk.If you are vegan, use 1 cup (240 milliliters) of unsweetened almond milk and 1 tablespoon of flax meal (ground flax seeds)., You will be dipping the bread sticks into this mixture next. This will give the French toast sticks that crunchy outside.
 Turn it around so that it gets evenly coated. Let any excess egg mixture drip off before you move on.Don't dip the others in yet. You will be dipping and putting the slices one by one into the frying pan.


If you don't like to get dirty, you can spear the bread stick onto a fork instead.
 Flip and toss the stick around in the sugar mixture until all four sides are coated., Make sure that you leave a little space between each stick. If your pan or griddle is very small, you may only be able to fit 3 to 4 sticks. If you have a larger pan or griddle, you may be able to fit more.
 Cook them for another 2 to 3 minutes. You can use a spatula or a fork to flip them over.
 You can keep the bread sticks you just made on a plate. You can also put them on a baking sheet, and keep them inside a warm oven (turned to the lowest temperature) to keep them warm until you are ready to eat them.


If you are keeping the finished bread sticks in the oven, leave them there for no more than 30 minutes., Continue until you have cooked the desired number of sticks. Coat with powdered sugar if desired.
 You can serve them as they are now, or you can sprinkle some icing/confectioner's sugar over them. You can also pour some maple syrup into a small cup, and dip the sticks into the syrup before you eat them.

