 You will be baking your lemon poppy seed pound cake in a standard oven. Before you begin making the cake, turn your oven on and preheat it to 350 degrees Fahrenheit or 177 degrees Celsius., Take a small amount of butter and grease the pan. Use your fingers to spread the butter evenly over the bottom and sides of the pan until it is completely greased. Set the pan aside., Add the granulated sugar and lemon zest to a medium sized mixing bowl. Use your fingers to combine the ingredients, rubbing them together until the mixture looks similar to sand., Once you’ve combined the lemon zest and granulated sugar, add the wet ingredients to the same bowl. Using a whisk in one hand, gently whisk while adding the eggs, 3 tablespoons of the lemon juice, and the buttermilk. Whisk until just combined, or about 90 seconds., Set aside a large mixing bowl. Add the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt to the large bowl. Whisk these dry ingredients together for about 1 minute, or until completely combined., Whisk all these ingredients together for about 1 minute. Then gently whisk in the olive oil and poppy seeds. Whisk the batter for another minute., Pour the batter into the prepared pan. Bake the cake for 1 hour. You will know the cake is done when a toothpick comes out clean after you insert it in the middle of the cake., Remove the pan from the oven and let the pan cool until it is warm to the touch. Then gently turn the pan upside down on to a cooling rack. Once the cake emerges from the pan, gently flip the cake right side up., Using a whisk, mix together the remaining 4 teaspoons of lemon juice and the confectioners’ sugar. Whisk together until completely combined, which should take less than 1 minute. Be sure you whisk until any lumps are removed., Dip a pastry brush in the glaze. Then gently glaze the cake. Spread the glaze evenly over the sides and top of the cake with the pastry brush. Cool completely., Once the cake has cooled completely, slice it into 2 inch (5.1 cm) thick slices. Serve and enjoy! You can store any uneaten cake in a glass or plastic container with a lid.