 BRAT stands for Banana, Rice, Apple, and Toast. These foods are effective in treating diarrhea and making your stool firm.


The rice should be brown rice and the toast should come from whole wheat bread.
The fiber found in these foods absorbs water and makes the stool “bulkier” and solid.
Bananas and rice are also great sources of fiber.
Apples contain pectin that helps bulk up stool and treat diarrhea.
Eat something from this diet with every meal to prevent loose or watery stool.
4 to 6 servings per day of this diet will do.;
, Cheese can help solidify stool by introducing rennet, an enzyme found in cheddar cheese that regulates digestion.


¼ serving of cheese per meal will do.
Avoid processed cheese like American cheese and cheese spreads.
Do not eat cheese if you’re lactose intolerant, as this will further aggravate any stomach symptoms you are feeling.
 Foods high in fat and sugar aggravate diarrhea.


Any drink that contains high sugar, like soda, should be avoided for the mean time.
Make sure you avoid "healthy" sources of sugar like sweet fruit and juices.
A diet high in sugar stimulates acid secretion, causing irritation to the inflamed gastric and intestinal linings.
Foods high in fat are not easily digested because they are not soluble in water, making them hard for the intestines to absorb and digest.
This can cause stomach upset and exacerbate diarrhea.
Examples of foods you should avoid are: fruit juices, soda, butter, dried fruits, candies, ice cream, meat, and processed foods.
 Some foods are gastric irritants, and can inflame your digestive tract and worsen gastrointestinal problems.


These categories include: spicy foods, caffeinated foods, and dairy products.
Examples of foods you should avoid are: chili peppers, spices, coffee, tea, soda, milk, butter, and yogurt.
 Since diarrhea takes a lot of water away form your body, you should replace it right away to stay hydrated.


Fluid intake should be increased by 1L per hour for 1 to 2 hours, until symptoms resolve.
This will help you prevent dehydration.
 Eating salt crackers that are high in sodium can help replenish the sodium and electrolytes that you lost during diarrhea.


Eating small bites of salt crackers every 2 to 3 hours can help.
Having a small amount of food can also help you feel stronger by giving your body energy and calories.
 ORS, and sports drinks such as Gatorade and Powerade, contain sodium and electrolytes that your body may have lost during diarrhea.


This does not cure diarrhea, however it can help treat and prevent the dehydration caused by diarrhea.
Sports drinks contain potassium, sodium, chloride, and glucose, all of which are important nutrients to replenish when you are suffering from diarrhea.
Drinking 500ml to 1 liter (0.3 US gal) of Gatorade per day will help.
For ORS, specific instructions will be given on the back of the label.
 Dehydration must not be ignored, because it is especially dangerous for pregnant women.


3 or more loose and watery stools indicate that your diarrhea is not improving.
You should immediately notify your doctor to receive a prescription anti-diarrheal.
This will prevent you from becoming dehydrated.
Dehydration can be harmful not only to you, but also to your baby in your womb.
Additionally, if you experience any of these symptoms, you should seek immediate medical attention.

Severe diarrhea (more than 10 loose and watery stools in a 24 hour period).
Black stool or presence of blood in stool.
Fever above 37.5 degree Celsius
Extreme dryness of your mouth and eyes.
Dizziness or lightheadedness.
No urination more than 12 hours.
Lethargy and metal haze.
Passing out or fainting.



