 Always begin clipping from the less sensitive areas like the shoulders, going upwards to the neck.


Clip in long and overlapping strokes, and always go against the hair growth.
Do this one side at a time.
 Make sure your blades do not overheat, and keep them lubricated with a generous amount of mineral oil (5 to 10 drops).


If the blade gets hot, replace it with a fresh set or let it cool down first before using it again.
 You can prevent cutting these areas by wrapping the tail with bandage, and by pushing the mane with your other hand when you are clipping an area near it.


These areas can irritate the horse when clipped.
 Clip a majority of the hairs using big clippers, and then use smaller clippers on the nooks and ear edges.


Move the horse's skin or stretch it using your fingers to reach into nooks and crannies.
When you are clipping the face, be careful around the bony edges around the face and eyes.
You can cover the eyes with one hand to prevent cut hairs from falling in and irritating the eyes.
Additionally, when clipping in this area, make sure that the blades are not hot, because a hot blade can startle the horse.
For whiskers, use fine or small clippers.
 Clipping from the elbows down is a two man job, and you will need an assistant to lift the foreleg of the horse, so that you can stretch and clip the skin behind the elbows.


Clipping the hind legs, belly, and trunk, also requires an assistant to make sure that the horse is properly restrained.
These areas are ticklish and can startle horses, making them kick.
The simple halter restraint discussed earlier may be sufficient.
 After clipping, wipe the horse with a warm wet sponge, to remove cut hairs that can cause irritation.


Any hairs that are left on the horse can prick their skin and cause them to buck and struggle.
 Dust and brush off all the hairs from the clippers.


Remove the blades by unscrewing the tension screws.
Clean the blades with oil and cloth, using 5 to 10 drops of mineral oil and wiping it away with a flannel cloth.
Clean the hand set of the clipper.
Store it in a cool, dry place.

