 Before you begin your letter, know who you're addressing. Most of the time, your nanny will be using your letter of recommendation for many different jobs. Therefore, something like "Dear Sir or Madam" or "To Whom it May Concern" is usually appropriate.However, in certain situations you may be addressing someone specific.


If your nanny is applying for a specific job that requires letters of recommendation, you should address whoever's in charge of hiring. If your nanny is applying to a job through an agency, it might be a good idea to address that agency in your letter. For example, "Dear Hiring Staff of Lancaster Nannying."

, Before you write the letter, do some basic brainstorming. This will help you sort through your thoughts before trying to write the letter. Pause and consider why you would recommend your nanny.


You can start by jotting down a list of words. Write down your nanny's best attributes on a piece of paper. Challenge yourself to think of 5 or 10 words that best describe your nanny's best qualities.
Then, write down your best memories of working with your nanny. The best letters of recommendation will include anecdotes and stories that speak to your nanny's talent.
You may want to ask your nanny to e-mail you his or her resume. This can help jog your memory as it's a good idea to list your nanny's personal achievements and career success in a letter of recommendation.
 Once you've brainstormed a little, you can start writing your letter. In your introduction, you'll begin by recommending your nanny and then proceed to state the basic facts.


You'll usually start your letter with something like, "I am writing this letter to recommend Lacey Shepherd to your nanny agency." If you want to set your letter apart a little, you could give a slightly more glowing recommendation. For example, "I would highly recommend the services of the Lacey Shepherd for your agency. She has been an extraordinary asset to me as a working mother."From there, you should state the basic facts. List the dates of employment, whether your nanny was a live-in or live-out nanny, and her basic responsibilities. For example, "Lacey worked for me from March of 2014 to April of 2015. She lived in a small guest room in my basement Mondays through Fridays. She supervised my children, Charlie and Olivia, while I was at work. She was responsible for getting the kids ready for school in the morning, driving them home after school, preparing snacks and meals, and accompanying Olivia to her various extracurricular activities on the days I worked late.", One or two pages, single spaced, is usually adequate for a letter of recommendation. Any longer and an employer may get bored and stop reading. As you continue writing your letter, keep the length requirement in mind. If you're particularly enthusiastic about your nanny, you may accidentally go overboard. Try to keep things brief and to the point as you write your letter.