 You can either walk, by simply tilting the control stick left or right. Or you can run (in Jigglypuff's case, hop) by double tapping Left or Right. As well, Jigglypuff can also "float" or "fly" by Pressing up, or Y multiple times while in the air. Crouching is also a good technique to use. By holding down on the control stick, You can crouch, and avoid many attacks, that will fly over your head, because when Jigglypuff is Crouched, it becomes almost paper thin.
Using





and





Effectively - Using





and





can be very good for Jigglypuff, whether it's using it's Shield, or Doing an Air Dodge(An air Dodge is when you are in the air, and you tap the





or





to do a mid-air dodge). When you're on the ground. You can do a Ground dodge, this is where you tap the control stick in a certain direction, and press





or





(according to what direction you're going) to dodge an attack (This is also known as Rolling. Or you can do a shield grab. If you have your Shield on (Holding





or





) and a player is right beside your shield, you can press the





button to grab them from within your shield.
Z or Grab - Grabbing is very effective with Jigglypuff. Just stand by a person and press the Z button. or, you can do a "running Grab" where you run at the person and then press Z. This extends your reach by a bit.
A - The A button, though weak, can be powerful is executing a Smash attack. When pressing a Normally, Jigglypuff will do a slap, if "a" is pressed consecutively Jigglypuff will continue to attack. When you tap the control stick in a certain direction, and press a at the same time, you do a Smash attack. This attack will do a good amount of Damage, and can also be charged.;
,


Pound - When you tilt the control stick to the side and press B, Jigglypuff will do it's "Pound" where it does one punch in a certain direction. It can be used for horizontal recovery purposes, and can be tilted up or down after executing the move.
Rollout - When B is pressed alone, Jigglypuff will do it's "Rollout" attack. This attack can be charged, and can charge on for a limitless amount of time. The longer it's charged, The more damage it will do. (Up to a certain point, however.) This attack will go in 1 direction, unless you move the control stick in the other direction you want it to go. (This attack will only go left or right)
Sing - When you press B and Up, you will execute the attack, Sing. Sing is one of Jigglypuff's special attacks, but usage of it is not recommended. If you are near a player, and you use Sing, the player will almost immediately fall asleep. The move is easily punishable by air attacks, because characters cannot fall asleep midair.
Rest - When you press B and Down, you will execute the attack, Rest. Rest is Jigglypuff's strongest move, if executed perfectly. When Jigglypuff is almost right on a person, and Rest is executed, it will send the other player flying away (They will literally be almost off the screen, or farther), and will do good damage, but is only meant as a "knock out" move because Jigglypuff will sleep for 3 seconds, even with you don't hit the opponent, which gives them the opportunity to do powerful moves like Ganondorf's Warlock Punch or Captain Falcon's Falcon Punch.

