 While you may want your children to be informed about this challenging topic at an early age, if your child isn't mature enough to comprehend what is happening and why, then wait a bit. The ideal age is around 10 to 13 years old, just when your child is starting to become more self aware and more self conscious.;
, Let your child know that you'd like to have an important conversation about what eating disorders are. Your child may be confused or concerned at first but tell them that it will only take a few minutes. Start off simple by asking your child questions such as: Do they know what anorexia/bulimia is? Do they know anyone who shows signs of having an eating disorder?

, After your child answers your questions tell your child what an eating disorder is or make any corrections if needed, to ensure that your child has an accurate understanding. Tell the child in the most simplest way possible. If you start using a bunch of big words and medical terms, your child may become confused or totally detach from the conversation.
 For example, such consequences as thinning hair, slowing of the metabolism, dry skin, red patches, bad teeth, and so forth. Making your child aware of the (unpleasant) dangers that come with having an eating disorder, will help your child to understand how grave the consequences are and it will also help your child to spot the symptoms in someone else, potentially enabling them to help another person.
 While most people with an eating disorder want to be skinny, the reality is that eating disorders such as anorexia nervosa and bulimia are actually mental illnesses. They are often associated with something called body dysmorphia, whereby someone looks into the mirror and doesn't see what everyone else sees (if they're really skinny in real life, they might see a disfigured or overweight person in the mirror).
 Make it clear that you love your child unconditionally. Tell them that the scale is just a number and size isn't all that matters. Make sure your child knows that he or she is perfect in their own way and tell them that they can come talk to you about anything at anytime.

