 You can find these liquids and pastes at many sports goods stores. They are specially designed for cleaning bats. Just dip a wet paper towel into the cleaning paste or liquid before rubbing it on the bat.If the bat is relatively new, you may want to buy the liquid or paste - just to be on the safe side. Some bats can be fairly fragile with paint chips, so you will want to take all precautions while washing and handling them.
A magic eraseris another product that people use to clean bats. Just follow the instructions on the package and remember to dry it if it is a bit damp., If the bat is wooden, to give it a nice shiny finish, you can polish the bat with wood polish, such as orange glow.


The wood polish on a wooden bat is absorbed because it is softened when applied, but it still gives it a great finish. When applied to a metal bat, the oils just rest on the surface so try to limit how much you apply.
You also need to be careful when applying the polish to a wooden bat. If you polish the wood too much it could become soft and break.
 If soap and water or other chemicals are not doing the trick on their own, try rubbing alcohol.Dampen a small portion of a cloth with it and rub it on the bat. Drying is important when cleaning a bat if you want it to look brand new again.
First, lay the bat across your lap. Next, rub the wipe all over the bat. This should get the dirt off of it.
Goof Off works for anything sticky, such as Pine Tar. You might want to mix a small amount of bleach into the water. You could also soak in Windex/water solution (50/50) or try Clorox or Lysol wipes. You can buy these cleaning products in many grocery stores.
If your handle is made of leather, use shoe polisher to clean that. Once you clean the bat, make sure you dry it completely, as you don't want your bat to start rusting.
 You can apply natural products to clean your bat if you don’t want to be around harsh chemicals.


Some people apply olive oil to their bats before washing it off with water. Remove adhesive from your bat by dipping a clean cloth in olive oil and rubbing the adhesive away.
If you have too many marks on your bat, you can clean it with a scrub, warm water, and lemon juice. Or you could try using a vinegar/water solution (75/25) by spraying it all over the bat. Let it rest for about 30 seconds, and then lightly scrub it with a sponge and dry with paper towels.
If you have a wooden bat with natural wood, it's a better idea to use a fine grit sandpaper. Choose 200 grit or higher. Lightly sand down the marks from the ball. Move the sandpaper in the wood's grain direction. Avoid going over areas that are engraved.