 It is very important to not confuse support with the above point, which was enabling. Enabling means accommodating or helping the individual maintain her compulsions and rituals.This can result in more severe OCD symptoms, because you are reinforcing these compulsive behaviors.Support doesn’t mean taking on the compulsions of the sufferer, but rather talking with her about her fears and being understanding, even if you think what she is doing is strange.
 It is not uncommon for families with an OCD sufferer to accommodate them or even mimic certain behaviors, in an effort to protect and help the sufferer with his or her rituals. For example, if your friend or family member has a compulsion to separate different foods on her plate, you may begin to separate the food for them. In your mind, this will probably seem helpful and supportive, but in fact, it’s exactly the opposite. This behavior is enabling and reinforcing the compulsion. Even though the aim of your natural reaction is to share the load, the entire family or social network might start “suffering from OCD,” with everyone joining in the compulsive actions.


Aiding your loved ones with her compulsions implies that she is justified in her irrational fears and that she should continue doing what she is doing and engaging in compulsive behaviors.
No matter how difficult, you should always try to avoid enabling your loved one, as you will only increase her compulsions this way.
 Don't constantly help your family member or friend avoid the things that upset her, especially when these things are integral parts of daily life.This is another type of enabling or accommodating the compulsive behaviors.


For example, don't help her avoid dirty surfaces by never going out to eat.
 Don't do things for your loved one that allow her to engage in symptomatic behavior.An example of this could be buying your loved one the cleaning products she wants in order to obsessively clean.
 If you modify your routine in order to accommodate OCD symptoms, this can change the behavior of the entire family to accommodate basic OCD behaviors.An example could be waiting to start dinner until the individual with OCD is done with her ritual.
Another example could be going out of your way to do more chores because your loved one's OCD makes it difficult for her to complete her chores in a timely manner.
 If you have been an accomplice to your loved one's OCD and recognize this, gently withdraw from these encouraging behaviors and hold the line.Explain that you being involved is making the problem worse. Expect that your loved one may be upset by this, and deal with your own emotions surrounding her pain; stay strong!
For example, a family plan for a family that often accommodates OCD behavior by waiting to for the individual to complete her rituals before starting meals can change by no longer waiting to start meals and no longer washing your hands with the person who has OCD.
No matter what your plan of action is, be sure you are consistent.

