 If someone calls you mean, you don't cry. You destroy them. Don't let anyone see your insecurity, or weaknesses. That way, you can't be a target.;
, A group of mean girls are perfection. They'll back you up no matter what, whether they really like you or not. You need a Beta, one girl who will always take your side, but be sure that you are still above her. However understand this - things aren't the same as Mean Girls. Mean Girls was a comedy, so things were exaggerated. Nobody is going to worship you without question. Make sure these girls actually care about you - but it should be obvious that you're on top, regardless on who says it or not. You should be the person on top.
 If guys are fascinated by you, other girls will think they have to be seen in the same way, so the guys like them, too. A boy magnet has a lot of power. Make all the other girls jealous, and never let a girl from your clique date one of your ex's. Depending on your age, flirting with guys can vary. Be confident and collected while being charismatic and witty. Show the girls how it's done - and make sure you're running the game.
 Abercrombie & Fitch, Forever 21, Louis Vuitton, Chanel, Hollister...if you don't have enough money to buy these clothes, try to dress at more obscure designer-looking places. Never tell anyone where you bought an item - you don't want anyone copying your style. Know what's fashion forward and what's two years ago. You should be ahead with the fads, and so-over the present fads. The ultimate staple of being fashionable is starting a trend. That can shoot you up with major popularity points.
 You can't let anyone have an excuse to make fun of you. Buy yourself acne creams and wipes, wash your face and DON'T touch it. Know your head shape and what colors will look good on you. Don't bite your nails and try to have them painted most of the time. Have your hair shiny and neat.
 People need to grow up anyway. Make others feel insecure at all times. If a girl is wearing a hideous pair of shoes, say "Nice shoes," in a sarcastic tone and laugh with your friends. Or, if a girl is with her boyfriend, flirt with him right in front of her to make her jealous, then, smile at her and walk away.
 You should study and get good grades; you can do this without becoming a full "nerd". If you have good grades you can brag about the universities you got into in graduation!

, You may be hated instead of worshiped.

