 Ordination into a particular church requires a demonstration of your commitment to that church and actions to acknowledge the church's recognition of your commitment. All 50 states accept church ordination to perform religious ceremonies, including weddings., Many churches encourage those seeking ordination to experience a call, or a longing to work in ministry. The work of a minister can be difficult, and Biblical knowledge and spiritual preparation is necessary to succeed. Beyond teaching on Sunday mornings, a minister's duty often requires comforting those who grieve and counseling troubled individuals in a variety of circumstances., The state of Texas does not dictate requirements in ordination, but the church or denomination can. Each denomination differs as to how an individual can receive ordination as a minister. If you plan to minister within a particular organization or denomination, speak to/consult with the leadership for the distinctive guidelines dictating their qualifications of ordination, as guidelines vary.


For example, the Presbyterian church requires active church membership, coming under care (providing your religious testimony and the reasons you feel called to church work), licensure (completing a Bachelor's degree and seminary training, completing exams) a call to work at a church congregation, and ordination into the role of minister.As another example, the Baptist Church distinguishes between state licensed and church ordained ministers, and only ordained ministers can perform marriage ceremonies for a church. Each church decides how to ordain a minister but typically offer ordination following graduation from seminary., While possessing a degree in theology is not a requirement to become a minister in Texas "non-denominational" churches, the benefit of learning in a disciplined, systematic method could be a firm foundation. Advance your career by attending a seminary affiliated with your denomination or one which is independent/non-denominational. It is not necessary to attend seminary in Texas in order to receive ordination in Texas.
 Ordination in the Christian faith may be as simple as recognition by a local church leadership, usually expressed in a special church service for that purpose. But, it can also require extensive education, testing/exams, depending on a denomination in which you may obtain ordination.

