 Sure, it's not what you want to hear, but the situation isn't doomed. You haven't raised an uncouth monster; there are many avenues through which your child might have been exposed to swearing. Many would say that not all swearing is bad, but you need to help your child learn what language is appropriate in what settings. This can take some time, but they'll get there. Be firm but patient.
 Think whether you or other family members have said bad words near the child. Most people simply do not realize that in a burst of emotions they use obscene words. Control your own speech to set an example for your child., You can't control everything your child hears, but you may want to limit access to movies, TV shows, or games that use a lot of bad language regularly.

Don't try to control your child's exposure to friends who swear. Once they're in a school environment, a lot of kids will use foul language. It's fruitless to try to limit their exposure to that; your better bet is to focus on teaching them appropriate settings for certain words and appropriate alternatives to swearing.
Do not rush to change the school or kindergarten if the child admits that he or she has been taught bad words there. Children are the same everywhere. Yes, you can discuss the problem with a teacher and with other parents, but seeking to remove them from the environment every time someone around them swears isn't realistic.
 Tell your child (without shouting and threats) that swearing can be offensive or make you seem ignorant or uncultured. Emphasize that is necessary to develop vocabulary in order to express his or her thoughts properly., It's human to get angry and want to express that anger sometimes. Offer your child some alternatives that you're comfortable with. Words like "shoot" or "sugar" can come in handy, or even some "softer" swearing. You have to decide where that line is, and it likely depends on their age. For example, if you're okay with them saying "crap" instead of the worse alternatives, then suggest that. If you'd rather they stick to purely polite language, make it clear what's appropriate to you and model that language consistently.