 If you really enjoy the taste of your favorite instant ramen but want to cut the fat and MSG, you can easily doctor the way you make it to make it healthier. Begin by adding 1 ½ cups (354.88 ml) water and ½ of the package of instant ramen flavor powder to a pot. Place the pot on the stove over medium-high heat and bring the mixture to a boil., Once the broth begins to boil, add the instant ramen noodles and reduce the heat to medium. Then cook the noodles for 2 minutes, stirring occasionally, until the noodles are partially cooked., Once the ramen noodles have cooked for 2 minutes, pour the pot of noodles and broth into a colander to drain the noodles. Then wipe the residual oil out from the pot.You will only use ½ of the packet of ramen seasoning to cut the MSG and fat from the ramen. Cooking the noodles with some of the ramen seasoning infuses them with flavor, but you should drain the broth from the noodles because you will only use ½ of the flavoring to make the ramen.
 In the same pot you used to cook the ramen noodles, add 1 ¼ cups (295.73 ml) of water, the rest of the ramen powder and the ramen flakes from the packet over high heat., Crack the egg into a small bowl and beat it lightly with a fork. Once the ramen starts to boil, use a whisk to stir the broth around in a circle. Once the broth gains circular momentum, slowly pour the egg into the broth.Adding the egg into swirling water poaches the egg. The circular motion of the broth allows the egg white to envelope the yolk and start to slowly cook.
The cooked egg will still have a runny yolk when cut into, which will enrich the broth of the soup and add extra flavor and thickness.
 Once you add the egg and see it starting to cook and solidify, add in the partially cooked ramen noodles. Cook another two minutes or so until the noodles are done., After the noodles have finished cooking, add in hot chili oil, soy sauce, miso paste or your favorite flavorings to taste. Then divide the ramen between bowls, making sure each serving gets an egg, garnish with chopped green onion, and serve while hot.


Using only ½ of the ramen flavoring cuts back on fat and MSG. Add flavors as you see fit if you feel the ramen isn't flavorful enough.
Hot chili oil is a traditional addition to ramen, and adds spiciness and flavor. Soy sauce adds a darker taste to ramen that gives the soup more depth, while miso paste gives it a nuanced, slightly salty flavor.
Once you break the poached egg, the yolk will run into the broth to add flavor as well.
