 A 20-gallon tank (24” L x 12” W x 12” D) is recommended. Make sure you seal any openings where your lizard could escape from., Lizards are cold-blooded creatures that rely on outside warmth to function. The tank should be a minimum of 80 degrees Fahrenheit at one end with a basking area with a temperature of about 95 degrees Fahrenheit.Do not use heated rocks because they can cause your lizard to overheat.
 Paper towels and newspapers are inexpensive options that work well for smaller and medium sized lizards and are easy to change.
 Your lizard likes to defend itself by hiding., Lizards like warmth and sunlight, so look for sunny outdoor spots.



Setting a trap: Find an odorless box, cover it with plastic wrap and cut a slit. Place the box in a location where you have seen lizards and add live insect bait. Check the trap two or three times a day. It may take several days to catch the lizard, so make sure replace the bait as necessary.
Using a lizard fishing pole: Source a stick that is at least 3 feet long (0.9 meters) and a long piece of dental floss. Tie the dental floss to one end of the stick. Make a slip knot out of the other end with a loop large enough to fit around a lizard’s neck. Approach the lizard of your choice slowly and gently fit the loop around its neck. The best time to catch lizards is early in the day because they have not had a chance to warm up and will move more slowly., Geckos, anoles, and skinks are common types of lizards that can make good pets.
 Lizards, like any other animal, can feel pain. Some signs that your lizard is feeling uncomfortable include biting, thrashing around, clawing, and scrambling.,


Alternatively, clasp it in your hand while grasping one of its front legs between your thumb and forefinger. With this method, your lizard is likely to struggle and may bite you., Use your other hand to grasp your lizard around its sides with just enough pressure to hold it still.
 Be calm and make smooth motions., Depending on the type of lizard, a shallow container of water, a bubbler bowl (for lizards who do not drink still water), or misting the walls of the cage daily will work (for arboreal and desert lizards) as water sources., Make sure to buy insects of the appropriate size for your lizard.Start with 6 insects to see how many your pet will eat. "Leftover" food can be dangerous to your lizard while it is asleep, so it is important to not put too many insects into the tank.



Remove the flooring. If it is paper, discard the original and replace with new paper towels or newspaper. If it is gravel or carpet, wash the existing flooring and set back into the cage.
Mist the cage with cleaner. A good cleaner is a mixture that is one part alcohol and two parts water with a drop or two of dishwashing liquid. Wipe the cage dry.