 It's a good idea to burn a little incense before smoking. You can purchase incense at many supermarkets and craft stores. Choose a mild, natural scent. Light the incense about 5 minutes before you start smoking. This will get the air thick with incense odor, preemptively masking the smell of pot when you begin smoking., A vaporizer is a small, portable device that vaporizes the active ingredients of marijuana. It allows you to inhale the plant without having to light anything, reducing the amount of odor caused by smoking. Investing in a quality vaporizer can greatly minimize odor when smoking.You can purchase a vaporizer online. If you live in a state where marijuana is legal for recreational or medicinal purposes, you may be able to purchase a vaporizer at a marijuana dispensary.You can use a vaporizer anywhere in your home and the smell of marijuana will be very much diluted. Air fresheners, odor removers, and other smell-removing techniques may be unnecessary when using a vaporizers.One downside is that vaporizers often need to charge before use, so make sure to plug in your vaporizer for a bit before you want to smoke.
 A one-hitter is another portable device you use to smoke marijuana. A one-hitter is a mechanical, reusable device designed to look something like a cigarette. You fill the device with a small amount of marijuana and then smoke it like a cigarette. One-hitters, like vaporizers, produce less smell than other methods of smoking.As with a vaporizer, you can purchase a one-hitter online. If you live in a state where marijuana is legal for recreational or medicinal purposes, you may be able to buy a one-hitter at a marijuana dispensary.
 Smoking outside creates less scent because odors disperse in the air. If you're legally able to do so, smoke outside when possible. This will result in less smells becoming trapped in your home., Marijuana can be cooked into butter and then made into a variety of baked goods. If you live in a state where marijuana is legal for medicinal or recreational purposes, you can buy a wide variety of edibles at a local dispensary. Edibles virtually eliminate odor, as no smell is produced via smoking or storage. If you want to eliminate odor, consider purchasing edibles over smoking., Marijuana comes in a variety of strains. Some strains produce a less pungent odor. If you are legally able to go to a dispensary, a worker there may be able to help you select less pungent strains of marijuana. Indica strains, like Northern Lights, Granddaddy Purple, and Rockstar, produce buds with less prominent odors., A sploof is a homemade device designed to mask the smell caused by marijuana. When taking a hit, exhale the smoke into a sploof to help prevent a smell from developing. These can be made with common household items.


To make a basic spoof, wrap a dryer sheet over one end of a toilet paper roll, securing it with a rubber band. Stuff the tube halfway with toilet paper. With repeated use, the dryer sheet with turn brown with residue, so it's handy to store a couple extra dryer sheets in your stash.
Another way to make a sploof is to place 10 to 15 dryer sheets inside your paper towel roll. Put some marijuana inside the sock and stuff this inside the roll.. Use the tube as a pipe to smoke. The smell will be muffled by the sock and the dryer sheets, lessening the odor of marijuana.