 Fold a white silk scarf in any way that you like to create random pleats in the fabric. Use two rubber bands to loosely secure the pleats at either end of the scarf. If you prefer, you can twist or roll the scarf to create random pleats. The pleats help create a textured look when you apply the dye.;
, Fill a large bot or bucket with hot water. Dip your scarf into the water to thoroughly soak it, and then squeeze it to remove all of the excess water.You don’t need to use boiling water to soak the scarf. Hot water from your sink is sufficient.
 After you’ve squeezed the excess water from the scarf, twist the scarf tight to create a tight roll. Next, wrap the twisted scarf around your finger to create a faux knot.Once you’ve created a knot with scarf, you can crumple it up further with your hand.
Feel free to be creative when it comes to twisting, rolling, and knotting the scarf. You’ll achieve different patterns with the dye depending on how you knot it up.
 When your scarf is knotted, place it in a large plastic zipper bag. Add a ½ teaspoon (1 ½ g) of powdered acid dye in your chosen shade to the bag, sprinkling it over wet fabric.Powdered acid dye is used to dye silk, wool, other protein fibers, and nylon, and is available in a wide range of colors. You can find it at most crafting supply stores.
If you’re dyeing an extremely large silk scarf, you may need to add a little more of the dye. When you sprinkle it over the scarf, most of the fabric should be covered.
 Once the acid dye is sprinkled over the scarf, spoon 1 tablespoon (18 g) of citric acid over the wet silk. Distribute it as evenly as you can over the scarf.You can find citric acid in the canning section of most grocery stores. It’s also available from online retailers.
 After you’ve sprinkled the dye and citric acid over the scarf, add enough water to the bag to saturate the scarf. Start with ½ cup (118 g), and add more if the scarf isn’t totally soaked. Seal the bag and squeeze and massage the scarf with the water, dye, and citric acid to help the powders dissolve and penetrate the silk., When you’ve massaged the water, dye, and citric acid into the scarf, open the bag slightly so there is a 2-inch (5-cm) gap at one end. Place it in the microwave, and heat it on high for about 2 minutes. The bag will swell as it heats so you may need to stop the microwave and allow it to deflate before heating it again.You can tell that the scarf is done heating when the water in the bag begins to turn clear. If it isn’t clear after 2 minutes, continue heating it in 2 minute intervals.
 When the scarf is finished heating, open the bag and allow it to cool for about 5 minutes. Place it in the sink, and rinse it with cool water before removing the rubber bands. Continue rinsing the scarf until the water run clear., After you’ve rinsed the scarf, handwash it with lukewarm water and a synthrapol fabric detergent. Rinse the detergent from the scarf with cool water until the water runs clear.If you like, you can treat the scarf with liquid fabric softener if it feels a little stiff.
 When you’re finished rinsing the scarf, lay it out flat to air dry. Once it’s completely dry, use an iron on the silk setting to smooth out any wrinkles so the scarf is ready to wear.