 An atheist is simply someone who does not believe in a god (or gods). This position is sometimes called weak atheism, because it consists of no beliefs in and of itself. Some atheists go further and believe that no gods exist. This position is known as strong atheism, as it includes the active belief that there are no gods. Your parents might not know the meanings of these terms, so be careful to clearly define what your position is. For example, in common usage, some people will refer to weak atheism as agnosticism, even though these two terms have different meanings.;
, While theism and atheism deal with belief, agnosticism deals with knowledge. An agnostic is someone who holds the view that the existence of god (or gods) is unknown. Weak agnosticism is the view that the existence or non-existence of gods is not known at this time, but might be known in the future. Strong agnosticism is the view that the existence or non-existence of gods is something that is inherently unknowable. Agnosticism and atheism are not mutually exclusive. An agnostic atheist might recognize that they do not know for certain whether or not gods exist while lacking a belief in gods, or even while maintaining the belief that there are no gods. Similarly, agnosticism is not mutually exclusive with theism. An agnostic theist might recognize that they do not know whether or not gods exist, but still maintain a belief in a god or gods.
 A coexist is someone who believes that no matter what religious belief you have, you can come together and study your scriptures, compare notes and exchange world-views without starting the Crusades part II! You know that we're more evolved than that, so we should be able to discuss what we believe, notice differences, and come away from it unscathed. Again, it's not exclusive to any religion at all. Anyone with any belief can come together and figure out what they believe. It's like a debate club for religion. We go in, we compare, and we may argue a little, but you'll come out smiling and shaking hands.
 If you have been brought up in a religious home then revealing a lack of faith can be difficult. "agnostic" or "atheist" or even "coexist" can be a dirty word, because they don't know what it means to you. You can say three words that make total sense to you: "agnostic christian coexist", and all they'll do is sit and stare at you with a blank stare. You could practice with a friend who has similar beliefs and had to go through something similar before going in to fight for what you believe in. A lot of your family life might be based around the traditions of the faith. Ask yourself to what extent you wish to withdraw from the festivals that punctuate our lives. If you wish to continue practicing the traditions in your home, be sure that your parents know that your beliefs will not separate you from these family activities. If you are unsure of how your parents will react, try testing the waters first. Discuss with them a topic that is not directly related to religion but influenced by it, such as abortion, same-sex marriage, or other religiously charged political issues. That might give you more of an idea of how they would react to outright atheism. If you feel that admission of atheism would put you in danger, don't tell them. Remember that you'll have to live with them only until you are able to move out on your own. In extreme cases, it may be better to just fake religious belief until you are more independent.
 There are many atheist groups both locally and online. Some of them have gone through similar experiences and may have good advice on how to proceed. They may also give you moral support or assistance when needed. At the minimum, they will offer safe venue for expressing your atheism. If you cannot find an atheist group, you may confide in a trusted friend. It is easier when you don't have to go it alone.
 If you feel that you are ready to tell your parents then do so when they have the time to listen to you and there are no other distractions. Make it clear that you love them and appreciate what they have done for you, and that you are in no way rejecting them. They might find what you are about to say difficult, so be sure to respect their opinions and beliefs, while taking care not to be easily offended. Make it clear that taking part in acts of worship would be hypocritical and that you wish to bow out of them. It might also help to say that you still wish to play a full part in family life.
 Make it clear that you have come to your decision after much thought, and are no longer soul-searching. Let your parents know that you have reasons for thinking what you do, but do not argue with them, and under no circumstances should you raise your voice. If you feel that you have not been heard, respectfully end the conversation. Give your parents time to digest what you have told them. Remember, the purpose of the conversation is to let your parents know what you have decided, not to debate. There will be plenty of time to enter into discussions later, once everyone has had time to settle their thoughts.

