 It is important to research your transfer(s). Prior to beginning this process you should learn the following: Does a transfer pathway already exist for these credits? Many institutions have designated transfer pathways between specific programs. For example: if you're using a Police Foundations diploma as leverage to complete your Criminology degree, many universities have likely already created a seamless transfer pathway for students completing this traditional transfer.
 This will be critical. Some institutions are more likely to accept transfer credits than others, same goes with individual programs. Do your research - it can save you (more) time and money.
 Each program generally publicizes the required courses. If this is not publicly available, contact their faculty and request a copy of the requirements. Faculty's contact information should be included on the website.
 This is a critical step in the process. It is important you compare your completed credits to those required in the program you're applying to. Determine if you're able to transfer any 'core credits' or if you're simply transferring credits that will be applied as electives or general education credits., Once you've determined where and which credits you're planning to transfer, you will require the documents that prove your educational experience. You will require an 'official' transcript as part of the evaluation process. You will have to request this document from your previous institution, whether over the phone, online or in-person. Typically the Registrars or Admissions office will be responsible for this information.


It would be wise to ask for two copies, one for you and one for the institution you are transferring into. In order for the document to be official it must be sealed, only open one copy (this is why asking for two is wise). It should be noted that some schools will charge a fee for processing the transcript while others will do it at no charge.
 Course outlines (also known as a course syllabus) are the contract between a professor and their students. They detail the learning outcomes for any student who successfully completes their course. These outlines are the specific details that will be used to evaluate your actual credits. Focus on retrieving outlines for the courses you believe will transfer, but if possible provide the advisor with ALL your course outlines - you never know which credits will surprisingly transfer over, even if as electives.
 Find out who is responsible for transfer credit evaluations. Typically, you will work with an academic advisor who initiates the process on your behalf but senior faculty members are usually involved in the process as well., This is your moment, this meeting will officially begin the process of transferring credits from one institution to another. Prior to the meeting, ask what you should bring with you (remember this set of instructions is general and each school may require additional items, or less items), This process will vary depending on the amount of transfer credits and which institution is processing the request. It can range anywhere from immediately to weeks. If you are going through this process during peak season (typically July - September) you will likely experience a longer wait time.
 It is important to establish this during your meeting. Institutions have different processes for transfer credits., Find out how your credits transfer. Some schools will block enroll you into a schedule, in this case it will be your responsibility to drop the individual courses which you've already received credit for. Other schools require you to create your own schedule, you should be equally as careful to not duplicate any courses that are unnecessary., This may help a future student transfer their credits more seamlessly, or even create a new pathway., Your work load just got a bit lighter!

