 Your doctor can help you find the best way to manage your herpes. Knowing how to manage your outbreaks will give you a sense of control. You should talk to your doctor about any concerns you have and how herpes may affect your life., Studies have shown a relationship between increased stress levels and a greater number of outbreaks. This can create a vicious cycle because a herpes outbreak can be very stressful.Deep breathing, yoga, meditation, and walking outside are good ways to reduce stress. You should find an activity that you enjoy to help you relieve. You should practice stress management regularly and try to incorporate it into your daily life.Getting enough sleep is also important for keeping your stress levels down.
 Although there is no cure for herpes, there are medications that can help you manage. Medications can help your sores heal faster, reduce the intensity and frequency of your outbreaks, and minimize the chance of you passing herpes to someone else.The most common medications for herpes are Acyclovir (Zovirax), Famciclovir (Famvir), and Valacyclovir (Valtrex).


Your doctor will let you know how often you should take your medication. Some people only take medication when they are experiencing symptoms while others take medication everyday., It is important that you let your current sex partner or any future sex partners that you have herpes. This can be a very hard conversation. You should have this conversation in private and before things get hot and heavy.You can start the conversation by saying, "I would like to talk to you about something. I found out that I was diagnosed with the herpes virus. It is very common, but I would like to talk to you about ways we can have safe sex..."In addition, your new partner should be tested for the virus — before you have sex. It is very possible your partner has it too, but doesn't know.
Some people may have a negative reaction when you tell them that you have herpes. Try not to become defensive and let the other person calm down and work through what you have told them.They may be willing to deal with it and they may not. Know that you will be okay either way.
Being honest about having herpes can help build trust in a relationship.