 Having gone through at least one year of school, most high school upper class members should have a general idea of what they'll need on a day-to-day basis. If there's something that's only needed for a short period of time, the teacher should be able to tell the students to purchase it a few days before.;
, Some supermarkets may have a listing of what is needed for your school. Find out if your school even participates in such a program.
 It is sometimes included at the time the student's schedule comes. Sometimes, much like any other year, this list will be supplied to the student.
 Talk to the staff at the main office of the high school to see if the student will be receiving a list, or how they should go about finding out this information.
 Purchase at least a pack of highlighters at first, along with a pack of colored pencils. Leave your crayons you once used at school behind for the colored pencils.
 Scientific calculators are geared at high schoolers in their freshman year and are a go-between the standard and graphing route that most freshman high school textbooks(Math and Science) are based on. Due to the dual usefulness of it's many functions, a scientific calculator is something you should keep with you to every Math and Science class period along with a variety of other Business classes(such as Accounting and Business/Practical Math) as well.
 With all the Food and Industry core (formerly called Home Economics), Technology, Business, Theatre, Music, and Art classes taught at most schools, you'll need to see what things you might need on a daily basis (without causing a distraction) by taking the simple to class on Day 1 and purchase the additional items over the days following(up to the following weekend).
 Use 3-ring notebooks to store your pages of homework and notes along with or composition books with perforated pages for written work.
 You might not need it routinely in school, but you'll occasionally need it at home for math with compass constructions and such. You may still need a protractor from time to time (especially in a mechanical drawing/drafting or math class), and it's good to keep one on hand.
 These durable rulers (some Math teachers don't like these short form most elementary and middle school teachers call these utensils) are useful and don't put drag on the students. The corkboard back makes them lightweight, and yet the stainless steel won't allow these straightedges to bend as much and break) when compared with their predecessors that tend to break more-often.

