 Our brains are hardwired for survival. Part of that survival means protecting our emotions. As a result, we become addicted to negative emotional responses (anger, blaming, irritation). But the truth is, every little discomfort is not a threat to our survival. When you begin to recognize anger, you can begin to break the negative pattern.Notice the feelings in your body when you become agitated. It usually begins with a tightness in the stomach.
Next comes the blaming. You may find yourself saying, “How could they…” or “I can’t believe they would do this to me.”
When you feel this or hear these thoughts, stop and remember that this is survival tactic. Do you feel like you need to be angry right now in order to “survive”? If not, then you can break the habit.
 Perhaps the most ancient and sure-fire way to stay calm and help diffuse a moment of conflict is to simply stop and breathe. If someone makes you angry or defensive, do not immediately respond. Instead, stop, breathe, and count to ten (inhale on one, exhale on two, and so on). Just five breaths is usually enough for you to get your bearings and respond from a relaxed place, instead of firing off an angry or defensive retort., Scan your body for places that are tight. If you are in the midst of a heated discussion, aim to release tension stored in your body. By doing so, you improve your circulation, make it easier to think clearly, and increase your ability to stay calm.Quickly scan your body. Is there anywhere that you are holding tension?
Common locations for stored tension include the jaw, shoulders, and abdomen.
Take a deep breath in, and when you exhale, focus on releasing the tension from one area of the body.
Then repeat, releasing the tension from another spot.
 Sometimes letting an exclamation slip out can act as a kind of release valve. Rather than preventing yourself from cursing, the important thing is to view this outburst as a “red flag,” or a sign that you’ve reached a critical level of frustration. Whenever you become upset enough to curse, immediately stop and relax.Try the “stop and breathe” technique.
Perform a body scan and release tension.
Walk a way for a moment to compose yourself.
 Very often, we lose our cool dealing with people in a consumer capacity. We may become angry at the customer service representative, or the waitress, or the manager of a grocery store. In these situations, it is easy to focus solely on what it is you want, and fail to see the humanity in the person you are dealing with. In these moments, remind yourself that you are talking to a person with a family and a life, who is probably just doing his job.Remind yourself that the person you are dealing with has parents, and possibly children of his own.
Remind yourself that the person you are dealing with has his own daily struggles.
Remind yourself that this person eat breakfast, pays bills, and hugs his loved ones, just like you.
 When faced with a moment of intense stress or conflict, stop and imagine an asteroid is hurtling toward Earth. If this were your last hour on the planet, would winning this argument be important at all? The truth is, none of us know how much longer we have to be alive. Calling this to mind can enable you to be relaxed, let minor things go, and be your most positive self.