 Laughing is good for you. It can help you make friends and it can help you feel less stressed. In fact, laughter can help relieve the tension in your muscles from stress, making you feel more relaxed.

Laughing may even keep you from getting sick as much because it boosts your immune system.One way laughter helps you feel less anxious is it floods your brain with serotonin, a hormone that makes you feel good., While some things make most people laugh, you'll find things that you think are funny that other people don't. Learn what you think is funny by reading books that are labelled "humor," watching funny cat videos, or asking your friends and family for jokes. As you go along, you'll figure out what you think is funny. Once you do, make sure to include it as a part of your life every day so that you laugh every day.
 You are going to make mistakes from time to time. Everybody does. The difference is how you learn to respond. If you get angry at yourself, you're just going to make the situation tense. However, if you can learn to laugh at yourself when you've done something silly, it helps to ease the tension in the room and make you less stressed, too.

For instance, if you add sugar to your dinner instead of salt, you could get angry and throw your plate. That will get your family upset at you. However, if you laugh at the silly mistake instead, everyone else will probably giggle, too. The mistake you made is not such a big one, in the scheme of things.
 Once you start seeing what you find funny, it's fun to tell a joke yourself. You can use one someone else told you, or you can make up one yourself.To tell one, you can introduce it if you want by saying, "Hey, I've got a joke for you." When the other person says, "okay," go ahead and tell it.
 Everyone needs to play, even adults, though they may not always remember it. Even if you feel like you're too old for play, you still need time to let your imagination run wild. You can call it something else if it makes you feel better.

For instance, you can try doodling or messing around in the garden. Kick a ball around, or enjoy a board game with a friend. You can play with your stuffed animals and dolls, even if you have to dig them out of the back of your closet.

