 Colds are usually accompanied by aches and pains. You can take acetaminophen (Tylenol) or NSAIDs (Aleve, Advil) to help relieve pains.Aspirin should not be given to children and teenagers under 19 due to the risk of Reye's Syndrome.;
, You can try OTC cold medications, but there is very little actual evidence that they work much better than rest, fluids, and nutrition. The OTC medications can help with symptoms, however.


Read the labels of all medicines and talk to your pharmacist about possible interactions. Some medications (such as Claritin-D and Benadryl Allergy/Cold) contain multiple ingredients. So if you take Benadryl Allergy/Cold (which contains acetaminophen, diphenhydramine, phenylephrine) and also take Tylenol (acetaminophen), you may inadvertently overdose.
Decongestants can help clear a stuffy nose and can be used as pills or as nasal sprays. Don’t use these for longer than three days.Try pseudoephedrine (Sudafed) or oxymetazoline (Afrin nasal spray).
Antihistamines can be used for coughs due to allergies. Antihistamines containing diphenhydramine can make you sleepy . Antihistamines, like loratadine (Claritin, Claritin RediTabs, Alavert), do not usually make you sleepy.
Expectorants are cough medicines for wet, mucus productive coughs because they help bring up mucus.Cough suppressants reduce coughing.
 Topical ointments containing camphor and menthol, such as Vick’s VapoRub and Mentholatum, have been traditionally used for coughs and sinus congestion. Just rub a small amount onto your chest and around your nose., If you are not seeing a physician and these treatments don’t give you any relief within five to seven days, make an appointment to see a physician. You may be dealing with a more complicated situation. If you experience certain symptoms, call your physician for an appointment. These symptoms include:Coughing up thick and/or a greenish-yellow phlegm
Wheezing, or there is a whistling sound at the beginning or end of the breath
Odd sounding coughs and having difficulty with breathing at the end of a cough
Experiencing a fever (over 102°F or 38.9°C in infants three to six months; 103°F or 39.4°C in children and adults)
Experiencing any shortness of breath

