 It’s essential to understand how you will be evaluated on your report because each instructor has a different set of standards for grading. An instructor may:

Add/subtract/merge certain structural elements of a report.
Focus on one part of a report more than another.
Require reports to be typed out. For typed reports focus on REVIEWING and EDITING.
Require reports to be handwritten in a research notebook.




  Written Lab Report Preview

;
, You are more likely to execute the experiment successfully and save time during lab by obtaining a clear understanding of the experiment before entering lab. To do this:

READ the lab manual for the experiment ahead of time.




 Lab Manual Example



, Items that maybe required:

Lab Manual
Lab Research Notebook
Notebook (For Notes)




 Research Notebook






 Notebook (For Recording Notes During Experiment)



, Sometimes your instructor may deviate from the original experiment., This is vital to constructing an effective lab report.

ACCURATELY and DESCRIPTIVELY record ALL of your results and observations.
Even if your experiment didn't go according to plan RECORD your observations and results. In addition RECORD where you think you made a mistake.




 Record Your Observations & Results



, The structural components of microbiology lab report typically contains:

Purpose
Introduction
Materials
Methods
Results
Observations
Discussion
References

,
The purpose can be to practice or learn a new technique, test, or characteristic of a microorganism.
 This information can be found in the lab manual or related microbiology textbook.







State all TECHNIQUES or TESTS used. Include an explanation of any new technique or test that was used.







State a HYPOTHESIS. This is an educated guess about the outcome that you expect to reach by conducting the experiment.

If you have an unknown microorganism RECORD the number, letter, or identifying characteristic of the microorganism.







Example: If agar was used list the type, if a KNOWN microorganism was used list the name, or if a test tube was used list the size.

If the procedure for the experiment is found in your lab manual SUMMARIZE the steps in this section.
If your instructor deviated from the original experiment make ADJUSTMENTS as needed.







An instructor may require you to do this in a paragraph or a list form.

Include drawings (if beneficial).







Include charts and tables (if beneficial).
 Focus on trends, differences, and unique characteristics that you notice.
Be CONCISE!! This IS NOT where you elaborate/explain your results.







This section is frequently combined with the results section for consistency.
 Interpret the results and determine if this data is consistent with the experiment. Does it make sense? Why does it make sense?







State if you have FULFILLED the purpose of the experiment. State if your results SUPPORT your hypothesis.







If your results DON'T SUPPORT your hypothesis, why don’t they? Was there any error during the experiment? Did you miss a step? Did you use proper techniques? Was your results accurate?







This is usually the MOST IMPORTANT section of the lab report.
