 A giant redwood has unique leaves and cones. In particular, its small cones are an excellent way to identify a Giant Redwood.The leaves of a Giant Redwood are broad and long. This allows them to breathe in air the most easily. The leaves look very much like needles, but are not as sharp as other evergreen trees.
Be careful not to confuse the leaves of a Japanese cedar with that of a Giant Redwood. Though their leaves are similar, the cedar has a more tangled appearance in its leaf structure than the Giant Redwood.Cones of a giant redwood are relatively small, especially considering its rather large size. Often, they will fit in the palm of your hand and are about the size of a golf ball.
 Dawn Redwoods can occasionally have different color leaves, especially during the fall and winter. Its cones are also rather small and usually only common in places with warmer summers.


The leaves of a Dawn Redwood are flattened and relatively fine. They are generally symmetrical and have opposing needle-like structures.
These leaves also change color in the fall and winter. In contrast, the leaves for other species of redwood are evergreen. Dawn Redwood leaves will be an orange and yellow color when they are changing.The Larch or Swamp Cypress can often be confused for the Dawn Redwood. However, Dawn Redwood have each leaf connected to the same spot of the stem, whereas these other trees have leaves with alternate arrangement.Cones of a Dawn Redwood are spiky and produce 16-28 scales in four rows. These tree can also have male and female cones. Since cones are generally female, the male cones look more like green pearls.A Dawn Redwood is a deciduous tree, which means its leaves do change color. It is the only redwood species whose leaves do so.
 Since the Coast Redwoods are so tall, they grow two different type of needles. While you can spot the highest type on the ground, you’ll most likely be able to examine only the lower needles. Additionally, their small cones form a unique spiral pattern that’s easy to identify.The highest leaves of a Coast Redwood have tight spikes. These spikes help them to conserve water, since there's not a lot of surface to allow for evaporation.
Lower leaves of a Coast Redwood have mostly flat needles. These leaves are arranged in a similar pattern of leaf connection as the Dawn Redwood, where the leaves connect to the same spot of the stem.
Cones from a Coast Redwood come out in the fall and are about one inch long. The scales have a spiral pattern around the cone.