 Why do you want it? Will you just end up sending it back? Do you take the concept seriously? Are you going to take care of it? Ask yourself some of these questions first.;
, It can be anything, from fish to koalas to dragons to unicorns to unisquatches to Phoenix-Kitsune hybrids (a kitsune is a mythical creature that's a fox with more than one tail). You could even have a chameleon hedgehog! It's your pet, you can choose,

, Is it a boy or a girl?

, Will it be a baby? An adult? Somewhere in between?

, The options are limitless. People have adopted invisible magenta koalas and lime-green sharks. Remember that if you believe hard enough, you will be able to see your invisible pet, while the rest of the world can't (unless they believe in it too - entirely possible situation). What's your favorite color? Maybe the pet could be that.
 There are a few ways to do so. You could find them or rescue them, but these pets are not always in the best of shape, so these invisible pets are best left to invisible pet rescues. You could also call an invisible pet shelter. One of the worldwide numbers is (123)-555-6645. Kids, this number is "fake". It won't work if you actually call it, but it will if you pretend call it. Another option is to go here and have them teleport one to you, or adopt one from a friend who is a breeder. You can also try making them appear in front of you. It's your choice!


Remember, you might not get the exact one you want because they might not have any open for adoption, but you bound to find something close. If you don't, maybe the pet will change over time to the pet you want.
 The name can be anything, but try not to name it mean things. Have you planned a name? You could use that. Remember, you must like the name, because you might not be able to change it.
 It will be hungry. Whatever the visible pet would eat is what it should eat, but the food must be invisible.
 Remember not to make a real call. You could also buy them at an invisible pet supply store (they don't have invisible pets though, just supplies. They're in every town; usually you can find smaller ones in all backyards or front yards.
 Don't take it out of it's carrying case quite yet.Your new invisible pet will be pretty shaken up; they've been transported to a new place. Comfort your new invisible pet. Some pets use mind communication, talking to you inside your mind. Don't block it out, let it explore your mind. You could play some music, depending on the pet.


Don't touch it yet.
 Let it out of it's carrying case, don't touch it yet, unless it's doing something bad or dangerous. Once it has explored it's new home, you can touch it, if it will let you. Let it make first contact.
 Your invisible pet eats the invisible version of whatever the visible version of your pet eats. If the real version is "made up", you can choose.
 Some examples are:


Chocolate (at least not a lot)
Sodas (once again, if you spill a few drops and they lick it up it's OK, and a tiny cup on occasions like it's birthday are often fine too)
Raw meat (unless that's what the visible version eats)
Poison (unless it's a Poison Eater, but those are extremely rare)
Extremely salty or extremely sugary foods
Candy

, Unless you want your pet to eat off your floor (which is not recommended, they could get an infection), find something to put the food on.
 If you are not comfortable feeding your invisible pet processed food, make your own! To most invisible pets, this is much more tasty, plus you know the ingredients.
 It will help to bathe them occasionally.
 They could also become depressed, and if it becomes severe enough, they could enter their dormant stage.
 It's nice to feed them more often though. Luckily, if they are forgotten, they won't die, no matter how sick they become, they'll only enter a dormant stage, where they won't be respondent until they are taken care of.
 If they are water dwellers, then that's covered. If not, this is the basic rate of water need for them to not go into dormancy.
 If there is no way to help the pet recover and become healthy again, the pet will most likely recover by itself.
 Even if you are the only one who can see them, they're part of the family now. Don't neglect it.
 Make sure you're ready for another one. Make sure your old pet isn't a natural predator of your new pet (or vice versa). If you get a pet that is the same species as your old one, but is the opposite gender, either spay or neuter them so they won't have babies, or be ready in case there are going to be babies.
 That will prevent fights for now.
 Put their cases so that they can see each other. Get them close enough so they can smell each other or talk via mind contact.
 If it tries to violently attack the other, put it back and repeat the acclimation process, then try again.
 if they're still ok, then you are done.
 Meet the demand for invisible pets by breeding them, you can even try to establish a hybrid as a whole species!