 Justin's super-fans are called Beliebers and anyone who says that they're a fan won't be taken seriously by the Belieber community. There is a big difference between fans and Beliebers, and you don't want to be a fan. You're going to want to be a Belieber.;
, This is a very important part of being a Belieber. Every true Belieber knows the lyrics to all of his songs. Start with the older songs from his albums My World and My World 2.0 where you'll be able to find some of his classic songs such as One Time (My World) and Baby (My World 2.0)

, Of course, if you have some, that's a great bonus. Some Beliebers aren't able to afford the merchandise, so home-made things can also be really cool. If you ever go to a concert of Justin's, you'll notice a lot of the tee-shirts that the Beliebers wear are home-made.
 Every true Belieber knows the basics. We all know his birthday (March 1st, 1994 at 12:56 pm on a Tuesday in London, Ontario, Canada in St. Joseph's Hospital on the 2nd floor), his favorite color (purple), the names of the people in his crew, his half brother (Jaxon) and his sister (Jazzy), and stuff like that. Do some research and find out some of these things.
 Make sure everyone in your school knows you're a Belieber. You will be teased by haters, but every true Belieber is willing to put up with it. Make sure you have his pictures and name on your school binders.
 Twitter is the best way for Beliebers to connect with Justin and other Beliebers. Having a fan account on Twitter is important. Tweet on this account a lot, and try to get Justin to notice you when he's online. Also, help trend topics for Justin whenever you can by tweeting them. Until you have a lot of followers, you won't be able to start them, but you will be able to help trend ideas that come from bigger fan accounts.
 Don't just be there for Justin, and say rude things about Kenny (his bodyguard), Ryan Good (his "swagger coach"), Scooter (his manager), etc. Those people are important to him, and any true Belieber wouldn't dis-respect them.
 When people come over to your house to have sleep overs, or play dates, they will see that you are a Justin Bieber fan and maybe spread it around to your friends and, you might be known as the #1 Belieber at you school. That would be awesome! You're good to go! Just follow these simple steps, and stay true. There isn't anything worse than a fake Belieber (what Beliebers call fans). If you become a Belieber, there is no leaving the family.
 Sometimes like a different species, so you have to be proud, because being a Belieber says that you are good-hearted. If you only care about Justin's looks you don't deserve to call yourself a Belieber..

