 Many babies are born without complications during a C-section; however, there are risks that should be considered. These include:An injury during surgery. This does not happen often, but it is possible that the baby could be injured by the surgical instruments as the doctor cuts through the uterus. Ask your doctor if this is likely to be a significant risk for your baby. Minor cuts occur in about 2% of C-sections.
Transient tachypnea. This occurs when the baby’s breathing rate is too fast for the first several days of life. It is more likely after a C-section. If your baby may be having trouble breathing, call emergency responders immediately.
Respiratory distress. Babies born by C-section before 39 weeks old are more likely to have lungs that are not yet fully mature. This puts them at a higher risk for breathing problems.
 Women who undergo a C-section have a longer recovery after birth than women who give birth vaginally. You are also at a higher risk of complications, including:Excessive bleeding. Women who undergo C-sections often lose more blood than women undergoing vaginal deliveries.
An injury during the surgery. Occasionally the bladder or another nearby organ may be nicked when the doctor cuts through the abdominal wall. If this occurs the doctor may need to do additional surgery to repair the injury. If you have had prior C-sections, ask your doctor about these risks. They increase as the number of C-sections you’ve had increase.
A bad reaction to the anesthesia. Tell your doctor if you have previously had any problems with anesthesia. In addition, if you experience bad headaches when you sit up or stand after the delivery, tell your doctor. This may be a reaction to the anesthesia.
Blood clots. You are at a higher risk for blood clots in your legs or pelvic organs after a C-section than after a vaginal birth. Ask your doctor what they recommend for preventing this. Your doctor may also recommend that you walk as soon as possible after the birth to help prevent clotting.
An infection. The most common areas for infections are the incision or in the uterus. Monitor your incision for signs of infection such as swelling, redness, increasing pain, and discharge coming from the wound. Go to the emergency room if you have signs of a uterine infection, such as a fever, pain in your uterus, or a bad smelling discharge coming from your vagina.
 Some people request a C-section because they want to be able to choose a date that is convenient. This is not recommended, both for your health and for the health of your baby. In addition, if you plan to have more children, you would have a higher risk of complications during future pregnancies. This may include:Problems with the placenta
Risk of the scar rupturing during a future vaginal birth

