 If you and a Snapchat friend both use Bitmoji, Snapchat will automatically create “Friendmoji,” which are cartoon images starring both of your avatars.If you already have the Bitmoji app (a green icon with a white winking chat bubble), you can skip this step.

iPhone/iPad: Open the App Store (blue icon with a white “A” in a circle) and search for “bitmoji.” Tap Bitmoji – Your Personal Emoji when it appears in the search results. Tap GET, then INSTALL to download the app.
Android: Open the Play Store (a white briefcase icon with a multicolored flag) and search for “bitmoji.” Tap Bitmoji – Your Personal Emoji when it appears in the search results. Tap INSTALL to download the app.;
, It’s the green icon with a white winking chat bubble on the home screen or in the app drawer.,

If you’re new to Bitmoji, tap Log in with Snapchat. If you’re not signed into Snapchat, you’ll have to enter your username and password.
If you already have a Bitmoji account that isn’t associated with Snapchat, tap Log In and then sign in with your username and password. Then, open Snapchat (the yellow icon with a white Ghost) and tap the ghost icon at the top-left corner of the screen to open your profile. Tap the gear icon, then tap Link Bitmoji., If you already have an avatar, skip to the next step. Otherwise, follow the on-screen prompts to personalize your cartoon avatar.

Start by selecting a gender (Male or Female).
Choose a Bitmoji or Bitstrips-style avatar. Bitmoji avatars are more cartoonish and less detailed. Bitstrips-style is more detailed and less cartoonlike.
Tap your desired face shape, then tap the right-pointing arrow at the top-right corner of the options to move to the next step. Continue selecting features and then tapping the arrow until you see “Save & Pick Outfit.”
Tap Save & Pick Outfit, then tap the outfit of your choice. When you’re satisfied, tap the checkmark at the top-right corner of the screen to save your avatar.
 It’s the yellow icon with a white ghost on your home screen (or in the app drawer, if you’re using Android).

Your friend must also link their Bitmoji with Snapchat for Friendmoji to work.
If you’re new to Snapchat, see How to Use Snapchat.
 It’s at the bottom-left corner of the screen. You can also get to the Chat screen by swiping right on the camera.,, It’s the smiley face at the bottom-right corner of the chat.,, Now both you and your friend will see the Friendmoji.