 Upgrade whenever there is a new version of your script available. Be sure to do it as soon as the upgrade is released, regardless if the upgrade contains new features of not. Even simple point upgrades will fix bugs in the script.;
, Stay away from words that describe yourself or anything else that is easy to guess. The strongest passwords utilize numbers, letters and special characters. Make sure your passwords have both lowercase and capital letters, and are at least 10 characters long. You can use applications like KeePass and Lastpass to help you generate a strong password.
 Make sure that the admin email address that you use to login to your secure website is secure. This email address should be completely different from any addresses listed on your site's contact page. Keeping this email private will help prevent scammers from sending you phishing emails disguised as email from your host company.
 If your website uses a blog or forum script, you can change the default database table prefix. For example, a WordPress blog carries the table prefix "wp." If you change your table prefix, hackers will have a harder time getting data from your website.
 In most cases it is not required to assign a password, but having one can act as added security. Having a database password will not slow down the website at all.
 Once you have completed the installation, it is not necessary to have the installer folder on your computer. It is possible for a hacker to remotely get into your computer and run the installer again. Once they get in, they can empty your database and control your website and content. Another option is to rename the installation folder rather than delete it.
 Plugins can boost the core functionality of your website's script. Look to add plugins that will add extra security and install them. Download the plugin and follow the directional prompts to install.
 By following the leading blogs on technology, you can stay up to date on the last bugs and viruses that are on the Internet. Keeping current on this information will help you stay 1 step ahead and protect your site from threats.

