 Taking the pulse is a way to measure the heart rate and check circulation. Usually, the pulse is measured using the arteries, the blood vessels carrying blood away from the heart. It is felt when the heart pushes blood through the arteries, causing them to expand.Taking the pulse will be easier when your dog is comfortable and still.


Position your dog so it’s either standing still or lying on its right side on the floor.;
, The inner thigh contains the femoral artery, one of the major arteries in a dog’s body. The femoral artery is one of the main places to feel the pulse.With your dog still and comfortable, place the tips of your index and middle fingers high up on your dog’s inner thigh.


Because your thumb has its own pulse, do not use it to take your dog’s pulse.
It may be easier to find the femoral artery if your dog is lying down. You may need to move your fingers around on the inner thigh until you feel the pulse.
Use gentle pressure with your fingertips. If you press down too hard, you may block blood flow and not feel the pulse.
If you cannot feel the artery, place your fingertips directly over your dog’s heart. With your dog on its right side, place your fingertips under its left arm, near the armpit., Heart rate is calculated as the number of heart beats per minute (bpm). You don’t have to count the pulse for a full minute, though. Instead, count the pulse for 15 seconds, then multiple that number by four.Use a watch to keep track of time.
Here’s an example of a heart rate calculation: If you count 20 beats in 15 seconds, then your dog’s heart rate is 80 bpm (20 x 4).
The normal heart rates for dogs are as follows: small dog (90–120 bpm), medium dog (70–110 bpm), large dog (60–90 bpm)., How your dog’s pulse feels under your fingertips can provide clues to the circulatory system’s health. For example, if you can barely detect the pulse, or if the pulse is bounding (extremely strong), your dog may have poor circulation. Very weak or very strong pulses can indicate heart disease or some type of heart defect.Your dog’s pulse should be easily detectable, but not so strong that your fingertips noticeably move up and down with each heartbeat.

