 Before you contact any attorney, you need to understand your situation. Many people may jump to the conclusion that they are being foreclosed when that is not really the case. Carefully review any correspondence you have received from your bank or mortgage lending organization. Try to understand whether the bank is just at the stage of demanding payment, or if they have started any legal proceedings. Particularly highlight any dates or deadlines that you see. Before a bank can foreclose on your house, you must be given formal notice.If you do not have copies of letters or paperwork, or if you are unsure of the meaning of any correspondence, you can call your bank's lending department to ask questions. If you are in default on your mortgage, you are not likely to make the situation any worse just by asking for some clarification.;
, You need to decide if you are going to try to keep the house and defeat a foreclosure effort, or if you need an attorney to help you get out of the mortgage. To make this decision, you need to review your overall financial status. Make lists of your income and other financial assets, and compare this with your outstanding debts. Try to be realistic in deciding whether you can afford to keep paying the mortgage.For this purpose, you should limit your list of assets should to cash on hand and income from employment. There is no point listing all property that you own, unless it includes something that you may be able to sell to raise cash, such as a boat or an extra car.
 If your overall debts outweigh your assets, then filing bankruptcy may be a good idea. In a Chapter 7 or Chapter 13 bankruptcy, you may be able to discharge your unsecured debts, such as credit cards, and still retain your mortgage and avoid foreclosure. If you think this sounds promising, then you will want an attorney who is experienced in bankruptcy law as well as foreclosure law., An attorney with experience in foreclosure law can help you oppose the bank’s foreclosure efforts and retain your home, as long as you can catch up on the payments that you owe. If you simply cannot afford the home any longer, an attorney can help you find the best way out of the mortgage and minimize the damage to your credit rating.Some defenses that a foreclosure attorney can raise on your behalf include:


the loan company did not follow proper procedures
the loan company cannot prove it owns the loan
the loan company’s accounting is incorrect

, The bar association is an organization of lawyers in a particular area. You can search for your local or state bar association online. Most bar association websites have a search tool that lets you find lawyers by specialty., One of the best ways to find an attorney for any task is to get a recommendation from other people you know and trust. If they know someone who has worked well in the past, then that attorney is likely to be able to provide what you need.


Ask your own attorney, if you have one, for a referral to a specialist. If you have already worked with a general attorney, for something like a family will or investment advice, you may ask him or her to help you. If that attorney does not specialize in foreclosure or bankruptcy law, then ask for a referral. He or she may know someone and be able to recommend you.
Ask your friends or colleagues to recommend an attorney. Especially if you know people who have been in similar financial difficulty, you should ask who they used as an attorney. Try to find out from your friends how satisfied they were with the service, the attorney’s availability, and particularly the outcome of the case., The Internet is a very useful tool to help you find an attorney. You can tailor a search to “foreclosure attorney,” “bankruptcy attorney,” or “financial attorney.” You can also limit your search to your own geographical area. Look for facts about experience, cases handled and courts in which the attorney centers his or her practice. Advertising can be helpful, but read carefully.


Be cautious when reviewing advertising for attorneys, whether on the Internet, on television or in print. A flashy advertisement or well designed Internet page does not really tell you anything substantial about the attorney’s experience.
The American Bar Association has a nationwide Lawyer Referral Directory that is available online.You can search within your state for local contact information for the bar association that can help you find an attorney close to you.
As another example, the State Bar Association of Texas has a website that lets you search for attorneys by name, or by their field of specialty.The New York State Bar Association lists a Lawyer Referral Service on its home page.You can call the Lawyer Referral Service at 800-342-3661 and receive a referral to an attorney in your geographic area, with the skills that you need.
 You need to know, before going any further, that any attorney you are considering is in good standing with the bar association. If you find a report of something minor, like being delinquent in paying dues, that may not need to worry you. But you want to avoid someone with any major infractions.


You can use Findlaw.com for links to each state to help you check your prospective attorney’s discipline record., You can search the attorney’s name or the name of his or her firm to find records, written court opinions, and newspaper articles. This may give you some positive insight, if the attorney had any particularly noteworthy cases. Additionally, it may inform you of any problems that reached the level of public scrutiny.


Search for the attorney's name combined with words like "review," "complaint," or something similar. These searches can lead you to online complaint sites, blogs, and forums, where you may learn more about the attorney. Just realize that what you read on these sites are rarely substantiated, and your opinion may be different than someone else’s.
Some counties have online dockets or a public records terminal. If this is the case where you are, you may be able to search by the attorney's name and see what kind of cases he or she has handled.
 Meet with the attorney and ask direct questions about your case and the way that the attorney would expect to handle it. In the meeting, you should consider the attorney’s way of speaking to you and of explaining the situation. A good attorney will be able to explain the law to you in such a way that you can fully understand it.Find out about fees, pricing, and billing procedure. In addition to the amounts that you owe to the bank, you will be paying the attorney. Find out if the attorney charges an hourly rate or a flat fee to represent you through the foreclosure. With an hourly rate, you only pay for the work that the attorney actually performs, but hourly rates can add up quickly. Some attorneys prefer to charge a flat fee to handle your entire case. If you go with the flat fee arrangement, make sure you understand (and get in writing) what services are included. For example, a case that begins as a foreclosure matter and then turns into a bankruptcy case may require additional payment., When you meet with the attorney, you should pose questions that will help you figure out if that is someone you will want to work with, and who will be able to provide what you need.


Ask the attorney for references. An experienced attorney should be willing to let you contact one or more prior clients. Reach out to those people and ask them about the attorney’s work and how satisfied they were with the attorney.
Ask about the attorney’s experience handling cases similar to yours. You should discuss whether you want to save your home or let it go. Find out what the attorney recommends, based on your financial condition. Find out how successful the attorney has been in prior cases in avoiding foreclosure, if that is what you wish to do.
If you are considering bankruptcy, ask about the attorney’s practice in bankruptcy court. The rules and procedures in bankruptcy court are quite different than common foreclosure law. If you think that bankruptcy could be an option, you will want an attorney with specific bankruptcy experience.

