 Many older adults who are diagnosed with paraphrenia may display negative symptoms, such as isolation and social withdrawal. This can have an adverse effect on the quality of life of the person. To help with this, you should encourage your loved one to seek social skills training.Social skills training sessions are offered through psychiatric hospitals, hospice care centers, and other mental health facilities.
In social skills training sessions, your loved one will be in a group setting where they learn how to socialize and function in group settings while managing their paraphrenia. Helping your loved one learn how to socialize may reduce their social isolation, which can help with any related depression or anxiety they have. Having the support of family and friends is imperative to good health.
 Some people who develop paraphrenia may experience cognitive difficulties, such as learning new information or doing common tasks like future planning.Some mental health centers may offer therapy sessions geared towards improving the cognitive function of paraphrenia patients. During these sessions, your loved one will work on improving their memory function, attention, planning, and their overall cognitive ability.This is not the same as cognitive behavioral therapy, which is used to change negative patterns of behavior. This type of therapy focuses on strengthening the function of the mind.
 Your loved one should not self-isolate because of their paraphrenia. Whether or not they are undergoing social skills training, you should help encourage your loved one to get out and interact with people. This helps distract your loved one from their delusions, helps keep their brain working, and helps alleviate mood disorder symptoms.For example, you may plan family activities for your loved one to attend. This could be picnics, dinners, or outings. Encourage your family to interact with the loved one.
You may help your loved one get involved at a community senior center, or even join a gym with senior group exercise programs. If your loved one lives in a retirement community, encourage them to join in the community events. You may even choose to go with them in case they have anxiety or feel uncomfortable going alone.
Look for a "Drop-In Center." This is a place where people with mental illness can go to seek support and counseling, interact with other people, and engage in recovery-oriented activities.