 Even with domesticated rabbits who lack the benefits of a “wild” diet, most cases of overgrown teeth can be prevented when the proper foods are offered. Food pellets are convenient and have their benefits, but they should not normally be the majority of your rabbit’s diet.Rabbits need heavy fiber to continually wear down their always-growing teeth. In the wild, grasses, leaves, and twigs do the trick. For a pet, make sure that you offer a constant supply of fresh hay, which can be found at pet supply stores and elsewhere.
Try to mix up the hay varieties if possible. The differing textures and flavors will produce different chewing motions and tooth wear.
As according to your vet’s advice, offer twigs for your rabbit to chew on as well. Beware that many types of twigs can be poisonous to rabbits, however. Stick to options like orange, lemon, apple, and willow (fresh or dried); maple, ash, and pine (dried only); and de-thorned rose canes. Make sure they have not been treated with pesticides. You can also freeze the twigs overnight in order to kill off any undesirable insects.
Wooden chew blocks can help with overgrown front teeth, but will be less useful if your rabbit’s back teeth are too long as well.
 No, examining the small mouth of a naturally jumpy animal, while navigating the flaps of skin that conceal the mouth and the sharp teeth inside it, is not the easiest thing to do. But it is of vital importance to your rabbit’s health.Check for overgrown teeth, cuts or wounds, and signs of infection once a week at least.
Giving a rabbit a thorough mouth examination can be an involved process. Consult your vet or the step-by-step instructions at http://www.rabbit.org/journal/3-9/oral-health.html for assistance.
 If you are unable or unwilling to put in the effort needed to make thorough examinations of your rabbit’s mouth, or if your rabbit simply will not permit it, do not ignore this responsibility. Make sure your rabbit’s teeth and mouth are checked regularly.


Visiting the vet more often may be your best option, but you might also consider a pet groomer who has experience dealing with rabbits.
 Even if you are doing thorough mouth examinations, it is important that a veterinarian examine your rabbit on a regular schedule. Remember, preventing rabbit tooth troubles before they occur is always the best option.No matter how good a job you do checking your rabbit’s teeth, the vet has the tools and experience to do it better. Your bunny may need to be sedated, and x-rays may be required to get a complete picture.
If problem teeth are caught in early stages, the vet can use special tools to clip or grind them down, again with the benefit of anesthesia if necessary.
Some people may want to try to trim their rabbits’ teeth on their own, but it is better to rely on a professional. It is very easy to break off a tooth, which can cause infection, among other problems.

