 Following a traumatic brain injury (TBI) the student may need to relearn some of his skills. He might have been adept in these skills previously, but because of brain damage you may need to help him relearn them.


Closely monitor the student's behavior and take note of any special needs or changes in behavior. The student might look normal to you, but there are many underlying problems that can appear late in life.
Students with brain injuries should be given extra time for learning. They should not be punished or scolded for not completing their task in time. They may be feeling depressed or agitated, so it's important to assure them of your love and support.
 Develop the student's ability to make eye contact through direct eye contact exercises, games and other activities.


One of the most simple and effective techniques to develop eye contact with a child is to identify their favorite picture, object or toy and then place that object on a table where you can view it easily. Ask the child to find the reflection of the object in your eyeball. Many children make excellent eye contact in this way.
For very young children, peek-a-boo is a helpful game which you can modify in accordance with the age of the child. .
Another very interesting game is the “eye blink game”. Ask the child to look at you or any other child and ask them to recognize who blinked the eye first.
While performing any task, keep on telling the child to “look at me”. Positively reinforce any eye contact made with praise or rewards.
 Use attention building exercises like play therapy or story reading exercises. For play therapy choose a toy or real pet which the child likes.


You can ask the child to brush the pet if it has long hair, help the child play with it, care for it and interact with it. This tremendously increases the attention span of a child in a single activity.
Similarly, help the child listen to a recorded story or a video story. You can also read a picture book to the child, then ask him to re-tell you the story.
 A student with traumatic brain injury might be prone to hyperactivity and have difficulty staying in their seat. In this case positive reinforcement is the best option.


Praise the child for each positive behavior, such as standing near the seat, placing a hand on the seat or sitting on the seat for short periods of the time. The child will begin to connect sitting down with praise, encouraging them to do so.
For some extremely tantrum throwing, aggressive or hyper active child you can use holding therapy where the child is forcefully held in seat. This can be done through an enclosed chair from which the child cannot escape. You can also physical restrict the child onto the seat.
 Teach the child to comply with your requests through reinforcement and encouragement. Identify which types of positive reinforcement work best for the child.


You can use a star chart to help the child build compliance. When the child achieve a certain number of stars per week, you can give the child a tangible reinforce like a treat, or a sticker.
Similarly, you can use rewards like watching TV or cartoon video, but only if the child complies with your instructions.
 Many children with traumatic brain injuries display behavioral issues during the recovery and rehabilitation phase. Sometimes these behavioral issues are caused by medications, hormonal changes or the brain damage itself.


Understand that negative behavior always happens for a reason. For example the child might exhibit negative behaviors (such as tantrums or refusing to do what their told) in order to gain attention, to avoid learning a difficult task or as a response to frustration.
 Once you understand where the negative behaviors are coming from, try to omit the negative stimulus in order to calm the child down. If this doesn't work, you can use "time-outs" to teach the student about the behavior that's expected from them.


Students should be given time out for 5 to 15 minutes to regain control of their anger and return to normal.
Another way of dealing with negative behavior is just to ignore it.

