


It is common practice for Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing to have their phone number automatically connect to an interpreter when a called from a voice caller.
If the Deaf or Hard-of-Hearing person you are calling only has a video phone number-- then once you are connected to an interpreter you give the interpreter the phone number of the person you are trying to reach.;
, The interpreter will be the voice you hear on the phone.


It might be a male or female voice, depending on who you get connected to. The sex of the voice does not determine nor impact the sex of the person you are trying to connect to.
The interpreter sees the signer on a video phone in front of them, as they wear a headset to hear and speak to the voice caller.
Interpreters sign everything they hear, and voice everything they see.
Sign Language interpreters are still people at the end of the day, but while they are processing your call, they are bound by confidentiality.
Do not feel a need to tell the interpreter everything you are about to talk about.
Feel free to give a quick heads up to the interpreter if your call is in regards to a legal matter, medical matter, or an emergency.



Once you are connected to your Deaf or Hard-of-Hearing person, the interpreter will tell you that you are now connected to your caller.
Everything you say now will be signed to the signer until the call is over.
Greet the Deaf or Hard-of-Hearing person just as you would any person on the phone.
Introduce yourself, and ask who you are speaking with if you aren't told from the start.



Do not ask the interpreter to "tell him" or "let her know."
Everything you are saying is being communicated down to the details of your tone, speed, and background noise.
Speak to the Deaf or Hard-of-Hearing person in a natural way.
Ignore the presence of the interpreter. While you are on the call, try to pretend that you are not communicating through an interpreter if that helps.
The interpreter will stop you only if they missed something you said, need spelling, or clarification. If that happens, the interpreter will tell you, "This is the interpreter speaking" and ask you for what they need. This is normal and important to ensure accurate interpretation.
Remember that interpreters are bound to confidentiality. Nothing you share will be shared with others.
Enjoy your easily facilitated conversation with the Deaf or Hard-of-Hearing person.
If an interpreter makes an announced interpreter switch during the call, it is normal. You just hold your conversation until the new interpreter announces themselves and continues your call.



Say your normal: thank yous, good bye, see you soon, etc to the signer.
The interpreter will tell you when the signer has hung up, or will tell the signer that you hung up if you end the call first.
 They are still people after all and chances are, they worked very hard to make sure you had fluid conversation despite the language barrier.

