 This will give you a good overview of the process so that you can anticipate what step comes next and what parts you will need next. Remember that while this article gives a good overview of the process of installing a garage door, there may be important steps that are specific to your manufacturer. Always assume that their instructions supersede those provided here.;
, Your garage door should come with all the necessary parts included. Be sure you have all the parts listed in the instructions and that you understand where each piece provided should go once installed. Its always a good idea to organize your parts into piles, so you can see exactly what you have (and if anything is missing).


While there is some variation depending on the manufacturer, a garage door should come with panel sections, hinges that connect each section together, rollers that allow the sections to move up and down, track for the rollers to move in, brackets to connect the track to the frame of the garage, and a tension spring to help offset the weight of the door.
If any parts are missing do not begin installation. Proceeding without all of the necessary parts could lead to trouble installing your garage door, damage to the door, or even injury due to a poorly installed door.
 This includes a hammer, nails, power drill with a screwdriver tip, and screws. You will also need a ladder to reach the parts of the door that are overhead. In fact, it's not a bad idea to have two ladders handy, so that you and your helper can both be on one at the same time.


Have all your tools and manufacturer-provided garage door pieces at arm's length to make installation easier.
 If hinges aren't already attached to the top of the first panel, attach them. Slide a roller into the left and right hinges on the panel. Also attach the manufacturer-supplied weather stripping to the first panel's bottom edge.


This is also a good time to pre-drill holes for the hinges on the rest of the sections, as it will be easier to get the sections lined up exactly when on the ground. Once you have the hinges attached to the bottom of each section, lay the panel on the ground next to its adjacent panel. Line up the sections exactly, then pre drill the holes where the two sections will be connected. This will save you the time and frustration of trying to attach the hinges while the sections are up in the opening.
 Center the panel with the weather-stripping end on the ground. Make sure you have chosen a garage door that is wide enough to cover the opening but does not extend too far past that opening. Garage doors come in standard sizes, with most basic roll-up single garage doors measuring about 7 feet (2.1 m) tall and 9 feet (2.7 m) wide. If your opening differs from this, you may have to order a specialty door.


If you don't have someone to help you for this part, temporarily pin the panel in place by driving nails at an angle partially into each jamb. This will allow the panel to stay put while you continue the installation process. Remember not to nail through the actual door panel, just use the nail to wedge it in place.
 Each of these distinct parts should be kept separate for now, as they will be attached in separate steps, but the vertical sections should be connected to each other, if necessary.


The vertical section should be approximately as long as the door opening is tall.
 Start with one side and then move to the other. Make sure each track is level and that your panel is still centered in the opening. Screw the track to the door frame with the brackets provided, but don't tighten them all the way. You may need to make several slight adjustments to their position as you add the next panels.
 Unlike the first panel, the second panel should not have the outside hinges attached before the panel is put in place.


Install the outside hinges and rollers on the second panel (and subsequent panels) by angling each unattached roller into the track, then sliding the roller with hinge attached into place on the panel and securing it with screws. These holes can be pre-drilled but cannot be attached beforehand or you would not be able to get the roller in the track. Be sure to do this for both sides of the doorway.
Don't forget to also pre drill the holes for the hinges connecting the second and the third panels before you install the second panel! It's much easier to do this on the ground than when its up in the door opening.
 These screws can be tightened all the way once the panels are lined up exactly.
 Be absolutely certain that the lag screws go into sound framing but do not completely tighten any of them yet because you still might need to adjust the tracks.


Remember to keep checking that the track is level and that the panels are lined up correctly. Any misalignment early on can cause problems for the function of the door.
 Be sure that the brackets below each panel are attached to the wall. Once again, you still want to have the ability to adjust the brackets but they should be secured enough to hold the panels in place.
 Secure the top plates of the vertical track to the wall on each side of the doorway. The lag screws must be driven into sound framing since the garage door will exert a great amount of force every time it goes up or down.
 Follow the manufacturer's instructions when connecting the tracks together. It may prove helpful to rest the horizontal track on top of a ladder at this point. Verify that the horizontal track is level. Cut the rear track hanger to the appropriate length needed to support the track and screw the track hanger into sound framing, such as ceiling joist or blocking. Repeat this process with the other piece of horizontal track, making sure that the distance between track is the same as below.
 Be sure to follow the manufacturer's instructions. If you intend to use an opener, wait on installing the torque tube. The torque tube and/or spring provides lift assistance for the door and is helpful when you are opening and closing the door manually.


Make sure that if you install a garage door spring, you also install a safety cable to protect from accidents if it breaks. Garage door springs are very strong and could fly across your garage if they come loose, causing damage or possibly injury. If you have a garage door opener to install see: How to Install a Garage Door Opener


, Remember to remove any temporary nails, such as the ones you drove into the jamb at an angle across the first panel. Also make sure all obstacles, particularly ladders, are out of the way so you don't hit them when you try the door for the first time.
 Tighten the screws starting at the bottom of the door and working your way up. As you go, check the operation of the door by making sure it moves freely in the track. The door should move easily up and down the track once the screws are all tightened.
 Make sure the tracks are aligned and make adjustments to the position of the track as necessary. Be sure to check that all of the rollers are sitting well in the tracks and that they are moving freely. Also check that the door will stay in the up position without holding it up. If you have a problem with this, you may need to adjust the slope of your horizontal track or the garage door spring.

