 Let yourself have one last deep cry. Let all your sadness out. Scream if necessary. Try to come to a point of final release. Then, commit to not crying about this person or relationship again.


Consider journalling during your cry about all the feelings you are experiencing. Describe the things you disliked about your ex. That might make you less sad that you broke up.Have a friend with you during your final cry. Hugging someone can help, as it causes your body to produce oxytocin, which helps you feel warmer and happier.;
, A trigger is something that will cause an emotional reaction when you see/hear/or smell it and will remind you of your ex.It could be anything from a piece of clothing or a bottle of perfume or cologne, certain music or songs, notes, drawings, ticket stubs, photographs – anything that reminds you of your ex. Put away, donate, or dispose of these things. Removing triggers will help you move forward and heal, as the reaction to a trigger item is often involuntary. You could be feeling great and positive and then smell your ex's perfume and experience the pain anew.While you might want to keep some mementos, put these in a box and out of sight.
 Unless you broke up on very good terms, consider “de-friending” your ex on Facebook or putting him/her on limited profile. Seeing constant updates about your ex will not make you feel better and might bring on tears. You also might consider removing his/her contact information from your phone. This will prevent you from texting or calling the person during moments of weakness.
 When you feel like another bout of crying is coming, try breathing very deeply from your diaphragm. Breathe in for a count of five and then exhale for five seconds, making a “ts” sound. This process will calm your body.


See Stop Yourself from Crying for more physical tips on how to stop crying.
 No matter how tempting it is to rehash every detail of your relationship and/or breakup, resist the urge. Instead, practice living in the moment. Reflect also on what you have learned from the breakup. As you cannot repair the relationship, let go of your attachment to it.Go for a long run in a scenic place.
Take a walk around your neighborhood and inhale the scents of the bakery. Listen to people chatting over coffee. Watch the changing leaves or blooming flowers., Although this sounds very simple, studies have shown that by making positive facial expressions, people can actually feel happier.Even though you might feel like crying, smile and see if you feel better.
 If your crying is triggered by painful thoughts or memories, there are things you can do to combat those feelings. Learning to self-soothe, or comfort yourself, can help you stay calm and keep your bad feelings from overwhelming you.Try some of these techniques when you find yourself feeling down or flooded with painful memories:


Use affirmations. An affirmation is a way to remind yourself that you have value even when you're feeling down. Say these out loud, quietly, or simply write them down. Some examples are:

I deserve to be happy.
I deserve to be loved and appreciated.
I am more than my sadness.
Things will get better and I will be happy again.


Pamper yourself with a warm bath or massage.Watch a funny movie, TV show, or clips on online.Listen to relaxing music.Relax in the warmth of the sun.Play with or pet an animal.Eat a comforting meal.Get lost in your favorite book., Oftentimes, we feel sadder when we are alone. After your break-up, make a point of visiting your friends and family.Perhaps ask a friend to visit you and bring a funny movie. Alternatively, you could dress up and go to dinner with a group of friends. Being in public will help you cry less. When you remember what joy and laughter feel like, you can start to feel better.


When socializing after your “final cry,” try to avoid bringing up your ex in conversation. While you certainly should share your feelings with your closest friends, constantly harping on your breakup will make you sadder.
 When your life has been wrapped up in one person for a long time, it is easy to forget who you are. By joining new activities, whether a sport, club, or musical group, you can craft a new part of your identity.This part of you will not include any memories of your ex. Additionally, if you find some new friends, they won’t know you as part of a relationship. They will just get to know you for you.


Activities like salsa or swing dance are particularly good. Not only will you learn new skills and exercise but you will meet new people and have platonic physical contact. This can be very important when you are used to having someone to touch.
 Ride your bike or swim. By doing some exercise, your body will release endorphins. This will make you both happier and healthier.
 One way to feel refreshed is to get a new hair cut. You might enjoy being pampered at a salon. Sometimes telling a new or trusted hair stylist about your breakup can be cathartic. Updating your glasses or clothing choices is another option. When so much of yourself is associated to your ex, it can be beneficial to make small changes that make you feel better. Additionally, you might feel that even though your emotions are out of control, you control your style and can still feel confident and good., Avoid drug or alcohol use. Although it is tempting to use substances to alleviate the pain you are feeling, refrain from doing so.Right now, you might be feeling vulnerable and you would not want to over-use any substances. Instead, seek your comfort foods (though not in excess). Food with serotonin also can boost your happiness levels. Good foods would be bananas, yogurt, turkey, eggs, nuts, cheese, or beans.