 If you live in a cold climate with lengthy winters or your dog’s feet are especially sensitive to salt or cold, it’s a good idea to get your pooch cloth or rubber booties to protect their paws.Besides keeping your dog’s feet warm, booties can also help shield your pet from ice, snow, salt, and grit. Being exposed to these winter hazards can injure your dog’s feet or leave their paws painfully dry and/or cracked.
Pick a material that’s sturdy enough to offer protection and withstand harsh conditions while being flexible enough to comfortably adjust to the shape of your pet’s feet.
They should also have waterproof or water-resistant exterior to keep your dog’s paws dry.
Consider getting boots with traction or grips on the bottom to help your pooch navigate through snow and ice.
Since these are specialty items, pet stores will not always stock them, and ordering them online may be easier.
 Before you buy a set of booties, check the brands’ specific sizing chart to get the right fit. There are no standardized shoe sizes for canines, and booties come in a wide array of designs. Thus, it’s critical to refer to the particular sizing and measurement guidelines used by the brand of booties you are ordering.Getting the right size will require you to take measurements of your pet using either a scale or a tape measure. Some dog shoe companies use sizing charts that go by weight. Others will ask you to measure the the distance between a dog’s heel and toenail.
 Your dog’s booties should slip on and off easily and have an adjustable strap to keep them snugly in place around your dog’s ankles. They should fit securely around the ankle but leave plenty of room for your dog’s paws to breathe since they regulate heat through the pads of their feet.Be sure that your dog’s booties are tight enough to stay on without being uncomfortable. Check to see that the ankle straps aren’t rubbing or chaffing your dog’s skin or fur.
Also check that the booties aren’t affecting your dog’s natural gait. While they may walk differently in their shoes at first, be wary if your dog does not adjust back to their normal stride over time. This can indicate that the shoes are cramping their feet or placing pressure on their claws.
 Wearing shoes does not feel natural to canines, so it may take them a while to get the hang of it. Make the period of adjustment as short and pleasant as possible by rewarding them with a treat after you put on each bootie.Giving your pooch treats along with their booties will help them develop positive associations with wearing shoes. Taking them out for a walk immediately after you put them on will also boost their positive associations with booties.
It’s also a good idea to keep your dog under control on a leash initially until they’ve adapted to walking in booties. If you notice that the booties are slipping off, stop and adjust the velcro straps until they fit tightly enough to stay on.

