 Instead of trying to impose your worldview and thoughts onto other people, take time out from that need and just listen. What are others really saying? Is it so urgent to make them see things your way?;
, Rather than asserting yourself as the person with all the answers, simply ask questions as part of your joining in the conversation. Ask about people's feelings, thoughts, wants, concerns, etc. and avoid overlaying your feelings, etc., in return.
 This means that you become open to presenting options and reaching compromises rather than insisting that it's "your way or the highway." Find the middle way instead and the means by which your interests and the other person's interests can meet in the middle. It might mean giving up a little of something, but, in turn, you'll gain a great deal more.
 Though perhaps a cliché, it's quite true. When you're trying hard to be something you feel is expected of you rather than the person you really are, you may become more bossy to cope. Try to overlook those expectations from others and be guided by your own values, wherever possible. Once you feel secure with your values, you'll feel a lot less need to push others around. You'll stop seeing others as a challenge to your identity.
 Not everyone can do things at a hare's pace and not everyone is good at the things you're good at. If we were all the same, there would be no room for excelling and there would be no place for learning about diversity. Be grateful that there are differences and instead of seeing obstacles in the way others behave, look for their strengths only and work with those. This is especially important if you've fallen into a bad habit of thinking that you have no weaknesses; that sets you up for a fall. Instead, show people you know how to recognize their strengths and work with those.
 Even if you do know a better way to do something, when a co-worker is reluctant to listen to your suggestions, consider that maybe they'll have to suffer the consequences of their actions and choices. If you don't, you might be enabling those around you who aren't quite as competent as you're helping them appear.
 Bossy people don't have time to stop and smell the roses because everything must be "just so." Let it go now and then and just stop. Tame that perfectionism before it engulfs you!

