 While you could probably carry out these instructions on your own, it is also helpful to have a psychologist help you through the process. They’ll be able to help you plan the therapy, pick a partner that can help you and discuss the outcomes of each try., To start your therapy, you need to make a list of a variety of bathroom locations. These locations need to be everything from very easy to very hard locations for you to go pee. In addition to making the list, rank the locations from easiest to hardest., Because the main problem with paruresis is peeing in front of other people, you will need to enlist the help of a trusted family member or friend to help you overcome the problem., You most likely consider your home bathroom your easiest location to pee. Since you’re comfortable with this bathroom, the only thing to be added is another human being — your ‘pee partner.'Start by going pee in your home bathroom with your pee partner somewhat nearby. Pee for only a few seconds and then stop.
Wait a few minutes and go back to the bathroom. This time have your pee partner move a little closer to you. Again, pee for a few seconds and then stop.
Continue this process with your pee partner moving closer and closer to you.
This process may take several sessions before you’re comfortable peeing in front of your pee partner.
 Throughout the process of peeing in your own home with your pee partner, purposely make noise while you’re peeing. The types of noises you want to make are the types that embarrass you when you’re in a public bathroom. For example, if you don’t like to hear the sound of your pee hitting the side of the toilet or the water, purposely make these types of noises while you pee.By purposely making these noises you’ll start to get use to them and they’ll become less embarrassing. You’re essentially trying to desensitize yourself from these noises so you don’t think about them when you’re peeing.
 Once you’re comfortable peeing at home with your pee partner and with making a lot of noise, it’s time to move to the next place on your list. The next bathroom on your list might be a quiet public washroom, or maybe the bathroom at a friend’s house.Repeat the same process you used at home with your pee partner. Start by having them stand outside the door to the washroom and move gradually closer to where the toilet is.
Once you become comfortable with a specific location on your list, move to the next location and repeat the process.
Eventually you’ll reach the hardest location on your list and you’ll find you’re able to pee in a crowded, noisy public washroom.
You may need to have a practice session 3-4 times a week in order to make the process effective. You should see excellent improvement after 12 sessions if you are consistent.
 In order to make each practice session more realistic, and to ensure you actually have to go to the bathroom, drink enough liquids so your bladder is full. Do this on purpose before each practice session with your pee partner.