 Instead of focusing on the end-goal, break the process down into manageable, daily goals.


For example, instead of saying "My goal today is to get a raise at work," approach the goal from a more manageable perspective. Start with smaller goals, such as getting to work early every day, or going out of your way to have a conversation with your boss.
The point of the baby steps is to build up to your end-goal through obtainable, tangible steps.
 There are countless distractions in today's world, and it can be easy to get side-tracked. Keep your Must-Do list handy and refer to it whenever you feel yourself drifting off course.


Don't allow yourself to get sucked into time wasting activities when you have goals to obtain. Set aside designated leisure time for the day.
Resist the temptation to "work on it tomorrow." Remind yourself that you need to accomplish your list today.
 Take the time to practice skills that you haven't mastered yet. More skills means more opportunities for you.


Hone your skills that you need to achieve your goal. For example, if you are looking for a raise, work on the skills you need for the job on your free time in order to increase your effectiveness at work.
Broaden your skillset. Work on skills that may not relate to your current goals, but that interest you. Not only will this keep you productive, it will make you a more well-rounded and capable person.
 You will hit obstacles and setbacks. Keep your mind focused on your goals and your heart positive. Celebrate each small victory to give yourself a boost in spirit. Approach each defeat as a lesson to be learned; dust yourself off and try another way.
 Confidence is essential to obtaining goals and changing your life. It will affect all of your interactions with others, and will drastically increase your motivation. Take pride in your actions and thoughts, and own your mistakes.


Be able to laugh at yourself, but avoid self-deprecation.
There is a difference between being confident and being cocky. Avoid over-inflating your ego by tempering your confidence with some realism. Cockiness is often viewed as a sign on inner insecurity. A truly confident person inspires confidence and trust in others.

