 There are several things you can do if you catch your cat in the act. Yelling a loud "NO" or clapping your hands every time the cat goes near the cord is one possibility. Another is to keep a water-gun handy for squirting your cat when it gets too close to places you don't want it going. Obviously, be careful not to hit electrical or electronic equipment with the water., If you can find a motion-detector toy that makes a noise as soon as it spots motion (for example, a frog that croaks), consider placing it strategically to go off every time the cat gets near certain vulnerable cords, such as under the computer desk. It will need to be loud and sudden enough to scare off your cat, and there is a chance that he'll just get used to it and ignore it., Cord chewing can be a sign of boredom, a sign of practicing prey hunting, or just a need to play. Try new items at home to keep your cat interested -- a carpet square, cardboard boxes to shred, or even a rubbery dog chew toy., Purchase or grow some cat grass grown from oats or wheat. Many cats feel the need to chew on grass, and without grass, the next closest thing is string and wires. Cat grass is available in pet stores and on the internet, and you can buy seeds of oats and wheat and grow them yourself in a pot with a little soil. You can even dig up a little sod from a yard that is not treated with pesticides or herbicides. Look to make certain the sod only contains grass leaves, no weeds. Place the clump of sod in the pot on the floor and let the cat chew on it. Release the sod to its original place when the cat is done chewing on it. Repeat frequently, as needed., When cats chew cords, they're often looking to create small toys for themselves. Short wires skitter across linoleum and hardwood floors quite marvelously when batted by a furry paw. You might try distracting your cat with a different sort of toy. Just be sure to avoid any toys that encourage wire-chewing behavior (such as toys which are wire-like using string, yarn, etc.)., There are some activities where cord movement is inevitable and it is probably best to keep your cat locked out of the room or space where you're using such appliances rather than risk chewing and the potential for electrical shock to both you and your cat, as well as the potential for a heavy item falling on your cat if the cord is pulled down too much.

