 In Arkansas, if you want to change your name and gender assignment on legal documents, you will need a letter from a doctor stating that you have undergone sexual reassignment surgery.This letter should confirm the date of your medical procedure and be signed, dated, and notarized.
 Follow the steps above in the method "Changing your Name as an Adult." You will need a copy of the court order approving your name change in order to get your name and gender changed on your birth certificate and your driver's license.
 Contact the Arkansas Office of Vital Records once you have the court-ordered name change. You will need to provide the letter from the court and the letter from your doctor. The state of Arkansas will then issue an amended birth certificate., You will need to complete an Application for a Social Security Card and include with it proof of your legal name change (court order of change of name), proof of your identity, and proof of U.S. citizenship (government issued documents like a passport, birth certificate, and driver's license can establish this).On the Application for a Social Security Card you will need to specify that you want a "corrected" social security card under "type of card."
Gender details do not appear on social security cards, but to change your gender filed with the Social Security Administration, you can show a state-issued amended birth certificate, a physician’s letter certifying clinical treatment, or a ten-year U.S. passport showing the appropriate gender marker., Take your current driver's license, proof of age and identification (such as a passport), and court order of a name change to the Office of Driver’s Services. If you have the correct documentation, they will issue you a new driver's license with your new name and your correct gender assignment.


There is a $10 fee for a replacement license with a new name.You may want to bring all associated documents with you when you go to the Office of Driver’s Services, in case you are asked for more verification.
Change your name on all other documents and accounts. Some accounts you will need to change include (but are not limited to): bank and credit card accounts, mortgages, car titles, voter registration, passport, and doctor's offices. Contact the relevant offices or agencies for instructions on changing your name in their records.

