 While you do not need an operating agreement to form an LLC in Louisiana, it is a good idea to create one anyway in order to protect LLC members from personal liability, to prevent potential disputes between members, and to facilitate business transactions. In particular, an operating agreement can:Protect limited liability status – Without an operating agreement, your LLC might look too much like a sole proprietorship or partnership, leaving you with financial responsibility for the LLC's actions.
Clarify business structure – In the event of conflict between members, it is helpful to have the operating procedures of your business written down. This will help to prevent disputes regarding profits, hiring, office space, business expenses, etc.
Protect you from the state – If you have no operating agreement, the default rules of Louisiana state law will apply to your LLC. While these laws are generally quite favorable in terms of personal liability and tax responsibility, it is still a good idea to specify how your LLC operates.Facilitate transactions like opening a bank account – Many banks will require an operating agreement before you open an account for your LLC. You will also often have to furnish one before renting or buying office space., The main thing an operating agreement does is set out the terms of membership: ownership percentages, contributions, transfer, and winding up. It can also lay out the duties of respective members. While the content varies, you will want to be sure to include:Percentage of members' ownership (i.e. Will ownership and profit distribution percentages be based on the amount of money contributed to start the LLC, or on some other formula?)
Voting rights and responsibilities (i.e. Are votes weighted by financial contribution or does each member get one vote?)
Power and duties of members and managers
Distribution of profits and losses – How much of the profits must be distributed each year? Will profits be distributed regularly or can owner draw them at will?Rules for meetings and votes
Procedures for transferring interest of a member

, The best way to get an idea for what is in a typical agreement and how to structure yours is to look at a few operating agreements. While these samples offer useful guidelines, it is still best to have a lawyer review any operating agreement that you draw up. You can find samples at:


http://www.techagreements.com/LLC-Operating-Agreements.Aspx
http://www.csb.uncw.edu/people/eversp/classes/BLA361/BusLawForms/Corporate%20Forms/LLC-Operating-Agreement.a%20law%20firm%20version.pdf

