 Choose an adventure to collect some good rares. Good choices for adventures to play could be:


Return of the Phantoms - this is a non member adventure, but there is an arctic wolf gate, allowing you to possibly get 2 rares in one adventure. Bows and arrows (the raspberry bow and arrows is included), pirate swords, worn blankets, and more items could be rewarded from this adventure.
Forgotten Desert - this is a member adventure. This adventure is also the only adventure that actually rewards spikes themselves (besides the lucky clovers adventure). However, it is rare, but den betas, bows and arrows, worn blankets, top hats, and several more good items such as these can be rewarded from here. Items such as these could be used to get actual rare spiked collars and wrists.;
, You never know when the next rare to come out becomes the rarest item in the game, or goes on clearance a day after it's in stores. Buy them, even if they look unrare, they still may have an immense rarity soon. An example could be the glitched ring. It was removed from stores a day after it came out, making everyone who bought them became automatically rare. Buy new items, diamond shop items, items that are leaving soon, on clearance, etc.
 Betas are items that were released during the beta testing period, which lasted from July to September 2010. Examples include Fox Hats, Viking Hats, gloves, (top hats were sold in the hatapalooza) etc. Trade them for one good beta item or more (most of these items, such as Fox Hats, are worth more than one den beta. make sure to trade fairly).


Items that say BETA or 'Beta' in the name aren't beta! Be cautious of scammers! Those items are from the beta party, which comes back every year. Make sure you when you trade, you say real den betas, and decline all fake den betas.
 Get long/short spike wrists. One short wrist is worth about 3 den betas, but a black one is worth 4. A black long wrist is worth 6 den betas, and good long wrists are worth 5. Bad long wrists are worth 4 den betas.
 Spikes' rarity type depends on their colors. This will be ordered from greatest to least in value.


Black long - 62 den betas/3 good longs/6 bad longs

Black short - green long/14 den betas/an orange long and a den beta


Red long - 25 den betas/2 okay longs/a different good long and add small

Red short - 8 den betas


Blue long - 22 den betas/a green and orange long

Blue short - 7 den betas


Purple long - 20 den betas/2 bad longs

Purple short - 8 den betas


Yellow long - 15 den betas

Yellow short - 7 or 8 den betas


Green long - 15 den betas

Green short - 6 den betas


Pink long - 13 den betas

Pink short - 6 den betas


Orange long - 13 den betas

Orange short - 6 den betas


Make sure you are trading for a RARE spike, not a diamond shop spike. They are often confused to be equal in value, which is obviously not true. Diamond spikes used to sell in Diamond Shop for members only, and will come back to stores one day. People will try to scam you using a diamond spike instead of a rare spike.
 If you're going for a long spiked collar, at least 13 to 25 den betas would be suitable.

