 A heart-healthy diet is a good idea to improve overall heart health, but arrhythmia, which are a very specific electrical problem with the heart that, for the most part, is inborn and cannot be altered by diet., Eating a balanced diet is the easiest way to minimize the risk of arrhythmia. Eat plenty of fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and protein sources from meat, poultry and dairy products.


See your doctor or a nutritionist and ask them to plan a heart-healthy diet for you to follow.
 Omega-3 is a type of healthy oil that is beneficial for the heart. Omega-3 fatty acid acts like a broom which sweeps LDL away from the arteries. It also help balance the rhythm of your heart.Eat oatmeal for breakfast because it is rich in omega-3s. Bake or steam salmon for dinner because salmon is a deep sea fish that is rich in omega-3 fatty acids.


Sweeping LDL away is especially important for the coronary arteries that are located near the heart, as plaque build-up from cholesterol is a common cause of coronary artery disease.
Add some fruit to your breakfast or some vegetables and whole-grain bread to your salmon to make them complete, healthy meals.
If you don't like salmon, try tuna, mackerel, or herring., Avocado is a rich source of monosaturated fats, which help to raise HDL (high density lipoprotein, or the “good cholesterol”) while decreasing LDL levels. Add avocado to salads, into sandwiches, or add a slice to any snack.You can also make desserts with avocado as well, such as chocolate mousse. These desserts are better for you because they use better, healthier ingredients., Like avocado, olive oil is a rich source of monosaturated fats that decrease LDL. Add olive oil to a marinade, as part of a dressing on a salad, or use it when sauteing vegetables. This will incorporate just enough of the oil into your diet to get the heart healthy benefits without increasing your fat intake too much.


When you're in the grocery store, look for “extra virgin” olive oil as it is less processed than regular olive oil.
Olive oil is a great substitute for butter or other oils when you cook., Live fish and oatmeal, nuts are also rich in omega-3 fatty acids and other healthy fats. Healthy fats help you lose weight and have more energy. Nuts also have fiber in them, which will help your overall health. Try eating a handful of walnuts, pecans, macadamias, or almonds as a tasty, healthy snack.You can also add nuts to recipes, such as almond crusted fish or roasted walnuts with sauteed green beans.
 Berries are naturally full of antioxidants, which reduce harmful substances and toxins in the body. They also contain anti-inflammatory properties that help to reduce the risk of heart disease as well as cancer. Grab a handful as a healthy, sweet snack instead of processed, refined sugar filled sweets.


Also try sprinkling some fresh berries like blueberries, raspberries, strawberries, or blackberries over your morning cereal or add them to yogurt., Beans are high in fiber, which helps to reduce cholesterol by pulling out LDL from your blood. Beans also contain omega 3 fatty acids and calcium, which help reduce heart problems and possible arrhythmia.


Try adding black beans to Mexican dishes, chickpeas or cannellini beans to a salad, and kidney beans to soups and stews. You can also eat them by themselves as a side dish to any meal, such as steamed salmon or baked chicken., Flaxseed is rich in fiber as well as omega-6 and omega-3 fatty acids that are good for the heart. You can combine with your morning oatmeal or add a teaspoon of flaxseed to baked goods..


Also try flaxseed meal, which you can add to baked goods as well.