 Hot showers and baths can dry out your skin, worsening your condition.Shower once daily, for about 10 to 15 minutes. Use gentle, nonabrasive soap.Bleach and vinegar baths can also prevent or end staph infections in your eczema.


Take bleach baths to kill bacteria and prevent outbreaks. Use half a cup of bleach for a full bath tub and soak for approximately 10 minutes. Try to use this procedure approximately two to three times a week.For a more natural antibacterial bath, add between one cup and one pint of vinegar.
If, during a significant flare up, your skin is too irritated for bath water, try adding salt. Put one cup of table salt in the water to reduce discomfort.
To reduce itching, try baking soda or oatmeal baths. Throw in approximately a cup of either to sooth your skin., To avoid abrasive contact after your shower, do not rub yourself with the towel. Instead, you should try to pat yourself dry softly with the towel., Within three minutes of washing, you should apply a moisturizer to trap the moisture in your skin. This is important to reduce dryness. Reapply moisturizer several times throughout the day.


Some people recommend taking the shower and using moisturizer before going to bed at night. This makes it less likely that your skin will dry out during the night.Lotions often evaporate too quickly to effectively treat dry skin and creams have additional ingredients that can cause adverse reactions in people with eczema.
The best moisturizers for those with eczema are ointments like petroleum jelly and mineral oil. These should not be adulterated with perfumes or other ingredients. Pure petroleum jelly is best, even though many people dislike the feeling of it.Look for a cream or ointment with ceramides, which help in keeping a good skin barrier. You can also use food-grade oils such as coconut oil, which has some antimicrobial activity.
 If you are having an outbreak, the last thing you want to do is aggravate the skin. Avoid rough, scratchy fabrics and clothes that are overly tight., A humidifier can help protect your skin from becoming overly dry. This is particularly imperative when it is cold outside, and you are using a heater inside for much of the day., Stress can be a factor in producing eczema. To counteract it, try to take time off from work. Make time to relax. Consider mild exercise.While exercise can be good for eliminating stress, it can also be counterproductive if it causes too much sweating or exposes you to wild swings in temperature. Sometimes visiting a professional therapist can help reduce stress. A therapist might also be able to help you cope with the itching., Scratching can worsen the condition, hardening the skin. The eczema will become thick and leather like. Avoid scratching as much as possible and minimize the impact when you cannot contain yourself.If you keep your fingernails short, it will cause less damage if you do feel compelled to scratch., Some people find that there are particular allergies that produce their eczema. Carefully consider what you have come into contact with before a case of eczema and try to eliminate or reduce exposure. See if this improves your condition.


Try removing carpets from your house.
Food allergies may trigger eczema. Try keeping a food and symptom diary, keeping track of what you eat and when you experience a flare up. This may help you identify foods that you should eliminate from your diet.
Pet dander can be a contributing factor. Most dander can be removed from dogs by bathing them once every three days. Otherwise, try to keep pets outside or off couches. Replace air filters often to reduce the amount of dander circulating through your home.Do your best to clean the house thoroughly.