 Cast iron is a great, safe material for pots and pans. Cast iron is also a relatively non-stick surface. You can heat cast iron to any temperature without any dangerous fumes.You can also place cast iron pots and pans in the oven.
You can also try enamel coated cast iron., Stainless steel pots and pans are safe options. They do not release anything hazardous into your food or the air when cooking. You can also use any cooking utensil on them without harming them. They also contain no carcinogens.These pans are not non-stick, so you have to add butter or oil to help keep things from sticking.
Make sure to check your stainless steel pots and pans, especially if you are buying cheaper ones. Cheap stainless steel cookware may contain nickel and chromium, harmful metals that can seep into food.
 Glass is a safe material for cookware. Glass doesn’t release anything toxic when heated and won’t contaminate your food. It also doesn’t hold flavors or odors in the material.Make sure to use caution when baking with glass. It will break if dropped.
Food will stick to glass if you do not add something to help it keep from sticking.
 Stoneware is safe and nontoxic. After a few uses, it will become non-stick. You don’t have to wash stoneware with soap. You can scrape, wipe, or rinse it instead. Stoneware also will not absorb flavors or odors.Stoneware can crack or break if dropped.
Stoneware is more expensive than other types of cookware.
 Cookware that is made with 100% ceramic is extremely safe. It doesn’t react when heated and isn’t toxic. The surface of ceramic cookware will not corrode. You can use any utensil on ceramic and put it in the dishwasher.Ceramic cookware is expensive.
Make sure you are not purchasing cookware that has a ceramic glaze that contains lead. This generally occurs with pieces made outside of the United States. Research the brand and pieces to make sure it is lead-free.
 Heating food in plastic containers containing chemicals can be dangerous. BPA can cause cancer and negatively affect the brain and heart. Throw out any plastic that is not BPA and only buy BPA-free containers.If you are concerned about using plastic, consider using glass containers instead.

