 Even for brief thank-you notes, the type and quality of paper can say a lot by itself. Professional letters should be printed on a strong grade of paper that won't accidentally tear. On the other hand keep in mind that a more simple note or memo isn't expected to be as formal, so you needn't worry about going out of your way to buy the very best if it's not available. In the case of a simple, short note, you should make sure the paper is small too. A few sentences scrawled on a big sheet of paper will look uninvolved. Post-it notes are usually small and perfect for quick thank-you notes.
 As opposed to a quick note, a professional letter tends to be leagues more formal and serious. This entails sticking to pre-defined guidelines for letter writing. Include your name, the date and the addressee at the top of the letter.
Type using a standard font (such as Times New Roman) and size (12).
Include your signature at the bottom. This will give even a typed letter a personal touch.
 Although you will have more opportunity in a longer letter to go into detail, like the short note, you will still want to economize on what you're saying. In the first sentence or two, clearly state that you are thankful and why you are thankful. Due to the effort involved in writing a letter, it should be understood that the help will have been significant as well. If you think the person involved meant the difference between your success and failure, it's a good idea to write a letter.


Compared to a simple note, you can go into more detail about what you're thankful for with a professional letter, and explain how their part has benefited you. For example, if he vouched for you at a meeting, you can expand upon your gratitude by noting all the career doors their support has opened for you.
For example: "I am writing to thank you for the help you offered at the board meeting today. The advice would offered to me beforehand proved invaluable, and the professionalism, work ethic and integrity you exhibit on a daily basis is a true example for the rest of the company to follow.""

, Although your letter should still be a few paragraphs at max, you should still make sure to repeat points of interest, most notably your gratitude and the importance. Giving the recipient a feeling of personal importance will make him that much more likely to help you again in the future.


For example, if the recipient helped you through openly vouching for a project idea of yours, you can explain specifically how that will help you in the long run: "Thanks to you vouching for me, I'll have my chance to show what a capable and innovative worker I am. I am confident that this tentative project will be a great success, and I am certain they'll want to see a lot more of me once it's done!"

, In a letter, it's important to leave the door open for future correspondence. Stressing that you would like to continue and develop a professional relationship with them will add substance to your gratitude, and make the recipient feel like his help has been taken to heart.
 The first and last thing the recipient reads will be the most memorable parts of the message, so it's important to end the message with another thank you before your name. Keep the thank you formal, but don't be afraid to dress up the gratitude a bit. For example, writing "A thousand sincere thanks!" sounds more impassioned than a basic "Thank you". , at the end if you're on personal terms. If you and the recipient are friends or connected in some way beyond a purely professional capacity, adding a P.S. at the end with a less formal greeting is a great way to add warmth to an otherwise austere correspondence. If the person knows you well enough, you'll want to let your personality shine through. For example: "P.S: If this interview goes through, I'll buy us a round at the pub this weekend!
Or, if you and the recipient are on equal footing in the career hierarchy: "P.S: I'll make sure to do the same for you next time! Together we'll be heading straight to the top!"

, A good professional letter will take much longer to plan than to write. Writing a second version will take a fraction of the time as the original, and on your second time around you'll be able to make it as good as you want it to be. Decide what parts of your letter you like the most, and do without the weaker elements, replacing them instead with sentences and ideas you think will best convey what you're trying to say.


If you're having any confusion regarding whether your letter works or not, try reading it out loud. You'll find reciting the letter (or any written document, for that matter) will bring attention to issues and areas for improvement you wouldn't normally pick up from reading alone.
 Once you've finished the draft, you should print it off as soon as possible and give it your signature in pen. Even with a typed document, you still want to give it a personal touch. A good way to cap off a professional letter is to type your full name, then make your pen-made signature right below it.

