 The Perfect cut equals the Perfect Outfit. Above all, cut is the most vital element of your look. If possible, imitate the French women and have all your staple items tailored. If you cannot afford tailoring, be ruthless when shopping. Only purchase pieces that fit you perfectly--belts that hug your hips, fitted waistlines and shoulders. Keep in mind that the most beautiful silhouette is clean, simple with graceful lines.;
, Seek out pure shades rather than "in-between" tones. Black is always lovely and white, navy, charcoal and true red are other desirable shades. If these colours do not attract you, do not be afraid to experiment with less conventional tones. However, be sure that your choice does not detract or distract from the innate beauty of the garment; the grace of its lines, the perfection of its design.
 However, exercise caution as prints can also be distracting. Choose a print that is neither too "loud" or too "busy". Tasteful, original floral designs are lovely as are bold, geometric patterns. Let your instincts guide you but remember: the simpler, the better.
 Do not settle for any inferior fabrics as the simplicity of classic clothes will certainly make this obvious. The beauty of a garment lies very much in the beauty of the materials used. Consider the different "characters" of various materials, how they look in different lights. A little black dress in wool has an immensely different feel to a little black dress in lace. The following are examples of "Classic" fabrics; silk, cashmere, good quality wool, lace, cotton, chiffon, corduroy. Fur is the best choice if you are looking to add a touch of luxury. If you are conscientious about wearing real fur, be sure to purchase a high quality faux substitute.
 While it is true that cut and material create a beautiful outfit, it is drama that captures and intrigues. Wear your classic items with irony: defy some traditional proportion (wear a trench coat over a short dress), wear an unexpected colour, add a taste of tackiness with patent leather or fake jewelry. Above all, allow a fascinating glimmer of your soul to shine through. Always be sure, however, to consider all your choices in the light of good taste and make beauty a priority.
 Choose tasteful jewelry and keep your accessories to bare necessity. Avoid gaudy, bright designs unless you are making a statement. The most beautiful jewelry is simple, often traditional and architectural. Fresh flowers are also very attractive especially when pinned in the hair on on the lapel.
 Shoes must be elegant in shape, simple and tasteful. Steer away from shoes that are gaudy, highly decorated or overtly unconventional. Look instead for small details of heel shape, stitching, colour and material. Likewise, bags should be simple in design, monochromatic and embellished with little hardware.
 Be sure that you are comfortable in the unique fit of your clothes and the reaction of the fabrics with your body. Study how your outfits moves with your moving body--is the effect graceful?

