 A low WBC count can result from a wide variety of medical conditions. You doctor will have to administer tests in order to better understand your situation if the cause isn’t obvious, such as a viral infection, autoimmune disease, HIV/AIDS, cancer or cancer treatment, or a prescription medication.Understanding why your WBC count is low will help you and your doctor come up with specific solutions.  ;
, There are several medications available that stimulate WBC production. All medications have benefits and risks, so be sure to ask your doctor about potential side effects.Ask your doctor, “Are there prescription medications that would be beneficial for my situation? What are my options with the lowest associated risks? Should I try dietary changes or natural remedies before taking medication?”
Risks and side effects of medications that stimulate WBC production can include allergic reactions, low fever, bone pain, discomfort at the injection site, weakness, diarrhea, and flu-like symptoms., A registered dietitian will help you create a meal plan customized for your specific needs. If you’re undergoing chemotherapy or other treatment for a chronic medical condition, talk to your treatment center about seeing their dietitian. You can also ask your primary doctor or specialist caregiver for a referral.Your personalized meal plan might include modifications to your daily recommended nutrients, like adding more protein than normally recommended to your diet. Your dietitian can also help you with recipes, safe food handling, and consult about adding supplements.
Tell your dietitian about your eating habits and any difficulty you have maintaining proper nutrition, such as loss of appetite, nausea or vomiting, and diarrhea. They can recommend foods and supplements that can help you get the nutrients your body needs to produce blood cells.
 Acupuncture has been shown to increase WBC production and promote bone marrow repair during chemotherapy.Sauna bathing also stimulates the immune system, particularly in athletes.Talk to your doctor before trying natural remedies, especially if you’re receiving chemotherapy or other treatment for a chronic medical condition.

