 You should have a syllabus for each of your classes. Write down every exam date for each of your classes in a day planner or organizer. You should also make a note of how much the exam is worth to the overall course. For example, an entry in your planner might say: History exam #2, worth 20% of the course.If you can't find your syllabus, check the course website or ask the instructor for another copy.;
, Look at your planner to see the day or week that you have multiple tests. Since the exams will most likely be worth different amounts for each course, you should rank the tests by the most important to least important. For example, your list may look like this:Biology test: worth 30%
History test: worth 20%
Algebra test: worth 15%

, Once you've ranked the exams by importance, determine if you'd like to spend more time studying for the most important exam. If your course grades are all around the same grade, you may want to do this. But if you have a poor course grade for the test that is worth the least, you may want to study more for this exam to boost your overall course grade.


For example, if you currently have an A in biology, but have a C- in algebra, you may want to spend more time studying for your math test.
 You could also choose to study by the test date. This is a good option if you have multiple tests spread throughout the week. If you do this, ensure that you plan to study at least a week or two before the exams. Your schedule might look something like this for the week before the exams:


Monday: study for next Monday's history test
Wednesday: study for next Wednesday's biology test
Thursday: study for next Thursday's algebra test

, After you've decided how you're going to study, schedule exact study times and write them in your day planner or organizer. Be as specific as you can with the schedule. For example, instead of just writing, "Study on Tuesday," you could note, "Study for biology test on Tuesday from 1 to 1:30."Being specific with your schedule will help you feel organized and prevent you from wasting valuable study time.

