 Lay the suit jacket face-up on a clean, hard surface such as a table. You start by laying the suit jacket face-up, to ensure that the lapels of the jacket are flat and evenly folded.Grab the bottom of the jacket by the four flaps (two front flap sides, two back flap sides). Use your other arm to support the mid section of the jacket as you flip it over from the bottom, to lay face-down., Fold the left side shoulder and sleeve in toward the back of the jacket. Do the same on the right side of the jacket, making sure that the jacket sleeves are lined up straight and even on both the side edges of the jacket.Use your hands to gently adjust and flatten out any wrinkles.
 Fold the trousers in half widthwise, so both trouser legs line up evenly lengthwise.If your trousers are pleated, you could also fold the trousers along the pleating in the middle of the legs. Then, fold the trousers once lengthwise, so the waistband of the trousers meets up with the bottom hems of the trouser legs.


Lay the trousers on your flat surface and again fold the trousers lengthwise. Bring the midsection fold of the trousers up to the waistband and bottom hems so the edges are evenly aligned., Place the folded trousers on the top, back portion of the jacket.Make sure that the pants are even with the collar of the jacket. The folded sides of the pants should be parallel to the folded sleeves and shoulders of the jacket.
 With the pants on top of the top, back portion of the jacket, fold the bottom of the jacket up to lie on top of the pants.Use your hands to gently spread out any uneven and bumpy surfaces. Hold on to the entire folded suit by the jacket bottom and collar area, and flip the suit over.Again, make sure that the lapels of the suit jacket are straight and even.
 Open up a large, plastic zip bag, and place the folded side of the suit into the bag first.The collar should be toward the top of the bag. As you close the zip closure on the bag, leave some room for air in the bag.Once the suit is folded in the plastic bag, you can place it in your wardrobe or drawer.


The air pocket in the bag will provide a barrier of air space, so if anything is on top of the suit, it won’t press down and cause wrinkles in the suit.

