 Recommended colors include yellow, pink, green, white and light pink.



Chain 6, slip stitch in the last chain from hook.
Chain 1, 6 slip stitches in the each chains. Double crochet 8 in a ring, then join together with a slip stitch.
Add a new color of yarn. Make 8 popcorn stitches with 5 double crochet and chain 2 between them.


Double crochet 3 in the chain space between two popcorn stitches, then chain 2.
Skip 2 popcorn stitches, make double crochet 3, chain 2 and double crochet 3 in the chain space again.
Repeat the process across the row, join together with a slip stitch.


Make slip stitch in the corner of the square (in the chain space between double crochet stitches).
Double crochet 5 in the next chain space.



Treble crochet 3 in the chain space between popcorn stitches of the previous row, then double crochet 5 in the chain space, where you made the previous 5 double crochet stitches.

Single crochet 3 in the next chain space.
Double crochet 5 in the next chain space, treble crochet 3 in the chain space between popcorn stitches of the previous row and double crochet 5 in the chain space higher.
Slip stitch in the next chain space.


Slip stitch (sl st) in the chain space, that you made first sl st in the previous row.
Single crochet in the first and in each stitches of the previous row.
Sl st in the chain space after you made single crochet stitches around half of the heart.
Sl st in the second from two chains and in the next stitch.
Chain 3, double crochet (dc) 2 in the next stitches.
Treble crochet 3 in the chain space between popcorn stitches of the previous row.
Dc 3 in the stitches after chains of the row higher.
Dc 3 in the next chain space and the same in the next stitches.
Dc 3 in the space between popcorn stitches, double crochet 3 in the stitches of the row higher.
Dc 2 in the next chain space.
Dc 12 in the next stitches.
Half double crochet (hdc), sc, sl st, sc, hdc in the next stitches.
Dc 12, dc 2 in the chain space, end with sl st.
 Make single crochet stitches moving from right to left.