 Try working on your project or idea when you first wake up. Often, when you're brain is still sleepy, you have similar brain patterns to when you're dreaming, and it can help get your creativity going., When you're stuck on a project, you're often stuck on one section. Maybe you can't get past the beginning or one particularly difficult part. If you've been hitting your against the problem for awhile now, try working on a different section. It may give you a chance to come up with a solution for the part you're having trouble with., Sometimes, when you've been working on a problem for hours, it's time to a take a break. If you can go do something else for awhile, it gives your brain a chance to work through the problem without actively beating against it.Try exercise for your break. It gets your body moving and gives your brain something to do, but it also doesn't overtax it, allowing it to still work on the problem in the background., You can't always just sit inside when you're trying to create. You have to refill yourself with things that make you curious or that interest you. When you spend time away from your project, make sure to observe what's going on around you., Freewriting or free-drawing can help you get over your creative slump. Basically, you just take out a piece of paper and start writing whatever comes into your head. For free drawing, just start doodling. While these techniques work best for writers and artists, they do have some crossover power, meaning anyone can use them to get your creative juices flowing.One way to jump start your creativity is to try a different kind of creative activity. For instance, you're a writer, try doing some painting to help get you out of your slump.
 You can't finish a project if you don't keep working on it. Sometimes, persistence is more important than raw talent. Keep working at it until you finish what you want to do., Sometimes talking through a problem, even to yourself, can help you get past your creative slump. It can help if you record what you're saying, so you'll have notes for later.