 You’ll need to do this to truly understand his voice and his character in general. Make note of the subtleties and nuances in his voice. Note the type of words he uses, phrases he says often and how he relates to others., Who better to learn how to mimic Cartman’s voice, than from the voice actor himself? Replay his videos a lot.


Observe how he holds his mouth, how his jaw is positioned, how his tongue stays flat when saying most words, etc., Cartman has a slight lisp and tends to jumble letters together. Instead of saying, “Cool!” and pronouncing all the letters in the word, Cartman says, “Ku!” He also tends to speak from behind his teeth. For example, when saying the word “tomorrow,” he pronounces it, “Tuh-muh-ruh.”


He’s a loud talker and often sounds like he’s yelling at everyone, even during normal conversations.
 Remember, Cartman is still a kid who hasn't gone through puberty so his voice is really high. He also sounds super nasally which is a distinct sound. Notice as well that when he speaks it almost sounds like he has marbles in his mouth.


Practice by squeezing your nostrils closed to imitate the voice.
Notice the squeakiness in his voice too. This is especially noticeable when he’s crying.
 The pitch is the noise created based on the rate of vibration of the vocal folds. The sound of the voice changes as the rate of vibrations varies. Meaning, if you want your voice to sound higher pitched like Cartman's, you will need to train your vocal cords to tighten and/or relax, depending on your natural sound.


Computer software can be used to manipulate your voice as well. While Trey Parker does a great job on his own creating the iconic sound, his voice is further altered by technology to produce an even more extreme pitch., Cartman has several go-to phrases he uses over and over again. To truly mimic the character, learn some of these in his accent. Among the ones you should work on first is: "Respect my authority,” which he pronounces “Rus-pec muh uh-thor-a-tie."


Another popular one to try would be, “Screw you guys...I'm going home!” He typically pronounces this like, “Skruh yuh guys… ahm guin’ hum!”, As a Cartman fan, you probably have your own Cartman-ism that you love to hear. After watching dozens of episodes, determine which ones you want to reproduce and go for it.


Choosing ones that are easily recognized as a Cartman phrase will help you win over your audience.
Consider creating a word or phrase that you may not have heard the character say but think it would be funny. Perhaps it’s something you say often but want your friends to hear it in the South Park’s character tone of voice. It will be hilarious!, You may not get it down on your first ten tries but it will come over time, and that’s part of the fun.


Find those who have mastered the Cartman voice and use their tips and tricks too., Part of Cartman’s appeal is his bratty attitude towards those around him. Create this persona by putting yourself in his shoes. Think about what he would say to a friend or someone he despises.


If you’re having difficulty, consider saying and/or doing the rudest, most inappropriate thing you can think of and you’re there!

, Cartman, perhaps unwittingly, has great rhythm and pace when dishing out some of his spot-on observations about life, current events and friends. You can learn this skill by not only watching him in action but also by observing other humorous personalities you enjoy.Note the pace and delivery of jokes. Cartman, like many comics, pauses before sharing the punchline. This tactic builds anticipation.
You can also try repeating things for added emphasis.
Speak slowly, allowing people to really hone in and focus on what you’re saying, then hit them with a witty Cartman zinger.
 If you really want to sound just like the beloved, animated character don’t hold back. Feel free to say exactly what’s on your mind, just like he does. If you notice, Cartman comments on race, religion, politics and everything in between!


Know your audience. Some may be offended by these antics and a bit peeved.

