 Making changes to your diet when you have diabetes can be overwhelming. To get help as you make the necessary changes, meet with a diabetes educator. This will help to ensure that you have a chance to ask questions about how to alter your diet for weight loss when you have diabetes.;
, One of the best ways to ensure you are eating healthy meals is to keep your food to as close to its original or natural form as you can. This means you should try to cook every meal from scratch, using fresh, organic ingredients. Organic foods have limited amounts of chemicals, which means you will then have less chemicals in your body that might interact negatively with your diabetes.If you are short on time, you can use a crock pot to make rice and beans and vegetable stews. Leave the ingredients in the crock pot and let them cook all day when you are at work or on the go. You can then freeze any leftovers or make extra to freeze for an easy, healthy meal.
 Increase the amount of vegetables in your diet to lose weight and stay healthy. Try a variety of vegetables and try to go for colorful vegetables, preferably fresh vegetables that are in season.You should also prepare vegetables in healthy ways, including steaming or roasting vegetables. You can also saute them in olive oil on medium heat or stir fry them in a healthy oil like canola oil or sesame oil.
Grilling vegetables on a barbeque is also a good healthy option. Try to lightly grill your vegetables, as too much of a char on food can be unhealthy for you.
 Herbs and spices can help you add a healthy taste or kick to your food, especially fresh vegetables. Herbs can also help you get over your sugar cravings, which will ensure you are not overdoing it on the sugar.You can add herbs like basil, parsley, cilantro, ginger, garlic, and rosemary to your meals. You can also add spices like cinnamon, fenugreek and cayenne pepper to your foods for more flavor.
 Complex carbohydrates are made up of individual sugar molecules that are strung together in branched chains. In contrast, simple carbohydrates are often found in processed and prepackaged foods in the form of added sugar like glucose, sucrose, and fructose. Having 90-95% of your carbohydrates as complex carbohydrates can help to control your diabetes and help you lose weight.Complex carbohydrates include whole, unprocessed foods like whole grains, peas, lentils, beans, and fresh vegetables. You should try to increase your consumption of these carbohydrates and reduce your consumption of simple carbohydrates.
 Fatty fish like salmon, cod, haddock, and tuna are good sources of omega-3 fatty acids and are also anti-inflammatory. Look for wild-caught fish, as they are usually healthier for you.You can then prepare fatty fish by baking it in the oven or cooking the fish at medium heat in a skillet.
 Ground flaxseed is an excellent source of fiber. Fiber is a good addition to your diet to keep your body healthy and your organs functioning properly. You should include one tablespoon of ground flaxseeds at the end of every meal.You can use a coffee grinder to grind your own flaxseed or buy pre-ground flaxseed at your local health food store. You should store pre-frozen ground seeds in your freezer so the healthy oils in the flaxseed prevent it from turning rancid.
 You should try to limit your portion sizes so you are not overeating at every meal. Try to have a fist sized portion of healthy protein, like fish, along with a fist sized portion of fresh or cooked vegetables, like a salad or sauteed kale. You should also have a fist sized portion of whole grains, such as quinoa or brown rice, to make a complete plate.Eat most of your complex carbohydrates, such as beans or whole grains, at lunch. You should try to maintain the same portion sizes for all three meals so you do not overeat.
 Stay hydrated, especially when you are doing exercise, by drinking lots of water throughout the day. You should try to consume one to two liters of water a day or six to eight 8 ounce glasses of water a day., It is important for diabetics to eat at set times throughout the day. This will help to regulate blood sugar levels and weight.For example, you may eat breakfast, lunch, and dinner so that they are spaced 5 hours apart, and then have a snack in between breakfast and lunch and lunch and dinner.
 A diabetes diagnosis does not mean you cannot eat any sugars at all. Instead, you should try to control the amount of sugar you consume. For example, the sugars in fruit are combined with fiber, which means it will take more time for your body to absorb the sugars in the fruit and will not lead to a sudden spike in your blood sugar levels. But the sugars in cake and baked goods are processed, meaning they can lead to a spike in your blood sugar levels.Be mindful of the types of sugars you consume and monitor your blood sugar levels. Avoid processed foods that contain sugars, as they can cause a sugar spike and lead to weight gain.
You should get in the habit of checking food labels for any sugars listed in the ingredients. Note any added sugars and avoid foods that are high in added sugars.
Packaged foods and fast foods are usually high in sugar so avoid them. You should also be wary of low-fat foods, such as low-fat yogurt. Often, the fat content is replaced with sugar in low-fat or fat-free products, especially if they are prepackaged.
Avoid or limit alcohol as well. Alcohol contains sugar and it can also interfere with your diabetes medications and insulin. Adding sugary mixers can add even more carbs and calories. If you do drink, drink moderately and only use calorie free mixers., White foods are often full of additives, preservatives, and added sugar. You should try to cut them out of your diet completely and replace them with healthy alternatives, such as whole wheat bread, whole wheat pasta, and brown rice. You should also replace sugary cereals with oatmeal or granola with no added sugars.You should avoid baked goods, such as cakes and pastries, especially those made with white flour. These items are often high in fat and sugar.
 Though a little red meat at dinner every few weeks will not be detrimental to your weight or your diabetes, you should avoid eating high amounts of red meat every week. If you do eat red meat, have non-GMO (Genetically Modified Organism) beef or pork and choose lean cuts. For the majority of your diet, you should go for healthy protein options like fish, shellfish, organic chicken and turkey, and eggs.You should avoid processed meats, such as cold cuts, chicken fingers, sausages, etc. These meats contain additives, preservatives, and added salt.
 Make sure that you talk with your healthcare provider before you start an exercise routine. Your healthcare provider may want you to start out slowly, such as by just walking. You may also need to take special precautions if you have type 1 diabetes, such as by monitoring your pre and post workout blood glucose levels and using snacks to help regulate them., It can be difficult to jump right into getting fit and doing exercise, especially if you are not usually into physical activity. Start by setting reasonable exercise goals for yourself so you feel set up to succeed and not overwhelmed. You can then steadily increase your physical activity over time, which can lead to better weight loss and a higher likelihood of keeping the weight off.You can start by setting a goal of going for a 30 minute walk every day or jogging for 30 minutes on the treadmill. Over the period of a month, you can then add on basic exercises that you can do at home or at the gym, such as doing sit ups and push ups or using light free weights.
You may also set a weight goal, where you aim to lose a certain amount of weight by a certain time. Set a reasonable goal, perhaps five pounds a month, and then increase your weight goal as you continue to exercise.
 Motivate yourself to work out by going for physical activities you enjoy doing and do not loathe with a passion. This will ensure you stick to the physical activity and are motivated to get better at the activity. Doing a physical activity you enjoy can actually help to relieve other issues in your life, such as stress or anxiety.Try to choose a physical activity that includes aerobics, strength training, and stretching. You can also add on these elements to a simple exercise like walking. Make sure you stretch for five to ten minutes before you start walking. Then, walk four blocks with no extra weights. After two weeks, increase the distance to six blocks with no extra weights. After two more weeks, you can continue to walk six blocks and carry five pound weights as you walk. Then, after one month, add on ankle weights and walk eight blocks. Always stretch after your walk to prevent injury.
Another option is to take a skill you are good at or enjoy and turn it into a way to exercise. For example, maybe you enjoy dancing and want to use dancing as a way to get fit. You may buy dance exercise videos and do them at home or join a hip hop dance class where you can have fun dancing and burn calories.
 You can also kick start your fitness plan by joining a fitness club near your home or your office. Schedule in work out time so you go to the fitness club and use the facility at least three to four times a week. You may use the workout machines at the club, play a sport with other club members, or do a fitness class at the club. Use all of the services at the club to your advantage and integrate them into your weekly workout routine.


One way to motivate yourself to work out is to do an exercise plan with a friend or sign up for a weekly fitness class with a friend. You can motivate each other to show up and workout.
 A personal trainer can be a good way to get into fitness and learn how to do it safely and properly. Your local fitness club may offer a personal trainer option or you may seek out a personal trainer on your own.Be sure to tell the personal trainer that you have diabetes.
Make sure the personal trainer is certified by a professional trainer group such as the National Strength and Conditioning Association or the American College of Sports Medicine.
 Avoid weighing yourself every day, as it will take time for your body to shed weight.


You may not see a noticeable difference in the mirror or on the scale until two-three weeks into your fitness plan. In fact, you may initially gain some weight as you gain muscle mass. Wait at least two weeks into your health plan to weigh yourself and make sure you are maintaining a healthy diet as well as working out regularly. You should be pleased by the results on the scale.

