 You'll need a few T-shirts to make enough yarn for the cloths. Make sure the tops are laundered and clean.;
, Some cotton T-shirts are a blend, whereas others are 100 percent cotton. Having access to “like” materials in each pile makes things easier. Also, consider taking the organizational piles even further by putting T-shirts of similar colors together. Since you’ll be shredding these shirts and creating your own homemade yarn from them, having like-colors in the same pile will allow you to create a certain color of yarn. It's not entirely necessary but if you're looking for something more uniform, it is a good idea.
 This step involves tearing each T-shirt into small strips of fabric, which are molded together to create the yarn for knitting the dish cloths. Tear the fabric into 1” (2.5cm) strips. Rather than cutting with scissors, this can be achieved just by tearing the shirt into strips (especially if the shirt is old and worn), beginning at the seam. Not only is tearing a quicker method, it allows you to create a rugged look with less loose threads. You can use a Sharpie to mark off 1” (2.5cm) sections on each T-shirt and run your fingers along the sides of the shirt after you’ve ripped it, to remove any loose threads.
 Fold one end of a 1” (2.5cm) strip under about ½” (1cm) and cut a small slit in the top. Repeat this step with the second 1” (1.5cm) strip. Place the two cut ends over each other and then pull one end of the second strip through the slit in the first strip and then fold back into itself, pulling the second strip completely through the slit. Pull tightly so the two strips blend to become one.
 You can either use a lock and hook method or knit the dish cloths. Essentially, the t-shirts will provide you with a ball or bunch of thread or yarn to work with. You can use the T-shirt yarn to either make a lock or hook pattern by threading the T-shirt yarn through pre-patterned strips to create the dish towel, or you can knit one. A lock and hook dishcloth won't be as flexible as a knitted dishcloth though.


Another idea for using the yarn could be to embellish existing dish towels with fabric designs using the T-shirt strips. Create patchwork designs or even crochet a small design to apply to existing dishtowels to enhance their appearance.

