 Look for shiny scales, clear eyes and bright red gills. The fisherman among us, or those who don’t mind a little extra work, might enjoy cleaning, gutting and scaling the fish themselves. The rest of us should ask to have it done at the fish counter so when we get home, the fish is ready to go.


A whole fish is much harder to overcook than a small fillet; the skin protects the delicate flesh from heat and keeps the moisture in. The bones add a little extra flavor, too. Throwing the fish over direct heat on a grill is a fast and easy cooking method that gives you moist, tender flesh, and crispy, salty skin every time., Cut deep slits spaced 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5.1 cm) apart along each side of the fish. Make at least 3-5 slashes in the meat perpendicular to the backbone on each side of the fish. You are doing this to open the interior of the fish to the heat, so it will cook evenly.


Make more slashes closer to the head, where the fish is thicker, than toward the tail, which cooks first. Snip off any sharp fins with kitchen shears or scissors., Sprinkle on a light coating of salt and pepper. There isn’t a whole lot of room to stuff smaller fish, but at the very least you can add few slices of lemon and sprigs of your favorite herb. Other seasoning combinations to try:Minced garlic with rosemary
Orange slices and paprika
Lime slices and cumin
Sliced green onion and tamari
Sliced red onion and basil
Minced garlic mashed with butter

, Olive or coconut work nicely. The grates of your grill should already be oiled down, but your fish will need it too, especially to prevent sticking.
 Wait until the grates are nice and hot before setting the fish down. If you don't, it'll stick. Steady, medium heat is best, otherwise the skin will burn before the fish is done. If possible, set the tail farthest away from the flames, as the skinnier, tail-end of the fish cooks faster than the rest., The crucial step is what you do after you place the fish on the hot grill: You wait. Fight the impulse to mess with the fish and move it around -- you'll rip the skin, lose some flesh, and throw off the cooking. Instead, stand there for 3-4 minutes. The fish is ready to be flipped when the skin no longer sticks to the grill.Generally, a fish that weighs 1/2 to 1 pound (.22 to .45 kg) will take about 5 to 7 minutes per side. Larger fish, 1 1/2 to 2 pounds (.7 to .9 kg), can take around twice that amount of time. Another general guideline for whole fish is 10 minutes of cooking per side, per inch of thickness., To turn the fish, have your tongs in your “off” hand and a big spatula (oiled on both sides) in your good hand. Gently turn the fish over. It should come off the grates cleanly. If not, don’t force it. Let the fish back down and come back at it with the spatula, using pressure to pry it off the grates. You don’t want to pull the fish away from the grates and have half the skin and meat stick to the grill. Once the fish is flipped, let it cook for another 5-6 minutes.If the skin does stick to the grill, which is hard to avoid entirely, don’t sweat it. The presentation might not be quite as pretty, but the fish will still taste just as good.
 Insert a thin skewer or toothpick into the thickest part of the fish. It should slide all the way in easily. When fish is cooked the meat will flake easily with a fork and will appear opaque all the way through. The flesh should also pull easily away from the bones.Place on a platter with a few garnishes and enjoy!

