 Morel mushrooms can be found across the US, but are most plentiful in the midwest.Their peak season is short, and the timing depends on your region and the temperature. Thus, for accuracy, check the overnight and daytime temperatures to find out when morel mushrooms are in season in your region, particularly if you plan to look for them growing wild.These mushrooms grow when the overnight low temperature is above 60 °F (16 °C) for at least three nights in a row, and will continue growing until the daytime high temperature reaches 80 °F (27 °C) to 84 °F (29 °C) or higher for three consecutive days.
For example, in the midwest peak season is the last week in April through the first week in May. In Alaska, peak season is mid-June to late July. In other areas, morel mushrooms may be found as early as March., Expect a hefty price, since morel mushrooms are a delicacy with a short growing season. However, purchasing them is generally safer and easier than hunting them down on your own. You can find dried morel mushrooms year-round, although they taste best fresh.For example, an ounce (30 g) of dried mushrooms costs about $35.95. Three ounces of dried mushrooms is the equivalent of about a pound (450 g) of fresh mushrooms.Fresh morel mushrooms typically cost between $30 to $75 a pound (450 g).
 Some species of mushrooms resemble morel mushrooms, so be careful and don’t pick them if you’re not sure.Bring an experienced person with you if you’re new to picking mushrooms. Take a nylon mesh bag along to store the mushrooms in. Look in places where morel mushrooms typically grow.Morel mushrooms particularly like to grow near certain types of trees: cottonwood, ash, tulip poplars, oak, dead elm trees, and in fruit orchards that aren’t well maintained.Try checking in forests with rich soil, slopes that face south, and near riverbeds.
Consult with at least two field guides to verify that mushrooms are edible before eating them. Then eat just a small bit and wait a full 24 hours to make sure there are no negative effects before you eat larger amounts.
 For the best taste, cook fresh mushrooms as soon as possible. If you must refrigerate them, wrap them in waxed paper or a paper bag. Refrigerate them between 34 °F (1 °C) to 35 °F (2 °C).Don’t refrigerate morel mushrooms in plastic bags, which can cause deterioration.

