 This is especially important if a friend moves away. Checking frequently assures them that you care. It shows that you want to know about their lives even when they are not with you.Even if a friend moves out of the country, there are apps that enable to you call each other, even on your phone (if you have a smartphone)., It is important not only that you call them regularly but also make sure you are not distracted when you call. You can tell when someone is distracted on the phone, and if a friend always seems distracted, it can make you feel like they aren’t really interested in talking to you. Making time for the calls is also important, as it allows for deep conversations to happen rather than just the basic updates.Instead of asking yes or no questions, or surface-level questions, you may ask things like, "What do you think you want out of your life?" or "Where are you on ..." and fill in the question with some important event that's been going on in their life. Similarly, respond to your friend's questions with more than one- or two-word answers., Whenever possible, meet in person. If your best friend lives in the same city, great! Meet them every week or more often if it suits both your interests and schedule. If they life out of town, try to make a point of scheduling time to meet when you are both in the same city or can afford to travel. If you're in school together, try your best to have some out of school time together., This one is hard. When our life gets busy, it is easy to get so wrapped up in our own problems and routine that we forget to make time for our best friend. However, it is extremely important to do this, if you want to keep the friendship going. Friends will understand if you are sometimes busy or if there are times in your life when you can’t make the time, but if you are always too busy for your friend, you may want to re-evaluate your priorities., Keeping in touch via social media is common even when you live in the same place. It can augment your face-to-face interactions, and help you keep in touch when you can’t see each other. In long distance friendships, social media can be a way to keep in touch daily, even when time zones and schedules don’t allow for regular calls., Video chat can be the next best thing to talking in person. While not everyone’s connection is fast enough to support video chat, if yours is, you should take advantage of it. Video chat allows you see and hear your friend., Video chat allows for signing and lip-reading. There also apps for dictation, closed captions, and text-to-speech communication. Using these apps will help you keep in touch with your best friend.