 One of the first things you want to do is make sure that your mouth is clean and that there isn't bits of food bothering the painful spot. Water that is too cold or too hot can hurt your mouth, so definitely go for lukewarm to warm water.Floss gently between your teeth. Flossing gets rid of the food and bacteria still lingering in your mouth, and increases the gum protection against harmful species that can insert in the gum sulcus. Avoid flossing too roughly around the affected area because this could cause it to hurt more and to bleed.;
, Sometimes the best way to deal with the pain is to mask it with pain medication until you can see a dentist. Most over the counter medication will work fine for your toothache and if it's so severe that the medication doesn't work, you should see someone right away.









Aspirin is especially helpful for problems in the joint of the jaw in adults.
Acetaminophen (not aspirin) should be used for children and teenagers.
 This can help to ease the toothache by numbing the pain. Using this in conjunction with over the counter medication can help ease your pain until the painkiller can kick in.
 Saltwater can kill bacteria and make your toothache feel better. It can also ease it so that it doesn't get infected. Mix 1 tsp (5 g) of salt in a medium-sized glass of warm water.








Swirl it around in your mouth for a maximum of five minutes and spit it out. Make sure that you don't swallow!

, Soak a cotton ball in a mixture of a few drops of garlic clove oil and a small amount of olive oil, and apply the cotton ball to the area of pain.
 The natural tannins already in the tea can help to numb the pain. This is particularly good for the swelling or irritation of your gums. Make sure that the teabag isn't too hot otherwise you'll simply hurt the area more.









Constant exposure can stain teeth so use sparingly.
 As with salt water, a peroxide rinse helps remove contaminants and limits the growth of bacteria. It's particularly good for impacted teeth or infections in your mouth and you can use it periodically throughout the day until you can see an emergency dentist.









This should not replace your regular brushing and flossing.
Do not sue a peroxide rinse more than three times in a day for more than five days in a row, otherwise your teeth may get very sensitive.
 There are several types of vegetables that you can cut up and place on the injured area. These can help ease the pain and the chance of infection, but they shouldn't replace actually visiting the dentist if your pain persists.








Place a slice of cool cucumber over the sore area.
Cut up a piece of raw, fresh potato and hold in place on the sore spot in your mouth. Make sure that you've peeled it too.
Hold a slice of freshly cut onion inside your mouth against the injured area. It needs to be freshly cut so that there's a bit of juice.
 You can either chew on fresh mint leaves, or hold some dry mint leaves in place over the sore area. If your tooth hurts too much to chew, then you should place some mashed or dry mint leaves over the infected area.








