 Once you’ve decided what kind of paper you want and you know what size it comes in, measure your walls, top to bottom and side to side. How many sheets is that?


If it’s not even, you’ll have to figure out what you need to do. For example, let’s say your wall is 60” across and your papers are 11” across. Do you want 5 pieces of paper that are 11” and 1 that’s 5” across or 6 pieces of paper that all measure 10”? This is generally determined by how you want your seams to look.
 Unless you’re using plain, non-patterned paper, you’ll need to know which piece to put where and how before you ’actually put it in place. The edges that touch should line up perfectly – if they don’t, cut them to size or overlap them so that they do (or don’t, depending on your preferences). Place them on the floor how you want them to look on the wall.


Sometimes it works having a tiled look. That part is up to you – do you want them to be one cohesive pattern or a whole bunch of mini patterns?

, Now that you have every piece sprawled out on the ground, flip it over and place double-sided tape on every edge. Start at one corner and work your way out.


Don’t skip a corner. If you do, you might end up with an edge of the paper coming up from the wall, and that is not a cute look for your interior decorating style.
 As you’re holding the sheet of paper to the wall, start peeling the edge of one piece of tape, smoothing the paper against it as you go. As that part is secured to the wall, peel another piece of tape and smooth that side. Going one at a time will help get rid of any bubbles and make sure the paper lies flush against the wall.Adjust as necessary. You may find that the piece of tape moves the paper just the teeniest bit, but somehow miraculously knocking off your entire pattern. In that case, just adjust. There’s a reason you’re using paper on your walls and not paint, you know.
 Again, start from one corner and work your way out to keep your pattern cohesive and make it easier for you to place. If there’s an excess paper hanging off the edges, take scissors or a box cutter to the edge and cut it right off. Then, that’s literally it. Who knew it could be so simple?


If you end up getting a bit sloppy, don’t fret. Just cut off the dimensions you messed up or let it overlap. An exacto knife and a rule work wonders, but odds are no one will notice the overlap if you go the lazy route instead!

