 The common interest exception is a rather limited exception to attorney-client privilege. It only allows disclosure of attorney-client communications to specific third parties with whom you share a common interest.Before you can assert the common-interest exception, you must first show that the communication you want disclosed was privileged in the first place.
Generally, communication between an attorney and a client is considered confidential and privileged if it was made within the context of an attorney-client relationship for a legal purpose.
The communication must be made in a confidential environment, or at least in a situation where privacy can be reasonably expected.
For example, if you're talking to your attorney in his or her office, you have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
However, if you're talking to your attorney in a busy coffee shop where people are sitting nearby and constantly walking by, you can't really argue that you have a reasonable expectation of privacy there. Nothing you talk about would be considered privileged because the entire conversation could easily be overheard.
 The common-interest exception allows communications that otherwise would be privileged to be disclosed to someone else. However, it only applies to communications made within the context of that specific common interest.Generally, any other communication with your attorney would still be considered privileged and would not be disclosed to the other person.
For example, suppose you and your friend are charged with robbing a convenience store. You also are charged with drunk driving. However, your friend has nothing to do with the drunk-driving charge.
Since you both have a common interest in the defense against the robbery charge, your communications with your attorney regarding that charge could be shared with your friend and their attorney. This assumes you and your friend are conducting a joint defense against the robbery charge.
However, any discussion you have with your attorney regarding your drunk-driving charge would remain privileged. Your friend would have no right to any of that information.
 The only communication with your attorney that is subject to the common-interest exception is communication designed to further the common interest you have with the other person.Even if the communication still falls within the same context, it can't be disclosed to the other person if it relates solely to your own personal interests and has nothing to do with them or your joint endeavor with them.
For example, suppose you and a friend have both been charged with robbing a convenience store. If you're putting on a joint defense against the charges, communication with your attorney related to that joint defense would be subject to the common-interest exception and could be shared with your friend and their attorney.
However, if you discuss the possibility with your attorney of making a deal with the prosecutor to provide evidence or testimony that your friend actually did commit the crime, but you did not, those discussions remain protected by attorney-client privilege.
Since that deal protects your own self interest at the expense of your friend, it doesn't further the purpose of your joint defense.
 Since the attorney-client privilege belongs to the client, as the client you have the absolute right to waive this privilege at any time. If you do, all communications between you and your attorney can be revealed to others.Waiving attorney-client privilege is not the same as sharing information with someone with whom you have a common interest.
If you waive the privilege, that means the information can be shared with anyone, regardless of whether you have any common interest with them at all.

