 The Pilates roll down will stretch your hamstrings and calves while relieving tension in your back. If you need more support, then stand with your back and hips against a wall and with your feet about 6” from the wall. Keep your hips over your feet so that you don’t hyper extend your knees, and concentrate on keeping your abdominal muscles scooped and lifted throughout the exercise.
 The seated forward bend is one of the 12 basic positions in hatha yoga. In addition to stretching the hamstrings and calves, this pose will help to relieve the symptoms of sciatica while stretching and lengthening the spine. The pose will also stimulate the solar plexus chakra and improve concentration.
 This stretch will open up the hips, stretch the hamstrings and calves, and deeply stretch the entire side of the body. If you are struggling to get a deep enough stretch, wrap a yoga strap around the arch of your foot and use it until you can comfortably reach your foot. If you are extremely flexible, then grasp your foot with your top hand instead of just extending it over the top of your body.
 This stretch for your hamstrings and calves can be easily modified to match your flexibility level. If you cannot bend all of the way over, then place your hands on a wall in front of you so that your arms are parallel to the floor. If you need more of a challenge, then unfold your arms and grasp your ankles, bringing your head down to meet your knees.
 This pose, also commonly called the “gate pose,” gets its name because your upper body crosses over to resemble the cross beam of a gate. In addition to stretching the hamstrings and inner thighs, the cross beam opens up the side of the body, enhancing yogic breathing. If you have no yoga mat, then you can pad your knees with pillows or blankets. This pose is recommended for yoga beginners.
 To perform this pose, you will start in the hero pose. If you cannot sit on the floor between your heels, then sit on a yoga block or a pillow so that your knees are comfortably tucked in beside you. As you recline, you can ask a partner to push against your thighs to increase the stretch in your quadriceps. You can also place a yoga block or pillow beneath your head and shoulders as you recline.
 The king dancer will stretch your quadriceps while opening up your hips and the front of your body. You can wrap a strap around your back foot if grasping your foot behind as it is positioned behind your body is too challenging. If balance is an issue, rest your extended hand against a wall for support.
 The warrior II pose will stretch your inner thighs. With your front leg in “lunge” position, you will also strengthen your quadriceps and glutes. If balance is a challenge, place your hands on your hips instead of extending them. This pose is a depiction of Shiva, a Hindu warrior god.
 The butterfly pose will stretch out your inner thighs. Put your feet together with your knees out, then bend forward.

