 Mindfulness uses concentration and acceptance to maintain presence in the moment.Mindfulness is a great way to overcome complaining because it allows you to accept the present moment and all that comes with it.


Practice mindfulness by sitting quietly in a comfortable chair or on a cushion. Breathe deeply—in through your nose and out through your mouth. Focus on your breath, clearing your mind of all other thoughts. When you notice your mind wandering, simply bring your attention back to your breath without judgment., Self-care and taking steps to make sure you are in your best physical shape can go a long way in changing your outlook.Instead of complaining, use the extra energy you would waste on the negative to squeeze in a good workout. Use a long walk as a break from stress at home or spend 30 minutes doing cardio to sweat out the frustration you might otherwise complain about.
Using physical activity to give your body a boost also will help with your mood as moving your body releases feel-good chemicals called endorphins. Being in poor health or poor physical fitness can be yet another thing to complain about. Exercise is a constructive way to improve your physical and mental well-being.
 Be mindful of your triggers and which audiences tend to bring out the most complaints, and then work to find ways to relax instead of reacting. Great ways to relax may include deep breathing, meditation, yoga, progressive muscle relaxation, or even going for a nature walk.If you are able to make yourself aware of some of the major triggers you can prepare yourself with positive affirmations or even role play different ways to respond to the triggers. In order for a trigger to work it depends on a knee jerk reaction from you; learn to take away that power by relaxing or otherwise preparing yourself.
 Embrace the opportunity and power to make changes in your day to day life. Each day is a chance to do better than before. Start with small steps to move forward and build on what you have learned from past mistakes.Embrace the chance to experiment and mix things up a bit. Open yourself up to try new things even if you are not sure if they will be successful. Strive to enjoy the experience instead of driving just for success.

