 The surgeon or doctor may have you cover the area where your granuloma was removed. This helps protect the wound from infection and can absorb any blood or fluid leakage.Put on a new covering with light pressure if you experience any bleeding. If you have a lot of bleeding, contact your doctor.
Wear the bandage for at least one day after your medical professional removes the granuloma. Keep the wound as dry as you can, which helps it heal and keeps bacteria out of the site. Avoid showering for at least a day after the procedure, unless your doctor advises that it is safe., Change the bandage a day after the procedure, or sooner if necessary. The bandage keeps the site clean and dry. It can also minimize the risk of infection or serious scarring.Use bandages that let your skin breathe. Air flow can promote healing. You can get breathable bandages at most drug stores and at many grocery stores. Your doctor may also provide you with dressings for the wound.
Change the bandage until you see no open wounds or as instructed by your doctor. You may only need to keep the area bandaged for one day.
 Washing your hands is important any time you touch the site or change the bandages. This reduces the risk of infection or scarring.Wash with warm water and a soap of your choice. Lather your hands for at least twenty seconds., It’s important for healing and preventing infection to keep the surgical site clean. Wash the area daily with a mild cleanser or soap, which can get rid of any bacteria on your skin.Use the same soap and water to clean the site that you would on your hands. Stay away from scented cleansers to avoid irritation. Rinse the site thoroughly with warm water.
Dab on a bit of hydrogen peroxide if your doctor instructs you or if you see any redness that may be an infection.Pat the wound dry before putting on the covering., Any type of surgical removal may cause mild pain or tenderness at the removal site. Take an over-the-counter pain reliever to relieve discomfort and decrease any swelling. Ibuprofen, naproxen sodium or acetaminophen can reduce any discomfort. Ibuprofen may also minimize swelling.Get a prescription for pain medication if you have severe pain.

