 A blender works best since blenders generally achieve smoother consistency, but a food processor can still work if you don't have a blender. If using a food processor, you may want to add a little less liquid than normal to prevent potential leaks.








You can also use an immersion blender instead of a standard version. Immersion blenders allow you to blend smaller portions in a single serving glass, making them ideal if you want to experiment with small batches.;
, Fresh or frozen fruit will make up the base of your smoothie but note that you can make a delicious smoothie with canned or even reconstituted dried fruit. You can focus on one fruit, or add several. (Figuring out a fruit combination you like is part of the fun of making smoothies!) Here are some options to consider:









Peaches, strawberries, blueberries, raspberries, bananas, apples, kiwis, mangoes, avocados and pomegranates are popular choices.
"Juicy" fruits that contain a lot of water can also work well, such as oranges, watermelon and pineapple. Just be aware that they'll make your smoothie more watery, and make up for it accordingly with a thickener (such as protein powder).
If you're looking for a good starter combination, try strawberry-banana or raspberry-peach.
For a single serving, you'll usually want to add a total of 1/2 cup to 2 cups (125 to 500 ml) of fruit. Use less when sticking with heartier fruits, like bananas, and more when relying on berries., The other main part of your smoothie is the liquid you choose to add to it. Here are some possibilities:









Milk (skim or whole) is a popular choice.
Soy milk works for people who are lactose intolerant, as well as adding some protein.
Greek yogurt (sweetened or plain) will result in a thicker smoothie.
Nut milk (such as almond or coconut) can make the taste of your smoothie different.
Tea (black, herbal or chai) adds antioxidants and can tone down the sweetness.
Fruit juice or concentrate (any flavor) can help make your smoothie more complex if you only have one or two fruits to work with. (Be careful, though - if you're drinking smoothies as part of a diet, sugar-packed fruit juices aren't a good idea.)
Ice cream, sherbet or frozen yogurt. (If you add these items, you probably won't need ice cubes at the end.)
Sparkling water will result in a lighter smoothie (try lime or lemon-flavored).
Water, if you have nothing else on-hand, works great.
Use 1-1/2 cups (375 ml) of any liquid for a single smoothie, or less liquid if you prefer thicker smoothies or need to use a food processor., If you want to make your smoothie resemble an actual meal, add some protein powder to it. Whey and soy are popular choices, but you can also use sprouted brown rice.









Use 2 to 4 Tbsp (30 to 60 ml) of protein powder.If you want natural sources of protein, you could also use up to 1 cup (250 ml) cottage cheese or 2 oz (57 g) of tofu., Make your smoothie a little healthier by sneaking in some barely noticeable greens. Kale and spinach blend well, and you won't even be able to taste them. You can also try Swiss chard, celery, beetroot, the greens of vegetables (of radishes, beet, carrots, celery or kohlrabi, for example), or fresh herbs like parsley or dandelion leaves. Or, if greens aren't in season, purchase a green plant powder (available at most health food stores) and add that to your smoothie.









The amount of veggies used should not exceed the amount of fruit if you want to maintain a sweet flavor. The total amount of fruit and vegetables should be 1 to 2 cups (250 to 500 ml)., If you're worried that your smoothie won't taste sweet enough, you can give it a little help. Of course you can always put some plain sugar in the blender, but here are some healthier choices:









Ripe bananas
Honey (used in a lot of "commercial" smoothies)
Agave nectar
Stevia (natural sugar substitute)
Splenda (artificial sweetener)
Add sweeteners to taste. Start with 1 tsp to 1 Tbsp (5 ml to 15 ml) and add additional sweetener as needed in small increments.
 Here are some other items you can add to your smoothie to change its taste. Again, experiment and see what you like:









Vanilla extract (1 teaspoon)
Cinnamon (aids digestion)
Cayenne pepper
Nutmeg (only a pinch)
Oreos
Almond extract
Coconut shavings
Peanut butter
Banana
Or any of a myriad of extracts available.
 Once everything's in the blender, put some ice cubes on top. For a single-serving smoothie, 3 or 4 should be plenty.









If you're worried about thinning the drink too much, only add 1 or 2 cubes. You can always add more later.
Frozen fruit can be substituted for some or all of the ice, making for a brighter flavor. You can freeze your own, or buy them pre-frozen.
 Put the lid on the blender, and turn it on no higher than medium. Once the blender starts to "digest" the fruit, turn it up one notch at a time. If there isn't a "smoothie" or "shake" function, "puree" works as well. Start slow. Let the blender chew about 1 minute.
 If you like the way it looks, pour your cool concoction into a large glass.









It's a good idea to taste the smoothie before serving it. Add additional flavors and ingredients as desired to improve the taste or consistency.
 Loose berries, a wheel of lemon or lime, a sprig of mint, or flat-leaf parsley can add a fun touch to the final beverage. If you're feeling tropical, add a little umbrella.
 Blend peanut butter, banana, milk, and honey into a delicious, protein-packed smoothie. You'll need to blend all of the ingredients together for 30 to 60 seconds to combine them. For this smoothie, you'll need:









1 banana
1/8 cup peanut butter
1/2 cup soy milk (or regular milk)
2 Tablespoons honey, Combine 2 cup (500 ml) hulled strawberries, 1/2 banana, and 1 peach in a blender. Blend until the fruit is pureed.

Afterward, add 1/2 cup (125 ml) orange juice and 1 cup (250 ml) ice to the blender. Blend until smooth.Pour the smoothie into glasses and enjoy.
 If you're interested in boosting your protein intake and getting some antioxidants into your diet, this might be a good choice.Combine 1 cup (250 ml) frozen berries (blueberries, strawberries, etc.) with 1/2 cup (125 ml) water, 1/4 cup (60 ml) low-fat plain yogurt, 1 tsp (5 ml) honey, and 1 Tbsp (15 ml) unsweetened soy protein powder.
Blend all of the ingredients together at once until smooth. Serve and drink immediately for the best flavor and taste.

