 Measure across the width of the hallway, and divide it in half to find the midpoint of the hallway's width. Then, measure across the length of the hallway and divide it in half to find the midpoint of the hallway's length.


Draw a chalk line from each parallel midpoint to divide the hallway in half, both lengthwise and widthwise.
 On the backside of each tile there’s an arrow. You need to choose which direction you want your tiles to face, based on the pattern you wish to achieve.


If you don't lay your tiles with the arrows facing the same direction, you may alter the final pattern created by your tiles.
You can choose to lay your tiles on a north-south axis, or an east-west axis.
If you want to intentionally change the look of your pattern, you can, but do so only after understanding that it will look different than advertised.
 Take your first tile, and lay it at the intersection of your chalk lines.


Make sure two sides of the first tile, forming a right angle, fit flush with the vertical line and horizontal line.
The exact corner of the tile should touch the center point of the floor.
 Start laying tiles from the center line that you drew, until you get towards the end of the hallway. This will allow you to see if the tiles are equidistant from the wall or not.


If for some reason they aren't even, you may have to adjust your chalk line to where the distance on each side of the tiles looks acceptable.
 Hallways don’t usually need cuts, because they are open at both ends.


If you do need to cut the hallway tiles for some reason, use your carpenter’s square, sharpie, and a razor knife to cut the tiles perfectly.
Although not essential for proper installation, an equidistant look is aesthetically pleasing, especially in a hallway where the carpet will act as a runner.
 With your installation kit, you received a package of FLOR dots, one-sided adhesive circles that are meant to connect the floor tiles to one another. Raise the corners of each adjacent tile to get a corner of the tile attached to its dot.


Each tile's corner should cover 1/4th of a dot, to make sure there is room for the other three connecting tiles.
If it's only two tiles being connected, you can move the dots inward to hide the edges from view.
These dots are meant to adhere to each tile, not to the floor.
Once you’ve got them connected, gently press down and step on each corner to make sure the adhesive is sticking properly.
You have a few hours to make sure everything is put down correctly (you can still remove the tiles if you have to).
 Your FLOR tiles do not require any special treatment, beyond what you would do for regular carpet.


However, an advantage to FLOR tiles is that if you stain one permanently, you can simply buy one new tile instead of throwing away the whole carpet.

