 Cell phones, MP3 players, or camcorders that you don't use anymore are all fair game. They are actually still valuable! Just be sure that you perform a factory reset on the device before selling it. If you don't do that, the buyer will be really confused with weird calls and songs they may not like. You can sell them on websites like eBay or Amazon or even to your friends.;
, Buy multi-packs of candy for 50 cents and sell them at school, a candy stand, etc. for $1 each. If you manage to sell twenty in a day, you'll make $20. Alternatively, you could make a lemonade stand and sell 1 glass for 50 cents or $1.
 Because this is a sales job, it means you have to go up to people and talk them into visiting a store or buying a product/service. Just put a smile on your face and remember that most adults love children. You were born to sell!

, Do you have any junk that you don't need or any toys that you don't play with anymore? Sell them! One man's trash is another man's treasure. If you live in an apartment this may be hard. If so, then contact a friend and ask if you can "borrow their yard" for a day. Don't forget to get a Garage Sale permit from your city or township.
 If you know how to make bookmarks, for example, make them, and then set up a stand on the edge of your yard, or hand out fliers at school. Just know that some schools frown on this practice. Be sure to talk to your school before doing this. Some quick and easy business ideas for you to consider:


Make toys for pets. People love their cats, dogs, parakeets, and fish. Why not design toys for their pets to enjoy?
Make food arrangements. Candy, fruit, and other foods are begging to be arranged in nice ways for people to show off before they eat it. An easy way to turn a nice profit.
Make use of holidays. It's Halloween, so why not offer to carve pumpkins? It's Christmas, so why not make homemade ornaments for people to hang on their trees?
Offer to make scrapbooks for other people. Scrapbooking is a very profitable industry around the world, and for good reason: People want to capture their memories in one place and cherish them. Offer to help people do that.

