 Navigate to the icon on your iPhone's home screen and tap to open.;
, Enter OLX in the search bar, then tap on it when it comes up in the results.
 Tap "Install." Downloading will occur after you provide your iTunes account password.
 Locate it on your home screen and tap the icon to open.
 Tap on "Sell" from the bottom menu and you will be asked to log in. If you already have an OLX by Sulit account, you may skip this step. Otherwise, tap on "Register." Fill out the required fields, then tap "Done."

, Tap "Me" from the bottom menu then tap "Log In." Put in your username or e-mail, and password to log in.
 If you take bad or blurry pictures, the chances of you selling your item are very slim.


Use your iPhone’s camera to take the pictures.
 Tap "Sell" from the bottom menu. You will be brought to the Sell screen where you will need to provide information on the item you’re selling. Make the ad title eye-catching, short and to the point.
 Tap "Choose Photos." Upload the pictures you want to use from your camera roll.
 Make your price realistic and practical for the item you’re selling. If it’s too high, people might ignore it. If it’s too low, people might think it’s a scam.
 Describe your item accurately. Clearly state if it’s brand-new or used. A good description will attract more buyers and require less effort to manage questions.
 Where is the item located? Buyers will also consider your location and distance from them to determine if they can do meet-ups or ask for shipping.
 Properly select the category related to your item. It will get better exposure under the right category.
 Is the item brand-new or used?

, Once you’ve properly set up the ad, tap "Done" at the top of the screen. Your ad will be sent to Team OLX for review and approval.
 Once your ad is approved it will be formally posted and publicly available for viewing. Team OLX will notify you via e-mail.
 If you and a buyer make a deal, then you can consider your item sold. Complete the terms of your deal before marking your ad as sold.