 On your beach day, you’ll be eager to get out on the sand and less likely to spend time preparing and packing your snacks properly. Chop up your carrot sticks, create your wraps, freeze what needs frozen, and individually bag your items the night before. Have your cooler bag ready to be filled with ice and your snacks so you can be out the door quickly., Especially if you’re only packing a few small snacks, a couple of frozen plastic water bottles can pull double-duty as ice packs and cold refreshment. Freeze the bottles overnight, and they’ll thaw out throughout your beach day.Bring along one chilled but unfrozen water bottle so you can hydrate right away when you get to the beach.
Don’t rely on frozen water bottles alone if you’re packing perishable snacks and/or a larger bag. But they can provide a nice supplementary chill.
 Just like frozen water bottles, some foods can be frozen beforehand so that they end up the right temperature when you’re ready for them. Frozen tubs or squeeze tubes of yogurt, for instance, will thaw out during the day and be chilled and ready to enjoy at snack time.Grapes and blueberries are also good options for freezing and thawing, although they will become even more sticky (and thus sand-attracting) this way.
 If you just want to toss a quick, small snack into the bottom of your beach bag, pair a frozen water bottle with a resealable bag filled with cut carrots and celery and ice cubes. The chilly environment will keep your veggies crisp and refreshing until you’re ready to eat them. If sealed correctly, the baggie will also prevent leakage., Take a bit of time to plan things out before you start tossing snacks into your cooler. Any meats or dairy products in particular need to be kept cold right until you eat them. To manage this, layer your items in the cooler bag by temperature needs. For instance:Put a layer of ice or ice packs in the bottom of the cooler.
Place perishables like deli wraps on top of the ice.
Layer fruits and veggies on top of the meats and/or dairy.
Pile on non-perishables like pretzels as the next layer.
Add some frozen water bottles as the top layer. If you still have extra space, use a small towel or t-shirt to help hold in the chill.
 No one wants their beach day to end with a bout of food poisoning. Keep cold foods cold all day long, clean your hands before eating, and, when in doubt, toss foods out.Do not mess around with perishable foods like meats and dairy. If they’re not still cold, don’t eat them.
Keep your cooler in the shade and your food out of the sun. Only get out the food you’re going to eat when you’re going to eat it, and put the rest away promptly.
Bring the supplies you need so you can clean your hands and clean up your area after eating.

