 Your character must be an Assassin or an Assassin Cross. Either class will do as long as you have a base level of 99 and job level of 50 or higher.


It's advisable that you have an Assassin Cross instead of just an Assassin. With Assassin Cross, you get to keep stronger skills such as Soul Breaker, which is highly effective for mid-range combat. Meteor Assault is perfect to control crowds as well, especially when you're doing solo leveling or hunting.;
, Locate a Kafra employee. To find one, look for a box icon in your mini map found at the upper right-hand side of your screen. This indicates the location of a Kafra employee. Kafra can be found in any city in the game.


Head to the Kafra employee and then talk to her. This will open a small window with options. Choose Use Teleport Service, and then select Morroc from the list.
Remember that the only Kafra Service you can use to get to Morroc City are from Prontera, Payon, and Comodo.
 You can find him inside the Pub at the southwestern area of the city. It's a small building with an NPC standing in front of the entrance named Sharp-Looking Boy. This NPC has purple hair and is wearing tribal clothes.


Follow the long path until you reach the end, and enter the portal to be teleported inside the Pub.
Inside, you will find a cloaked NPC sitting alone by the counter named Guild Member. Talk to this NPC by clicking on him, and he will ask for your name. The NPC will then explain that his master knows about you and is aware that you have a potential ability.
The NPC, Ahcart, will then offer you to do a certain duty, and you will be rewarded once completed.
 The NPC will then tell you to go to Veins to talk to Daora regarding the task.
 Go back to Prontera City using the Kafra Service in Morroc.


From Prontera, use the Kafra Service again to teleport to Izlude.
Once you're in Izlude, head south from the town and then follow the pathway until you reach the airship port. There will be an NPC standing in front of the airship. Talk to her and she will ask you for the destination. Choose Rachel.
 You have to wait inside until the Captain announces that you have arrived in Rachel. Only then you can step out from the airship.


In Rachel, look for a Kafra employee using the mini map. Talk to her to use the teleport service to reach Veins.
 Once you get in Veins, the Town of Deserts, head south (the place will be indicated by a box icon on your mini map). From there, walk east and follow the trail that leads northeast until you find an NPC by the road named Ledrion. He's not difficult to spot as he's the only NPC with jet-black hair and wearing formal attire.


To his left, are a set of staircases that lead to the guild. Climb the stairs then follow the path until you reach the end. Enter the glowing portal next to the small house at the end of the path.
Once inside, just like the Pub in Morroc, keep on walking until you reach the end.
The next room looks like the Pub in Morroc but with less NPC. Here you will find Daora next to a small girl behind the bar.
 She will offer you a drink, choose “.....” to have her ask for your name, and she will then recognize you.


Daora will then instruct you to go inside the next room to meet someone.
 In the next room, just right across the counter, you will find a portal. Get inside and then enter the portal at the left side of the screen. This is the room where you will meet Mayshell.


Mayshell is standing behind the counter; simply talk to her and she will explain to you the special quest that was mentioned by Ahcart in Morroc City.
The quest is about tracking and assassinating a person, but for now, you need to head back to Daora to ask for assistance.
 Choose “Ask for 1 glass” once the selection appear. She will then explain that she can't give you a drink while on duty.
 This time, select “.....” to show that you're disappointed. She will then apologize and yet again explain that she can't give you any glass.
 A new selection will appear. Choose “Ask for help.” Daora will then give you hints regarding the person you're tracking.
 With clues in hand, go out of the Pub and look for Trovan, the Vigilante in Veins. He can be found in the northeastern part of the city. Simply climb down the stairs where Ledrion is standing and then follow the road that leads north.


You will find the Vigilante NPC standing to your right, holding a huge sword. Talk to him to ask about finding any strangers in town.
 Check your mini map. The location of this shop is indicated by a bottle icon. Head to it and enter the building.
 Crave is the trader mentioned by Daora earlier; talk to him and ask if he found any strangers around.
 To find the Bar, from the Tool Shop, step out and then cross the rope bridge. Walk to your left to get on top of the building and then head north.


Once you reach the wall, walk to your left to cross the hidden pathway. Follow the path, but DO NOT climb up the ladder.
Near the end of the path, you need to climb down the stairs to find a portal next to the Bar; go inside and meet Madelle.
 After that, ask if she found any strange guests in the Bar.


After her explanation, a selection will appear regarding the Vigilante's information. Choose “Unfamiliar.”

, Have the information analyzed.


In the first set of options, choose 1 glass to ask her for a drink; another set of options will appear.
Choose “Residence is unclear” and then “More than 2.” Daora will agree with you.
 In the next set of options, select “Ask Advice” and then “Heart-to-heart.” Daora will then explain to you about a young girl who knows how to find people.
 This young girl can be found at the center of Veins City. She's the girl with blond hair standing behind the cactus near the cliff, so make sure to climb up when you reach the middle of the map. During the conversation, she will ask you for the details of the person you're looking for. Select the following:


“A Girl”
“Light Yellowish Hair”
“Young”
The Girl will then mention Estillda.
Estillda will soon appear within one hour at the upper right of the city.
 Head to the upper right of the city, but before you’re near the dead-end, use your Cloak skill to trigger the event right away.


While under Cloak, make your way closer to the dead-end and a dialogue will appear, announcing that you're hiding and a female appeared out of nowhere.
You will have the option to attack her, so choose “Surprise attack” to start the conversation.
Remember NOT to remove your Cloak skill as this will cancel the event.
 She will tell you that Estillda is waiting in the other room.
 Enter the portal across the bar and then enter the room to your right. Estillda will be standing behind the table, waiting for questioning. Ask her questions regarding the mastermind.


Estillda will explain to you that she will be meeting with someone at the house in the southern part of the town.
 Exit the building and then travel south until you're near the exit portal. Walk to the right side until you find a house. Climb down the stairs and a dialogue will appear; choose “Go inside.”

, Inside the building is a man wearing black clothes standing near the wall. Talk to him, and he will pretend that he is innocent but will soon attack you.


You don't have to worry about defeating the enemy; you can kill him with just a few hits. So if you're an AGI-type assassin, this will be very easy for you.
Make sure to use skills to halve his health quickly.
 Click the body again to leave the house.
 She will then ask you regarding your progress. Select “Show the key” to proceed to your next quest.
 Daora will explain to you about a key artisan in Rachel named Oresa. Head to Rachel using the Kafra Service, and once you're in Rachel City, head to the southwestern part of the map to find a house with portal in front of it.


Oresa Rava will be standing alone in the room.
 Talk to him about the key, and he will tell you about the Mansion.
 Return to the Assassin Guild in Veins and show Mayshell the key. She will tell you about a member who knows how to get inside the Mansion.
 Walk east a bit. The girl will be standing near the city wall, hiding in the corner.
 Now it's time to kill the Mastermind. Talk to the female assassin to start the quest; she will explain to you that you only have 10 minutes to complete the assassination.


Keep in mind that you need to have enough potions to survive as there will be demon dogs and guards around the mansion.
If you're ready, talk to the girl again and say “I got it.” You will be teleported outside the Mansion.



Remember, demon dogs can still see you even if you use your Cloak, so be careful when exploring the place.
 From the entrance, head northeast until you find a round shadow next to the gate, indicating that there's a gap you can crawl into.


Once you're inside, use Cloak to avoid the enemies until you find the mansion.
Enter the building through the back door, and there you will find the Mastermind.
 Talk to the NPC to start the fight, but be careful as other monsters may join in the fight.


You can lure the enemy NPC in an empty room to avoid distraction. Keep on using your skills, and if possible, use your Enchant Deadly Poison (if you're using an Assassin Cross). This will increase the damage you inflict against the Mastermind.
Do not forget about your health; use Red Potions to avoid being killed.
If you run out of time, you will be automatically warped from the mansion and will have to do the assassination quest again.
 Once you have successfully killed the Mastermind, exit the mansion through the back door then walk northeast to find a female Assassin Cross. Talk to her, and she will teleport you straight to the guild.
 Go inside the room where Mayshell is, and she will give you a reward if your grade is higher than C; otherwise, you won't receive a Jewelry Box, which contains a random accessory you can use.
 After talking to Mayshell, go to the next room across. You will find Bercasell standing in the room alone. Talk to him and prove that you're ready to change your job to Guillotine Cross.


After he changes your class, he will give you Silent Executor (headgear) and a Green Apple Ring.

