;
, Make sure they're okay with you throwing a party, and that they trust you enough to leave you alone. (Who wants parents hovering around the party, sniffing everyone's paper cups?)

, A good time is maybe the last day of school before Spring Break. Have people come to the location at about 6:30 PM (try to arrange it so that they arrive in groups), and let the party continue until around 1 AM. It seems late, but when you're having fun hanging out with people you know, time flies! But, with young teens (13-15 years) try to end it a little earlier, like 11:30 or 12:00, because your parents might object otherwise!

, The absolute best idea is to have it at your house. Keep it open-door, so the couples among your guests can go outside for a little privacy if they want to.
 This plan should include a list of all the things you want to do for the party, and a list of any scheduled games or events.
 Jot down what you need or keep it on a computer.
 Run this by your parents afterwards as well. Don't invite everyone just to be nice--this can ruin the party. People need to feel privileged to be invited, not pondering whether or not they were invited out of obligation or pity. Limit the guest list to close friends, people you want to get to know better, and people whose opinions could have an effect on your social standing at a later time. Don't invite people who don't like you or who don't like one of your closest friends. Invite girls and guys.
 Don't send little cards in the mail, and don't just go around school casually mentioning you're having a little party. Send out invites by email! If someone does not have an email address, it's okay to go up to them by their locker and write down on a slip of paper the address, the occasion, and someone else they know who will be coming.
 Be sure to include these things:


A boom box or a laptop somewhere in the corner with an iTunes window up for people to upload songs from iPods to play.
A somewhat scheduled time (i.e. "somewhere between 9:00 and 10:30...") for almost everyone to sit down in an open room with a big TV to watch a movie that everyone votes on.
A drawing for two tickets to the first showing of a movie that's going to be a really big deal.
During the earlier parts of the party, get someone you know to contribute a game console to be set up in a living area for free use.
At some point when it gets really dark, get a group of your friends to help you suggest a game of ManHunt.
 Don't forget, yours will be the party of the season!

