 With a broomstick in place of a weight bar or other equipment, you’ll be able to work out your back as well as a variety of other muscles. It can be a nice break while sweeping up in your house. For your back, this exercises your upper back and shoulder muscles.Stand with your legs apart, slightly wider than your hips. Hold a broomstick in front of you, arms shoulder-width or a little wider. Hold the broom parallel to the ground, at chest-height.
Squat down, and push the broomstick straight up. Make sure you are tightening your upper-back muscles as you push the broom stick upwards.
Lower the broom and stand back up again.
 Similar to regular push-ups, you can use the edge of a household appliance like the washing machine to help work your back and arms. This is a great exercise if you have a few minutes to kill while the washing ends.Stand a few feet away from the washer. Place your hands on the machine about shoulder-width apart. Keep your feet together.
Slowly lower your chest toward the washer by bending your arms. Don’t keep your feet flat on the ground, but lean forward on your toes.
Push back out until your arms are fully extended again. Repeat 20 times.
 This is good when you are moving clothes to and from the washing machine, dryer, ironing board, or drawers. By leaving the basket on the floor, you will constantly be bending over to pull things out. Make sure to stretch out your back each time you bend over.Remember to keep your abs tight and back straight as you bend forward.
It can also be helpful to take out items one at a time. This will force you to repeat the motion over and over again.
 Reaching up and clearing leaves and debris out of your gutters will give your whole body a workout, including your back. You’ll be stretching and reaching from the ladder over the gutter to get your hands in there, and your core will be engaged to keep balance on the ladder.


Remember to keep moving your ladder as you go along the gutter. Reaching too far can cause you to fall over, plus the constant up and down is good exercise for your legs.
 Planting, watering, and weeding outdoors are all good ways to get in some stretching and exercise without going to a gym. You’ll be bent down near the ground. Just be sure to bend at the knees and avoid arching your back to avoid strain.Mulching is another good gardening task for working your back. You’ll need to carry around heavy bags of mulch, and then shovel it around your yard or garden. Just remember to lift correctly when carrying the mulch to avoid straining your back.