 Itching, mild or more severe, can be an indication that you have an outer ear infection.You may itch inside your ear or along the outside.However, a slight itch doesn't automatically mean you have an outer ear infection.;
, Any kind of drainage from the ear can indicate an ear infection. However, look for drainage with color--yellow or green. Also, if the drainage smells bad, that could also indicate an ear infection., If you have pain in your ear, it could indicate an ear infection. If you press on your ear and the pain worsens, that's even more likely to be an indicator of an ear infection.In severe cases, pain may begin spreading across your face, which means you need to get to a doctor immediately, as the infection is spreading., Look at your ear closely in a mirror. If you can see some redness, that may also indicate an ear infection., Hearing loss is a more advanced symptom of ear infections, so if you begin to notice your hearing going in an ear along with other symptoms, that is definitely a reason to see a doctor.At its most advanced stage, your ear canal will be blocked completely., If your ear or lymph nodes swell, that is a far progression of an ear infection. Another advanced symptom is a fever., Even mild ear infections can progress quickly, so it's important to see your doctor if you have a combination of these symptoms., If you have fever along with other symptoms or you are in a lot of pain, you should see a doctor immediately if possible., Cleaning your ear allows the medicine to get where it needs to go. Your doctor may suction your ear out, or she may use an ear curette to gently scoop and scrape out your ear., Your doctor will most likely write you a prescription for antibiotic drops that include neomycin. You will then use the drops in your ear to reduce the infection.There is a very low risk of hearing loss from amino-glycosides, including neomycin. This medicine usually given in combination with polymyxin B and hydrocortisone a solution that is to be applied to the outer ear canal 4 drops 3-4 times a day as long as prescribed. Neomycin can also cause contact dermatitis.If your ear is too blocked, you may need a wick placed in your ear, which will help deliver the drops to your ear.To use the ear drops, warm up the bottle in your hand first. The easiest way to put them in is to tilt your head to the side or lie down.Lie on your side for 20 minutes or place a cotton ball over ear canal. Do not touch the dropper or tip to your ear or any other surface, as that can contaminate the liquid.If you have trouble getting them in the right place, ask someone to help you., Your doctor may also prescribe acetic acid drops, which are a form of vinegar.However, they are stronger than your average household vinegar.These drops help recreate your ear's normal antibacterial state.Apply these as you did the other ear drops.
 If your ear infection is more severe, especially if it's moved beyond the ear, you will need to take antibiotics by mouth.Finish the entire course of antibiotics. You should begin to feel better 36 to 48 hours after starting treatment, and completely better in 6 days.
Some infections are caused by fungus instead of bacteria. In that case, you'll need to take antifungal pills rather than antibiotics.If you are immunocompetent, Having a normal immune response topical treatment is favored over oral treatment.
 If your ear is inflamed, you may need to have a round of corticosteroids to help. They can also help if itching is bothering you., Once you are home, you can take pain medications such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen. They should help with the pain., Though this treatment may not be as effective as prescription medications, you can create your own solution of saltwater or one part water to one part vinegar. Warm whichever one you chose up to body temperature before pouring it in using a bulb syringe. Let it drain out afterwards.
 A little heat, such as a heating pad on low or a damp washcloth heated in the microwave, can help ease pain. Hold it to your ear while you're sitting up.You don't want to fall asleep on a heating pad, as you can burn yourself., Use these ear drops when you first notice itching. Apply them both before and after you swim., You will need to keep your ear as dry as possible while you are recovering from your infection. Tilt your head away from the water even while showering., When you get out of the swimming pool, use a towel to dry your ears thoroughly. These infections thrive in moist environments, so drying out your ear can help prevent infection.Skip the cotton-tipped swabs, though, as these can increase your chances of contracting the infection., Before swimming, put ear plugs in your ears. Ear plugs will help keep your ears dry while swimming., Mix 1 part vinegar to 1 part rubbing alcohol. Drop about a teaspoon into your ear. Tilt your head so it pours back out.Check with your doctor before using this solution, as it is not recommended for people with punctured eardrums.You can also apply the mixture before swimming.The purpose is to keep you ear as dry as possible and as free of bacteria as possible., If the water at the swimming pool looks murky or dirty, don't get in it. Also, skip swimming in lakes or the ocean., If you spray on hair spray or use hair dye, put cotton in your ears first. These products can irritate your ears, so protecting your ears against them can reduce your chances of outer ear infections., While may be tempting to try to unblock your ear with an ear candle, they actually do not help all that much. Plus, they can severely damage your ear.