 Use a shampoo and conditioner that is best for your hair type and that has a great scent. Next add an anti frizz and shine serum.;
, Apply favorite moisturizer onto face. Spread evenly to ensure smooth skin. Apply to body as well. Neutrogena and Sephora has some really great moisturizers.
 Try Crest 3D White Strips to whiten teeth. You can also try brushing your teeth with baking soda. Remember to floss in order to have beautiful looking teeth.
 Apply concealer evenly to imperfections such as acne and dark spots in order to have flawless skin. Choose a concealer that matches your skin tone.
 Vanessa Hudgens is very tan so make sure to tan your skin with tanning lotion or spray tan. You can always apply some bronzer to look more tan as well. Just remember to make it look natural. If you feel like tanning is too much, just simply add some foundation to match your skin tone and spread evenly throughout the whole face.
 Apply eyeliner to the top and bottom of your eyelid as close to lash line as you can. Smudge it on the bottom to give it that smokey look.
 Choose a dark and light shimmery eyeshadow. Apply dark eyeshadow onto the creases of the upper lid. Then blend the lighter eyeshadow using a sweeping motion. This creates a smokey shadow look.
 Choose a volumizing/lengthening mascara that does not clump up and add several coats in order to have big eyelashes. Do not forget to apply to bottom lashes. Optional: Add fake lashes and apply mascara.
 Choose an eyebrow pencil or eyebrow powder that matches your eyebrow color.
 Choose a blush that looks good with your skintone. Vanessa Hudgens has high cheekbones so make sure to apply blush on the apples of your cheeks in order to enhance your cheekbones.
 Apply a heat protector spray or cream onto hair evenly and blow dry hair. Remember not to add too much heat onto hair or it will get damaged.
 Part the hair into four sections and secure with butterfly clips. Grab a 2" subsection of hair from each section (starting at the bottom) and wrap it around curling iron for about 15 seconds. Repeat until entire head of hair is complete.
 Pull hair into a comfortable low ponytail. Leave some hair hanging on the sides. Take thick locks of hair and start pinning them up. Leave some tresses of hair falling out of your hair to make it look more loose. Add some finishing spray to hold bun in place.
 Choose a red lipstick and apply to lips evenly. Blot out the excess by using a tissue. Next, add a red lip gloss and apply on top of lipstick to give it extra shine.
 Add any jewelry, pins, etc. to finish your look.

