 Fill a small bowl with enough warm water to completely submerge your ear plugs. Add a few drops of a mild soap, like dish soap. Mix the water with a stirring utensil, like a spoon, or with your clean hands to distribute the soap through the water.Ear plugs that are regularly used should be washed whenever visibly dirty or every few days.
Infrequently used plugs should be washed after using every time to prevent bacteria from breeding in the plugs while stored in their case.
Using harsh cleaners or non-mild soaps could shorten the shelf life of your ear plugs or make them less effective.
This cleaning technique can also be used for banded ear plugs. However, both banded and multi-use single-ear plugs should be replaced after 2 to 4 weeks for best performance.;
, Allow the plugs to soak in the soapy water for a few minutes to loosen dirtiness. Some ear plugs may float in the water. In this case, hold the plugs under the water for a few minutes, or until the plugs remain submerged in the water., While submerged, use your clean hands to wipe away and buildup or stuck on dirtiness from the plugs. Alternatively, use a soft bristle brush, like a toothbrush, to scrub the plugs clean.


You may need to remove the plugs from the water to get a better look. Swish the plugs in the solution to remove broken up dirt., After cleaning, rinse the plugs in cold water. Dab excess moisture from the plugs with a clean, dry paper towel to speed up the drying process. Allow the plugs to sit on a clean towel to air dry. Storing plugs that are still wet could cause bacteria to grow in the plug material., When the plugs are completely dry, store them in their case. If you lack a case, you can use a small plastic container as a substitute. Keep them in their case except when using them to prevent maintain their condition and prevent re-dirtying them., Fill a clean spray bottle with a small amount of isopropyl (rubbing) alcohol. Mist dry ear plugs lightly with the alcohol. Set the plugs on a clean towel to air dry. When completely dry, store the plugs in a case.Ear plugs that are used often should be disinfected weekly or after any kind of activity that caused you to sweat.
Plugs that are used rarely should be disinfected after every few uses or after activity that caused heavy sweating.

