 The first thing to do is figure out what you do know by asking yourself some questions:


What sort of jazz, if any, have you heard?
Have you heard any specific jazz CDs or artists that you really liked?
Are there certain instruments that you really like?
Is there a tempo or style that you prefer?
Is there any jazz you have heard that you don’t like?
Do you like instrumental, or vocal, or both?
Do you only like a certain sub-genre of jazz?;
, If you love getting a lot of bang for your buck with music, there are lots of ways to do that in the jazz genre. Consult the suggestions below and keep these points in mind:


First off, ask your local record store geek about cheap new classic jazz CDs. There are an amazing amount of deals. In fact, there are so many cheap classics out there, it becomes hard to recommend the more expensive contemporary jazz artists.
Second, buy used jazz. The availability of used jazz CDs can depend on the kind of neighborhood you live in (and the residing musical taste). If you are lucky enough to live amongst jazz lovers, used jazz CDS are cheap and guaranteed.
Finally, think about investing in a turntable. If you want to talk about getting affordable classics in any genre, you can always find some great deals on vinyl. This is especially true if you don’t mind looking through a store's “bargain basement” used stuff.
 Coltrane, Miles, Bird, Louie, Billie. If you have heard of them, there’s probably a reason. So ask your questions, figure out what you like, do your homework, and then start obvious. You can get cooler and more diverse as you go. As it is, the classics are usually about as cool as cool comes anyway, and in most cases, they are cheap.
 Play "jazz geography". Jazz musicians tend to play with many different bands and the big bands were virtual jazz incubators. Once you hear Count Basie with Sinatra, try Basie with saxophonist Lester Young. Another example: Miles Davis’ Kind of Blue (which, by the way, is a good choice if you're a classical music enthusiast)--the guys who play on it are all heavyweight champs in their own right. Coltrane on tenor; Cannonball Adderley on Alto; Bill Evans on piano… even jazz rookies have heard of those guys. Once you hear the sax boys soloing on that album, and you read the liner notes (which is essential on Kind of Blue), you are going to want to get Cannonball’s Somethin’ Else or Everybody Loves Bill Evans. The next thing you know - you’ve got a collection.
 Someone who's passionate about jazz will play stuff for you… and ask tons of questions… and get to the bottom of your jazz needs. Then they will set you up. Find the indie record store in your area and start a conversation with a jazz fanatic. Be ready with your answers to the questions you asked yourself earlier.

