 Although longevity by itself does not create an implied contract, established tenure with a company can strengthen the argument that your employer guaranteed continuing employment provided you met expectations.Coupled with longevity, additional statements by managers or supervisors may create an implied contract, if you can demonstrate that there was a mutual understanding that you would continue to have a job at that company.
For example, suppose after a round of layoffs your supervisor tells you, "You've been working here so long, you don't have to worry about losing your job – I'll probably get laid off before you do!" That sort of statement could be interpreted as creating an implied contract, particularly if your supervisor has a written contract himself. Your supervisor is implying that you have more job security than he does.
 You can find an implied contract in a long history of positive performance reviews, depending on what was said over the course of those reviews.


Keep in mind that in most situations, working somewhere for a long time, even coupled with positive performance reviews, typically is not enough to create an implied contract.However, statements made on written review forms, or during the context of the review itself, may create an implied contract. For example, if you've received your fifth straight positive performance review, and your manager says "Employees like you will always have a place in this company," that could be construed as an implied contract.
Any implied contract created because of exemplary performance generally exists only so long as you keep up your end of the bargain. The contract created typically is interpreted as a conditional one. If your performance slumps, or you get in trouble for some other reason, the implied contract no longer applies to you.
 Even off-hand comments made in casual conversation can be construed to create an implied contract in some situations.For example, suppose your supervisor sees you in the break room while you're eating lunch and pauses to compliment your work that morning, saying "you certainly have a long future with this company." Provided you continue to perform at the same level, this could be considered an implied contract.
 Courts are more inclined to find an implied contract if statements from your managers or supervisors led you to form a reasonable belief that you would not be fired.Your reliance must be reasonable considering all the circumstances of your relationship with your employer. Typically, if you're required to sign regular acknowledgements that your employment is at-will, you won't be able to claim you reasonably relied on a statement from a supervisor guaranteeing you job security – no matter how unequivocal that supervisor's statement was.
Some comments may be less direct but still create an implied contract. For example, if your supervisor talks to you about working on a project that won't start for three months, it would be reasonable for you to believe you'd still be working with the company in three months.

