 For this particular technique, you'll make a chocolate syrup based blood. By tinting the syrup with red dye and laundry detergent, you can create a brownish-red solution that mimics the appearance of real blood that has been out of the body and exposed to air for an extended period of time. The consistency of this blood also makes it easy to smear.In a small bowl, mix 2/3 cup (150 ml) chocolate syrup with 1/3 cup (75 ml) concentrated liquid laundry detergent until well combined.
Pour in 4 to 6 tsp (20 to 30 ml) of red food coloring, adding as much or as little as needed to create your desired hue.;
, Brush the blood onto your face, focusing on the area between your nose and your mouth. Cover the entire area, but make sure that the blood fans out from the nose toward the sides of your mouth. You should also apply blood to the bottom of the nose, directly along the sides of the nostrils.


A small, clean paintbrush could be used instead of a cosmetic sponge wand, if necessary.
Stand in front of a mirror as you apply the fake blood.
Play around with it a bit. There is no one pattern to use when creating a fake nosebleed, so you'll have to test a few looks out before deciding how you want the nosebleed to look.
Do not use straight lines. A real nosebleed is messy, so your fake blood needs to be applied accordingly.
You can also apply a little blood to the sides and tip of your nose if you want to create a more extreme nosebleed. Focus on the nostril area, though, and avoid getting blood higher up on the bridge.
 Since real nosebleeds are often so messy, you may need to extend the fake blood past the area of your nose in order to make it more believable. You can do so by applying a smear to one side of your mouth and a few drops to your neck.


Gauge which side of your nosebleed currently looks heavier. Brush on more fake blood around your mouth on that side of the face only, leaving the other side of your mouth untouched.
The blood should cover the corner of your mouth and just below your bottom lip.
Smear more blood downward and slanted off toward the side of your face, stopping at the base of your neck.
Apply a few dabs of blood to the base of your neck on the same side of your face. These dabs need to look like dried drips of blood that fell off from the trail of blood already along the side of your face.
 If you want the blood smears to look fresh, you can wear them as they already are. If you want to create the appearance of a nosebleed that has already dried, however, use a hair dryer set to low heat to dry the fake blood until it no longer feel wet to the touch.


Hold the hair dryer from a distance and point the stream of air directly against the blood smear. Avoid drying the smear from an angle since doing so could change the appearance of the smear.
Your fake nosebleed should be complete at the conclusion of this step.

