 This exercise strengthens your tibialis anterior and other tendons and muscles running along your shins. If you have extremely weak shins, or are recovering from a recent injury, this is one of the first movements you should do to exercise your tibialis anterior.Initially, do this exercise from a seated position. Find a chair you can sit in with good posture and your feet firmly on the floor in front of you. Slowly raise your toes and the front of your foot off the floor toward your shins, digging your heels into the floor.
When you've raised your toes as far as you can without pain, hold the position for a couple of seconds, then slowly release your foot to the floor. Try to do 10 to 15 repetitions of this exercise. You can do each foot individually or do them both at the same time.
After you've been doing seated toe raises for a couple of weeks, try standing toe raises. Make sure you have something to hold onto so you can balance and stand with good posture.
You can use resistance bands to make this exercise even more challenging and further strengthen your tibialis anterior.;
, You can strengthen your tibialis anterior muscle specifically with an elastic resistance bands. If you're currently in physical therapy for an injury, you may be able to get one from your physical therapist. Otherwise, you can buy them at any sporting goods store, typically for less than $20.To exercise your tibialis anterior with a resistance band, tie one end of the band around a heavy, stable object, such as a table or sofa. Loop the other end of the band around your foot and tie it to secure it.
Pull your toes and foot up and toward your shins, keeping your knee straight. Go as far as you can without pain. Hold the position for a couple of seconds, then slowly move your foot back to your starting position.
Do 10 repetitions of this exercise, or until you can no longer do it without pain.
 Cuff weights provide resistance when doing toe raises to further strengthen your tibialis anterior. You can also do this exercise with a resistance band if you don't have access to cuff weights.Cuff weights are available at most sporting goods stores. They typically have removable sand bags so you can customize the amount of weight you're using, and secure around a limb using velcro.
Sit in a chair and wrap the cuff weight around your foot. Flex your ankle, moving your toes and foot up toward your chin.
Go as far as you can, then hold your foot there for a couple of seconds before slowly lowering it back to starting position.
Try to do 10 repetitions, but stop if you can no longer do it without pain.
 With isometric exercises, you contract the muscle you want to strengthen without moving your joint. This exercise can strengthen your tibialis anterior and increase the range of motion in your ankle without putting any stress or pressure on the joint.Start isometric exercise of your tibialis anterior by sitting in a chair or lying on your back on the floor with your legs out in front of you.
Cross one leg over the other at the ankles. If your tibialis anterior is weaker in one leg than in the other, you want to start with that leg on the bottom.
Push the top of your lower foot into the sole of your other foot. Take care not to flex your ankle as you do this.
Press your feet together for five seconds, then slowly release. Repeat between 10 and 15 times, then re-cross your ankles and do the other leg.
Varying the position of your ankle enables you to strengthen your tibialis anterior in relation to other ranges of motion.
 If you have access to a gym with weight training equipment, you can use that equipment to further strengthen your tibialis anterior and the rest of the muscles in your lower leg, including your calves.To start this exercise, go to the smith machine and stand under the bar with your heels on the platform.
Rise up on your heels to contract your tibialis anterior. Hold the position for a couple of seconds, then slowly release back to your starting position.
Do 10 to 15 repetitions of this exercise to exercise your tibialis anterior as well as the surrounding muscles in your lower leg.
 The reverse variation of any calf exercise will engage and strengthen the tibialis anterior, as well as exercising the rest of your lower leg. Once you've sufficiently strengthened your tibialis anterior so it is in balance with the rest of the muscles in your lower leg, use these exercises to maintain and continually build strength.The best way to do this is to do a reverse variation of any calf exercise in your routine. For example, if you do calf raises, you should also do reverse calf raises. This ensures you maintain balance in the muscles in your lower leg.
These weight-training exercises often are done on weight benches using free weights, or on exercise machines. If you don't have access to a gym, you can do similar exercises at home with dumbbells or resistance bands.
Start with just your body weight, and slowly add weight or resistance every week or so to continuously challenge and build strength in your tibialis anterior.

