 Split the bun in half and toast lightly in the oven or toaster oven.;
, This step is optional as you could just as easily consume this burger with egg by itself and you'll still be happy.


Create a cheeseburger. Find a nice slice of cheddar or Swiss to top the burger. Or use two types of cheese for a more tasty variation.
Prepare any cold toppings such as lettuce, tomato, pickle or onions. Clean and dice toppings beforehand so you can swiftly put the burger together.
 This small hole in the middle of the burger patty is needed for placement of the egg. To make the hole, push a drinking glass into the center of the burger patty and remove the cut middle portion.
 Make sure you have enough meat to not only create the entire burger but also to make a hole in the middle for the egg.

Flatten the hamburger meat on top of a piece of parchment paper to avoid having it stick to the countertop.






Create a hole in the middle of the hamburger meat with the drinking glass. Spray the drinking glass rim with cooking spray (to stop it sticking to the meat) and press the rim down in the middle of the burger. Remove the glass and lift out the middle portion of the burger to create a hole.
 Lightly add salt, pepper and any other desired seasonings.
 Lift the burger from the parchment paper with a spatula in order to keep the burger shape intact.
 Then crack the egg and deposit it gently into the hole in the middle of the burger. Keep the egg in the middle hole and avoid spilling it over the meat.
 Flip the burger on the other side and cook. Be careful when flipping the burger so that you don’t disturb the egg, cracking the yolk.
 If you're planning to add the cheese, make sure you do it while the meat is still in the pan. That way, it will melt and blend into the burger.
 Consider adding a topping like ketchup, butter, mayonnaise or any other desired condiment.
 Place the opened, prepared bun on a plate and carefully transfer the meat/egg combo from the skillet to the bun.
 Now is the time to add lettuce, tomato or other cold ingredients. You can also re-top with ketchup or additional condiments.
 This burger tastes best when transferred immediately from the pan to your mouth.

