 Are you being hit, kicked, punched, or tripped out of the blue or for no good reason? This is physical bullying, and you have to take action to stop it. In defending yourself, you should not take physical action to stop physical bullying -- violence to stop violence does not work. No one should have to put up with physical bullying, and you have options to stop it. From interrupting to making it harder for the person bullying you to make contact, there are many positive steps you can take., Verbal bullying involves hurtful comments about you, often designed to make you feel ashamed or isolated. It tends to be teasing and/or mean comments that might take the form of sexist, racist, or homophobic slurs, comments on your appearance, or remarks about other traits. Even though some might see it as harmless teasing, verbal bullying makes you ashamed and isolated, and those who choose to do it are hoping you won’t fight back. People who use verbal bullying to hurt others need to be stopped, and you have multiple ways to defend yourself, from your own comments back to making an official complaint., If you don’t take steps to defend yourself, social bullying can just get worse. This kind of bullying can be both open and covert, so identifying it might be challenging. By letting people know about it and putting it all out in the open (even if it’s embarrassing) those who use these tactics lose their power. Social bullying is about relationships -- challenging them, destroying them, trying to change their status. People who engage in social bullying will use the relationships you have with others to attempt to harm you. Even though it can be hard to explain to parents and teachers, social bullying is just as harmful as the other kinds. The emotional toll from dealing with someone who bullies you in this manner can be high.Sometimes bullying involves leaving people out of social situations on purpose to socially isolate them. Social exclusion is still a type of bullying.
Secret bullying strategies include spreading rumors, attempts to ruin another person’s social reputation, lying, and attempting to turn a person’s friends into enemies.
 Typically people who bully want to make themselves feel better at your expense. People who bully often do so for control, power, confidence, or social acceptance. The key is to not let them receive that kind of satisfaction.