 The tenant starts the lawsuit by filing a “complaint” in court. The complaint identifies the parties and explains what facts gave rise to the discrimination lawsuit.You will receive a copy of the complaint soon after it is filed.


Pay attention to the deadline for responding to the complaint. This information should be on the summons, which will be sent to you also.
If you ignore the lawsuit, then in some situations the tenant can have the court issue a “default judgment.” This means that the plaintiff wins and you cannot defend yourself.After getting the default judgment, the tenant might try to put a lien on your property.;
, Go through the complaint and identify what characteristic your tenant alleges was the motivation for your discrimination. Typically, the following are protected characteristics under state and federal law:race
color
sex
religion
national origin
disability
family status (i.e., children in the household)
sexual orientation (potentially protected under state or local law but not federal law)

, Read the complaint to find out what act the plaintiff alleges was discriminatory. For example, you cannot do any of the following with an intent to discriminate:refuse to rent housing
refuse to show an apartment to a prospective tenant
set terms or conditions for rent that are different than those of other tenants (e.g., charging more rent)
refusing to accommodate the disabled

, After you have read the complaint, you should look through your papers and locate any document relating to the tenant. For example, try to find:


the tenant’s application form
any notes you took after meeting with the tenant
any communication (such as emails) with the tenant
a history of rent payments
any documents relating to damage in the tenant’s apartment

, The best way to defend yourself is to meet with a qualified attorney. If you are employed by a large property management company, then your company might have a lawyer on the payroll. This is probably your general counsel. You should gather all relevant documents (along with the complaint and summons) and schedule an appointment.


If you work for a smaller business, then you could already have a lawyer “on retainer.” This means you pay the lawyer a monthly fee and the lawyer provides legal work on an as-needed basis.If your business needs to hire a lawyer, then you can contact your state or local bar association and ask for a referral. You should request someone with experience defending housing discrimination claims.Once you have a reference, you can then call the lawyer and schedule your consultation.
 You need to draft an answer and file it with the court before the deadline on your summons. If you have a lawyer, he or she can draft your answer. If you don’t have a lawyer, then stop into court and ask if there is a “fill in the blank” answer form to use.


If there is no printed answer form to use, then you might need to find a form in a CD or book of legal forms. You can also search the Internet for sample answers.
In the answer, you tell the court whether you agree or disagree with each numbered allegation in the complaint. Go down through the allegations and see if you agree, disagree, or don’t yet have enough information to agree or disagree., Once you have completed the answer, make at least two copies. Take all copies and the original to the court clerk and ask to file.The clerk should stamp all of your copies with the date.


You might have to pay a filing fee. This fee will vary by court.
After filing, be sure to send the plaintiff a copy of the answer. If the plaintiff has a lawyer, then serve a copy on the lawyer. Ask the court clerk for what are acceptable methods of serving the answer.
 After you file the answer, the lawsuit enters a fact-finding phase called “discovery.” During discovery, you and the plaintiff request information from each other. Typically, you can request any information so long as it relates in some manner to the lawsuit.Your lawyer will send “Requests for Production” to the plaintiff requesting documents. If the plaintiff claims that she spent money to find a new apartment after you discriminated against her, then ask for itemized receipts of the money spent.
 During discovery, you can also serve “Interrogatories” on the plaintiff, which are questions in writing. You can get basic information from the plaintiff by using interrogatories.


For example, you will probably want to request a list of witnesses from the plaintiff. You can then contact each witness to find out what they know and what they will testify to at trial.
 The parties to the lawsuit can also ask each other questions face-to-face, in a “deposition.” These typically are held in a lawyer’s office. The deposition will be recorded by a court reporter, or else it will be videotaped.Depositions are important because any statement you make in the deposition can be used against you later at trial. For this reason, you should meet with your lawyer ahead of time and prepped by going over the documents in the case and coming up with explanations for the actions you took.
To give an effective deposition, try to get a good night’s sleep ahead of time. Depositions can last a long time and are very draining emotionally and physically. To be in your best shape, you will need to be fully rested.
If at any time during the deposition, you need to talk to your attorney, then don’t hesitate to say, “I’d like to consult with my lawyer.”, Once discovery ends, you should go over the evidence. You should talk with your attorney about your strongest defenses.


Find what the plaintiff can’t prove. In order to win the lawsuit, the plaintiff must show that you discriminated against him or her because of the protected characteristic. However, the plaintiff might not have any proof of discriminatory intent. It’s not enough for someone to get up and court and claim to have been discriminated against simply because of their race, religion, etc. They need proof that you were motivated by bias against that characteristic.
You can also identify evidence that shows you were motivated by a non-discriminatory reason. For example, if you refused to renew a lease because the tenant caused water damage to the floors, then you can point to this as your motivation. Find evidence of the damage (photographs, an appraiser’s report, etc.)
If the plaintiff is disabled and suing because you will not accommodate the disability, then you should try to get evidence that the accommodation is not reasonable. The law does not require you to suffer undue financial burden in order to accommodate a disabled person.For example, in most cases you do not have to install an elevator in a walk-up building to accommodate someone with a disability., In this motion, your lawyer argues that trial is unnecessary because there are no meaningful facts in dispute and that you are entitled to judgment on the law.If you win, then the case is dismissed and the lawsuit is over.


If you do not have a lawyer, then you should certainly try to hire one to draft this motion for you. In many states, you can hire attorneys to do only certain tasks. This is called “unbundled” legal services or “limited scope representation.”Get a referral from your local bar association and ask the lawyer if you can hire them to draft this motion.
 If you win your summary judgment motion, you should also try to get the judge to grant you attorneys’ fees. If the plaintiff filed a frivolous lawsuit in federal court, then federal law allows the judge to grant the defendant reasonable attorneys’ fees.If you win, then you will probably not owe your attorney much by way of fees or costs associated with the lawsuit.
 As the trial date approaches, you need to organize the evidence you will present. If you have a lawyer, then he or she can do this. If you are representing yourself, then you need to write up your list of witnesses and exhibits. An exhibit will be a document that contains useful information, such as a picture of damage the tenant has caused the apartment.


You may need to subpoena witnesses. You can get a blank subpoena from the court clerk. This document tells the witness when and where to appear to testify. You can’t wait until the last minute to serve the subpoena on the witness. Ask the court clerk for how much advance notice you must give.
Also look over documents and find ones that you want to submit. You will need “exhibit stickers.” You can get these from the court clerk or buy them at an office supply store.Affix the exhibit sticker in a convenient spot. For example, in a blank space near the bottom of a document.
 Jury selection is called “voir dire.” During voir dire, a panel of jurors is called up to the front of the courtroom and sits in the jury box. The judge then asks each prospective juror questions. For example, the judge may ask jurors about their employment, hobbies, and whether they have ever served on a jury before. Sometimes the judge will let your lawyer ask questions as well.


If your lawyer thinks a juror might be biased, then she can ask the judge to excuse the juror “for cause.” If jurors admit that they can’t be fair or if they know one of the parties, then your lawyer can ask that they be excused.You will also get a limited number of “peremptory challenges.” When you use a peremptory challenge, you can dismiss a prospective juror without stating a reason and without needing the judge to agree to the dismissal.
Often, your lawyer will use peremptory challenges to dismiss any juror she thinks might be biased based on the questions she asks the juror. For example, she might ask each juror if they have a disabled family member. If they do, then she might want to dismiss the prospective juror, especially if you are being sued for discrimination against a disabled tenant.
 After the judge swears in the jury, each attorney must make an opening statement to the jury. The purpose of the opening statement is to give the jury a “road map” for understanding what evidence they will hear., The plaintiff will introduce evidence first. Your lawyer will be able to ask any witness questions on cross-examination. The goal of cross-examination is to plant doubt in the jurors’ minds that the witness’s testimony is credible. You can do this in a couple ways.


Show that the witness has a bias. For example, the witness might be related to the plaintiff or a friend. Jurors might conclude that the witness will slant his or her testimony to favor the plaintiff, regardless of the truth.
Introduce a prior inconsistent statement.If the witness said something different in a deposition, then you can raise the prior statement and ask the juror to explain the discrepancy. The jury might conclude that the witness can’t keep his facts straight, or that he can’t be trusted.
 Undoubtedly, you will have to testify. You can prepare by reviewing your deposition testimony and looking at key documents. Once you are on the stand, remember these tips for giving effective testimony:Always remain calm. It’s never easy being accused of discriminating against someone. However, you must never let your anger show. If you do, then the jury might not think you are a believable witness.
Be sure that you understand the question before answering. Ask the lawyer to phrase the question differently if you don’t understand it.
Don’t guess. Only testify based on your personal knowledge instead of speculation.
Tell the truth. Even little white lies can trip you up. Also, if you say something at trial that differs from what you said in your deposition, then the plaintiff’s lawyer will confront you with that fact.
 Once all witnesses have testified and all evidence has been submitted, your lawyer will make a closing argument. The purpose of the closing argument is to summarize the evidence for the jury and explain how the evidence fails to show that you discriminated against the plaintiff.
 After your lawyer has delivered the closing argument, the judge will read the jury its instructions. These instructions will tell the jury the law it must follow.After being read instructions, the jury retires to weigh the evidence.
 If you lose at trial, then you might want to file an appeal. In the appeal, you will need to point to legal errors made by the judge, such as admitting evidence that shouldn’t have been allowed in. If you win the appeal, then the appellate court can send the case back for a new trial or enter judgment in your favor.


Discuss with your lawyer whether an appeal is worthwhile. Appeals usually take a long time. They can take a year or longer and are quite expensive. You must pay for the filing fees, the creation of trial transcripts, and for your lawyer to write the legal brief.
If you have a weak case, then you might want to simply pay the judgment against you. However, if your lawyer thinks you have a strong issue to raise on appeal, then you might want to appeal.
Don’t delay. In some courts you have only 10 days from the date final judgment is entered against you to file the Notice of Appeal form with the court clerk.