 Believe it or not, hairspray can actually work to remove set-in grease stains. Heavily douse your grease stain with hairspray, using a paper towel in between the fabric and the spray. Allow it to soak for thirty minutes, and then put it in the washing machine for a regular wash. Air-dry your clothes when finished in the washing machine, and you should be good to go! If this process doesn’t work the first time, you can repeat it until the stain is totally removed.
 Granted, this does sound a little gross. However, cheese-whiz is a sworn-upon grease remover by some. Coat your grease stain in a thick layer of cheese whiz, and then rub it in with your finger and put it in the washing machine. A single wash should be enough to get out the stain - and the whiz.
 Shampoo is used for getting the natural oils and grease out of your hair and scalp, so why not use it for the same process on your clothing? Pour shampoo directly onto your stain, and use a cloth to vigorously rub it in. Let it set for 10-15 minutes, and then wash it as you would regularly in the washing machine. Allow the clothing to air-dry, and you should be grease stain free.
 Waterless mechanic’s soap - a type of powder detergent - is used in garages all over the world to remove oil from the hands of greasy mechanics. Pour the powder onto the stain, and then rub it vigorously into the oil stain. Let it set for thirty minutes, and repeat the process. Wash the clothing and allow it to air dry; if the stain still persists, repeat the aforementioned process again until it has been fully removed.
 Simple green is a cleaning solution used by many for regular household cleaning tasks. However, it also works to remove set-in stains. Pour the liquid directly onto the stain and let it set for 15-20 minutes, adding more if necessary. Then wash your clothing on a cold water cycle, and air dry it.
 WD-40 is used for a multitude of cleaning purposes, including oil and grease stain removal. Pour the cleaner onto the stain and wait for 30 minutes, allowing it to soak in. You should wash your clothes immediately after letting it soak, washing it with cold water and then air drying it when complete. Repeat this multiple times if necessary to completely remove the stain.
 It’s been known for quite a while that cola sodas have some amazing cleaning qualities, as a result of their ability to dissolve nearly anything. Although you may fear for furthering your stain, colas can remove set in grease stains. Pour it directly onto the stain, and leave it to soak for 1-2 hours (this isn’t long enough for the soda to stain). Follow this up with a wash in the washing machine and an air dry, and you’re finished.
 If you’re having trouble scrubbing out an oil stain, you can try aloe vera gel on it. Soak your clothing in cool water, and then pour aloe vera (100% aloe vera gel is best) onto the stain. Rub the gel into the stained spot vigorously for a few minutes, and then wash your clothing with cold water.
 Another multi-purpose cleaning solution, Lestoil is perfect for removing oil stains (it’s practically in the name). Pour the Lestoil directly onto the stain so that it may soak in for 20-30 minutes. Then, wash your article of clothing in the washing machine with cold water. If you’re removing oil from multiple articles of clothing at once, you can add the lestoil directly to the washing machine with the detergent.