 Assemble a professional report that includes documentation and factual paperwork to back up your claim. Don’t hand the higher ups or human resources a fist full of scribbled cocktail napkins and sticky notes. Transfer all of your written notes into a typed and cohesive report.


If you have receipts, video, or photographic evidence, present them in a binder or folder. Making a professional presentation will send a message that this is serious and goes well beyond your boss having a bad day.
 Meet with the human resources manager to present your report. When you make your appointment, let the manager know why you want to meet with her. Ask about confidentiality and whether you can submit your findings anonymously.Try to leave emotions at the door when you meet with human resources. Try to divorce yourself from the situation and approach it as if you are presenting the material on the behalf of someone else.Don’t name call. During the meeting, be as professional as possible. Never say that your manager is simply a “bad person” or “evil,” but instead lay out the facts and your report in a calm, confident manner.
Thank the human resources manager for her time. Be gracious with regard to the meeting. Be sure the human resource professional knows that you are thankful that your case is being heard.
 If you work for a smaller firm that doesn’t have a HR department, you’ll need to talk to the next best thing. In many cases of a small, family run business, there are slim chance of your boss being fired. Most businesses consist of this type of structure: top-level managers, middle managers, first-level managers, and then the staff.


A likely hierarchy of a small company may be the owner, manager, department manager, supervisor, and then the staff.
Talk to someone in the chain of command who is higher than your boss. If your supervisor is repeatedly out of line, try talking to their manager.
When dealing with smaller firms, you must insist that your hearing be confidential.
 If you're uncomfortable talking to your company about a boss, contact the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. This is a federal organization responsible for employment and anti-discrimination laws. This can include incidents of managerial abuse that violates anti-discrimination laws.


You'll need to file a claim with the EEOC that will include the research and reports you've prepared.
The EEOC will contact you with further steps that may include a lawsuit against the company.

