 If you must spend time with a person who repeatedly insults or teases you, come up with a plan for how you will address the situation. Thinking through ways you can respond and role-playing can help you handle the situation.Practice role playing with a trusted friend or family member. Try having your best friend say, “Anna, your haircut is really awful.” You can respond with, “Thank you for your opinion, but I like it and that is what matters.”
If your boss is insulting you in a belittling way, come up with a plan. Try saying, “Bob, your teasing is unprofessional, hurtful, and is hindering my productivity. I will report it to human resources if it continues.”

, It’s important to stay calm when you are being teased or insulted, even if your instinct is to get angry or cry. People who tease and insult others are often looking for a reaction. Keep your cool and stay grounded.When someone insults you, try taking several deep breaths before responding to them.
 Be confident and clear with the aggressor about how his or her insults affect you. Use a firm, yet calm tone and explain why you are not okay with their teasing.Try saying to a classmate who teases you about your shoes, “It makes me angry when you insult me in front of our classmates. So stop it.”
If your co-workers are heckling you at work in a sexist way, try saying, “Your teasing and insults are bordering on sexual harassment. If this happens again I will report you immediately to our supervisor.”

, Sometimes the best response to an insult is to ignore it. You can pretend you didn’t hear it at all or change the subject to something completely off topic. Ignoring your aggressor’s teasing or insults instead of reacting will prevent fuel being added to the fire.If you are insulted or teased online, don’t respond.
If you are being insulted by a family member, try to ignore the insult and leave the room.
 Using humor to react to being teased or insulted is an effective response. Humor can diffuse a tense situation, disarm the aggressor, and even undermine the insult. Try making a joke when someone insults or teases you.If your coworker insults the poster you bring to a conference try saying, “You’re right. This is an awful poster. I really shouldn’t have let my five-year-old do my work for me.”
Another option might be to act shocked and engage in some playful banter with the person. For example, you might say something like, “Oh my goodness! You’re right! Thank you for helping me to see the light!”

, It is important that you report these kinds of harassment immediately. This type of teasing is often against the law. Go directly to an authority figure if you are being teased or insulted in this way.
 For example, if you are being repeatedly insulted by a parent or family member it might be time to sit down and have a conversation about the abuse. Be direct about how the teasing makes you feel and how such harassment affects your life.


If your mother continually insults your appearance, try saying, “Mom, I feel hurt when you comment on my clothing, hair, or makeup. It hurts my feelings. From now on, please stop making these comments.”
Even if the teasing is non-malicious, you can still say something to the person if it bothers you, such as "I love hanging out with you and it's fun teasing each other sometimes, but the following topics hurt my feelings and those are off limits now: clothes, husband, kids, etc…”

