 If you are a Mac OS user Xcode, Visual Studio Code, Net Beans, Eclipse, etc. will suffice. If you are a Windows OS user Visual Studio 2015, Net Beans, Code: Blocks, Notepad++, etc. Also, there are online IDEs such as, Cloud 9, Codenvy, IDEone, and SourceKit to name a few.;
, To begin structuring a C++ program there are certain vital aspect of a C++ program that need to be in place. Let's begin with the include directives this statement is read by the compiler and lets the compiler know where to find certain methods and functions.The two included in this program are iostream library—which allows the program to perform input/output operations from a keyboard, mouse, or monitor. Secondly, the ctime library which contains built-in functions and data types for exploiting date and time information in programs.
 The next very important aspect of a C++ program is the “int main ()” declaration, which is the main(no pun intended) function where the C++ program will executed. The function is followed by two braces an open brace and a close brace. This is called the function body.
 There is a data type within the ctime library called time_t this will represent the variable for the time. This variable will be called “rawtime” Next, there is a time structure within the ctime (time.h) library that contains date and time components in a more granular manner (for example seconds after minute, days since Sunday, etc.) This variable will be named “timeinfo”.
 Also making use of the struct variable “timeinfo” this variable can be assigned to the function local time. Local time function evokes a variable with the value for the local timezone.
 In turn, the local time and date information can be display on the consoles screen.
 The main program is built to return some information, yet there still needs to be a function for the main program to know when to stop running. This is where return 0 comes into play, which simply ends the life of the main function.
 In the end, the program should run in the specified IDE with no errors and properly display the day, month, date number, time and year, respectively.

