 Being a mentor is a tough job, and so too is being mentored. It is common for mentees to be short on self-confidence to begin with, or to have their confidence shaken in the face of setbacks or criticism. As a mentor, be honest and realistic with your guidance and feedback, but do so with an air of optimism. Help your mentee believe that self-improvement is never out of reach.Even when difficulties arise, never act like your mentee is failing or will never comprehend your guidance. If they don't do so well at a task or exam or project related to your mentoring, keep smiling and offer to help them with what they got wrong. If they do do well, feel proud of what they have accomplished with your help and congratulate them.
 You might assume that only the mentee is apt to get upset or frustrated by poor results. However, you invest a lot into the relationship as a good mentor, and your own frustrations about not “getting through” to or adequately helping your mentee might cause you to project these emotions outwardly. Basically, you might be mad at yourself, but be tempted to direct this anger toward your mentee.


Never, ever, curse at the learner, or say (or even intimate) that they are worthless or dim-witted. Not only will you crush their confidence, you will likely face sanctions if your mentorship has some sort of affiliation. Never let your frustrations get the best of you in front of your mentee. Take a break or make an excuse to cancel or cut a session short if necessary.
Even if the problems are primarily the mentee’s doing, steer clear of accusatory “you” statements; stick with “I” and “we” statements that focus on things you can work on together. For instance, don’t say “If you would just pay attention to what I’m saying here….”; try “I think we need to find better ways to communicate with each other.”, Start by complimenting them, identifying some of their strongest points. Then nicely lay out some areas they need to work on. Be direct, but not unkind. Finish it off with some further encouragement, projecting a positive outcome of future efforts.For instance: “The ideas you presented during yesterday’s conference call were fantastic. We should continue to work on your poise and delivery, though, so that the full impact of what you’re advocating for is felt by all. Just keep working hard and coming up with those great solutions, and before long you’ll be the one running the conference calls!”

, Make sure they know that you believe in them, and that you are aware of their efforts and improvements. Don’t withhold deserved praise, thinking that this withholding will help “toughen up” your mentee or stoke their motivation. When they’ve earned it, even for minor successes, give it to them.


On the other side of the coin, don’t manufacture false praise just for the sake of saying something nice. You risk losing your credibility if your false praise is transparent. If your mentee has given you little reason to offer praise, focus your energies on constructive criticism and responding to their questions.