 Simultaneously, bring 1 inch (2.5 ml) of water to boil over high heat in a wide saucepan.


Prepare a shallow baking dish by lining it with aluminum foil or by spraying it with nonstick cooking spray.
 Add the squash to the boiling water, cover the pan, and cook until each squash becomes tender enough to pierce through the stem with a fork with minimal resistance.


Drain the squash by lifting them out with tongs and by letting them drip-dry slightly on clean paper towels.
 Slice off the top stem of each squash and use a melon-baller or metal spoon to scoop away the seeds and pulp, leaving only the firmer flesh.


Set aside all the squash you remove in a separate bowl or dish. Do not discard.
 Place the bacon in a large skillet with tall sides. Cook over medium heat, turning several times, until brown and crispy on all sides.


Remove the bacon from the pan and let the pieces drain on plates lined with clean paper towels or brown paper bags.
Set aside for now.
 Add the diced onion to the bacon drippings along with the squash you removed. Sauté them both for about 1 minute.


You should chop the squash into small pieces if it is not already cut apart.
 Remove the skillet from the heat before stirring in the breadcrumbs. Make sure that the crumbs, onion, and squash bits are evenly distributed.


You need to use soft breadcrumbs for this recipe. Dry breadcrumbs will not create a good stuffing.
 Crumble the bacon into fine pieces and add it to the bread crumb mixture. Add the Parmesan cheese, as well. Stir to mix well.


Add a pinch each of salt and pepper, if desired, and stir again.
 Fill each hollowed out squash with the mixture, packing it until the centers are overflowing.


Place the squash on your prepared baking dish and loosely cover them with clean aluminum foil.
 The squash and stuffing should be completely heated through when done.


If you want to test the temperature of the stuffing to make sure that it is hot, you can use an instant-read food thermometer to do so.
 To benefit from the greatest amount of taste, you should enjoy the stuffed patty squash while still warm and freshly cooked.

