 If you’re looking for a little extra coverage without a bulky sweater, try tying your scarf around your shoulders as a shrug. If your scarf is square, fold it diagonally in half to form a triangle; a rectangular scarf does not need to be folded prior to wrapping. Then, drape your scarf around your shoulders so that the two ends are held open in the front, and the bulk of the scarf is resting on your shoulders/back. Tie the ends together in a small knot in the front, and adjust the fabric a bit.
 If you have a beautiful pashmina or a long, wide scarf with a pretty pattern, try wearing it as a shawl. Open the scarf so that it is completely flat, and wrap it around your back and arms so that the entire pattern is exposed. Drape the ends of the scarf loosely over your shoulders, and tug at the fabric a bit to loosen it up. You can turn this style around so that the ends are draped in the front if you would like, but this doesn’t leave as nice of draping as the original steps indicate.
 Whether you’re trying to protect your hair from the elements or you just want to show off your scarf on your head, you can create a lovely loose headwrap using a small silk scarf. Open the scarf up so all the fabric is exposed, and place this over your head so that the ends are near your shoulders. Tie the ends of the fabric together under your chin or near the nape of your neck under your hair.
 If you have a pretty square scarf, you can easily transform it into a headband. Lay the scarf out flat on a table, and then fold it in half diagonally to form a triangle. Starting on the widest side, roll/fold the fabric in 1-inch sections to create a long, narrow strip of fabric. Then wrap this around your head to form the headband. Tie the ends together either above your hairline, or under your hair on the nape of your neck.
 If you have a relatively short scarf, you can easily transform it into a belt. Fold or roll it up to a width of your liking, and wrap this around your waist. Tie the ends together in the back or on the side, and tuck the excess fabric back on itself. Alternately, you can choose to let the ends of the scarf dangle loose down your legs.