 Controlled breathing, as the name suggests, is when you deepen your breathing in order to clear out any phlegm that may be in your lungs.To perform controlled breathing:


Take two to three big breaths. Try to inhale as much air as you possibly can, and then exhale as much as you possibly can. Taking these deep breaths will help to get air behind the phlegm so that you can spit it out later.
Take four or five regular breaths, and then two or three more deep breaths. Repeat this step once more, switching between regular breaths and then deep breaths.
After your last set of deep breaths, begin making huffing motions, as if you are trying to clear your lungs (which you are).
Take two to three regular breaths, and then try to cough up the rest of the phlegm.
Repeat this whole procedure as needed or until you feel your lungs are cleared.;
, Coughing is the body’s natural way of eliminating secretions from the lungs.You can still easily perform this coughing technique when you are already running. To perform controlled coughs:


Find a chair or bench where you can sit. Lean forward with your arms placed across your stomach. Leaning forward promotes maximum lung expansion.
Take one deep breath and hold it for three seconds. As you breathe in, you should feel your stomach getting bigger against your arms.
Open your mouth slightly and make short and sharp coughs. While doing this, exert pressure on your diaphragm by pushing your arms against your stomach in an upward motion.
Inhale through your nose in a gentle and slow manner. Inhaling in this way will help to keep secretions from going back into your lungs.
Spit out the secretion.
 When someone pats your back, it can help to loosen up the phlegm in your lungs. Ask someone to perform the following:


Have the person place his hands in a cup shape. Have him tap your back while his hands are in the cup shape. Start from the middle of the back and move upwards.
This motion can help loosen the phlegm and cause it to be excreted through the mouth.

