 If your social anxiety is holding you back and preventing you from living the kind of life you want, your first step in changing things should be to start working with a therapist. A professional therapist can help you understand the reasons behind your social anxiety and customize a treatment plan to help you overcome your symptoms.Some people are prescribed medications to help reduce their anxiety, but this is not the right option for everyone.
Your therapist may also recommend techniques to help you combat anxiety, such as deep breathing exercises, during which you will focus all of your attention on your breathing, so that you stop thinking about the source of your anxiety.;
, Low self-esteem is often a big hurdle for people who have social anxiety disorder. If this is the case for you, you may feel that you are not worthy of friends, that others perceive you as boring, or that others judge you for your social "mistakes." In order to overcome these thoughts, you must recognize them as a symptom of your anxiety, and not reality.If you find yourself having these thoughts, try repeating a positive thought silently to yourself. The thought can be something general like, "I am awesome and deserve great friends" or something specific like, "It's no big deal that they didn't laugh at my joke."

, Try creating a list of all of the social situations that make you anxious and rank them in order of least uncomfortable to most uncomfortable. Then start exposing yourself to each item on the list, one by one. Taking small, incremental steps will make it much easier to eventually face your biggest fears.
You can start as small as you want. For example, the first item on your list may be making eye contact with the cashier at a grocery store or saying hello to the mailman.
 As you begin conquering some of your fears, it's a good idea to keep challenging yourself by creating new goals for yourself based on what you want to ultimately achieve. This will not only help you continue making progress, but it will also keep you motivated because you will constantly be accomplishing something.These goals can be more specific versions of the items on your list of fears. For example, if you said hello to two strangers yesterday, you could make it a goal to say hello to three strangers today.
Be proud of yourself whenever you accomplish a goal, no matter how small it is.
 Social media is a great tool for keeping in contact with people, but it can also trigger anxiety for some people. If this is the case for you, consider either deleting your accounts or reducing the amount of time you spend on social media.Social media causes some people to compare themselves to others excessively, which can cause them to feel bad about themselves.
Other people feel pressure to have a certain number of followers or to impress people with great pictures and witty comments, which can cause a lot of anxiety.
 People with social anxiety often feel as if they have nothing to talk to other people about. A little planning prior to social engagements can eliminate this worry, so conversation will come much easier. Try new things and develop new hobbies. Even if it's just a casual interest, it will give you something fun to talk about.
Brushing up on world events is also a great way to always have something new to talk about.
 If you're worried about being out of practice when it comes to making conversation, try practicing with people that you never plan on seeing again. Make small talk with the person standing in front of you at the post office or sitting next to you on the bus. This kind of practice will help you feel much more comfortable when it comes time to talk to people who you want to become friends with.The more often you do this, the easier it will get.
Try to engage with different types of people and talk about different topics all the time. This will give you lots of practice in different situations.
 Another way to practice your social skills is to find someone you know who is willing to help you out and do some role playing. Enact a social situation that would typically make you anxious, and ask your partner to give you feedback on how you handled the situation.Your partner can be anyone you feel comfortable with, but it's best to choose someone who has strong social skills.
Instruct your partner to pay attention to your body language as well as your conversation skills. This can help you get valuable feedback about things like eye contact or nervous twitches.
 As you begin talking to more and more people, you will eventually encounter some people who do not want to talk to you. This rejection may be hard to accept at first, but do your best to move on and continue talking to new people.Remind yourself that the other person is missing out by not talking to you.
Keep in mind that the other person may be having a bad day or may be distracted. There's a good chance that the reason they don't want to talk has nothing at all to do with you.
 You may live in the same neighborhood as a lot of potential friends, but because people tend to live insular lives, you may have never seen them before. To get to know your neighbors better, try attending events in your neighborhood, like block parties and holiday parades.If there are no neighborhood events in your area, consider organizing one. It can be something very casual like a potluck picnic at your local park.
If you go to one of these events, make a goal for yourself regarding how many people you will introduce yourself to. Everyone is there to meet new people, so they should be very welcoming.
 If you work at an office, your coworkers may be great potential friends. It will take a little work to turn your working relationship into a friendship, but it will be worth it if you have coworkers who share your interests.Make small talk with coworkers when you see them in common areas, like in the elevator or in the break room.
To get to know your coworkers better, consider going out to lunch together or going out for drinks after work. Once you have gotten to know some of them better, you may suggest weekend plans.
If you're not sure who to approach at work, you can send an email to your entire office or department. Say something like, "I was thinking about going to the diner for lunch today. Is anyone interested in joining me?"

, Clubs and social groups are excellent resources for meeting people. Because they are usually centered around a specific activity or interest, you will automatically have something to talk about! Check your local paper or search online to find clubs in your area.If you can't find any clubs or groups that interest you, consider forming one of your own. You can base the group around your own interests to attract people who will be likely to have things in common with you. You can form your group online on a website like meetup.com, or you can advertise your group in a public space like the library., Volunteering for a cause you care about is also a great way to make new friends. You will get the opportunity to meet employees and other volunteers at the organization, who most likely share similar passions with you.When looking for volunteer opportunities, focus on ones that will allow you to work as part of a group, rather than individually.
Long-term volunteer opportunities are ideal for making friends because you will see the other volunteers many times and have plenty of opportunities to interact.
 One of the easiest ways to meet new people is to ask people who you already know to introduce you to their friends. You may have a close friend or relative who can really help you expand your social circle.Talk to your friend or relative about your comfort level before you plan anything. For example, you may be okay with going out to lunch with your sister and her friend, but not going to a house party with them.
 While it may be one of the more intimidating ways to meet people, you may also have great success making friends by simply talking to strangers. This may be easier if you talk to people you see regularly but do not know, like people who ride the bus with you or attend the same yoga class as you.Remind yourself that it's okay if not all of these interactions lead to friendships. If nothing else, they will give you more practice interacting with others.
 No matter how you meet people, you will need to take that extra step and make plans to see them again in order to become friends. Try to brush aside any fears you have that the other person does not want to be your friend, and just ask if they would like to get together.

Start with small plans. For example, you might want to ask a new acquaintance to meet you for coffee over the weekend, but not to go on vacation with you.
If you meet someone who you want to become friends with, always get their contact information before you leave. If you don't feel comfortable asking for a phone number just yet, ask about connecting on social media or get an email address.
 Remember that keeping friends can sometimes be more work than making them. The most important thing that you need to do to keep your friends is to stay in touch with them regularly.If you haven't spoken to a friend in a while, reach out by texting or emailing to see what's new. Try to make plans if possible.
Some friends talk to each other every day, while others talk to each other once a month. The right frequency will depend on what kind of relationship you develop with your new friend.
 People with social anxiety disorder often avoid making plans with others or cancel plans at the last minute, which can quickly derail a new friendship. Try to avoid doing this at all costs. Once you commit to plans, keep them unless you have a good reason for canceling.

If your friend wants to do something that makes you anxious, you can always try suggesting a lower key alternative. For example, if your friend wants to go dancing, but you're not up to it, you might say, "I'm not feeling up to dancing, but I'd love to go out for lunch tomorrow."
If you need to cancel plans, be apologetic and try to reschedule right away.
 Offering to help your friends will show them that you care and strengthen your friendship. It will also make them much more likely to help you out when you need a hand.You can help with anything at all, big or small. For example, you might offer to help your friend plant her vegetable garden, or you could offer your friend a ride to the movies. Both are very thoughtful gestures.
 Once you've mastered keeping in touch with your friends, the best way to maintain your relationships with them is to treat them right. Think about how you would want them to treat you, and always treat them exactly the same way.If your friend accomplishes something, be happy for him, just as you would want him to be happy for you.
If you have a disagreement with your friend, don't blow it out of proportion or be rude. This is not the way you would want to be treated!
If a friend is sad, try to console her.

