 A marketing case study describes a "success story" between a business and a client. Ideally, the client has recently interacted with your business, and is enthusiastic about contributing a positive message. Choose a client close to your target audience, if possible.Request high-level involvement from the client's side for best results.Even if the client only wants to vet the materials you send them, make sure the person involved is high up in the organization, and knowledgeable about the company–client relationship.
 A typical marketing case study begins by describing the client's problems and background. It then rapidly moves on to describe how your company strategically approached these problems, and succeeded in fixing them to a high standard. Finish by describing how you can apply similar solutions across the industry. The entire case study should divide into about three to five sections.Collaboration with the client is especially helpful here, so you make sure to include the points that left the most impact and biggest impression.
If your target audience wouldn't immediately identify with your client's problem, start with a more general intro describing that type of problem in the industry., Use bold text and headers to divide the case study into easy-to-read sections. Start each section with short, action sentences and strong verbs., Use numeric examples that demonstrate how effective your solutions were. Make this as clear as possible, using actual numbers instead of (or in addition to) percentages. For example, an HR department could show impressive retention numbers following a process change, while a marketing team could demonstrate past sales boosts from its service.


Charts and graphs can be great visual tools, but label these with large letters that make the positive meaning obvious to people who aren't used to reading raw data., You'll definitely want to quote positive recommendations from your client. Often, however, the person writing these will not have a marketing background. Ask the client whether you can write the statements for them, although of course the client will sign off on these before publication.These are typically brief quotes just one or two sentences long, describing your service in a positive light.
 Include photos and other images to make your case study more attractive. One tactic that can work well is to solicit photographs from the client. An amateur digital photograph of the smiling client team can add a genuine touch., Make your marketing case study widely available. Try using Amazon Web Services, Microsoft's Business Hub, or Drupal.Send copies of the study to the client you collaborated with as well, along with a certificate thanking them for their involvement.

