 You will be required to possess a diploma and be at least 18 years of age to start training as an electrician. Extra courses in math, physics, mechanical drawing and construction are likely to help you as you move down your career path.;
, The state of Wisconsin has different electrician requirements according to the city where you work. In order to ensure you head down the right path, it is a good idea to request information about the electrician training that is required in your area.


Cities with the highest number of jobs for electricians include Appleton, Milwaukee, Madison, Janesville and Sheboygan.
 Certificate programs are often 1-year long, while associate's degrees take place over 2 years. Look for schools that offer placement in an apprenticeship program.


It is not always necessary to complete a certificate or associate's degree before doing an apprenticeship; however, every semester that you attend school will give you 500 hours toward the prerequisite work experience required to become a journeyman or master electrician.
 You will need to be indentured in an apprenticeship program for approximately 5 years in order to become a journeyman. These apprenticeships can be competitive, and you may need to apply for them a year or 2 in advance of the start date.


There are 3 types of Wisconsin electrician apprenticeships: a full electrician apprenticeship, a residential electrical apprenticeship and an industrial electrical apprenticeship. You may want to decide which focus you will take before applying for apprenticeships.
 You will need to fill out an application, submit proof of an apprenticeship contract under a licensed master electrician or journeyman electrician and pay $30.


Download the form at http://dsps.wi.gov/Documents/Credentialing%20Forms/Trades%20Application%20Forms/Ea.pdf. This form also includes the names and addresses to whom you should submit the paperwork.
This credential is good for 1 year and will need to be renewed for the duration of your apprenticeship.
 This may or may not be necessary under municipal guidelines, so check your local licensing qualifications. For locales that require a journeyman electrician credential, you must show that you have worked as an apprentice electrician for 1,000 hours per year for 5 years.


Application for journeyman electrician will require a form, exam and approximately $165 in fees. You may substitute up to 2 years in schooling for your required work hours, reducing the total number of apprentice years to 3.
 This generally requires you to have worked 1,000 hours per year as an electrician for 7 years. You can substitute schooling for up to 3 years of this time.


You will be required to submit forms, undergo an exam and pay fees of approximately $265. The credential is good for 4 years.
 In order to work independently as a contractor, you will be required to show that you have the proper experience, liability insurance and you work only with qualified electricians. You are not required to sit for an exam to gain this credential.


Go to http://dsps.wi.gov/Documents/Credentialing%20Forms/Trades%20Application%20Forms/Ec.pdf to download the contractor application form.
Becoming a contractor is optional. If you plan to work for an electrical company, and not start your own business, working as a master electrician is the highest credential you will need.

