 It is very important that both the sender (sends the mental message) and the receiver (receives the mental message) both believe telepathy is possible. Both partners should maintain open minds about this form of communication. The receiver and the sender should also desperately want telepathy to work. When partners are close minded, there tends to be very poor results., One of the main requirements of telepathy is to separate yourself from your physical body. This allows you to focus on thought, and the message you are trying to send. Some ways of doing this are wearing headphones while playing recorded white noise, or wearing goggles painted white.This is especially important for the receiver. If the receiver is bogged down in conversation or argument, he or she will not be able to accurately receive the message you wish to convey.
 This is when there is some sort of bond between the receiver and the sender. When you have an affinity for someone (a best friend) or when you both share common interests is when the energetic coupling is at its peak. Try engaging with the other person by asking them questions, such as: what is your favorite color, where would you like to visit, and/or where are you from?Once this initial bond is formed, you will want to try and read their thoughts before they come out of their mouth. Pick up on visual and contextual clues as to where the conversation is headed.
This bond can also be formed if you get a "feeling" when they talk. This could be warmth when they talk about their background, or coldness when they say their favorite color is blue.
One the bond has been formed, the energetic coupling can last days, weeks, or even months. Even if you are separated thousands of miles apart, the bond will stick. This bond will help when you are actually participating in the act of telepathy.
 This step is designed to help you relax your mind, and focus better. Yoga is the best exercise routine to perform as it is both spiritual, and not that intense. Grab a soft mat, or lay on your floor. One of the most common yoga moves is to sit on your butt, with your eyes closed, as you raise your hands slowly. You can find more here How to Do Yoga.Remember that the goal is to relax, so do not strain yourself too much.
 Relaxation is very important in order to decouple different forms of energy. Close your eyes, while sitting upright in a chair. Focus on which thoughts are clearly in your mind. Separate those from "static" buzzing around in your head. By separating these two forms of energy, you will be able to discern your own thoughts from possible outside interference., Each of these positions has different responsibilities in the telepathic process. If you do not decide before you begin, you could wind up sending mixed messages to one another. The boundaries should be clearly established at the beginning. Choose someone who you know, and trust., After you have decided who will be the receiver, and who will be the sender, sit across from one another in an upright position. Your bodies should be facing one another, and your eyes should be closed. Spend a few minutes clearing your mind, and settling into your position.While telepathy can technically happen far away, it is best to start out up close and personal. It is also best to limit the amount of time you commit to one session, otherwise you could become mentally tired., The sender should picture the receiver as clearly as possible (with their eyes closed). This should be as detailed as possible. Make details in your mind about the person's eye color, weight, height, length of hair, personal quirks, etc. If you are doing the transmitting from far away, feel as if the person is sitting right in front of you.If you are far away from the receiver, have a picture nearby to remind you of what they look like before you begin telepathy.
 The sender should visualize in their mind a silver tube. This tube connects the minds of the receiver and the sender. The tube is full of energy and it will transmit the message you want to deliver. It is important to focus your mind on the tube, and solely on the tube. You have to believe that the message will send through this tube, and that it is real in some way., This could be an apple, a bag, a colored pencil, etc. You should visualize it in all its detail. What color is it, what is it used for, and where is it located? Another important aspect of this is to inject feeling into the object. How do you feel when you taste an apple? When you draw using colored pencils? Feeling and emotion will help carry your message much more efficiently and clearly., After your mental image is charged up, direct it through the silver tube. You have to believe that the message will transfer through, and reach the receiver. Push it through with all of your brain power. Feel the emotion of your mental image as it passes through. This may take up to 15 minutes in order for the message to get to the receiver.If it takes too long, it may be that this transmission experiment has failed. If so, stop and meditate. Eventually come back and try the transmission again, using a different image.
 During the process of communicating a message via telepathy, the receiver should be concentrating on picking up signals. The receiver should also imagine the silver tube, and the energy that flows through it. The receiver then writes down whatever comes to their mind. This could be a feeling, an image, or both. Every detail should be written down, or described., Look at the receiver's paper and check whether it is the message you tried to send. If it is, then you can go onto harder levels of telepathy. If not, do not immediately try again. Your mind needs to be rested and completely relaxed. Take time to meditate, and then try again with a different image., Sit a bowl of water down in front of you. As you do so, sit in a chair, upright, with your eyes closed. Picture the bowl of water in all its detail. Then imagine a string connecting your mind to the water. You have to believe that this will work. Now feel a pulse of energy at the top of your forehead. Learn how it feels, and how much energy it is conducting. Finally, send the pulse down into the bowl, along the edge of the string.If this method is accomplished, the top of the water should move. This method may take up to ten minutes.
Really build up the energy pulse. You need to be in complete control of it. Maintain it for a long time, before you release it down the string and into the water.
 When you are at a restaurant, close your eyes. Visualize the waiter/waitress. Picture their smile, their dress and the food they are holding. Then think about them turning around, noticing that you are waiting on them. Wait for them to come over. This exercise is meant to increase your mind's ability to draw attention, and pull another willing recipient closer., Have one person be the sender. This person will scan a group of individuals. While doing this, the sender will place psi-symbols (tight packets of energy) in the realm of selected persons. After that person is done sending those symbols, the other will attempt to retrieve the symbols. That person will scan as well, looking for where they have left the symbols. Retrieving is best done with your eyes closed., Make a chart out of large poster board. This chart should have on it at least 5 colors. They should not be written out, but actually displayed. Use a magic marker to draw a colored in circle of each color. Then, the sender will place a psi-symbol on one or more of the colors. The retriever will write down which colors he or she thinks is marked., Take five random cards. Look at what they are, without showing them to another person. Focus solely on one. Place a psi-symbol on it. Flip them over, and place them apart, flat on a table. Continue to focus, and visualize the card. Ask the receiver to pick out the card.