 To make someone mad, flirt with their significant other. You can be serious with your flirting, or you can do it in a joking manner. The more obvious the flirting, the better. You want to the significant other to see you flirting so he can get mad.


At a party, flirt with someone you know is in a relationship. Make sure your body language reads that you are flirting. Turn towards the person, lightly touch his arm, laugh at what he says, and compliment him.
If you want to make strangers mad, walk by a stranger and say, "Why didn't you call last night? I missed you." Or act mad by saying, "Why didn't you call last night? You're such a jerk!" Then walk away., No one likes to be ignored. To really irk someone, ignore her. Don't look at her, don't speak to her, don't interact with her at all. Pretend she doesn't exist. This will make the person angry and possibly hurt her feelings.


If someone talks to you, continue working or doing what you are doing like the other person doesn't exist. If she says, "Do you hear me talking to you?" just keep working.
If you get together with people, leave the person out. Don't send her the Facebook invite, don't text her, and don't invite her when you ask around the office., No one likes a line cutter. To really get under people's skin, cut in front of someone. Don't say excuse me, and don't look back when someone yells at you for cutting.


While in the line at a bathroom, march past everyone and slip into the open stall before someone else does.
Cut in line at a restaurant or coffee shop. Just step into line like you belong there. If someone calls you on it, act like you don't know what they're talking about. Don't move.
While waiting to merge onto a congested road, drive along in another lane to the front where everyone is merging, and force your way into the long traffic queue.
 Most people don't like loud noises, and no one likes being yelled at. Simply raising your voice can start to grate on people's nerves. Yelling at them at full volume may freak them out, but also anger them. Don't yell at them because you are angry; just yell at them for no reason.While at dinner, ask loudly, "Can you pass the salt?"
At work, walk by someone and yell, "Nice day, isn't it?"
When standing at the printer, raise your voice and ask, "How are you today?"

, People don't like to be accused of things they didn't do. They don't like to be liars. To make someone mad, accuse them of taking something from your desk or saying something they didn't.


Claim that someone stole your stapler, then point to one of your colleagues. Blame him for taking the stapler. Insist it is him despite his denial.
Blame your brother for drinking your last soda. No matter what he says, insist that you know it was him., Driving under the speed limit annoys most drivers. To make someone mad, drive 10-15 miles per hour under the speed limit on a two lane road where drivers can't pass you.
 The smallest things can make people mad. Think about the pet peeves of the people around you. Start doing annoying things, increasing how often and loudly you do it as time progresses.


Chew gum with your mouth open. Smack your gum loudly. Blow bubbles and pop them.
Tap your pen against a table. Or tap your nails against the table.
Click your pen repeatedly.
Pick your teeth.
 When someone is talking to you, don't pay attention to him. Instead, do other things and make sure the person can see it. When he is finished talking, ask if he can repeat what he just said.


Look around the room while someone is talking. Lean over and whisper something to someone else.
Play on your cell phone. Having someone on a cell phone during a conversation is extremely irritating and can cause anger.
Work on something else. Write down your grocery list, doodle, or read the newspaper.

