 While some earplugs block out sound, others will protect your ear canal from water. Most earplugs don't have a duel purpose, so you should select the type of earplug that suits your specific situation. If you're in a loud environment, protecting your ears from excessive sound can help prevent hearing loss and other ear injuries.On the other hand, water in your ear can lead to ear infections, swimmers ear, and surfers ear, which are all conditions that can damage your ears over time and threaten your health.Decide on which kind of ear plugs you need and start searching for plugs designed specifically for your needs.


If you swim or dive, you should get earplugs to protect you from ear damage caused by water.
If you are a hunter, need help sleeping, are in the live music industry, or work construction, you may need noise canceling earplugs.;
, Figure out how much money you have to spend and how much money you're willing to spend on earplugs. Cheap, disposable earplugs can often get as low as a couple of cents per pair, while more expensive, custom earplugs can cost more than $150.If you swim often, however, purchasing one or two pairs of expensive earplugs rather than constantly buying disposable ones, can save you money over time. Figure out your price range and narrow down your decision.


Different brands of earplugs will have a different range of prices.
 Earplugs can come in pairs or can come in boxes with hundreds of pairs in them. Figure out how many earplugs you need based on your situation. If you are buying earplugs for a class or group of people, consider getting cheaper earplugs by the box. If they are for personal use, you can consider spending a little more for a nice pair of earplugs.
 Start by purchasing small, cheap quantities of various types of earplugs. Mimic the activity you'll be doing while wearing the earplugs. Take note of your comfort level as well as how secure the earplugs are in your ear. Talk, yawn, and move your jaw around to test how well the plugs stay in. If you can find a location that lets you test the plugs, take advantage. Once you find plugs that stay in and feel comfortable, you can see how well they work when doing activities.If testing the earplugs isn't an option for you, you can read customer reviews to get a sense for the quality and fit of the earplugs.

