 Though you may be the captain of your sports team and a star athlete to boot, it's important to be humble and polite.


If you're practicing with members of your own team, offer them encouragement. Instead of showing off and being mean when they make a misstep, show them how to improve their game and compliment them when appropriate.
On game day, it's important to look your opponents in the eye, shake their hands, and to show that your focused on the game, not whether or not the other team's point guard is a jerk. Even if you feel someone on the other team acted unfairly, take it up with your coach or a ref as the situation dictates, but avoid name calling and foul language.
Lose with dignity. Leaders should be seen as mature - not as crybabies. If the other team kicked your butt, congratulate them without wincing. With your good attitude, you'll get another chance at them.
 Though it's important not to call too much attention to yourself, don't be afraid to strut your stuff to let people know why you are the captain of your team.


Help your coach demonstrate skills during drills. Your teammates will be impressed by how versatile and helpful you are.
On game day, play your best. Don't slack off just because you're the captain--it's important to work your hardest on the court.
 You're still part of a team and should work well with others. You were chosen to be a leader partly because of your ability to work with a diverse group of people.


When you're huddling with your team or giving instructions, make sure to give everyone a chance to participate in the game. If you're dictating plays, don't revolve the entire game around your skills.
Be helpful off the court. Help load equipment into your team bus, take attendance, and offer rides to any straggling team members. This will show that you care about working together on all aspects of the game, even it's just driving the freshman player to school so everyone can be a part of the game.
 Though you should be respected first of all, being a team captain is more casual than being a boss, and you should make an effort to make friends so you can have fun while working hard.


Be fun at team social events. Make sure to show up to team dinners and other social events first and to leave last. Show that you love being a leader of your team from start to finish. This will help you get to know your fellow players and to deepen your bond.
Be friendly with all members of the team. Don't play favorites, and work to get to know everyone on your team, from the star player to the slowest member on the JV squad. This will show that you care about everyone who makes the team so unique and strong.
 Though your teammates may criticize your coach, it's important to avoid this behavior to keep your team strong.


Don't criticize your coach in front of your teammates. Though you may disagree with your coach's actions, you can talk to him about it. Discussing it with your team can make everyone angry, and can make your team fall apart for lack of strong leadership.
Explain that your coach is looking out for your team's best interests. Show your teammates that your coach knows his stuff and should be trusted. This will keep your team strong and will make you look like a fair leader.

