 Like garlic, you can use onions to help remove warts. Take 1/8th of a medium sized onion and crush it. Place the onion directly on to the wart and cover with a bandage or, if you prefer, a piece of duct tape. Repeat, applying fresh onion every day, covering the wart with a fresh covering.


As with the garlic method, use a disposable emery board to file away the excess skin of the wart between applications., Vinegar is an acid, diluted acetic acid, and is thought to break down cell membranes. Then the acidic environment kills the virus. Soak a cotton ball in white vinegar and apply to the wart. Attach the cotton ball to the wart using duct tape. You can leave it on for 2 hours up to 2 days. Repeat as necessary.


Between applications, use a disposable emery board to file away the skin. , Dandelion sap contains a number of ingredients that help with warts, including anti-viral substances. These substances likely kill off the virus-infected cells. Pick a dandelion or two off your lawn. Break the stem and squeeze the dandelion sap onto the wart. Cover the wart with a bandage or duct tape. Leave it on for 24 hours. Repeat as necessary.


Use a disposable emery board to file away the wart between treatments., Banana peels contain a number of substances, including various enzymes that may break down the cell membrane. Place the banana peel with the inner part of the peel on the wart. Cover the peel with a bandage or duct tape and leave it on overnight. Repeat as necessary.


In addition, banana peels contain carotenoids, which are the substances from which Vitamin A can be synthesized. Vitamin A has anti-viral effects.
Between applications, use a disposable emery board to file away the wart., Basil has a number of anti-viral substances and that is believed to help basil kill off the wart virus. Cut a fresh basil leaf and ball it up. Place it over the wart. Cover the basil with a bandage or duct tape and leave it on for 24 hours. Repeat as necessary.Between applications, use a disposable emery board to file away the skin.

