 When the edges of the pancake begin to crisp up and the top begins to bubble, it’s an indication it’s ready to be flipped.Pay close attention to your pancake to see when this happens.


If you keep burning your pancake, lower the heat when you try to cook the next one.
If the center of your pancake is raw, then it means you're cooking it on too high of a heat. This makes it so the edges burn before the middle gets a chance to cook.Don’t use too much butter or oil when cooking your pancake or it may spit and burn you.;
, The underside of the pancake should be a golden brown color before you flip it. You can check this by carefully lifting up an edge of the pancake with your spatula or a fork. The bottom should now feel more solid, and less like batter.


Make sure to use a nonstick pan, non stick cooking spray, butter, or oil so your pancake doesn’t get stuck to the pan.
Don’t lift one of the corners of the pancake too much or else you might break the pancake.
You may check it often, but use your best judgement. The more you play around with the pancake, the greater chance it’s going to break.
You can shake the pan back and forth to see if it slides around. If it does, it indicates that the bottom side has cooked, and it's ready for flipping.
If the center of your pancake is too wet and under cooked, there's a chance that hot oil, batter, or butter could splash onto your skin so be careful.
 Try to get your spatula in the center of the pancake. Get as much of your spatula as you can covered by the underside of the pancake. Lift it so it clears the rim of your pan and get ready to flip.


Don’t hold it in the air for too long or it will break. You should transition to the flip quickly.
Don’t lift it higher than 4-6 inches off the bottom of your pan. The higher you lift it, the greater chance it’s going to break.
 Using a quick flicking motion, turn your wrist over while holding the spatula. The longer you wait and the more you hesitate, the more likely the pancake will break. Do it quickly and confidently.


If you mess up, scrap the pancake and start over.
Make sure to try to the flip the pancake only once. Multiple flipping will make it tough and chewy.