 Many large cities—especially those with pleasant summers—may be relatively tourist-free during the off-season winter months. If you’re looking to visit a cultural city in a time when it won’t be crowded, think about visiting Las Vegas in the winter. The scorching hot summers will have cooled down, and you’ll be able to enjoy your time on the strip and nearby neighborhoods without the level of tourists you’d see in summer.


Several other cities worth visiting in the winter off-season are located in the south: Miami, Tampa, Orlando, Atlanta, Savannah, etc. Southern cities—and the South in general—will have more temperate weather during the winter.
 The British coasts are beautiful (e.g. the cliffs of Dover) and crowded during the summer, but host fewer tourists in the winter months. With an off-season visit, you can still participate in popular activities—such as birdwatching—but without the crowds you’d find during summer months.As long as you’re in Britain during the winter, you could expand your travel plans to include destinations including cities like London and Liverpool, or travel up into the north of England and Scotland.
Although you may experience cold temperatures in northern regions, you likely will have few other tourists to contend with, and will be able to have a more local, authentic cultural travel experience.
 Summer-specific travel destinations will typically have dramatically different weather during the off season than during tourist season. You’ll need to do your research ahead of time, to see if typically warm climates become unbearably cold, snowy, or rainy during the wintry off season.If possible, purchase travel insurance when traveling during off-season months. Even if weather is routinely hot and pleasant during the winter season, off-season travel to the same location could include blizzards, freezing rain, or other unexpected weather. Travel insurance will protect belongings that become damaged due to weather. Contact your main insurance provider (e.g. your house or car insurance provider) and ask if they provide travel insurance, or can recommend a company which does.

