 If you have submitted an untruthful resume and are now having second thoughts, you can consider asking to submit an “updated” resume. This way, you can correct any lies or half-truths before you get called for an interview. This will allow you to proceed through the application process with a clear conscience.


If you choose to do this, remember to bring the updated resume to the interview, rather than the old version that contains the lie.;
, At this point, you can choose to be vague as to why you would like to submit an updated resume because you have not made a tremendous amount of contact with the company yet. This can be good if you do not wish to outright admit that you lied on your resume. You can simply say:


“After looking over my resume, I discovered some information that I would like to edit. Can I send you an updated resume by this afternoon?” Again, you are not admitting that you lied on your resume, just that you would like to make some changes.
 Edit your resume in a way that is now truthful but not obvious that you lied. Changing numbers or dates here and there is fine. However, eliminating false job duties, accomplishments or entire jobs may be noticeable and will raise questions. It may be best to rephrase these things to be truthful.


For example, instead of eliminating “Increased sales by 30% in 3 months” you can say “Contributed to a 30% increase in team sales”. This is not saying you personally increased sales by 30% but you contributed to that overall growth.
 Asking to submit an updated resume may be a red flag to an employer. Issues with trust and your ability to check your work before submitting are just among the few questions that may arise. You should consider apologizing for any inconvenience and submitting an updated version as soon as possible.
 After viewing your updated resume, it may be apparent that you lied on your initial resume. Again, this goes back to a trust issue. It is now up to the employer as to how they would like to proceed. They may choose to end your candidacy and you must accept the consequences and respect their wishes.

