 Find copies of receipts or warranties. If you paid with checks, find the canceled checks.


Also jot down anything you remember staff telling you about the product or service.;
, Many states require or strongly recommend that you contact the business before filing a complaint.


Tennessee, for example, requires that you contact the business first.On the other hand, Delaware makes no mention of contacting the business first.
In any event, contacting a business first is a good idea. You may resolve the issue faster. Sometimes mistakes do happen, and legitimate business are often happy to refund you.
 Let the company, owner, or agent know of the problem. You should give the following information:


Your name, physical and email address, and phone number.
The product or service, including the brand name, model and serial number.
The problem with the product or service, in as much detail as possible.
 Tell the company what you would like to happen. If you want a full refund, ask for it. The company might say no, but you need to ask for it first.
 You need to give the company a reasonable amount of time to resolve the issue. Often, issues must be sent up the chain of command, and refunds may need supervisory approval.


Generally, a representative will contact you within two weeks via correspondence or phone to confirm your complaint. If you haven’t heard from the company after two weeks, then contact the attorney general.
 Always follow up with a letter after a phone call. A letter is documentary evidence you can refer to later.Explain the product or service upfront, as well as the date you purchased it.
Next, state your complaint including how you want it resolved.
Finally, include copies (not originals) of sales receipts or contracts.
 The company might come back and offer a partial refund. Though not ideal, this may be more than you can get otherwise.Seriously consider all settlement offers.


Come back with your own counter-offer. If the company offers a 50% refund, counter with 75%. The company probably doesn’t want to be reported to the attorney general and may meet you halfway.
 In addition to the evidence of payment and warranties, document your phone conversations and save emails and letters. Gather all of this information in a binder which is securely stored.
 Type the name of your state and “consumer protection” into a search engine. The attorney general’s website for your state should come up near the top of the search results.


If you are taken to the attorney general’s main page, look for a link for “consumer protection.” Click on it.
 Most consumer complaints are handled online. Read the instructions carefully.


If you want to fill out a hard copy, there should be a form that can be downloaded and then printed.
 Include your name, address, and contact information (phone and email), as well as the name and contact information of the seller or service provider.
 Include the date, how the service was advertised, as well as your method of payment. Include the amount that you paid.
 As best you can, explain why you think you have been deceived or defrauded.


Focus more on the specific conduct of the business than on how angry you are. In particular, mention any promises or guarantees that were made, even if they were made orally.
 Typically, you will be asked whether or not you have contacted the individual or company.


Attach a copy of your signed letter. Often, the form will also ask for the name and phone number of who you contacted.
 Also inform the Attorney General if you have brought a pending legal action against the company.
 Let the Attorney General know what your ideal resolution is, as well as what you are willing to settle for.
 The Attorney General will want to see any and all contracts, correspondence, receipts, cancelled checks, and advertisements. Do not send originals.
 Government agencies will accept correspondence via the postal system. The process will take longer than those filed electronically, but they should be available on their websites.

