 This way, you’ll be able to systematically approach getting over your fear, step by step. For example, some of the steps you could write down include:


Arriving at a new location to see that you must either ride an elevator or take the stairs.
Pressing the “up” or “down” button and waiting for the elevator to arrive.
Seeing how crowded the elevator is.
Stepping into the elevator.
Selecting your floor.;
, The goal is to start with a step that may make you slightly uncomfortable but that doesn’t intimidate you so that you can gradually expose yourself to your fear.For example, pressing the “up” or “down” button may not frighten you as much as waiting inside the elevator until you reach your floor, so put these steps in the appropriate order.
 Progress from step to step gradually. When the step is relatively simple, like pressing the button for which floor you want to go to, repeat it often until you feel less anxious. If the step is longer, like waiting inside the elevator, stay in the situation long enough that your anxiety decreases.If you expose yourself to a situation for longer, you’ll feel less anxious the next time you face the challenge. The only thing not to do is to avoid your fear - avoidance will only reinforce the notion that you should be afraid of elevators.Stop if you feel overwhelmed or anxious. This is a sign that you should progress slower. Practice each step until you feel sufficiently comfortable with it to move on to the next.
 Depending on what aspect of riding in an elevator scares you, you can plan ways to put your mind at ease ahead of time.


If your fear is being enclosed in a small space with many people, and you know the elevator "rush hour" is at 8am and 5pm, practice at a time of the day when you know the elevator will be less crowded.
If you worry about getting stuck in an elevator and having a panic attack, bring water and a snack with you when you practice. You can gradually stop bringing these comforting items as you get more familiar with riding in elevators.
 You may feel completely calm in an elevator with windows but become anxious in a windowless elevator. Consider this another step in your ladder to climb. Start out with the elevator with windows, then gradually try riding a windowless one.


For example, riding an elevator with windows is a great starting point if what you're afraid of is being enclosed in a small space. When you start to feel claustrophobic, look out the window and breathe deeply.
 If you are too afraid to try stepping in an elevator alone, you can add another step to your gradual approach by asking a trusted friend to accompany you during your practices. As you feel more confident being inside an elevator over time, progress to riding on your own., Getting over your fear of riding in an elevator is going to require that you practice often. Depending on the severity of your fear and on how often you practice getting used to riding in an elevator, it could take anywhere from a couple of weeks to months to get over your fear. The more you practice, the faster you’ll get over your fear.


Even when you get over your fear and are able to ride an elevator, you still may hesitate or feel slightly on edge. This is not unusual - if you have been afraid of elevators for a long time, it will take a while for feelings of nervousness to go away. You can work on making these feelings disappear by riding elevators more often.

