 Typically, adult Roman males wore an off-white color for their togas. The color was that of the un-dyed fabric. However, other colors were worn, though they typically denoted something specific about the person wearing them.For instance, if the toga was truly white because the fabric was bleached, that generally indicated the person was in public office.Dark colors indicated the person was in mourning.White with a purple border was worn by curule magistrates, while purple with a gold thread around the border was worn, at different times, by generals (although only those who had won battles and wars), kings, and emperors.;
, The Romans wore wool,mainly because it stayed in place better than other fabrics. However, wool can be itchy, as well as very warm. In addition, wool is an expensive fabric. If you want something cheaper, a cotton blend should be fine.Muslin is a good option, because it is light and flowing.Another option is any flannel that is flowing.You can find both of these fabrics at your local fabric store. Basically, you don't want anything too smooth because it will slip right off.
 A true toga requires about 4 to 5 yards (4 to 5 m) of fabric, depending on your height and build. If you're a bit larger, you may want to spring for 6 yards (5.5 m), just in case.At the fabric store, you can specify how much fabric you want.
Sometimes, if you get the end of a bolt, the store will give you a discount on buying the rest of the bolt passed what you ordered to be cut. For instance, if you ask for 4 yards and the bolt has 4 3/4 yards, the store may give you a discount if you want that extra 3/4 of a yard.
 Another, easier option is to use a simple bed sheet. While you don't get as much length as a traditional toga, it can be a simple way to create a toga.A queen is a good size. It's slightly longer than a full, but it doesn't have as much width as a king.
Some people prefer a twin or full because it doesn't add as much bulk.
 It can help to wash and dry the fabric. Washing it makes it softer, which can help it flow better.Try adding a fabric softener to help with the process.
You can run it through the washing machine twice if once doesn't soften it up enough to drape well.

