


Reread the books.
Keep watching the movies. Watch them separate, out of order, or as a marathon.
Get the extra books. These include Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, Quidditch Through the Ages, and Tales of Beedle the Bard. However, there are many fanmade books that have been published.;
,


Go on Pottermore and other Harry Potter related sites.
Go on forums and chat rooms.



Get all the merchandise and clothes.
Eat the food. You can get it from the online shop called Honeydukes on the Universal Studios site, or you can get it from the Wizarding World when you visit. A third option would be to make it yourself.
Decorate your room. Make it obvious that you're still into Harry Potter.



Go to Harry Potter World (Wizarding World of Harry Potter). It's at Universal Studios in Orlando, Florida, and since the summer 2014, they have completed the Diagon Alley addition!
Role play.
Find out what happened to the actors. You can also write to them if you want.
Visit conventions. Yes, they exist! Some are Pottercon and Leakycon.



Write and read fanfiction.
Write backgrounds for the characters, and write their futures.
Write to J.K. Rowling.
Create your own character.



Listen to Wizard Rock. This is a new music genre that has come out of the series.
Listen to Mugglecast, Pottercast, and other Harry Potter podcasts.
Watch the parodies. Some famous ones are A Very Potter Musical and Potter Puppet Pals, but there are so many others on YouTube. Make your own.
Watch Harry Potter videos on YouTube.
Watch Finding Hogwarts. It's a fan documentary. You can also try doing something like this and travel around, looking for famous locations.
Get hyped for the new movie. It's based off of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them. It takes place in 1920's New York, and it's about all of Newt Scamander's' adventures. To make it better, Rowling is writing the script! Get psyched!

,


Play muggle Quidditch. There are many official teams worldwide, and there is a Quidditch World Cup every year in the US.
Reference Harry Potter regularly. This makes sure that the series is still in your daily life.
Hang out with fans.
Talk like a wizard. Say spells, and use wizard language, like "muggle" and "Quidditch".
Stick up for Harry Potter. You need to be there for the series when in situations like being in a room full of haters.
Dress up like your favorite character on Halloween.
Send you and your friends Hogwarts Letters. Read this article for more information.
Participate in contests. You can create them yourself and invite friends, if you want.
Talk in a British accent. Just make sure it's good. If it isn't it may be offensive.
Join a club. Find one or start one yourself.



Make Harry Potter Puppets. They can be modeled after Potter Puppet Pals or be original.
Make Harry Potter-related videos. Upload them to YouTube or another video sharing site if you want.
Make your own fan website. Look up other fan websites for inspiration.
, Harry Potter is a legend, and will live on forever!

