 Even if you used to be an avid reader, you might at some point find yourself unwilling or unable to pick up a book or other reading material. You may find yourself obsessing over small passages; unable to concentrate or remember what you just read; feeling inadequate to the task of reading challenging material; or even feeling insignificant in comparison to the larger world and deeper truths revealed through reading. Take some time to think about the sources and symptoms of your reading avoidance.A fear of reading — or more accurately, an inability to draw pleasure from reading — can be known as “reader’s block,” but it also has a more technical label — lexical anhedonia.
 If you’ve found yourself avoiding reading, don’t try to force yourself back into the habit by picking up War and Peace or Ulysses. Start with shorter, digestible morsels of reading material, like magazine articles or short story collections. Keep a wide selection of reading materials readily available, so that you can read what you want when you want.If you want to re-read something for the eighth time, do it. If you want to read children’s books, go for it. If you want reading to become pleasurable again (or even for the first time), you need to start out by choosing reading materials that please you.
 Finding a reading buddy or joining a book club might provide you with the right mix of motivation and social interaction to get you going. Being part of a group gives you a reason to pick up the book; having others to talk with about the book helps you see that everyone has challenges, questions, concerns, opinions, and even fears about what they read.Reading can become your gateway to developing new friendships or deepening existing relationships.
Joining a group can also be good motivation and help to keep you accountable.
 If you find yourself struggling to stay awake when reading anything longer than a news article, you may have become too accustomed to consuming “rich media” — that is, interactive, brief snippets of information accessed digitally. To restore your attention span and recapture the pleasures of sitting down with a good book, you may want to dial back on your consumption of “rich media” reading materials.For instance, at bedtime, place your smartphone out of reach and put a couple of book options on your nightstand. Limiting your exposure to a glowing screen before bed will likely help you sleep better as well.
Many people in the western world divide their attention between multiple tasks on a regular basis, so reading something of substance or length may need to be relearned as a skill.