 Dental professionals recommend oral irrigation as a great way to really clean teeth and gums. Brushing and flossing will not get under the gums where the bacteria have set up housekeeping. Oral irrigators get what tooth brushes and floss don’t, so plaque and tartar never come back.


Oral irrigators flood the mouth with a jet of water under pressure to flush offending food particles and bacteria from the mouth.
They can remove any debris leftover after brushing. They also give you a good gum massage, which improves blood circulation and prevents inflammation.
Oral irrigators, such as Oral Breeze or WaterPik can now be found that attach to your shower-head or your bathroom sink faucet and are very easy to use.
Oral irrigators should never be used as a replacement for flossing.
 If your diet is heavy on sweet sodas, candy, and other sources of sugar, try cutting back on these foods to decrease the buildup of plaque on your teeth. Even fruit juices have enough sugar to cause plaque to grow, and starchy foods like pizza create the same problem.When you do eat or drink sugar, follow it with a glass of water. Swish the water around in your mouth before swallowing to clean off the sugar.
 Consider brushing your teeth after a sugar or starch heavy meal, even if it means brushing three times a day instead of two. Carry a toothbrush in your car, office or bag so you can use it each time you feel a film start to form on your teeth. Be aware that brushing your teeth immediately after meals can potentially help to erode the natural enamel on your teeth, so make sure you only do this after eating meals that will contribute to bacteria buildup., There are some foods that have high acid contents. These acids wear away the enamel of your teeth and promote the growth of bacteria, putting you at higher risk of forming gingivitis. Some foods and drinks that are high in acid are:Citrus juices and fruits
Alcohol with a high phosphorus content
Certain types of meats, like corned beef or turkey
Some cheeses, like parmesan, are also high in acid content

