 Rabbits can be handled and can enjoy being handled, but it's crucial that you do it correctly and don't cause your rabbit to become stressed. You should never pick up a rabbit by the ears, and always supervise children around your rabbits.Generally it's advisable to start handling rabbits when they are young so they get used to it. Handling an adult rabbit who is not used to it can cause distress and she could scratch you.


Before you pick up your rabbit, move very slowly and sit down on the floor so you are closer to her level.
Carefully slide one of your hands under her ribs and lift her up while you lift her rear with your other hand.
Hold her gently but firmly against your chest, and always keep one hand under her rear to support her.
If you hold all four of her feet against your chest, she may feel more secure being held., Rabbits don't just like to socialise with other rabbits, they will often like to spend time with you. By putting time aside every day to sit down with her and interact you will help develop a stronger bond. Try feeding her something by hand or giving her a toy to chew. Even if you are just in the room together, sat on the floor watching TV while she runs around, she is more likely to come and interact with you.


Once you have gotten to know your rabbit a bit more you will learn more about her personality.
Pay attention to how she acts and respond accordingly. If she likes being handled, handle her, if not, don't.
The more attentive you are the more you'll learn about how she likes to play and when you can join in. If your rabbit seems bored, provide more toys and stimulation.
 Rabbits like to play with other rabbits, but also with you. Remember to be patient and get down low so you are at her level.Try to schedule in regular play times which fit into her daily routines. Rabbits will generally want to be left alone when eating and grooming. As they are often most active early morning and late evening, these can be good times to play.


One of the games you can play with your rabbit is "bunny bowling". Set up some mini-bowling pins and watch as she charges into them and knocks them over.Try getting a ball with a bell inside that she can push and roll around.Once you have become good friends and your rabbit is comfortable around you, you can try to play chase. She will follow you around so run off and let her chase you. Try calling to her as you play., To keep your rabbit stimulated ensure that you rotate the toys which you provide for her. Don't leave all the toys out all the time, instead change the selection each week to increase the variety of her play. She will love to explore toys of different shapes, sizes and textures. This doesn't have to be expensive, but providing different toys will help keep her curious and entertained., Rabbits love to run around and explore their environment, diving through tunnels and jumping over obstacles. One great way to play with your rabbit and keep her happy and stimulated is build some obstacle courses for her. You can use cardboard boxes, tubes and anything that is bunny safe to play with.


Give her things to jump over, crawl through and run around.Mix it up and provide new environments for her to explore regularly.

