 Assess your own personality traits and determine which kind of dog you most resemble in the way you behave. Are you nervous or confident? Are you social or secluded, friendly or aloof, hard-working or lazy? Match your answers to different breed personalities to choose the best dog breed for your cosplay.Working dogs include herding breeds like Collies and Shepherds.Nervous dogs are often the smaller or toy breeds like Chihuahuas and Toy Poodles.
A guard dog may suit your personality, in which case, you should look at breeds like Rottweilers and Boxers.
Super friendly people want a dog breed to match, like a Labrador or Retriever.
 Dogs don’t really sweat except through the pads of their feet, so they pant to release heat from their body. They also pant when they get nervous or are in pain., Dogs originally came from wolves and hunted in packs -- they are social animals. With domestication, dogs have learned to rely on and bond with human companions. Be friendly, surround yourself with other and work together like a dog would., Dogs naturally love to play. You can choose to do the types of things that dogs do when they play. Some great options are playing catch or tug of war with your friends, or playfully wrestling with a buddy. Hey, if you’re alone, take yourself for a walk., Dogs can’t tell you what they want and what they are feeling, so they use a lot of body language to communicate with people. Study a dog’s body language and mimic what dogs do to communicate.When someone is speaking to you, tilt your head to one side.
Wag your tail when you’re happy.
Dodge out of the way when you are mad at someone who is about to touch you.
Whine for attention.
 Dogs rely on their human companions and bond closely to them. Be consistent in your friendship and always have your companion’s back. Be quick to forgive your close friends and family members.


Hachiko, a dog in Japan used to walk to the train station every day to meet his owner when he would return from work. One day, the owner died at his office, but Hachiko continued to walk to the station every day for 11 years hoping his owner would come home.