 You want your fabric and the webbing to be the lengths that you measured. Note: you want to make sure that you cut the fabric one inch longer and one inch wider than the webbing. You need the fabric to be bigger so that you can wrap the webbing around it.Another general rule of thumb is that your webbing should be approximately 11 inches (27.9 cm) longer than the circumference of your dog's neck. But either 10 or 12 inches (25.4 or 30.5 cm) will work, too.
Using a general household lighter, lightly burn the ends of your webbing. This will keep them from fraying.
 Using a low heat setting on your iron, iron the fabric to the webbing. Then fold the extra fabric over the webbing, creating a nice crease. You have now created the base for your collar. You can go back over this again with the iron to deepen the crease.
 Sew your way around the edges of the collar. If you do not have a sewing machine, use a needle and thread for this step. Essentially, you just need to make sure that your fabric is securely attached to the webbing. Use a simple stitch pattern. Just make sure to sew in a straight line. Sew along each side of the collar, making sure the webbing and fabric are firmly attached to one another.Using a pair of fabric (or kitchen scissors) snip any stray threads that are lingering.
 Slide the strap adjuster through one end of the fabric, then pull through about an inch. It does not matter which end you choose. Sew the loose end of the fabric back onto the collar itself. Basically, you are sewing this piece of hardware onto a small loop.When you are attaching the end of the fabric onto the main part of the collar, sew in an hourglass shape. Example: stitch in a straight line across the bottom of the "tail" end. Then sew a diagonal line up, then sew a line across the top, then a diagonal line back down to your starting point.Clip your stray threads. Now your strap adjuster is neatly attached to the collar.
 There should be two pieces. Place the curved side of the clasp through the end of the collar. Slide the end up through your strap adjuster, which makes a loop. Secure each side of the clasp to the collar by sewing small, sturdy loops around the clasps. You should have a collar, with a longer tail at the end.
 Slide on the other piece of your buckle, and pull about 2–3 inches (5–8 cm) of the collar through the buckle. Pull the end of the fabric through the adjuster and then sew the loose end to the back of the collar.


Use the hour glass stitch one the fabric on each side of your D ring. This will ensure that it does not slide around on your collar. Now your D ring is attached.
Clip any stray threads.

