


Visit the NCDOT "Manual" website listed in the Sources section of this article for an online copy of the commercial drivers manual or contact NCDOT at 919-715-7000 to learn of nearby office locations that will provide you with a copy.
Study the manual completely in order to pass the knowledge and skills tests, which must be taken prior to receiving your commercial drivers license.;
,


Select a "Commercial Class A" license if you will be driving a combination of vehicles that weigh at least 26,001 lbs. (11,793 kilograms). A combination of vehicles indicates trailers or other items you tow.
Obtain a "Commercial Class B" license if you drive a single vehicle that weighs at least 26,001 lbs. (11.793 kilograms) and if you plan on towing another vehicle or trailer than weighs less than 10,000 lbs. (4,535.92 kilograms).
Select a "Commercial Class C" license if your vehicle does not meet criteria from the "A" or "B" Classes or if you plan on driving at least 16 passengers, including yourself. You must also select a "Class C" license if you are transporting hazardous materials.
You can also obtain a Learner's Permit, which will require you to have a passenger sitting beside you every time you drive. Your passenger must already have a valid commercial drivers license. The Learner's Permit is only valid for 6 months.



The document must display both your name and the physical address where you reside.
Acceptable forms of documentation include military orders, your valid North Carolina vehicle registration, a North Carolina library card, your utility bill, or a copy of your apartment lease.
To view other forms of acceptable proof of residency documentation, visit the NCDOT "Commercial" website featured in the Sources section of this article or contact the NCDOT headquarters office at 919-715-7000 between Monday and Friday during the hours of 8 a.m. and 5 p.m.



One piece of the documentation must be your Social Security Card or identification card issued by the United States government that verifies your legal presence in the country.
Other types of acceptable documentation you can bring include your current, valid drivers license, a birth certificate, a valid passport, certified marriage certificate, or notarized court documents.



You can bring an insurance card or policy that displays your name, the insurance policy number, and the beginning and end dates of your insurance policy.



When you apply to receive a commercial drivers license, your existing drivers license must not be suspended, revoked, or disqualified, and you should not own multiple drivers licenses.
If NCDOT's records show a discrepancy against the information you certify, they may ask you to provide additional, specific documentation that proves your driving record is clean.



The DOT medical card can be obtained after you have had a physical examination by a doctor or health care provider, and is required if you plan to drive a commercial vehicle.
If you cannot obtain or do not have a DOT medical card, an NCDOT Exemption Review Officer will meet with you to determine if you are eligible to receive a commercial drivers license.



The knowledge test may take up 1 hour and 30 minutes to complete and you must be able to pass the test with a score of 80 percent or better.



Refer to your copy of the commercial drivers license manual for a complete list of office locations that administer the driving skills test.
Call the telephone number of the office you want to visit for your skills test and make an appointment for the test.
The driving skills test will include an inspection of the vehicle you plan to drive, basic vehicle control skills such as making turns or backing up, and a complete road-driving test.



The application fee will cost 30 dollars and the commercial license fee will cost 15 dollars per year.

