 Becoming a certified yoga teacher will require you to already be familiar and skilled with the form of yoga you practice. Certification courses will likely be intensive and would not be well suited for a beginner. Make sure you already feel confident in your knowledge and skill with yoga before seeking to become a certified yoga teacher.You should have a working knowledge of things like the asanas, pranayamas, chants and mantras associated with ashtanga yoga.
You should be able to demonstrate physical competency in these areas of yoga.
Make sure you are regularly practicing and keeping your existing skills sharp.
Always try to address your strengths and weaknesses. Keep your training and practice balanced.;
, Although you may have a favorite class or teacher, it can be useful to learn from many different teachers or try new classes. Each instructor will have their own unique take on the poses and techniques of Ashtanga yoga, allowing you to learn details and approaches you might have otherwise missed. Try looking around your area for additional classes you might be interested in to round out your Ashtanga skill set.
 Even if you feel ready to start teaching yoga on your own, you'll want to consider your motivations for getting certified. Certification is a way to demonstrate to others that you are a capable, dedicated and knowledgeable yoga instructor. Take a look at some of the key benefits that certification can bring to see if they fit with your personal goals:You'll appear more credible to potential students.
It can be easier to find work instructing classes.
You'll be able to join an online database of certified instructors, allowing the public to easily find you.
You'll receive an in depth and continuing education, keeping you up-to-date with the current yoga instruction practices.
You will become part of a large yoga community.
You will have access to special discounts on things like liability insurance or select yoga products.
 In order to attend a certification program, you will need to pay all fees associated with that program. These fees will vary, depending on which program you enroll in. However, you should be aware that becoming a certified yoga teacher can be an expensive undertaking. Make sure you are able to commit to the financial requirements before you enroll in any Ashtanga yoga certification courses.Talk with a certified instructor or school to learn more about how much your certification program will cost.
After you complete your course, you will need to pay fees to register with the Yoga Alliance. For a teacher to register, you can expect to pay $105 for the first year. There will be an annual fee of $55 after your initial payment.
Total certification costs can reach beyond $3,000.
 If you decide you want to become a certified yoga teacher, you'll need to find a certified school and teacher to work with. There are many certified teachers and locations for you to choose form. Take some time an find a school nearest to you that meets your personal goals and needs.You can search for registered schools at https://www.yogaalliance.org/Directory?Type=School

Consider the time requirements of the course. Some courses are intensive, requiring you to attend classes every day. Other courses may be spread out over a longer period of time.
Make sure you enjoy the instructor you plan on working with.
You'll need to find a school that caters to Ashtanga yoga practitioners.
Once you find a school, you'll be able to sign up for your certification course.
 Although you are welcome to practice with a personal teacher or mentor, your official teacher or yoga school will need to be registered with the Yoga Alliance. You will also want to make sure the school offers the appropriate course level you are seeking. Taking an official course is the only way to become a registered Ashtanga Yoga teacher with the Yoga Alliance.Make sure your school offers the appropriate course level. For example, most yoga teachers will begin by taking the RYT® 200 course.
If you are an advanced practitioner or already registered, you may want to take the RYT® 500.
Registered schools will have the Yoga Alliance's RYS credential.
 A large part of the training and certification program will be dedicated to the improvement of your yoga skills. You'll spend 100 hours mastering the various asanas and other key practices of Ashtanga yoga. This part of the course will also help you learn how to practically instruct others when demonstrating the motions, movements and breathing techniques of Ashtanga yoga.You will be able to substantially improve your techniques during this part of the certification process.
You will analyze the finer points of each motion and pose. This will allow you to understand them in depth and can help you to more easily teach others.
 It's not enough to simply know the techniques of Ashtanga yoga. You'll also need to understand how to engage and educate your future students. 25 hours of your certification program will be dedicated to learning how best to teach others the techniques of Ashtanga yoga. During this phase of your certification, you will learn the following skills:You'll practice your communication skills.
You will learn how to teach a large group of students.
You will learn how to demonstrate a technique and assist students who are learning that technique.
You will study the business and marketing aspects of being a yoga instructor.
 Since Ashtanga yoga is a highly physical practice, you'll spend 25 hours of your certification course learning more about the human body. You'll focus on the body's anatomy, physiology and how they affect a person's yoga practice. Knowing how the body works can help you improve your yoga practice, instruct students and foster proper positioning and movement.You may also study the anatomy of “energetic” chakras.
You'll come to understand the benefits and dangers each technique can present. This can help keep you and your students safe during practice sessions.
 After you've studied the practical aspects of Ashtanga yoga, you'll be required to learn more about the philosophical aspects. Learning more about the conceptual basis behind this form of yoga can help give you and your students a solid appreciation of the practice. You'll need to spend 20 hours learning more about the big ideas behind Ashtanga yoga before you can complete you certification.You'll learn more about the traditions and histories of Ashtanga yoga.
You will discover more about certain lifestyle concepts behind yoga. These might include things like non-violence, dharma and karma.
You will learn how to ethically run your yoga class and interact with your students.
 The final step in finishing your certification process will require you to teach 5 hours worth of classes. This important and hands on experience will give you direct feedback regarding your teaching style and efficacy. The remaining time requirement will be spent observing other teachers and offering suggestions on how they might improve.You will need to spend 5 hours as the lead instructor. Assisting a class will not count towards this requirement.
You will also need to spend time assisting a class.
 Although you will be a certified yoga teacher after completing your 200 hour course, there is still room to grow. The Yoga Alliance offers additional certifications that you can earn, allowing you to improve your yoga practice and teaching skills. Consider earning advanced levels of Ashtanga yoga certification to take your practice to higher levels.You can obtain a 500 hour certification.
You can become registered to teach children's yoga classes.
You can achieve an advanced “experienced” level of yoga certification.
 In order to maintain your status as an active and certified yoga instructor, you will be required to attend continued education courses. These courses will help keep your yoga skills sharp and up to date. Take a look at the basic continuing education requirements that you will need to meet every three years:Have at least 45 hours of active instruction time.
Obtain at least 30 hours of training and development.
 Once you've become a registered yoga teacher, you'll want to get involved in the larger community. There are many official events that are sponsored by the Yoga Alliance that you can attend to meet like minded Ashtanga practitioners. You can also enjoy meeting new people online, through the Yoga Alliance's digital community.You can find a list of upcoming community events at https://www.yogaalliance.org/Events/CommunityOutreach

You might also consider volunteering, joining a committee or partnering with the Yoga Alliance.
 One way that you can get started working as a yoga teacher is to find a yoga studio or fitness center with an open vacancy. Because of your credentials and your registration with the Yoga Alliance, you'll have a better chance of landing the position than others might. Talk with the owners of your local yoga studios, gyms or other fitness centers to learn if they could use your expertise.


Many gyms will offer classes in addition to their regular services. Ask your local gym if they would be interested in starting a regular yoga class or program.
Larger yoga studios may need more than one yoga instructor. Ask your nearby yoga studios if they have any open courses that they need instructors for.
You can also try teaching students one-on-one.
 Many yoga practitioners dream about the day they can open up their own yoga school or studio. Running your yoga studio will be no different than running any other small business. Keep some of these tips in mind when considering if opening your own yoga studio is the right move:You'll need to create a detailed business plan.
You will need to compete with other local yoga studios.
You should know how much people in your area are willing to pay for a yoga class.
You'll need to pay business expenses like utilities, rent, the cost of staff and insurance.
 Even though you may have started teaching your yoga class, there is always room to grow. No matter the current level of success your class enjoys, you'll need to work to bring in new attendees and build interest. Try using some of these basic methods to help your yoga class to grow and thrive:Build social media accounts for your class to reach local people who might be interested.
Have business cards printed and hand them out often.
Take your classes outdoors or in other public spaces.
Evaluate the time slots you offer your class. Look to see if there is a better time that more people would be able to attend your class.
Add a personal touch to your business. Make sure your yoga classes feel unique or have a certain branding that helps them stand out.

