 You will be gluing the flowers to this headband.
 This will help conceal the headband's original color and give the glue something to grab onto. You can use any color of ribbon you want, but green might blend in with the flowers better. If you don't want a green ribbon, then try to match the color to the flowers you are using instead. There are two ways you can attach the ribbon:


Choose a ribbon that is the same width as your headband. Cut it so that it is 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) longer than your headband. Center the ribbon on top of the headband, and hot glue it down. There will be an inch (2.54 centimeters) of ribbon handing off of each end. Cover both ends of the ribbon with glue, and fold them under the headband.
Put a drop of hot glue onto one end of the headband. Press the end of a long piece of ribbon down onto the glue. Wrap the ribbon around the headband, like a candy cane. Start from one end and move towards the other. Try to overlap the ribbon slightly. This way, you will cover the headband entirely and not get any patches.Secure the end of the ribbon with a drop of glue.
 If the bloom won't come off, use wire cutters to snip it off. Try to cut as close to the bottom of the flower as possible.
 Sometimes, when you pull the blooms off the stems, you may get a little nub on the bottom part of the flower. This may keep the flower from laying flat against the headband. If you want the flower to lay flat, then snip this nub off.Don't snip too much off, however. This little nub helps hold the flower together. If you cut too much off, the flower may fall apart., Swirl the glue around the base first, where the stem connects to the flower. Next, place a large drop of glue right on the bottom of the stem.
 Hold it there until the glue starts to harden.
 Try to place the flower as close as possible to the first one.
 Put the glue directly onto the headband, and gently press the flower or leaf into the glue.
 Sometimes, hot glue will leave behind long thread-like strands of glue. This can make even the most beautiful headband look messy. Carefully go over your headband, and gently pull off any strands.

