 Seek out friends and family who understand bipolar disorder and aren’t judgmental towards you. Consider avoiding or limiting your time around people who are unsupportive or cause you a lot of stress.For instance, if you have a friend who tends to stress you out, you might want to limit your gatherings with them during the holidays. You might say, "Lisa, I know it's been awhile since we got together, but I am trying attend as few social gatherings as possible. How about we meet up in the new year?"

, Know what your limits are, and honor them. If hosting the big family get-together will be too much for you this year, be up-front about it.Spend a few minutes right now to think about what the greatest source of stress is in the holidays, and possible solutions to reduce it.


For example, it may help to stay at a hotel a short distance away. This lets you escape sources of agitation (such as a family member's drunken arguments) and have a calmer place where it may be easier to focus on self-care, such as getting enough food and sleep.
Don’t let family or friends guilt you into doing things you’re not comfortable with. You know what’s best for your mental health. Say, "Joseph and I will be staying in a hotel about 10 minutes away. We think it's easier this way."
Think about what you find manageable and enjoyable, and base your holiday contributions on that. For instance, if you love to cook, you could volunteer to help make the dinner. Make it clear in advance what your role will be, to avoid last-minute expectations and decision-making., If big gatherings wear you out or induce hypomania, find a place you can retreat to cool down and recharge. Don’t hesitate to slip away from the festivities for a few minutes if you need some space and quiet.Pay attention to your mood and take a break if you feel your thoughts racing or notice yourself acting louder or more hostile.Bring something calming to occupy yourself with during your breaks, like a book or a knitting project. Tell loved ones, "I really need a moment alone to collect myself. I'll be in the study with a book."

, Alcohol is a depressant, and if you have bipolar disorder, it can throw off your mood for days. Don’t let others pressure you to partake, even if everyone else at the party is drinking.Alcohol can also interfere with any meds you might be taking.
 If you find yourself feeling too overwhelmed to stay at a party, it’s better to bow out early than to stick it out and end up feeling even worse. Prepare an excuse ahead of time, just to be on the safe side.You can make a graceful exit by telling the host, “I’ve had a great time, and I’m sorry that I have to leave so early, but I need to be up early tomorrow morning.” Depending on your situation, you could blame the early morning on your job, a doctor’s appointment, or a flight.

