 If you are new to corset training, you should opt for an under-bust corset, rather than a full corset. This is because a full corset can feel very constricting and uncomfortable to someone new to corset training and it is important that the corset training process is not a painful one. Steel-boned corsets tend to be very well made and can significantly reduce waist size with proper wear and care., In order to reduce your waist size, you will need to choose a corset that is 4–6 inches (10.2–15.2 cm) smaller that your existing waist size. For example, if you currently have a 26 inch (66.0 cm) waist, you should opt for a 20 to 21 inch (50.8 to 53.3 cm) corset (though beginners should lean more towards the 4 inch difference than the 5).


You can measure your current waist size by standing in front of the mirror and winding a measuring tape around the narrowest part of your waist, which should be an inch or two above your belly button.
 To avoid hurting yourself or damaging the corset, it is important that you break the corset in before tightening it fully. The corset needs to adjust to your body shape before it can do it's job effectively. To break in the corset, tighten the laces so that it sits snugly around your waist. It shouldn't feel tight. Wear it like this for a few hours everyday until the corset looses some of its stiffness and adjust to the position of your ribs and hips.
 Once the corset is broken in, you can start to tighten it a little everyday, to begin the process of waist reduction. Be aware that you should not attempt to close the corset fully until you have been wearing and gradually tightening it for several months. Only tighten the corset to the point where it still feels comfortable - you should not feel any pain or feel like you have difficulty breathing.
 The corset should be worn for three to six hours everyday, to get the full effects of waist reduction. Do not wear the corset for any longer than feels comfortable. You can wear the corset during most of your daily activities, though wearing it during exercise is not recommended.


Note that although some corset training sites recommend sleeping in your corset, this is not advisable. Corset training can be done in moderation and wearing it for 3 to 6 hours a day is more than adequate.
 Once you have managed to comfortably close the corset and have achieved a full 4 to 5 inch (10.2 to 12.7 cm) waist cinch, you can progress to a smaller sized corset to continue waist reduction, if desired. Be aware that you may reach a point where you are no longer able to close a corset fully, due to rib placement and body shape. This is perfectly normal and you should never attempt to force the corset closed - as this may cause you to hurt yourself or damage the corset.
 Many people are opposed to corset training as extreme waist reduction can cause rib bones to move and internal organs to shift. Although this is not normally dangerous, many people view it as being unnatural and unnecessary. In addition, corsets that are pulled too tight can reduce blood circulation, leading to poor muscle tone and the appearance of cellulite, so if you decide to go down the corset training route to achieve an hourglass figure, make sure you consider all the pros and cons first.

