 Use a cream or pencil highlighter, or a light-colored eyeshadow, in the inner corner of your eyes. This is a good trick for any eyes, as it makes them appear bigger to put your eye color on display.









Those with blue eyes might want to use a highlighter that’s slightly pink-toned rather than stark white, as it will look more natural.Those with grey eyes may want to stick with a silvery highlight, in a cooler tone if they want to make grey eyes lighter.
 Use a dark brown mascara rather than the classic black to provide a warmer contrast to cool blues and greys. Brown lashes may also help to subtly open up smaller eyes to showcase your iris color.


Applying a lengthening mascara liberally, or putting on false lashes, also helps to open the eye up and show off your grey or blue color.
Mascara also comes in other unusual colors besides black and brown. Try a navy blue mascara as a subtle way to bring out the blues in grey eyes.Brown mascara and eyeliner are great for those who have paler complexions or red hair, as they provide less contrast than black, which can make the complexion appear washed out.
 Use an eyeliner pencil not only on your top and bottom lash line, but also on the inside of those lines, at the wet part known as your waterline. Provide some contrast to the whites of your eyes and color in your irises by using this trick to make them pop.








Consider a brown eyeliner for a color that won’t wash blue colors out. Or choose grey eyeliner, which is slightly more dramatic than brown and will also bring out greys and silvers in the eye.
You can still use black eyeliner if you like the look of higher contrast with your skin and more of a silver or grey tone to blue eyes. You can balance darker eyeliner with salmon and coral tones of eyeshadow if you want to keep bringing out the blue.Try using a light or white liner for the waterline if you have small eyes and want to make them appear larger. The eyeliner on your lids can remain brown, black, or grey., Remember that the rest of the makeup on your face can also affect the intensity of your eye color and eye makeup. Use your lips and blush to create further contrast, or downplay the rest of the face to keep the eyes on display.


Apply shimmery bronzer to the cheeks and face to further bring out blues in the eyes. You can also brush on a peachy blush to the apples of your cheeks to bring in more of the orange hue that makes blues pop.
A peachy, coral, or even red lip color works well for highlighting blue in blue or grey eyes. A nude lip works best with grayscale eye makeup to play up light grey in eyes.

