 Turbochargers are basically air pumps that are powered by the exhaust gas exiting your engine. The exhaust exiting your engine spins a turbine, which transfers that energy through a driveshaft to a turbine on the other side that sucks in and compresses air into your engine’s intake. In effect, a turbocharger forces more air into the engine than it could possibly take in through normal aspiration. Most turbocharger kits include higher volume fuel pumps, ECU programmers, higher flow fuel pressure regulators and even fuel injectors. Turbocharger kits should be purchased for your specific car unless you are an experienced mechanic.Many turbocharged cars have intercoolers installed between the turbocharger and the car’s intake to cool the air and increase its density.
Turbocharging your car requires extensive tuning of the air/fuel ratio that may be best left to professionals.
 Centrifugal superchargers and turbochargers work in very similar ways. While a turbocharger is powered by the exhaust leaving the engine, superchargers are belt driven like your car’s power steering pump or air conditioner. Being belt driven means superchargers aren’t as efficient as turbochargers, but they don’t have to wait to be spooled by the exhaust. Because of this distinction, many people prefer superchargers for their more consistent distribution of power. Installing a supercharger kit involves most of the same modifications required for turbochargers in terms of fuel.Roots style superchargers do not mount in the same way but are still belt driven. These superchargers are traditionally found on older model, carbureted engines.
On forced induction applications like supercharged cars, you should use a higher octane fuel to increase the stability of the air/fuel mixture in the engine.
 Nitrous oxide is a gas that contains more oxygen than the regular air found in the atmosphere. As a result, adding nitrous oxide to the air traveling through your car’s intake serves a similar purpose to forcing more air into it with a turbocharger or supercharger. Instead of forcing more air into the engine mechanically, nitrous oxide introduces more molecules of oxygen into the same amount of space regular air would normally occupy. Nitrous kits that do not mix the nitrous oxide with fuel when injected are referred to as “dry.” These kits are designed to add a smaller amount of power as compared to wet kits, but can be an extremely cost effective method of giving your car a quick horsepower boost.Nitrous oxide kits only affect power output when they are in use, reducing the wear and tear on your engine as compared to consistent power adders like turbochargers and superchargers.
After turning on your nitrous kit, you usually control the spray of nitrous with a button or throttle switch that activates when you press the pedal to the floor.
Some dry nitrous kits use the fuel pressure regulator to increase fuel pressure going into the engine to compensate for the added oxygen, while some others do not.
 Wet nitrous oxide kits serve the same basic function as their dry counterparts, but they mix fuel directly with the nitrous as it is injected into the engine. As a result, wet nitrous kits are often considered to be safer for your engine, as the air/fuel ratio you choose is maintained even with the addition of the nitrous oxide. This stability allows for wet nitrous kits to add even more horsepower than dry kits with relatively low risk of pre-detonation. Like turbochargers and superchargers, properly utilizing nitrous oxide in your car might require custom tuning that may be beyond most hobby mechanics.Wet nitrous oxide kits are usually engaged using buttons just like dry kits.
Nitrous oxide is not flammable on its own like movies might have you believe. It must be mixed with a fuel to burn.
Nitrous oxide kits can be used in conjunction with a turbocharger or supercharger.

