 Weight is defined as the force of gravity on an object. Scientists put that sentence into an equation by writing w = m x g, orw = mg.









Since weight is a force, scientists also write the equation as F = mg.

F = symbol for weight, measured in Newtons, N.

m = symbol for mass, measured in kilograms, or kg.

g = symbol for gravitational acceleration, expressed as m/s2, or meters per second squared.

If you're using meters, the gravitational acceleration at the earth's surface is 9.8 m/s2. This is the standard international unit, and the one you should probably be using.
If you're using feet because you have to, the gravitation acceleration is 32.2 f/s2. This is the same unit, it's just rearranged to reflect feet instead of meters.
 Because we're trying to get weight from mass, we know we already have mass. Mass is the fundamental amount of matter an object has, and is expressed in kilograms.
 In other words, figure out g. On the surface of the earth, g is 9.8 m/s2. Elsewhere in the universe, the acceleration of gravity changes. Your teacher should tell you, or the problem should indicate, where the gravity is acting from so that you know.









The gravitational acceleration on the moon is different from the gravitational acceleration on the earth. Acceleration due to gravity on the moon is about 1.622 m/s2, or about 1/6 of the acceleration that it is here on earth. That's why you weigh 1/6 of your earth-weight on the moon.
The gravitational acceleration on the sun is different from the gravitational acceleration on the earth and moon. Acceleration due to gravity on the sun is about 274.0 m/s2, or about 28 times the acceleration that it is here on earth. That's why you would weigh 28 times your earth-weight on the sun (if you could survive!).
 Now that you've got m and g, you'll be able to plug those values into the equation F = mg and be ready to go. You should get a number described in terms of Newtons, or N.
 Here's the question: "An object has a mass of 100 kilograms. What is its weight on the surface of the earth?"









We have both m and g. m equals 100 kg, and g equals 9.8 m/s2, because we're looking for the weight of the object on the surface of the earth.
We set up our equation next: F = 100 kg x 9.8 m/s2.
This gives us the final answer. On the surface of the earth, an object with a mass of 100 kg will weigh approximately 980 Newtons. F = 980 N.
 Here's the question: "An object has a mass of 40 kilograms. What is its weight on the surface of the moon?"









We have both m and g. m equals 40 kg, and g equals 1.6 m/s2, because we're looking for the weight of the object on the surface of the moon this time.
We set up our equation next: F = 40 kg x 1.6 m/s2.
This gives us the final answer. On the surface of the moon, an object with a mass of 40 kg will weigh approximately 64 Newtons. F = 64 N.
 Here's the question: "An object weighs 549 Newtons on the surface of the earth. What is its mass?"









For this problem, we have to work backwards. We already have F and we have g. We just need m.
Let's set up our equation: 549 = m x 9.8 m/s2.
Instead of multiplying, we divide. Specifically, we divide F by g. An object weighing 549 Newtons on the surface of the earth will have a mass of about 56 kilograms. m = 56 kg.
 The number one mistake people make on these problems is confusing mass and weight. Remember that mass is the amount of "stuff" in an object, which stays the same no matter where you move it. Weight measures the force of gravity on that "stuff," which changes if you move through space. Here's are a couple mnemonic to keep your units distinct:

Mass is in units of grams or kilograms. Both mass and gram contain an m. Weight is in units of newtons. Both weight and newton contain a w.
You only have weight while you're "wait"ing on Earth, but even "mass"tronauts have mass.
 Most physics problems use newtons (N) for weight, meters per second squared (m/s2) for gravitational force, and kilograms (kg) for mass. If you use a different unit for one of these values, you cannot use the same formula. Convert to scientific units before plugging them into the standard equation. These conversions may help you out if you're used to the imperial / U.S. system:

1 pound-force = ~4.448 newtons
1 foot = ~0.3048 meters

, If you're working on a complex problem, keep track of the units as you work through your solution. Remember that 1 newton is equivalent to 1 (kg*m)/s2. If necessary, make that substitution to help you cancel out units.

Example problem: Jeffrey weighs 880 newtons on Earth. What is his mass?
mass = (880 newtons)/(9.8 m/s2)
mass = 90 newtons/(m/s2)
mass = (90 kg*m/s2)/(m/s2)
Cancel units: mass = 90 kg
Kg is the expected unit for mass, so you arranged the problem correctly.

