 We all sin sometimes and even excessively indulge in those sins, but we can learn to moderate this by following Islam. Alhamdulillah, many who followed through with this prescription have found a whole new life – of peace, happiness, blessings and mercy. On tasting the sweetness that comes with obedience, there is no desire to return to any form of disobedience. Try to understand why Allah Ta'alaa has made the rules that He has made and do your best to follow them in full. Be aware that whilst Allah Ta'alaa is inclined towards mercy for those that sincerely repent from their sins, he can be severe in punishment for those that disobey Him.;
, He has granted us everything and asks for very little in return. It is the nature of human beings that we love the person that is kind and generous to us. Then what of Allah Ta’ala who has provided us with plentiful blessings – in fact, with everything? The sight, hearing, speech, the organs that are functioning in such an amazing manner, the limbs - all in our service – for eating, drinking, walking, sitting, etc. The gifts of wealth: the clothing, shelter, transport, food, drink, and so many other comforts. …We use them all, but do we keep in mind, the Generous Benefactor? Do we give thanks for these bounties or show any appreciation to the Giver? All he asks in return is that we worship and obey Him.
 Then should we not feel ashamed that in His Presence, we are disobeying Him? Are we not showing ingratitude to the Benefactor, when engaging in sins in His very Presence?

, Added to this, our actions are also presented to Rasulullah (sallallahu alayhi wasallam), so we should give thought to whether our actions are a source of joy or grief to him. …In this manner, we will develop that shame and modesty which will make it easy to restrain from Haraam.
 Muraqaba is meditating on the actions engaged in during the day: We should reflect over our deeds for the day and seek forgiveness for shortcomings and resolve not to return to those bad deeds. We should also express gratitude on good deeds and make dua for an increase in them.
 It must not be that whilst obeying the Nafs in sinful pleasure, the Angel of death visits; and departure is in disgrace, and return to Allah Ta’ala is at a time when He is angry, and that death is an embarrassment to the person, family and community who find out that death came in sin. May Allah Ta’ala protect us all from death in a state of transgression, but this is very much a reality.
 However, what He gives, He can also take away. He has explicitly stated that ingratitude for His Gifts will draw very severe punishment. So is sin not abuse and ingratitude for the gifts of sight, of heart, of mind, of limbs?

, You may find it helpful to read up about some of the punishments that Allah Ta'alaa has prepared in the Hellfire for those that disobey him.
 Join and participate in the Deeni activities with those who follow the Qur’an and Sunnah. On will, Insha-Allah, find a great improvement in one’s condition by keeping the right company

