 A great deal of what it takes to be happy has nothing to do with being religious or atheist, but instead depends on your general attitude towards the world.


To make an effort, be honest with yourself and tell yourself you are going to try your best to become happier.;
, Self-fulfilling prophecies are ideas that become true because you believe them.If you believe that atheists are generally unhappy, and if you are an atheist, you may act in ways that reinforce your belief, thereby making you less happy.


To avoid self-fulfilling prophecies, try to change your belief that atheists are generally unhappy. You ask yourself some questions such as: "is it logical that someone needs to believe in a particular religion to be happy?" "when am I most happy? Is it when I'm thinking about religion or is it when I'm doing fun things, hanging out with friends, thinking deeply, or taking in nature?"

, In doing so, recognize the reasons you have chosen to become an Atheist. Mental reaffirmation will build confidence in yourself, your beliefs, and your choices.


Changing who you are for others is a surefire way to become less happy and have less self-worth - so if you truly don't believe there is any god or supernatural being overseeing the universe, stick with it despite any persecution that may come your way., There are stereotypes out there that atheists are bad people, that they have no moral compass, and that they are unhappy. To counteract these stereotypes, think about some happy atheists that you know. If you don't know any, think about some famous atheists who seem pretty happy, such as Richard Dawkins or Sam Harris.


To see a happy atheist, watch this funny video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gW7607YiBso


, This will help you understand and get along with people of any religion. While organized religion as an institution has many clear flaws, there are also good aspects, so it is important to respect people's choices regarding religious beliefs..


It may be as simple as the music associated with the religion, or perhaps you may find portions of a religions' moral code admirable.
People may find that religion offers them comfort, community, and morals. This can be meaningful for people who choose to be religious.

