 Your partner has to really want to change his ways. Whether it’s his temper, his mood swings, or the way he uses his hands, he has to be the one to initiate it. The saying goes, “You can bring the horse to the water, but you can’t force it to drink.” You can’t force your partner to go to therapy if he doesn’t want to. You can’t force him to change even just a little bit. He is the one who has to initiate and work on changing himself.Unfortunately, since the abuser asserts power over the partner, the abuser feels a certain sense of “righteousness.” He may feel entitled to having all the control in the relationship and treat everyone around him or her. For instance, he might say he has to control everything because he’s the only smart one. Or he might blame everyone else for getting him so angry all the time. Unfortunately again, this is not the best mindset for changing.
 If your partner is willing to change, a certified domestic violence program for batterers could help.


Research on batterer intervention programs does show mixed results,but this is most likely due to the fact that most batterers are forced to attend programs after they have been incarcerated and are still not willing to change the way they treat their partners and children.
 These types of programs often help batterers find motivation for completing the program (“overcoming denial”). They also help batterers take responsibility for their abusive actions, learning how to use other techniques rather than violence, and patient education on equality of males and females., Going to counseling after a batterer’s program would be a healthy choice for your partner.


You and your children should be attending counseling also, if not at a domestic violence program, with a family therapist or individual counselor with domestic violence expertise.
 If your partner is willing to go to a batterer’s program, that’s great news! It’s a good start. But don’t expect your partner’s behavior to change overnight. Change can take many years, sometimes twenty or thirty years, for abusive behavior patterns to change.
 If it looks like your partner thinks everything is just fine and dandy, it’s most likely you holding out for a change is unrealistic at this time. If you are getting beaten and bruised, no matter if it’s only once a year or once a week, even though it’s difficult, you need to realize that the way to ensure your own physical and emotional safety is by leaving.


If your partner has your purse strings tied tightly and is controlling the money, and watching every movement you make, this can seem daunting. Seek help from a safehouse or domestic violence hotline to figure out your first steps for getting out.

