 Your stuffed animal may say hand wash only or wash on delicate cycle. Your toy may be too fragile for delicate so hand washing may be the best way to give it a thorough clean without damaging it.Don’t just spot clean in case the stain has penetrated beneath the surface. If a stain gets into the stuffing, germs and odors can linger. For example, if a child is potty training and urinates on the toy, the insides may be soaked despite rinsing any visual signs of the stain away.
 Use a plug so your sink fills with water or use a large container, like a bucket or basin, and fill it with cold water and delicate soap. Make sure you read whether the soap is best suited for the material of your stuffed animal. Strong soaps may discolour or damage your animal.Don’t use too much soap or it may be difficult to rinse off.
 Fully immerse your animal so that the soap water mixture gets into the innards and fights the stain thoroughly. Gently clean the animal as it is immersed. Use your hands to gently rub the material and get out any debris or stains., Thoroughly rinse out all the soap. Get as much water out as possible. Don’t shake or twist the animal. Press it between old towels as you squeeze the water out.You may gently ring out your animal depending on its condition. Older animals may easily fall apart if mishandled.
 Re-fluff and reshape your animal. Allow it to sit and dry. Don’t place it directly near heat or sunlight or it might become discolored or misshaped., If there’s only a little dirt on the surface or your tag says “surface clean only”, use a gentle cleanser. You may use upholstery shampoo that creates foam to remove the stain. Read the ingredients to make sure there aren’t any harsh chemicals that could be harmful to a child.Your child may place the toy in her mouth so be sure that any cleaning agent is safe. There are numerous cleaners that are marketed specifically for cleaning stuffed animals. Find a cleaner that’s safe and works for you. You may also use unscented baby detergent with a damp cloth to spot clean.
 If your animal is averaged size, place it in a large garbage bag with ½ cup baking soda. You may add more baking soda if it is quite large. Close the bag firmly and give it a good shake. Keep the bag closed and let the animal sit for 15 - 20 minutes. Open the bag and brush off the excess baking soda.You may use a vacuum if you feel your animal will not get damaged. Do not shake the bag too vigorously if you feel your animal will come apart.

