 Steaming is good way to cook your cauliflower until it is tender enough to eat but still maintains many of the veggie’s great health benefits.Steam your cauliflower by placing raw or frozen florets in a steamer with lid and placing over a pot of boiling water for seven to ten minutes, until slightly tender.Steamed cauliflower is easily dressed with a bit of olive oil, balsamic vinegar, and/or fresh herbs such as garlic, rosemary, and thyme. Generally, if it works on a potato it will taste good on cauliflower.
Steaming cauliflower has a minimal impact on the health benefits of the vegetable, and one of the easier ways to prepare the food while keeping it nutritionally sound.
Have half a cup as part of a nutritionally balanced meal to get micronutrients such as vitamin C that you need for full body health.;
, A cauliflower mash can be a great heart-healthy, low-calorie substitute for a dish such as mashed potatoes. Simply steam a head of cauliflower and five cloves of garlic for about 15 minutes, then puree in a food processor with a pinch of sea salt.If you would like, you can also add in a quarter of a cup of fresh herbs such as chives and/or rosemary. A drizzle of olive oil can add some flavor, as well.
Serve in half-cup portions as a side dish to include extra fiber in any meal, and get in heart-healthy vitamins like folate and B6.
 Take a head of cauliflower, rub it down with a mix of a few tablespoons of olive oil, lemon juice, salt, and pepper, and wrap the head completely in foil. Then, grill over indirect medium heat for about 40 minutes or until tender.You can also slice the cauliflower into “steaks” and cook it on a grill, like you would a cut of meat.
Grilled cauliflower can help add fiber and necessary roughage to cookouts or other heavy-eating events, and is easy to prepare and share with others.Look to grilled cauliflower as a substitute for heavier cookout side dishes that tend to be high in calories, fats, and carbohydrates but relatively low in micronutrients.

