 When your teacher assigns reading from a textbook or website, take time to read it before you come to class. If you don’t have time to read it well, it’s a good idea to scan it so that you have an idea what it’s about.Even if you don’t know exactly what the professor will talk about during the class, you can at least know the general discussion that’s likely to take place.
Many teachers will go over the same material you were assigned as the discussion in class. This means if you’ve read the assignment, you’ll be prepared to answer questions and engage in discussion.
 It’s likely that your grade will be based partially on your ability to participate in class. This means that even if you are a quiet introvert, it will be important to find ways to participate in the overall class activity.Rephrase what other people are saying to make sure that you’ve understood their meaning.
Ask questions when you don’t understand what’s being said.
When someone asks a question to which you know the answer, raise your hand to reply.
If you’re working within a small group, be an active listener. Pay attention to other students, and share your thoughts with them without dominating or demanding that they always do what you want.
 If your instructor makes materials available online, or recommends certain videos or websites, take advantage of these resources when you prepare for your labs. Many teachers provide online notes, review sheets, or other information for their students’ review.


Always read these notes prior to class. Bring them to class with you when you come, and refer to them during class discussions.
If your teacher uses a particular image multiple times, try to get a copy of that image and label it so that you can better understand it.
 Science classes often have demonstrations done by the teacher or other students which you’re expected to be able to replicate. If you’re going to do well in science, it’s a good idea to pay close attention to any demonstration that’s done in class.Make sure your view of the demonstration isn’t blocked by someone else. Adjust your seating if you can, in order to see. If you need to stand up or move to another seat, ask your teacher for permission.
Sometimes demonstrations can provoke laughter or excitement. Be careful not to get carried away in the thrill of a good demonstration.
 When you take a science test, you’ll want to make sure you’ve correctly interpreted each problem before solving it. Draw a picture or a diagram if you need to. Then, when you’ve answered the question, check to see if your answer makes sense given the parameters of the question. If not, reconsider your approach.It can help to restate the problem in your own words so that you can be sure you really understand what’s being asked.
Double-check your work for accuracy before you turn it in, and make sure your writing is legible.

