 It's important to cover yourself against too much sun exposure, wearing sunscreen, a hat and suitable clothing. If it's hot outside and you're planning to be moving around a lot, carry a water bottle so that you can drink water regularly to help keep you adequately hydrated.;
, Whenever the sun comes out and you have a spare moment, grab the list to help you make a decision about the activity you'd like to do. Over time, having this handy and often updated list can help keep you make quick decisions instead of wondering about what to do with those spare moments during great weather; plus, it also allows you to check off new and interesting activities that you'd like to try but can't always recall when the free sunny day arrives.


Stick this list somewhere obvious, such as on the front of your fridge, so that it can be found and updated with ease.
Read through the ideas suggested in the next part, to see if there are any you'd like to add to your list.
 If you want to get the whole gang out at one go, there are some great things you can do together on a sunny day. These include:


Visiting the beach. Go for a swim, walks, check out the rock pools and count boats.
Organise a family game. Get the family out to play a game together outdoors. You might like to play racing games, ball games or hide and seek style games. You could also play team sports, such as rounders, soccer, tennis, etc.
Do some gardening together. Focus on planting lovely things or harvesting rather than weeding––keep it fun. If you don't have a garden of your own, visit a local community garden and help out for a few hours. Or, you can make a mini garden on an old small plate or in a flask top or on a suitable stone. Place it in a sunny part of the garden.
Go cycling together. Have everyone pump up the tires of their bikes, grab their helmets and head off to a safe and enjoyable local ride together.
Get out the paddling pool. Turn on the hose and have water fun. If you live where there are water restrictions, this might not be an option; check first.
Find free outdoor movies. These are often held during summer by libraries, botanical gardens or art groups.
 Whether it's by yourself or with friends, getting out into nature is the ideal way to have fun in the sun. Some examples of things you might like to do include:


Go hiking in a local park, woods or even back country if it's close enough. Get up early if you have to travel an hour or two.
Sit under a tree and enjoy its shade. Bring a picnic lunch, some music and a book. You can make daisy chains while sitting on the grass.
Go to the beach. Surf, swim, take a boat or sit on the sand and make sandcastles.
Go to a park or wildlife reserve. Do some birdwatching or animal observing. Make notes, take photographs and see if you can identify the different birds or animals that you're observing.
Take your dogs for a walk.
 Use the sunny day to do things on your bucket list. This could be anything from skydiving to snorkeling. Some suggestions include:


Try an extreme sport. For example, skydiving, bungee jumping, water skiing, rock climbing, etc.
Visit somewhere you've never been before. This might be in your own city or town, or somewhere you need to drive to or catch public transportation to.
Learn to do something new that requires outdoor instruction. For example, learn to swim, learn to garden, learn to cook outdoors, learn outdoor survival skills, etc.
Play music outdoors. Find an outdoor community piano or take your guitar down to the local park.
 There are foods that are just ideal for enjoying in the sun, such as ice cream, iced desserts, frozen fruit and ice cream cake. You can also some great drinks, such as smoothies, milkshakes, slushies, lassis, etc. Set up a nice place to dine outside and sit around eating, drinking and chatting together while enjoying the sun.


Have a picnic somewhere. Either visit local places or go on a day trip and have a lunch stop somewhere stunning, such as a waterfall, valley view or lake.

