 Many factory car alarms are designed to turn off when in proximity to the appropriate key or key fob. You may be able to shut your car alarm down simply by inserting your key into the lock on the driver’s side door, locking it, and unlocking it again. Because the car is being unlocked by the appropriate key, it may send a signal to the alarm that it can shut down.While the passenger side door may work, it is more likely it will work on the driver’s side.
If the door is already locked, simply unlock it. If the alarm doesn’t stop, try locking it an unlocking it again.;
, Using a similar methodology to the key method, unlocking the vehicle’s doors with the key fob will also shut down many factory car alarms. When standing close enough to the vehicle for your key fob to reach, press the lock button followed by the unlock button. Many car alarms will shut down when the car doors are unlocked by the keys or appropriate key fob. If the door locks do not respond, the batteries may be dead in the key fob. Replace the batteries and try again.
If the doors unlock and the alarm continues to go off, your vehicle may need to be repaired by a professional.
 Most key fobs have an orange or yellow button on them commonly referred to as a “panic button.” This button activates something very similar to a car alarm. The horn will honk and the lights will flash. If you accidentally hit the panic button, it may continue until you press the button again. In some cars, you may be able to shut down the panic mode by starting the car and driving it.Most panic alarms will shut off on their own after a certain amount of time.
The panic alarm may not shut off when you start the car, but will if you begin to drive.
 Your alarm is designed to prevent your vehicle from being stolen by someone without a key, so starting the car with the ignition key is often sufficient to power down your car alarm. Unlock the door and enter your vehicle. Insert the key and turn it to “ACC” (accessories). If the alarm persists, attempt to start the car. Remember that some aftermarket alarms may not allow you to start the car with the alarm sounding, even with the key.Turning the key in the ignition should reset the alarm, but that may not always be the case.
 Standing next to a car with a blaring alarm may not strike you as the best time to do some light reading, but your vehicle’s owner’s manual can likely provide you with important information about shutting off your car alarm. If you are unable to shut the alarm off with your keys or key fob, check the owner’s manual for instructions on what to do.Every auto maker uses different car alarms, so some may require a specific action be taken before the alarm will shut down.
You may need to repeat an action a certain number of times to reset the computer, such as locking and unlocking the door.

