 Some industrial-strength adhesives bond in seconds. E6000 takes longer to “cure” at about 24 hours, but will still be tacky within minutes. Don’t panic if you realize that you have accidentally glued your skin or two fingers together. You can try to weaken the bond with solvents or even warm water.


Don’t try to pull your fingers apart if they are glued together. You may tear the skin.
If you have accidentally applied E6000 to your lips, eyelids, eyeballs, or other sensitive body parts, seek immediate medical attention.;
, Warm water and soap will loosen the bond and is less likely to aggravate your skin than chemical solutions. Fill a basin with warm water, adding soap and working it into a lather.Soak your fingers, hands, or whatever area has bonded until the glue weakens. This may take 15 minutes or more.
Then, begin to rub the area gently back and forth. Continue rolling it until the bond breaks. Again, do not try to pull the glue bond apart.
You can also use a tool like a pencil, spatula, or spoon to jimmy the glue loose.
 Mild solvents will dissolve adhesives like E6000 and superglue and should work in case simple soap and water fail. You should be able to find acetone in common household products like nail polish remover or paint thinner.Take a Q-tip or cotton swab and dab it in a small amount of acetone. Then, wet the glue where it has bonded to your skin.
The solvent should soften the glue. Begin to work the glue back and forth once it is loose and gently peel the skin away from the glue, without pulling.
Acetone can irritate the eyes, skin, and lungs. Use it in a well-ventilated area and avoid swallowing or bringing it into contact with your eyes. Wash your hands with soap and water after you have removed the glue.Acetone will also discolor fabrics and damage finishes. Take care to keep it away from your clothing and surfaces like countertops and floors., If soap and water and acetone fail, or are not available, try a petro-based cleaning product like Goo-Gone. Goo Gone contains methyl alcohol but also the solvents toluene and acetone, so it should be able to dissolve even heavy-duty glues.


Apply the liquid solvent to the affected area with a cotton swab or blot it with a cloth.
Wait one or two minutes, and then start to work the glue back and forth. Use an exfoliating scrub if the liquid is not enough.
As always, gently peel the skin away from the glue rather than pulling. All the ingredients of Goo Gone are toxic and irritants. Use the solvent in a well-ventilated area and avoid swallowing or bringing it into contact with your eyes., Nail polish remover, paint thinner, and petroleum solvents are toxic chemicals and will irritate your skin with prolonged contact. Make sure to remove them once the glue bond is dissolved.


Flush the affected area with soap and water for at least 15 minutes.Consider applying lotion after you’ve washed, in order to moisturize and repair your skin.

