 If you already have a decent level you may want to skip to your level section.


Levels 1-5: Don't buy your own logs on this stage. You need to cut down normal trees.;
, Knives are fairly regular. They can be bought from the Grand Exchange, and they spawn behind the Lumbridge castle.
 A great spot is south of Edgeville by the barbarian village. There are tons of trees there!

, Click "Make 15 arrow shafts." Your player will start cutting those logs into arrow shafts. You make 15 at a time.
 1170 shafts is the same thing as cutting 78 regular logs.


Levels 5-10. You still need your knife and axe. This time, make bows. You may want to buy your logs and stay near a bank if you can afford it. The next steps are if you're cutting them. (Also, you can stay with arrow shafts because they give the same xp.)

, Sadly, bows are not stackable so you probably want to cut logs near a bank.
 It is the same thing as the shafts, but click "Make Shortbow."


Get 154 normal logs. This will make 154 unstrung shortbows, or 2310 arrow shafts. To do this, just stand at a bank stall, fletch the inventory of logs into what you want, then put in bank, and repeat until you are done.

NOTE: You do not want to string these. It will give a negative profit, since bowstrings are about 160 ea (As of January 2008) The price can go down, though. Always consider the price of the bowstrings. The price of a bowstring is more than the price of a strung short bow.




,,,
Log Type: Oak
XP Needed: 14564
Level you will reach: 35

, Nice job you're doing well.


Number of logs: 445 (Buy them, even though they are decent xp if you cut)
Log Type: Willow
XP Needed: 14,818
Level you will reach: 40

, This is a milestone. Willows will be going from this point on. No maples, nothing else. You are going straight from 40 to 70.
, (You will probably need to buy them)
Log Type: Willows
XP Needed: 700403.
Level you will reach: 70!
Estimated cost: Around 260k, or down.
Note: Try to buy at 15 ea so you will make a profit in the sales.
 This is a place where many people train fletching and cooking. You will need to go North of Taverley, then past the heroes guild. You will see a bar eventually, then you will go in the bar and behind the counter where the bartender is.


Go down the trapdoor you see and you will appear in a room. Look for a man named Emerald Benedict where everyone else is, and you can bank your items with him. You will train here, because there are other cool people doing the same thing. Funny conversations start, and it is a good environment. It makes time fly.
 But you can do it. This is just about the hardest part. Once you're past here, you'll be rich!

, If you bought them 15 ea. Shops buy willow longbows (u) 16 ea, no matter what the amount. Sell all you longbows (thank goodness they have the "Sell 50" option now). It will take a while but you'll end up with about 270k. You can give up then, or, you can start on the real money making of fletching.
 You're going to have to get about 17k more after the money you made off of selling the bows and you're going to have to buy 500 yew logs, and 500 bowstrings. That will be about a total of 286k.
 Once you're done, (It will seem like no time at all after all those willows).



Use the bowstring with the unstrung yew longbow. Now you will make a complete bow. Make them all, and you will sell these for 600 ea. That's about 15k profit, but it will go up once the amount you make goes up. Another option is alching these. High alching will give you about 700 and something per bow. It's good mage xp, and it gives lots of money. But remember it will become a negative profit if you buy your nature runes for too much each.
 It's a great idea. If you want the exact numbers, they're under here.
!

