 Using the purple rods, form the rectangle, attaching them to each other with the gray snowflake-like connectors (from here on referred to as snowflakes).

For this step, you'll need 10 purple rods, four grey snowflake connectors, and 12 blue connectors.;
,, (The image in the next step will assist you.), Have one facing downward and two splayed either side. Refer to the image.
 You should end up with two standing bases that look the same.
 Criss cross with the blue base to ensure stability. See the image for direction on fixing the criss crossed piece.
 Once again, perform the criss cross movement to strengthen the structure.
 You'll now need eight red rods and four purple connectors. For every two red rods, use one purple connector to connect the two together.


Go ahead and connect the red rods with the purple connectors. You should now have have four long red rods.
 Attach the blue and red rods to the the black connector in a circular motion. Use the pattern formation of red then blue, red then blue, and so on. This is now referred to as the star.
 It doesn't matter which two red slots are used, just as long as they're opposite. Set the star aside for later use.
,


Make three of these "dark green attachments".
 This makes the "dark grey attachment".
 Make four of these "silver attachments".
 Refer to the image to help you get the formation put together accurately. It should end in a perfect circle for the wheel in the Ferris wheel.


Note: All of the red connectors in the wheel should be placed facing upward or outward, while the other connectors face downward or inward.
 Attach it to the wheel using the red connectors.


Leave about an inch (2.5cm) of each rod of the star piece sticking out from each of the red connectors. The image will clarify this for you.
 Your assembly should now have completed the first wheel. Make the second wheel by going back and repeating the steps from the beginning., You’ll need one big blue rod, 4 beige rotational connectors, two purple connectors, two yellow connectors, two red rods, one small grey rod, one mini black rod, and one tube., Attach the small black rod., On the opposite end of the yellow connector, attach the light grey rod.
, Attach a red rod on each end of the yellow connector.
 Then:


Slide a tube through the blue rod.
Slide a purple connector through the blue rod.
Attach a small yellow rod to the top of the purple connector.



Check that the star's spikes are facing inward.
, Hold them in place with another beige rotational connector, to make room for the other wheel.,,,


Check that the spacing ends of the blue rods are even.
 You'll need one small grey rod, one red rectangular brick, one yellow rectangular brick, two yellow connectors, two orange connectors and two orange chain clips., At each end of the rod, insert a yellow connector. At the bottom of the orange connectors, place two orange chain clips.
 Then attach it to the orange chain clips. Refer to the image for exactness.
, Once you've made eight seats, attach the end of the yellow connector on the first seat to the red connectors on the wheels (start spikes)., When all have been attached, your Ferris wheel is almost done.The below images are to help show you what it should look like once all the seats are attached, Connect the red rods to the snowflake connectors on the standing base. The Ferris wheel is now complete.

