 A futures option is the right to assume a futures position at a specific price (strike price) for a specific term of time. The strike price is the underlying commodity’s price if the option is exercised. The option gives its holder the right to either buy (take delivery) or sell (make delivery) of a single futures contract. The right can be exercised at any time before it expires, usually the end of the month preceding the delivery month of the futures contract.


Options have significant profit potential due to the extreme leverage (the option represents a small percentage of the total value of the futures contract) and limited risk (the cost of the option).
The option price tracks the price of the underlying futures contract which, in turn, tracks the price of the underlying commodity. For example, an option to buy a Dec Corn contract at $3.50 a bushel will reflect the price of the futures option while the futures option will reflect the spot price of corn with a premium for the remaining duration period.
If the spot price of corn is $3.75, the futures price may be $4.00 (the spot price plus a $0.25 premium). In this case, the option price will be $0.50 ($4.00 - $3.50) or more.
Option holders usually liquidate their option positions rather than exercising them. Liquidation results when the holder of the option sells the option or the writer of the option buys the option (contrary transactions to the initial).With options, you are not obligated to take or make delivery of the commodity with an option (called "exercising" the option). However, options expire on a specific date., Futures Options are available as puts, which give the right to sell the underlying commodity at a specific price or calls, which give the right to buy the underlying commodity. In addition, traders can either buy or sell (known as writing the option) a put or call futures option.


Writing a futures option means assuming the risk of delivering a futures contract to the option buyer. While writing a futures options can be more profitable than buying an option, the writer also assumes the greater risk that the option might be exercised, requiring the writer to deliver the futures contract.
The price of a futures option depends upon the volatility of the prices of the underlying commodity as well as the term of the option. Premiums are highest when the strike price is near the spot price and the time value (duration or length of period during which the option can be exercised) is long.
Futures options can be sold when the strike price is far out of the money and unlikely to be exercised. As a consequence, short term price moves of the futures contract have less impact on the options price.
 Be sure that the underlying futures contract has substantial daily trading volume and open interest to ensure that liquidation is readily available. Most of the major futures contracts life financials, sugar, grains, gold, natural gas, and crude oil have several thousand open contract per strike price.
 You can purchase them from a commodities brokerage firm or through an online broker. You can always buy “mini” option contracts that are smaller than the full contracts bought and sold by institutional investors.


Options spreads may allow you to offset the cost of your investment by selling options to other investors while you purchase options for a later date.

