


Flaxseed comes in a variety of forms including whole flax seed, crushed flax seed and milled flaxseed. It also comes in the form of linseed oil, which is the extracted oil from the seeds themselves.
Whole flax seed can be used as a healthy, crunchy breading or as a textured topping for frozen yogurt.
Milled flaxseed is more commonly used as a flour substitute or a thickening agent. It can also be added to bread dough, pancake batter, and waffle batter.
Linseed oil is typically consumed as a daily health supplement.;
,


Purchase only what you need, as purchasing too much flax seed at once will increase the likelihood that it will spoil or rot before you can use it all; purchasing too little is an inconvenience. Avoid making either mistake, as both may waste time and money.
Calculate the amount of flax that you and your family expect to consume on a daily basis. Because flax seed should not be kept longer than two weeks in the refrigerator or freezer, you can multiply this amount by fourteen to determine how much flax seed you should purchase when you stock up at your local store.
 Discover which brand produces flax seed with the highest nutritional concentrations.


There are two types of flax seed, yellow and brown, and both types have different nutritional contents. You can choose a brand that grows and packages only one type, or vary between two different types.
While brown flax seed is edible for humans, it is more typically used in animal feeds because of its tougher texture. Golden flax seed is widely considered to be the best variety for human consumption.
Research brand history to determine how long a specific manufacturer has been producing flax seed. This type of research will also help you find information about how the flax is grown. Organic flax that is grown without the use of growth hormones or pesticides is always preferable.
 Determine whether or not they carry flax seed, and if they do carry it, which brands they carry and in what quantities.


You may choose to evaluate prices if that is a consideration for you. Calculate the price per weight by dividing the weight of the flax seed by the total cost. This will help you compare different brands by price.



Purchase flax seed meal in opaque, vacuum-packed bags. Avoid flax seed that has been exposed to too much air or light, as it may spoil more quickly.
Purchase whole flax seeds in light colored or clear bags.
Milled flax seed must be preserved in a dark container and kept in a cool temperature. Be wary of purchasing milled flax seed that has not been refrigerated at your local store.



Decide if you prefer coarse or finely milled flax seeds. Depending on your preferences, you can adjust the grinding process accordingly.
The finer the flax seed grind, the more easily it can be used as a flour substitute. However, many consumers prefer the raw texture of some whole flax seeds in their milled flax seed mixture.



You may opt to store flax seed in the freezer or refrigerator, though the seed should be consumed in no more than two weeks from the purchase date regardless of whether it has been frozen. Flax seed that is stored for longer than this may become rancid resulting in a very bad flavor and potentially causing illness.

