 Be patient after you tell her the news, whether you’re telling her about your first boyfriend, are coming out, or are telling her about a boyfriend who might not meet her expectations. Don’t just break the news then get up and walk away: wait for her to reply and give feedback.


If she tells you that she needs a minute to think, by all means give her some time alone if necessary.
Show her that you want to compromise and help her become comfortable with your relationship, such as by hearing her ground rules. If she’s uneasy or on the fence, ask her what her rules would be as far as when you see him or whether you can be alone together., Show her that her experience and wisdom is important to you. Explain that you want her to trust you with these sort of things and value her advice, which is why you're telling her about him. Explain that you are growing up and it is only natural to want a boyfriend.Ask her about her own experiences with dating, sex, health, and other relationship matters.
Don’t save all the details about your personal life for one momentous conversation.
Do you best to open up communications between you and your mom, both before and after you have a talk about the boyfriend.
Explain to her that honesty and being able to trust each other is vital to you. Try to break the ice and work on having open, non-judgmental conversations on a regular basis.
 If she gets angry, don’t turn it into a screaming match. Do your best to stay cool, even if she gets upset and starts yelling. Remember that you she is there to protect you and only wants the best for you. If her reaction isn’t the one you were hoping for, you have to keep your cool and think before you speak.She might have a good reason for disapproving. You might actually be too young for a relationship, or he might not be the best guy for you. Remember that she has more life experience than you.
If you’re a teenager or young adult and truly believe that you are ready for a relationship, your goal should be to prove to her that you are becoming mature enough to make some of your own decisions.
 Taking a tantrum if she says you can’t have a boyfriend will only prove to your mom that you’re not ready for a relationship. Respect the way that she wants to raise you. Remember, she's only here to protect you.Reacting in an understanding and calm way will show her your maturity level. If she can see that you’re growing up and becoming more mature, she'll come around eventually.
 Show your mom that you value her point of view and want to know more about it. Try not to ask questions just to get your way, but to demonstrate that you want to understand her and get on the same page.If she says you’re not old enough, try asking, “How old do you think is the right age? How old were you? Do you think the differences between now and when you were growing up affect the age someone should start having relationships?”
If she just doesn’t approve of the boy, ask why. Remember that your mom is usually the one person in the world who is completely devoted to your best interests. Ask, “Why don’t you think he’s the right guy for me? Did you date someone like him and have a bad experience?”

