 You’ll have the option to choose a personal or commercial account before you agree to the program’s terms of service. Make sure to read the terms carefully, though, so you understand how you are expected to use the E-ZPass.It’s a good idea to print a copy of the E-ZPass Terms and Conditions, so you can refer back to it if you have any questions once you open your account.
 To open an account, you must input your name, mailing address, phone number, email address, driver’s license number, license plate number, and vehicle make and model. You’ll also be asked to set up an online account and password, so you can access your account information, and to add payment information to replenish the account.While it’s mandatory to add primary contact information for the account, you should also consider including additional contacts in case the primary contact is unavailable.
Only individuals who are listed as contacts on the E-ZPass account are authorized to receive account information. If you want someone other than yourself to be able to access the account info, make sure to include them in the application.
 Once you complete your application, it usually takes about a week to receive the E-ZPass transponder that contains your account information and provides payment when you pass through tolls., E-ZPass transponders must be properly mounted in or on your vehicle in order to ensure that they’re read properly. Once you place it in your vehicle according the the instructions, your E-ZPass is ready to go.


There are three types of transponders: interior, motorcycle, and bumper mount. You’ll be sent the proper transponder based on the vehicle information that you provide in the application.
Interior transponders should be installed on the windshield behind the rear view mirror and below any tinting. Make sure the windshield is clean and dry before pressing it in place.
Motorcycle transponders should be installed on the windscreen, placing it between the windscreen and instrument cowl.
To install a bumper mount transponder, attach it to the top of the front license plate holder .

