 You will want to take into consideration the particular time of year, weather conditions, if any major religious or national holidays are ongoing, the current security situation, etc.;
, Obviously this is not mandatory, but if you have at least a basic understanding of why Jerusalem is such an important place, you will appreciate your visit much more.
 Jerusalem is the capital city of Israel, and is fairly easy to get to by car or bus from Ben Gurion Airport outside Tel Aviv, the country's main international gateway.
 The city is essentially divided into four major districts:



Old City: Home to most of the main historical and religious sites for Jews, Muslims, and Christians, the Old City is walled and is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.West Jerusalem: The modern heart of the city and a developed commercial hub, including several unique neighborhoods as "suburbs".

Me'a Shearim: Inhabited by mostly ultra-Orthodox Jews (Haredim), visitors are expected to adhere to strict modest dress, but will find an endless amount of large families and interesting people.

East Jerusalem: Home to the majority of Jerusalem's Muslim and Christian population, East Jerusalem is well worth a look.
 This is where Jerusalem's most sacred and best known landmarks are found, including the Temple Mount/Dome of the Rock, Western Wall/Western Wall Tunnels, Hurba Synagogue, the Cardo, the Church of the Holy Sepulcher, etc.
 Here, you will find the main urban thoroughfares lined with stores and restaurants, along with tourist attractions such as the Botanical Gardens, the Knesset (Israeli parliament building), the Israel Museum, Mount Herzl, and Yad Vashem (the Israel national Holocaust memorial).
 This dense area resembles an old-world European Jewish town, with a strictly observant population. Be sure to dress modestly if visiting this neighborhood, as formal dress code is enforced (though not necessarily required).
 Visit the Mount of Olives for a spectacular panoramic view of the city, then descend the mount and explore the vibrant neighborhoods outlying it.

