 Eyeliner is a must in this as it creates a dog like or animal like appearance to your eyes and causes them to pop more. People will be more drawn to your eyes as well. Making a small pointed wing off of the corner of your eye with a fine tipped black liner is the best way to achieve this look.


Another way to achieve the look through makeup is with eyeshadow. When applying eyeshadow, be sure not to apply much. Only use a light amount normally in earthy shades or even shades that may match a wolf's fur. These include blue, white, black, or brown.;
, If you want to, you can style it like your favorite werewolf character, but you can also make it your own unique style. For girls, a loose and slightly messy wavy style cam fit well as it makes you look as if you've been wandering the wilderness. For guys, a fluffy yet slightly spiky look may work better.
 Clothing is the smallest detail in looking like a wolf. However, if you would like to add this aspect as well, you can dress like your favorite wolf character or wear things in plain earthy shades or things with nature patterns on them.


Wear a suitable costume. It will help the effect if you dress as a wolf; less guesswork from your fellow humans will be involved. Add the teeth. If you need inspiration, look at pictures from the story of Little Red Riding Hood; the wolf depictions are quite vivid.
 Visit the zoo or rent out some videos, or look at YouTube. Observe how wolves run, roll, walk, interact with each other, eat etc. What can you imitate after watching them closely?

, You could try:


Changing down to walk on all fours. Walk on your hands and feet, all fours, as a wolf would do. If this proves too difficult, then improvise with knees but it may feel less realistic.
Adopting a "loping" walking style. Wolves run gracefully, which may be very difficult for you as a human on all fours, but you can aim to give the effect of a wolf loping or stalking slowly, like when they are hunting.
 Wolves are always running through the woods to stalk prey or simply for sport. Wolves and werewolves are also fast and efficient runners. Try running at least once a day for 20 minutes if you don't run already. Slowly increase this rate to help your skill level rise. After a while, you will run quickly and easily like a wolf!

, This is important to acquiring your hunting skills. Wolves jump high and can also cover long distances with a simple spring off the ground. It may be difficult at first, but practicing jumping over small objects such as logs and chairs can help you increase your height with every jump. Over time you will increase your distance and height and jump over things without even thinking.
 Put a toy rabbit on the floor. Get on your hands and feet and try pouncing toward it.
 Wolves are like dogs; they are playful together.
 This is a must have trait for any wolf. Wolves are predators and they are always stalking through the woods at night. They can be nocturnal and it is also pretty stereotypical to see a wolf in the night. Start off by turning off lights when you want to practice. Open your eyes and look at something for a while until your eyes adjust. Do this every night in your bedroom to help your eyes get used to being in the dark.
 This involves staring down your enemies and growling at them. Now if you don't want people to catch on to you being wolf like, then don't take it too far. People may find it strange.
 This is another thing wolves tend to be doing as they have very good noses and like sniffing out their prey to track it. Sniffing the air like an animal will help you act like this when you smell something you like or something you don't. Be sure to make it obvious you like or hate a smell by smiling or grimacing.
 This is the most common trait people think of when they hear the word wolf. Howling at the moon or when you feel the urge is a good behavior to use. Being in the wilderness when you do so is just an added bonus, but you can just howl in your yard if you'd like.
 Eat a diet of mostly meats. Wolves are, yes, carnivores. This does not mean that they won't eat grass and herbs and such. Watch how wolves would eat meat, fish, and other things on YouTube. But remember you're still human, and that you need to eat other things too!

