 Freeroll tournaments have no buy-in or cash prizes but the top finishers are awarded tickets to tournaments with cash prizes. Read about freeroll tournaments.;
, Online poker is dominated by PokerStars and the version of poker played most often is no-limit Texas hold 'em. Open an account with PokerStars and learn to play Texas hold 'em. Investigate the offerings of other online poker sites such as Cake Network, Full Tilt, Bodog etc. This article tells you about how to play at PokerStars.


Download the game from PokerStars. There are two types of downloads - the play money and the real money. To play in sit and go you must download and install the real money version. With PokerStars your screen name and avatar will be permanent so choose them carefully.
Deposit money into your account. A minimal deposit of $10 is recommended because if you play in the 10¢ buy-in tournaments you can play in 100 tournaments. Playing in 100 tournaments takes a lot of time and will give you a lot of experience. All this if you do not come in the money for 100 tournaments. With $10 you could play in 500 2¢ buy-in tournaments, but the 2¢ tournaments are not offered frequently.
Learn the rules of no-limit Texas hold 'em because this is the game that is played most often. Learn from playing in play money games, from books, DVDs and online websites.
 The online sites gain(or loss) = the number of players X the buy-in and any other fees minus their prize disbursements.


Two cents buy-in. Requires 990 players with a buy-in of two cents. The total buy-in is $19.80 and this amount if distributed to the top 50 players. The online poker site does not have a gain or loss from hosting their 2¢, 10¢ and 25¢ sit and go tournaments.
Ten cents buy-in. Starts when 360 players register, so 360 X 10¢ = $360 and this is the amount that is distributed to the top 36 finishers.
Do this for the various sit and go tournaments, so you can play in tournaments that have the least disadvantage to you. These are even money tournaments. The bigger buy-in tournaments are not even-money. As a novice poker player, this is the way to learn how to play tournament poker and as a side benefit, you will be able to transfer some of your newly acquired skills, at no-limit hold 'em, to ring games.
After signing on for a sit and go, wait until the tournament starts. When enough players register, the tournament will begin i.e. there is no predetermined starting time. At this writing at PokerStars, there were 11,000 players playing in the 10¢ sit and go tournaments. If you miss part of the tournament, the escalating blinds will quickly diminish your money and you will be eliminated. There is absolutely no chance of winning these tournaments by sitting out of them (not playing), you have to get in there and play.
 Again, your losses, if you are not a winning player, are minimized in sit and go tournaments. Playing in a ring game, on tilt or just having a bad run of cards, it is very easy to lose $10 in a day.

