 When you go to a shelter, you want to see every dog that is available before you start to single out potential pets. If you are at a shelter, go past every cage to see how each dog appears initially. Observe from a distance at first to see how the dog perceives your presence. After this initial observation, go up to the cage and offer your hand. The dog should approach you and sniff your hand.


Dogs that bark loudly or lunge at your hand should be avoided.
Take notes on which dogs stand out to you so you can revisit them and conduct further assessments.;
, If you are at a breeder, you should observe how littermates interact with their siblings and their parents. Young puppies should play with their littermates and display friendly behaviors towards other dogs. In shelters, dogs may bark when other dogs bark, bare their teeth towards other dogs, or cower when other dogs approach their cage.


It is very important to consider how the dog interacts with other dogs, especially if you have another dog in your home.
Behaviors like growling and baring teeth are undesirable and indicate that the dog may be aggressive.
 After making your initial observations, you should have a general idea of a few dogs that you’re interested in meeting and spending time with. You can return to their cages and see how the dogs interact with you. Ideally, they should be interested in engaging with you and approach you to sniff your hand and react to the sound of your voice.Keep in mind that some dogs that are in shelters are more nervous and skittish if they have been rescued from abusive situations. They may need a little more time to become comfortable with you, but they can still be great pets., While you’ll need the opportunity to see the dog’s temperament for yourself, you should talk to the breeder or shelter staff members to hear their perspectives on the dog’s behavior. This outside perspective can help you to discern whether your own evaluation of the dog’s temperament seems to be accurate or not.Keep in mind that the breeder has a vested interest in making sure their dog is purchased, so their assessment of the dog’s behavior may be influenced. Take their assessment cautiously if they seem overly eager to ignore any bad behaviors or habits the dog seems to have.
 A reputable breeder should be able to give you a full picture about the dog’s family history and genetics. Genetics can influence a dog’s temperament and can also indicate whether the dog is predisposed towards certain health conditions.You may not have access to this information at a shelter, especially if the dog has been rescued. You can proceed without this information, but any information that the shelter does have available can be very helpful in your discernment process.
 Shelters are often chaotic, and dogs at shelters may have been rescued from abusive environments, be skittish, or distracted by the barking and presence of dozens of other dogs. The environment can influence a dog’s temperament, so it is important to conduct temperament testing in a quiet and secure area. Ideally, you should be spending 30 to 60 minutes with the dog when you are considering adopting them. This gives the dog time to warm up to you and it also gives you more time to evaluate their temperament.


Ask the shelter staff members to take you to an interaction room where you can socialize with the dog. If you are at a breeder, they should have an area where you can interact with the puppy or adult dog in a secure and quiet space.
 The dog will need a few minutes to adjust to their new surroundings, especially if they have been in a cage in the shelter for extended periods of time. You’re going to be looking to evaluate the dog and determine whether they have a responsive, nervous, or independent personality.A responsive dog is one that is curious, interested in engaging with you, and is responsive to your actions by matching their actions to yours. A nervous or shy dog will be hesitant to engage with you, may cower in fear, or try to avoid you. An independent dog will be aloof, won’t react to anything you do, and is generally uninterested in being tested.
 While your initial assessment should weed out any aggressive dogs, since you won’t ask to see a dog that lunges or barks loudly when you approach, you should keep an eye out for any aggressive behaviors. These can range from barks that sound threatening to showing teeth, snapping, or biting. If you ever see any aggressive behaviors, stop the assessment immediately.


Reputable shelters should identify aggressive dogs and ensure that they aren't up for adoption, but you will need to look out for these behaviors as well.
 A responsive dog will wag their tail and respond when called. They may approach you slowly, but will generally display signs that they are interested in you by wagging their tail, sniffing the air, and nudging you with their nose. A nervous dog may cower and avoid interaction, though they are still acknowledging that you are calling them. An independent dog will ignore you and continue to sniff around without paying attention to you., Talk to the dog in a high-pitched and squeaky voice for 30 seconds. Stop speaking suddenly and become neutral. You are testing to see whether the dog is responsive to changes in your behavior.A responsive dog will stop and notice that your demeanor and voice has changed. A shy dog will continue to avoid interacting with you. An independent dog won’t notice that there has been any change in your behavior and continue acting as they were while you were speaking in the different voice., This part of the temperament evaluation needs to be approached cautiously because it puts you within the dog’s personal space, where they can display aggressive behaviors if they feel threatened.Begin by offering the dog a treat. As they move towards you to take the treat, gently touch them on the head and pet down their back.


A responsive dog will welcome your touch and enjoy being petted. A nervous dog will try to cower away from you and avoid being touched. An independent dog will try to take the treat from you and leave without engaging with you.
A dog that doesn’t like to be touched isn’t necessarily a bad pet. They shouldn’t be in homes with small children, but they can still be family members.
 This tests how possessive the dog is over objects and whether they are interested in playing with you. Roll a toy over to the dog and see whether they pick it up and try to play with you. Excitedly play with the dog and the toy for a minute and then stop. Drop the toy and gauge the dog’s reaction.A responsive dog will play with you and notice your sudden change in behavior. Nervous dogs avoid playing with you. Independent dogs won’t notice your change in behavior and continue to play.
 Give the dog a small amount of food in a bowl. Let the dog begin to eat some of the food, but before they are able to finish all of the food use a long stick or broom handle to pull the bowl away from their reach.Responsive dogs will look expectantly at you, wag their tails, and try to encourage you to let them continue to eat. A nervous dog will be too shy and afraid to eat. An independent dog will act disinterested in the food.
 While the dog’s breed can give you a general idea about the dog’s disposition, it cannot give you a guarantee about what the dog will actually be like. By doing your research about different dog breeds, you can get a general idea of what to expect.Some breeds, like Golden Retrievers, are known for being lovable goofballs but not every dog within that breed fits that description. There are exceptions to every rule, and you won’t know whether this dog is that exception until you have a chance to interact with it.
 A dog’s temperament is the general attitude that the dog displays towards people, other animals, and how they interact with others. A dog’s temperament is influenced by both genetic and learned traits, as well as their environment and situational awareness. Much of a dog’s behavior is hereditary and inherited, but some aspects can be modified and influenced through training.A dog’s temperament can shift throughout their lifetime, though rarely will this shift be drastic. For example, a hyperactive young dog can mature into a more calm and gentle senior dog. , In order to evaluate a dog’s temperament, you will need to be in a controlled environment. Reputable shelters will have a separate area where potential adopters can interact with dogs and get to know them. Reputable breeders will be happy to allow you to interact with their puppies in safe and controlled areas before you adopt them. If the shelter or the breeder does not allow you to interact with a dog before either purchasing or adopting them, walk away.


Safety is key. The area where you interact with the dog should be safe and comfortable for all the parties involved.
 A dog’s temperament is a very important factor to take into consideration when you’re choosing a new pet. Their personality and behavior can fit your lifestyle, or make you incompatible. In order to choose a dog based on their temperament, you need to have a good idea of what sort of dog will work best with your lifestyle.Ask yourself what sort of pet would work best for your family and lifestyle. Do you work full time and know that you’ll leave a dog alone for most of the day? A high energy or needy dog might not be right for you. Families with small children won’t do well with dogs that are aggressive or aren’t gentle.

