 If you’re required to wear a uniform, you can’t do much to change that, but you can enhance your standard-issue look in a number of ways by learning to make strategic choices.


Wear colored tank or camisole underneath your uniform shirt. Particularly if your uniform involves neutral colors, you can choose an accent color that will really pop.
Cuff the sleeves of your coat, sweater, or cardigan to add a small but noticeable twist.
For a little more variety, tuck your shirt in if you usually wear it out, or wear it out if you usually tuck it in.;
, Even if you have to take them off in class, scarves, hats, and gloves are perfect for adding color and personality to your look between classes.


Scarves are a truly versatile clothing option.You can learn to tie them in almost limitless different ways, and you can choose from an entire spectrum—from light summer scarves to cozy, bulky cowls. Start here for a guide to choosing and tying scarves to suit your style.
 Coats are statement pieces—choose the right one and you’ll set your entire look apart.


Look for different styles—knee length, pea coat, trench, puffer—in bright colors and patterns. See this guide for more on choosing the best coat for your style and body type.
 If you’re allowed to choose a skirt or shorts as part of your uniform, you have a great opportunity to make your outfit eye-catching by adding socks and/or tights in bright patterns or colors.
 Most schools have at least some leeway in your footwear options, and you should take full advantage.


Unique and stylish footwear can make an entire outfit stand out. Check out this guide to choosing your best footwear option.
 Yes, you all have to wear the same clothes, but those clothes aren’t necessarily going to work on everyone’s different body type.


Tailoring your clothes is the simplest but perhaps the most significant step you can take to make your look stand out.
Clothes that fit well and look good on you will ultimately be more flattering than any colorful tank or stylish scarf.

