


You will need inventory statistics like total output. You will also need the fixed costs, variable costs and total costs for a given quantity production (output).;
, Consider the following columns in your spreadsheet:


Use the header "Output" in your first column. You can fill the rows with single unit increases in output or larger jumps. For instance, it may be numbered 1,2,3, etc. or it can be numbered in larger increments, such as 1000, 2000, 3000, etc.
Consider whether you want to simply add "Total Cost" or add 3 columns for "Fixed Cost," "Variable Cost" and "Total Cost." If you do not want to include the numbers for fixed and variable cost, make sure both these figures are calculated in the total cost.
Type the correct "Total Cost" figures for each rise in output. You will be able to figure out marginal cost for each increase in output based on these figures.
, You will figure out the marginal cost for each level of output separately.


Keep in mind that marginal cost is based on the changes in cost as you produce more. The figures will plot change in output and cost throughout your chart.
 To calculate marginal cost, you will need to take the change in total cost divided by the change in total output.
 Subtract the total cost of the first row (after headings) by the total cost of the second row. This is your change in total cost.
 This is your change in total output.



For example, if your first row of data shows total output of 1,000 for a cost of $8,000 and the second row of data shows a total output of 2,000 for a cost of $12,000, your formula would be marginal cost=$12,000-$8,000)/(2,000-1,000).



In our example, we simplify to get marginal cost=$4,000/1,000 or marginal cost=$4.
 The first row of data will not have a marginal cost, because marginal cost cannot be calculated based on an output of zero.



If you are using Microsoft Excel, you can include a formula to automatically calculate the data. Enter an equals sign in the blank box under your marginal cost column, then replace the data numbers with cell numbers. For example, "=(F4-F3)/(G4-G3)." Then click "Enter." Drag the formula down the column to reproduce it in each row.

