 You can direct more people to your Twitter account by putting "Follow me on Twitter" links on your blog, e-mail, other social networking outlets, and across the web.


That way, people who are already interested in what you're doing can easily find your Twitter Profile and follow you.
Using graphics, such as a button or counter can also be more effective at catching attention and getting you more followers.
 That will increase the chance that they will tweet at you or retweet one of your tweets, increasing the visibility of your Twitter account.


You can get a celebrity's attention on Twitter by sending them an @message. An @message is a direct message which you can send to anyone, whether you're following them or not.
Choose a celebrity (or at least someone with a ton of followers) to send an @message to. This message will appear on your profile page, so anyone who comes to scope you out will see who you've tweeted.
If you're really lucky, the celebrity will reply to your message, retweet it, or maybe even follow you back. This will make your tweet visible to thousands or even millions of people, and undoubtedly gain you followers.
Although this doesn't happen that often, it's worth sending a direct message or two everyday on the off-chance that it's gets retweeted. Remember, the funnier or more original the tweet is, the better the odds of the celebrity paying attention to it!

, This sounds kind of complicated, but it's really not. Just look for users with similar interests to your own, but who have way more followers. Then all you need to do is follow that user and their followers.


For example, if you're a tarot fanatic, find another tarot fanatic who has many followers, then follow those followers. If it's clear from your bio and your tweets that you're a tarot enthusiast, they're more likely to follow you.
Be cautious though; following too many people may draw potential followers away.
 Being retweeted pushes your exposure to the edges of your Twitter network. Simply adding "Please retweet" or "Please RT" to the end of some of your posts here and there (not all the time) can remind your followers that you want them to spread the word for you. Occasionally posting a link to an article on How to Retweet will also help your followers help you.
 Do a search for your Twitter name and observe which of your updates get the most replies and retweets. Then repeat those updates a few times roughly 8-12 hours apart.


You'll reach more people this way because you're more likely to catch the attention of people who missed your updates the first time around. People "tune in" to Twitter at various times during the day (and night).
If you get complaints about repeated tweets, you might want to ease off a little (or just delete the complainers!)