 Vegetables and flowers make excellent garnishes for salad, meat, vegetable dishes, pasta, and rice. If you're not sure which vegetable or flower to use, pick one that was used as an ingredient in the food, or go with a mild-tasting vegetable such as cucumber or daikon radish.
 Wash half of a cucumber or carrot, and peel off any dirty or bumpy skin. Use a paring knife to cut a strip down the length of the vegetable, but don't cut it off entirely. Repeat to form a series of "petals" around the carrot or cucumber. If there's room, make a second, inner layer of petals the same way. Remove the thick inner portion, and gently bend the petals outward., Peel a tomato skin in one long, spiral strip from one end to another, making the strip narrower and narrower as you go. Curl this strip of skin into a tight curl, then release it to form a flower shape.You may need to tuck the narrow end in between two folds of the spiral to keep it in place, or use a toothpick to fasten it more firmly.
 White onions, all bell peppers, and even hollowed-out cucumbers can easily be cut into rings. Make these fancier by cutting a slit into each ring, and forming an interlocking chain to place on top of the food or around the serving dish., Slice a white onion into segments, but leave the root at the base to keep them together. Dip the onion in hot water to make it firm and reduce the onion scent, then soak it in food coloring for twenty or thirty minutes so it develops an attractive, muted color., Violets, roses, geraniums, marigolds, and nasturtiums are all examples of edible flowers, but look up other flowers before you add them to food, since some flowers are toxic. Never eat flowers grown near roads or other sources of pollution, flowers that have had pesticides used on them, or flowers of unidentified species. Only some flowers are edible, and even those should be used sparingly to avoid causing digestive issues.All that said, a flower blossom is simultaneously one of the easiest and most attractive garnishes available.


The taste of a flower can change with variety, time of year, and the environment it was planted in. Taste a petal before you use it as garnish, even if you've eaten that species of flower before.
 One of the simplest and most common garnishes is a sprig of parsley. This is a great addition to dishes with rich, meaty or heavy flavors, as it balances it out with a lighter, more natural ingredient. You can also use rosemary leaves, mint, or other herbs, but remember to remove inedible stems first.


Sometimes, a sprinkle of ground herbs or spices is all a dish needs. Paprika, chili powder, and turmeric are all brightly colored enough to serve as garnishes by themselves.

