 Search for fabric that is either the same material as the strapless dress, or pairs well with the material of your dress. If your dress is too long, you can cut the excess length off of the dress for material. Consider choosing a complementary color or similar shade to your dress if you have to buy fabric.You can buy fabric at your local crafts store, like Hobby Lobby, Michaels, and Joann’s, depending on your location.;
, You need to obtain sewing materials like needle, thread, and or a sewing machine if you do not want to sew by hand. Make sure the thread closely matches the color of the fabric you are using. You will also need pins to hold the fabric in your desired position before sewing., You might want to apply the extra fabric to add extra coverage to the chest, or your may want to add sleeves to your dress. Cap sleeves, three-quarter sleeves, and long sleeves are your main options. You also have the option to do both. For someone new to sewing, creating cap sleeves is a fairly simple option that provides coverage of the shoulders., First, you will need to create your sleeves by sewing them together. To make a cap sleeves, take two pieces of fabric and sew them together to make wide straps. The straps need to be at least six inches wide. Then, pin them to your dress in the exact location that you will sew the sleeves to the dress.Make sure you leave enough room for your shoulders to fit into. You can do this by attaching the sleeves with pins while wearing the dress, or taking your measurements and attaching the sleeves according to those measurements.
 Sew the sleeves onto the dress according to the locations you have pinned them. You will need to remove the pins as you sew. You only need to attach the sleeves to the front of the dress on the sides of the chest area, and to the back of the dress if you are making cap sleeves. The attached areas on the front and back should line up., Make sure the sleeves cover as much skin as you desire. The sleeves should fit comfortably with enough room for movement. You need to be able to move around and raise your arms with ease. Bend your arms and raise your shoulders to be sure that the fabric will not rip.