


Gentle reminders like, “Mia, eye contact,” or “Can you look me in the eyes when you ask me?” can help nudge the child. Compliment the child for good eye contact.
Remember that you don’t want to battle a child with RAD, so if the child seems unwilling or defiant, back off and don’t force it.
 Consider that a child with RAD has limited understanding of their emotional landscape, and cannot always empathize with others.You can help them learn more about feeling emotions and expressing them appropriately by trying some of the following strategies:


Name the emotion you are seeing them express. You could say, “Elijah, you look like you are really angry about this homework assignment! I can see your hands clenched up in fists!” or “You must think that dog is funny. You keep laughing at it!”
Help them understand nonverbal language cues like body language or tone of voice. For example, “What do you think it means when someone puts their head in their hands?”
Model an appropriate apology when necessary. You could tell the child, “I am sorry I hurt your feelings when I said that you couldn’t wear your red shirt for school pictures. I know it’s your favorite shirt and my saying no made you sad.”
Talk about characters in books and TV shows and ask the child what they think the character might be feeling. For example, “How do you think Baby Bear felt when he saw that Goldilocks broke his chair?” If the child doesn’t know, you could say, “I think he probably felt very sad, and maybe a little mad and a little scared because he didn’t know who broke his chair!”

, Most children with reactive attachment disorder do not like to be touched.If you are new to caring for the child, do not jump in right away with a lot of physical contact. Move slowly and establish trust.


Do not force them to cuddle or do anything they don’t want to. Rather, give them pats on the back, put an arm around their shoulder, tousle their hair affectionately, or even give them a high-five.
Determine their comfort level and work within that, but incorporate physical affection into your daily routine. It helps the child to establish a genuine connection.
 Find something to do that the child enjoys and spend some one-on-one time getting to know them better. You are helping the child understand relationships, as well as learn what a healthy connection feels like.


Consider activities like playing board games, reading stories together, going for a hike, or going out for a special treat.
Let the child decide the day’s activity. Give them a list of options: “Today we can either do a craft at the library or go fishing at the pond. What sounds better to you?”
If you are a teacher, you might show interest in the child by asking about their drawings, spending time with the child while they play with their favorite classroom toy, or saving a special book for them for silent reading time.
 Maintain your own healthy habits to role model good behavior. Encourage the child to make healthy food choices, get plenty of rest, maintain good hygiene, and exercise. Let the child know that it will be easier to deal with difficult emotions when their body is healthy and strong.


Have the child get plenty of exercise. Exercise not only keeps you healthy, but it helps improve depression and keeps you less stressed.Make sure the child is eating a nutritious diet and is getting enough food to meet their needs.

