 When you launch Google Maps, you should see a map (if your device can detect your current location, this will be of the surrounding area) and a text bar near the top of the screen. To find where an address is, simply type it in, using as much detail as you can, and hit enter or press the magnifying glass button.


For example, if you want to find 123 Main Street in Appleton, California, you'd type exactly that into the search bar: 123 Main Street, Appleton, CA. Adding the zip code if you know it can help Google Maps find the place you're looking for, but you often won't need it.;
, If the place you're looking for has a name (for instance, if it's a business, a public building, a well-known landmark, etc.), you usually won't have to put in its address. Instead, just type in its name (or, if you can't remember it, your best guess) and press enter or click the magnifying glass. You can also add the city, state, and country if desired to get a more specific search.


For example, if you want to find the local library, you might type in something like: Norman Library Appleton, CA.
 Sometimes, you may not know exactly where you need to go because you have many different choices (for instance, if you're deciding on a place to get dinner.) In this case, try to describe what you're looking for in general terms in the search bar. You can include the city, state, and so on if you're looking in a specific area.


For example, if you're looking for a place to get your car fixed, you might type in something like: Car mechanics Appleton, CA.
 If your search brings up a single result, the map will move to display it and it will be marked with a dot. If your search brings up more than one result, the map will move to display some or all of them and each result will be marked with its own dot. In either case, you can zoom in and out to get a smaller or bigger picture of the location of your result(s). To do this:



Browser: Use the +/- buttons in the bottom right or scroll with the middle mouse button.

Mobile: Make a pinching motion with two fingers on the screen to zoom out. Reverse this motion to zoom in.
 If you get multiple results, clicking on any of the dots marked on the map should bring up the information that Google Maps has on it. Depending on the type of location you're viewing, you may or may not see the following information:


Opening/closing times
Reviews
Links to official websites
Photos of the location

