 You'll need a couple of pieces of wood and some basic tools and supplies for this dollhouse (Barbie-sized, but easily customized). The tools are common ones that you will likely already have, but your local hardware store may do tool rentals if you don't. Just ask! The supplied you'll need are:


4 pieces of 1x8 lumber (at least 24" long each), or an 8' long board if buying a single piece
4 pieces of 12"x12" medium weight chipboard or similar material (you might need to go to an art store to find this)
A drill with a 1/4" bit
A hand, table, or jigsaw to make basic cuts in the wood
1/4" dowels (either a single stick or 8 single pieces)
Sandpaper
Wood glue
Paint and other materials to create the finished look

, There are four starting pieces pieces, though two will later be split and cut further. For now, cut all four to 24" in length.
 Line up all four pieces and, using a measuring tape and pen, mark holes at 3" and 6" from both ends along the narrow 3/4" strip of the sides (only one side will need the holes). Be very sure that all the holes line up with each other. Each piece of wood should then have four marks. Drill a hole in the center of the side at each of the marks you made, using a 1/4" bit.
 Leaving two of the pieces at 24", take the remaining to boards, cut them in half, and then trim an extra 3/8" from the inside edges. You should now have two boards that are 24" long and four boards that are 11 5/8" long.
 Put some wood glue and a dowel in each of the holes on the 24" pieces, one hole at a time. Let the glue set and dry and then glue the holes on one of the shorter pieces at a time. Fit the shorter pieces onto the dowels of the larger pieces, so that the trimmed edge is at the center of the larger piece. This should leave you with two final pieces of wood with a 3/4" gap at the center of one half of each board and a total width of 14 and 1/2". Sandpaper the edges smooth.
 These two pieces of wood fit together at these center gaps like a puzzle, the gap pointing up on one piece and down on the other. When together, they form the walls of four connected rooms. This means that you can take them apart whenever you need to and store the dollhouse away or take it with you when you travel.
 Paint or wallpaper the walls, cut doorways, or finish it in any other way you want to. Just remember to keep the directions of the wall straight and to not paint or glue anything in a way which permanently joins the two board together.
 The chipboard will make up the floor for the dollhouse, with each 12x12 square being one of the four rooms. Paint or otherwise finish one side of each of the 4 pieces to match what you want the four rooms to be (bathroom, bedroom, kitchen, etc). When they are dry, arrange them into the order you want them (they must for a large square), then turn them over and tape them together on one side only.


This will allow you to fold up and store the entire dollhouse out of the way.
 Put the walls on the chip board floor and star filling the house with furniture. Your child can turn the house and enjoy each room individually, and the whole thing can be folded up and put away when it's time to clean up.

