 Men love feeling useful; it makes them feel important and needed. Acknowledge what he does for you and do it often.Reward him for the things he does for you around the house like fixing the sink, changing a light bulb, or buying groceries.By rewarding him, you show appreciation and encourage him to want to repeat the actions on a consistent basis.
Even if you can do things like take out the garbage or cut the grass on your own, let him do it. Mention that you can do it, but you’d rather have a man do it, and he’ll step up because he knows he’s being useful to you.;
, Guys love being problem-solvers. Asking him for his advice makes him feel useful and as if you value his opinion.You don’t have to take his suggestions, but being open to hearing them is an important part of making him feel needed.


Talk to him about an issue with a coworker you’re having at work or a deadline that you’re having trouble meeting. Nod and say, “That sounds like a good idea” or “You make a great point”. Decide whether or not you want to use his advice and let him know how things went if you did.
Talk to him about a financial or technical issue you’re having. If he’s tech-savvy, take his advice about the best laptop to invest in. If he’s a car guy, take his advice on what kind of vehicle to put a down payment on. Use his areas of expertise as a way to make him feel included in your decision-making process.
 To show that you care, express that through actions sometimes, versus solely relying on words. Men are typically action-oriented while women like hearing words to feel loved and needed. Delve into a new layer of understanding him by showing appreciation in his language.Prepare a special intimate dinner for the two of you. Make his favorite meal, slip on your sexiest dress, and wear some heels as you cater to him for the night.
Surprise him with tickets to a sporting event or a concert that you know he’ll love. Bonus points for picking artists or games for teams you know are his favorite.
 With busy schedules of work, school, family, and friends, create time and space in your life for just you and him one or two nights during the week. The fact that you make him a priority with everything you have going on in your life, makes him feel needed., As a rule, a man’s deepest need is to be met with the same burning sexual desire he feels for the woman he’s fallen for.Consider the qualities in a man you find sexually exciting. Is it his intellect? His strength? His ambition? You might also be drawn to your man’s physical attributes like his eyes, his smile, or his hair.
Bolden the line between friend and lover by using the qualities you find most attractive as a way to strengthen your desire for him sexually.Compliment him by mentioning casually that you love the way his eyes light up when he smiles or that you love the way his favorite shirt hugs his chest and arms.
 Eyes say so much and act as windows to the soul, including what you desire. By looking at him like you could devour him at any moment, you relay to him how hot he makes you and make him feel sexier and hotter in the process. Not being able to take your eyes off of each other and/or not being able to take your eyes off of him will make him feel desired and irresistible to you. Mutual anticipation revs up along with your desire for him.
Avoiding eye contact may send a message that you’re not that interested. So even if eye contact makes you a little shy, try to meet his gaze every once and a while for at least a few seconds.
 Truly enjoying him in all capacities is physical support to the fact that you desire him.


Men rarely receive physical touches other than handshakes or hugs so physical contact from the opposite sex feels electrifying and instantly makes him think about sex.Playfully slap his arm or shoulder, rub his back, or cut to the chase and give him a full blown kiss.
Touch him wherever you want to and as often as you feel like touching him. It’s an instant attention getter and lets him know that you want him as much as he wants you, whether you’re in public or alone.
 If you've chosen this man, you've probably chosen him for a reason. Remind him of why you desire him and do so publicly. The male ego is very fragile so tell the people around you why he’s amazing and what you appreciate about him., Red takes on a vampy, sexy meaning when women wear it. It’s the color of love, passion, and desire. Go all out and wear a red dress that fits you like a glove paired with some strappy heels or be simplistic and choose it as an accent color, by wearing it as your lipstick or a bag., Wearing scents is something that most women prefer to do, but is often an unnecessary addition in the eyes of most men. Your natural scent is more of a turn-on than sweet-smelling fragrances that overpower your scent.The role that your natural body odor plays in attraction and arousal shouldn’t be overlooked, so skip the scented body lotions and perfumes.
 Allow your fingers to linger at his mouth once he’s taken his bite. Retain eye contact as you do and have him feed you too. It’s a very sensual act that will fuel the heat between you two., Allow yourself to have an audible response to what he does to your body physically. Your reaction to intimacy does not have to be over the top moan choruses yelled at the top of your lungs, but release a soft moan every now and then during sex or a soft sigh while you kiss one another.