 Summer is the perfect time to break out your favorite white pants, skirts, and dresses. The bright sun will give your skin that perfect glow, and it will help make your white clothes sparkle even more. You can even try a white cotton or linen blazer during the summer.Try something loose and flowing in the summer, such as peasant blouses or maxi dresses. If you'd like a more streamlined look, wear a wide belt around your waist to cinch in the excess fabric.;
, Yes, you can wear white even during the winter. What really matters, however, is the material. A white, linen dress may look out of place during the winter, but a cozy winter sweater will be everyone's envy. Similarly, white linen or silk pants may look out of place in the winter, but white jeans will look right at home.White parkas and jeans are great for the winter.Other materials that work in winter include: fur, leather, and mohair., There is nothing wrong with pairing white shoes with a white skirt and a white shirt. To keep the outfit looking more interesting, however, try choosing pieces made from different materials. For example, you could try a cotton skirt with lacey top. You could also try a white leather jacket with white slacks. The different materials will help each piece look distinct, and they will keep your outfit from looking too bland.


Some people find that mixing textures when wearing an all-white outfit also creates a slimming effect., If you are hesitant about wearing all white, you could always try something with a bold print. For example, you could try a white dress with a bold, black tribal or chevron print. Your outfit will still be predominantly white, but the pattern will add a touch of color.
 If you are very pale, you may find that white causes you to look washed out. Try a bright, crisp white without any warm or yellow undertones. You can also bring in a pop of color with a colorful accessory, such as a necklace or silk scarf. If you have a darker skin tone, try a warmer white; the contrast will still keep it looking white and bright, but not overly so.Try wearing different shades of white to keep an all-white ensemble interesting. For example, you can pair cool-toned pants and shirts with a warm-toned scarf or vest.Be careful, however; not all shades will match or look good together. Before stepping out, try to get a good look at your outfit in different lights: daylight, indoor light, and so forth., Even if you are wearing skin-toned underwear and bras, transparent whites may reveal more than you'd like to show. When shopping, stick your hand under the fabric to determine whether or not you will need a slip or camisole.If possible, try to take the outfit over to a window, where you can see the transparency in daylight.

