 There is nothing more constant than change. Seasons, weather, trends, technology - you name it; it is steadily changing. Know that nothing lasts forever. If you are experiencing hard times, they won't endure. On the flip side, if your life is currently exceptional, be thankful for the good, but recognize that harder days will surely come again.One way to stop seeing change as all "bad" is to recognize that you yourself and everyone you meet is constantly evolving. Whether you saw them the day before or weeks ago, each time you meet a person, you are seeing a newer, changed version. Time has passed. They have encountered new experiences, thought new ideas. Humans are not fixed in time, and neither is life.;
, If your expectations are too high and unrealistic, you will continually be disappointed by the outcome. When they are too rigid, you don’t leave room for growth or change. When you set expectations that are more reasonable, you have higher self-esteem and are better equipped to handle whatever comes your way.An example of an unrealistic expectation may be "I need to make all A's in college" while a more realistic expectation may be that "I need to put in a lot of effort to do well in college".
You can improve how you manage expectations by regularly reassessing whether they are achievable by you, and by exploring a range of options rather than being focused on only one outcome.
If another person is placing unrealistic expectations on you, talk to the person and explain how the pressure to perform is affecting you. You might say something like “When you expect this out of me, I end up ___”.
 Experiential learning is learning obtained through action, or through discovery and exploration. You can rattle off facts to students and they will likely forget. You can actively teach subject matter and they may remember. But, if you involve them and allow them to experience the subject matter, they can learn. In education, students engage in experiential learning by following a 6-step procedure. This same procedure can be used outside the classroom.


Experiencing/Exploring- In this case, this step simply means “living” and collecting experiences.
Sharing/Reflecting- Discuss your reactions and observations about certain life experiences with friends, a counselor, or in a journal. Think about what happened and what you discovered.
Processing/Analyzing- Determine what was important about a certain life experience. What problems occurred? How were those problems resolved? Were there any recurring themes?
Generalizing- Connect one experience with others to uncover trends. Acknowledge whether any real life principles emerged.
Application- Decide how you can apply what you learned from one experience to a similar or different situation.
 Try not to focus too hard on the future, nor dwell on the past - you might miss the things that are happening right now.


To practice living in the moment, engage in mindfulness. Mindfulness can be carried out at any time or in any place. It is the act of focusing on the here and now.
If you are a beginner, mindfulness meditation can be carried out by sitting in a comfortable chair. Place your hands face down on your thighs. Focus your gaze on either the floor 4 to 6 feet away or the wall ahead of you.

Breathe deeply. Just sit and orient yourself to your environment. Notice any sounds, smells, or sensations on your skin. Continue breathing and direct your attention to your breath as you gently inhale and exhale.
If you notice yourself being caught up in thoughts, simply acknowledge the fact that you were thinking, and then return your attention to your breath. Complete this exercise for 20 to 30 minutes daily. With practice, you can perform mindful meditation wherever you are to live in the moment.