 It's difficult to get popular if you have to approve every person who follows your account. People also tend to want to see what kind of photos you are sharing before they decide to follow you. If you want to gain as many followers as possible, you need to have a public account.


Link your Instagram profile to your other social networking as well. You might as well get all your existing friends connected to your Instagram account, after all they are more likely to interact with your posts. You can also link Instagram to simultaneously update with Facebook and Twitter.
If you're concerned about your privacy, take control of it by not posting anything you'd regret. Don't put anything personal or embarrassing on your Instagram page. Make sure you don't geo tag your home address and stay safe online.
;
, One of the easiest ways to start reaching out and gain followers is to follow lots of accounts. You can't expect people to find yours if you don't reach out and interact with the Instagram community. Follow lots of accounts, even if you plan on unfollowing them later. Instagram will allow you to follow about 160 people per hour.


Follow your friends. Link your profile to your other social networking pages and invite everyone to like your page.
Follow accounts that are related to interests you have. Into sports? Cooking? Knitting? Find pages devoted to these hobbies and follow lots of them. Look up the follow lists on these pages and start following people.
Follow celebs. Look up your favorite athletes, musicians, actresses, and other celebs to follow on Instagram. Comment regularly on their popular posts to get your page some exposure.
Always follow your followers. If someone is following you, you'll gain a long-term follower if you follow them back.
 Pick out some celebrities and other popular Instagram accounts to follow and engage. Comment regularly on their posts to get other followers to check out your page and follow it.


While Instagram frowns on this practice, following and unfollowing some very popular accounts (Bieber, One Direction, Kim Kardashian) repeatedly can gain you several followers very quickly. However this can also get your account suspended.
Don't spam popular pages. Lots of people like to comment, "Hey follow me!" on really popular pages, but this will earn you negative comments and it will rarely work. It also looks tacky.
 There are a variety of apps and sites designed to make the follower-chasing a little easier. They all essentially allow you to build capital or "coins" by liking pictures and doing other tasks, which will earn you followers in return. All these apps work slightly differently, and some require that you pay for them.

