 If you're looking to make new friends or find a special someone, partying can be a good way to meet new people. Don't be afraid to talk to random strangers in a club. Most people are there to socialize.
 When you're out having a good time, you'll be meeting a lot of new people. Small talk lets you break the ice with someone you'd like to know better. It's also a great way to pass time when there's a long line for the bathroom. Some topics that make good small talk include:


Your opinion about the music the DJ is playing.
How the other person found out about the venue or knows the host.
What you plan on doing for an upcoming holiday, or how you spent a recent one.
Compliment some aspect of the other person's outfit.
 Make yourself the indispensable go-to girl for news, information, shared friends and help. Exchange numbers and business cards with people you meet.


Find the VIPs and the well-connected in your circle. Make it your goal to become known to them and spend time sharing news and ideas with them.
 However, be careful about who you get to know intimately. Clubs can be great places to meet people, but they don't always attract a reputable crowd.


Do not ever make out with a friend's date. This is a grave violation of the girl code.
Avoid the bad boys. They aren't worth the trouble.
Never get drunk to build up the courage to find someone. Your drunk self has extremely poor taste and isn't likely to know what's best for you.
If you already have a boyfriend, don't ruin things by making out with someone else. It's perfectly fine to party without him while in a relationship. Just don't break his trust.
 You don't want to close down an empty bar. When you see the crowd start to thin, it's a good idea to bail. Be sure to say goodbye to everyone you've spent time with. Before you leave, make sure you have the contact information of anyone you'd like to hang out with more. The worst feeling is meeting someone great only realizing the next day that you forgot to exchange numbers.

