 Most outdoor speaker systems run off an existing indoor receiver. Since the receiver is a sensitive piece of electronics, you almost always want to set the receiver up indoors. A multi-zone receiver allows you to have music playing outside while something else plays inside.;
, Make sure that it is in a sheltered location. You will be running the speaker wire from the receiver to the volume control box, and then from the volume control box to the associated speakers. Most volume control boxes can be easily mounted on an outdoor wall.


Consider multiple volume control boxes for multiple pairs of speakers. This will allow you to control the volume across multiple zones.
 Each pair you add increases the chance of overloading the receiver's built-in amplifier. You can install the amplifier right next to the receiver and then run the speaker wire out of the amplifier.
 16-gauge is fine for less than 80 feet (24 m), but longer wires should be 14- or 12-gauge. If you don't use the right gauge for your speakers, your audio quality will suffer. The longer the wire, the more degradation will occur.


Four-conductor wire allows you to connect two pairs of speakers with one wire, potentially saving you the hassle of running a lot of wire.
For outdoor speakers, CL2 and CL3 speaker wire complies with US in-wall standards, which means it can be safely ran through walls without causing issues with other electronics or posing a fire risk. This wire can also withstand elements, which is essential for an outdoor setup.
Add an additional 10-15% to the length for snags and slack. You don't want your speaker wire to be pulled tight, as crimps in the wire can affect sound quality.
 Drill a hole low in the wall to run the speaker wire from the inside to the outside. Make sure to seal the hole with silicone to maintain your house's insulation. Run the speaker wire to the volume control box, and then run a second wire from the box to the speakers.


Don’t run speakers through windows or door jambs. This can cause your speaker wire to get crimped, causing audio issues.
Some modern speaker setups are completely wireless, and operate using Bluetooth. If you are using a setup like this, you don't have to worry too much about wiring. You just need to ensure that your receiver supports Bluetooth speakers, and that the speakers are setup relatively close to the receiver. Bluetooth can reach about 150 feet (45.7 m) if there is nothing impeding the signal. Walls between the receiver and speaker will shorten the effective range.

