 Sometimes it means paying less in taxes. Whatever the case, you should familiarize yourself with the tax code of the location with the warmer climateYou can learn about the tax obligations in various U.S. states using the Small Business Administration’s site at https://www.sba.gov/starting-business/filing-paying-taxes/determine-your-state-tax-obligations.
If you are confused about the tax obligations in a particular warmer climate, consult a certified financial planner. You could ask them, for instance, “Please explain the tax code of this warm-climate location to me.”
Don’t forget to find out whether pensions are taxed. Some U.S. states allow certain pensions to remain untaxed.
 In some places with warmer climates, even simple everyday costs like grocery shopping can be expensive. For instance, in Hawaii, many goods are shipped in, and the cost of living is therefore quite high.Use a Cost of Living Calculator like the one available at http://money.cnn.com/calculator/pf/cost-of-living/ to compare the cost of living in your current location against the cost of living in a warmer climate.
 Depending on how old you are when you retire, you may or may not be able to collect things like a retirement pension, Social Security or other government-funded retirement income. You might also have investments (stocks, bonds, and securities) or special accounts like 401(K)s or Roth IRAs that you could tap into. And of course, if you retire to a warmer climate, you could sell your current residence to increase your available resources.Talk to your financial planner in order to help you determine exactly what resources are at your disposal to help you retire to a warmer climate. They might be able to identify resources that you did not.
 Once you know the cost of living in the warm-climate place you wish to retire, as well as the resources at your disposal, carefully calculate exactly how much your new lifestyle will cost. Draw up an estimated budget subtracting costs like healthcare, meals (including dining out and grocery shopping), household expenses (rent, utilities, and repairs), debt (credit card or mortgage payments), and transportation costs (bus or taxi fare, oil changes, and gas) from your total monthly available income.Separate your spending into essential spending like taxes, rent, utilities, and groceries from your discretionary spending on things like movies, the opera, vacations, and larger TVs.
If your monthly expenditures exceed your available monthly resources, you should not retire to a warmer climate, or identify a warmer climate you’d like to retire to that has a lower cost of living.
 If the warmer climate has better healthcare than your current location, you might want to retire there. But if the healthcare options in the warmer climate are worse than those in your current location, you should think twice before retiring there.For instance, if you get $10,000 of healthcare coverage in your current location but only $5,000 of healthcare coverage in the warmer climate you’re considering moving to, it’s best to stay put or find a different (but also warm) place to retire to.

