 Since the hips and the elbows are the joints most often affected by degenerative joint disease, look at these joints first for problems with movement. Make sure that your cat is walking normally and that its joints are moving freely.If your cat is having difficulty using its joints, this means that the problem with them is fairly advanced. Have your cat seen by a veterinarian right away if your cat is having this type of problem.
 It can be hard to figure out when your cat is in pain because cats are notoriously good at hiding it. Showing outward signs of pain shows weakness, and so cats keep their pain to themselves whenever possible. With this in mind, try to assess your cat's pain level. Look for changes in routine, avoidance of normal movement, and reactions when you try to move your cat's joints.Hiding pain can come across a change in routine or behavior. If your cat is trying to mask pain, it will have to change its way of life to accommodate avoiding normal movement.
 If your cat has severe degenerative joint disease, its joints may be swollen or deformed due to inflammation. If you happen to notice that your cat's joints look strange or different than usual, take the time to inspect them closely.

A swollen joint could signal a variety of health problems, including trauma. If any of your cat's joints are noticeably swollen, have it checked out by a veterinarian right away.
 Degenerative joint disease can occur with no specific cause, but it is more likely to occur in a joint that has be subjected to trauma or excessive wear and tear. If your cat has had an injury to one of its joints in the past, be sure to keep an eye on that joint for signs of osteoarthritis., Degenerative joint disease is largely a problem for older cats. In most cases, it is connected to long-term wear and tear on joints, and so it rarely happens in young cats.If your cat is older do an annual assessment of its ability to move its joints freely and without pain. If you see signs of pain or discomfort, have the cat looked over by its veterinarian.

