 Everything revolves around communication and nothing demonstrates and strengthens loyalty like open communication. Human beings are social animals. We don’t just like to share, we need to. It will bring you closer to your partner and yourself.Minimizing misunderstandings is easier if there is regular, open communication. The more you know about how and what your partner thinks the easier it is to avoid conflicts.
Sharing details leads to intimacy. This, in turn, leads to even greater intimacy. It is like the aging of a fine wine: the longer you do it, the more fruitful and wonderful your relationship becomes and the stronger your loyalty becomes as well.
 Keep your word and your promises. The fastest way to lose loyalty, or show you lack it, is to constantly let your partner down by lying or breaking your promises. One of the oldest axioms is one to always keep in mind: only make promises you know you can keep.Keep your partner’s feelings in mind. For instance, if your partner looks terrible in an outfit, perhaps there is a better way to tell them. “I think your other suit is far more handsome and sexy.” “It’s cute but I think the dress makes you look fabulous.”

, In this way building loyalty isn’t work it’s fun. The people we will do the most for, and with whom we have the greatest affinity, are those who take the time to get to know us well. You can even make a game out of it.


Surprise your partner with their favorite dish for dinner.
Take your partner to a play if they enjoy theater.
Avoid Michael Bay movies if your partner hate mindless, action-oriented films.
 Providing support is key. Sometimes your partner needs a hug or just needs you to listen. Understanding what he/she needs and providing it demonstrates and builds tremendous loyalty.


If you see that something is upsetting your partner, don't just wait for him/her to come to you and talk about it. Ask what's wrong. Your partner will often be glad that you're concerned.
If he/she tells you they don't want to talk about it, then don't force your partner to tell you and give him/her some space. Wait until they are ready and comfortable to tell you.
 We love siblings, cousins, and family, but the love of a partner is different and passion is a key to that difference. When your partner knows your passion for them is lit, loyalty becomes a much stronger feeling and an increasingly important part of your relationship.


There are many ways to focus on building and keeping passion alive. From intimate date nights to sharing hobbies, you can have a lot of fun doing it too.