 You may need to adjust your diet at different stages in your recovery process. This is partly because the foods you will need to eat to aid in your recovery will be different from foods that are generally considered to be healthy.Ask about particular foods and supplements you should be trying to eat more frequently, and which you should avoid. Make sure to talk to your doctor about all supplements, as well, before you begin taking them.
You will likely need to increase your consumption of protein and calories. For instance, you may be told to eat more eggs and dairy.
Talk about incorporating more green, high-fiber fruits like apples and pears, as well as whole grains, nuts, legumes, broccoli, carrots, and artichokes. Look for more iron-rich foods, as well, including lean meats, beans, and leafy greens.Ask about avoiding foods like raw meat and fish, runny eggs, unpasteurized foods, and unwashed fruits and vegetables.You may also need to eat foods with different consistencies. For instance, dishes with sauces and gravies may be easier to eat, and low-fiber foods may be preferable to high-fiber options.
 Especially during treatment periods, it’s important to eat to maintain your strength and rebuild damaged tissue. Unfortunately, it may be challenging to eat during these periods. In order to make sure you’re getting enough protein and calories, eat whenever you are inclined to do so.Get in the habit of eating every morning, as this is the time of day you are most likely to have an appetite.
Liquid protein shakes are a great option for later in the day, especially on those days you struggle to eat.
If you can only stomach one or two different types of food, eat as much of them as you can.
If you can’t eat for a day or so, don’t worry. Do tell your doctor if you are unable to eat two days in a row.
 Treatment for myeloma can lead to significant side effects in terms of your ability and desire to eat. For instance, you may lose your appetite and/or your sense of taste, you may have trouble chewing or swallowing, and you may have trouble keeping food down or other digestion issues. In order to stay on top of any dietary concerns, mention any trouble you have eating to your doctors as soon as it develops.There are many different treatment options regarding appetite and digestion. Aside from traditional medication, ask your doctor about medical marijuana if it is legally available where you live. Many people, including some with myeloma, use marijuana to improve their appetite., You will likely be warned by your medical team about treatments that may affect your ability and motivation to eat. Preceding these treatments, stock up your kitchen with foods that will be easy to prepare and consume. Get plenty of whatever foods you are able to eat when you do not feel well.Frozen dinners and ready-to-eat meals are good options to have on hand. Try to have both frozen and refrigerated options available at all times.
Make a large batch of a food you know you enjoy and store it in meal-sized portions.
 You may be at greater risk of infection while receiving treatment. Accordingly, you will need to handle and prepare food extra carefully. In particular, refrigerate all leftovers and wash all raw foods extensively before eating them. Additionally, wash you hands and cooking utensils before and after preparing your food, especially meat.Use separate cutting boards for meats and non-meat items. Carefully thaw frozen meat and cook thoroughly. Avoid raw seafood.
Ensure all beverages are pasteurized, and do not consume foods that are past their freshness date. Similarly, do not consume food that is allowed to mold, such as some cheeses.
Do not purchase foods from bulk bins, nor eat from buffets or salad bars.

