 The quickest way to back up files is to plug an external hard drive or thumb drive into your computer and copy the files to it. You can also use CDs or DVDs, but these are more unwieldy to store and are more prone to loss and failure than an external drive. You will also need to burn the files to save them, whereas with an external drive you simply drag and drop.

Space is an issue when deciding what to manually back up, especially if you are using CDs, DVDs, or a thumb drive. If you have a large enough external drive, space is less of a problem.



 


CDs hold about 700 MB of data, DVDs hold 4.7 GB, thumb drives vary in size but rarely go above 64 GB. External hard drives come in sizes up to multiple terabytes (TB).






If you are connected to a network, you can also back up to a network drive on another computer.





;
, When you are backing up manually, it is up to you to ensure that every file that you need backed up gets copied over. Make sure you are thorough when scouring your system for files.
 Make sure that the most important data is always backed up. This includes important and sensitive documents, sentimental files and photos, and other irreplaceable data. Copying takes time, so make the most of your time by saving only what matters.


Programs cannot be backed up, and will need to be reinstalled should anything go wrong with your system. Program settings files and preferences, on the other hand, can almost always be backed up. Refer to your program’s documentation on where to find the settings files.
 Once you’ve decided what you want to save, start copying it over to your backup media. If using an external drive, thumb drive, or network drive, simply drag and drop the data onto the drive and wait for it to copy. If you are burning the data to a disc, follow this guide.


For extra data security, back your data up to two different locations. This will help protect you in case one location fails.
 Since you are manually backing up, there is not set schedule for when your data is copied. It will be on you to maintain a regular backup schedule in order to keep your data safe.

