 When you raise your wrist up to check your watch, the watch will activate and the watch face will appear.









If you're on another screen and need to get back to the watch face, press the wheel button on the side once.
 This will open a new menu allowing to to select from different watch faces. Pressing in the center of the watch face will be the easiest way to open this menu.
 There are a variety of premade faces you can select from. Swipe left and right to browse them all.
 Most faces allow to to make adjustments by tapping the "Customize" button after selecting a face.
 After tapping "Customize," you'll see dots at the top of the screen. These indicate the number of pages of customization options available. Swipe from right to left to advance to the next screen.
 Each time you turn the wheel, you'll make an adjustment such as zooming in or out, or selecting a different color.
 These are little bits of information that you can add to your clock face, such as the weather or stock reports. Not all faces have complications.


Tap a complication space on the screen. There may be one already applied, or there may be empty boxes that say "OFF."
Scroll the wheel after tapping a complication box. This will scroll through the different bits of information.
Press the wheel button to apply the complication to the field.
 This will apply it as your current watch face. You'll see your new watch face immediately.
 You don't need to customize an existing face to get one just how you want it. You can create one from scratch by selecting from the available templates and then adding the details you want:


Press and hold the watch face to open the watch face selection menu.
Scroll to the far right end of the list and tap "New."
Use the scroll wheel to select the face background and layout. Tap the face you want to use. See the next step for details on getting custom images.
Customize the clock face and add complications. The rest of the process is the same as outline above. You'll be able to adjust various details in the face and select from available complications.
 You can select from pictures synced to your Apple Watch. By downloading images designed to fit the watch face and then syncing those pictures to your watch, you can effectively create new watch faces.Download the images you want to use for the watch face on your iPhone. Search sites like DeviantArt and Tumblr for "Apple Watch faces" to find tons of custom images that are designed for Apple Watch screens.
Move all of the downloaded images to a new album on your iPhone. Call it something easy to remember, like "Watch Faces."
Open the Apple Watch app on your iPhone and tap the "My Watch" tab. This will open your watch settings.
Select "Photos" and then "Synced Album." This will let you choose the album that you want to sync with your watch. Choose the album that contains the watch faces you downloaded.
Select your new faces when creating a new watch face. When you follow the previous step to create a new watch face, you'll be able to select from your synced images. Choose the picture that you want to use.
 Many apps have the ability to send information in the complication boxes, such as new message indicators. You'll need to enable these on your iPhone before they appear as options on your watch.


Open the Apple Watch app on your iPhone.
Tap the "My Watch" tab at the bottom of the screen.
Tap the "Complications" option and then toggle on the complications you want to make available from other apps. Once toggled on, you'll be able to select them when changing complications on your watch face.
 Besides changing the watch face, your other option for changing the look of the watch is to get a new band for it. There are countless bands available online, both from Apple and from third-party band makers.








