 Look for tomatoes that are medium in size and firm--softer, older tomatoes tend to get a little mushy when fried. If you are picking your own green tomatoes, try to pick the ones that are just barely getting a hint of a pinkish hue. These are the best for frying because they are less bitter than fully green tomatoes and have a bit of that delicious red tomato flavor., Cast-iron skillets work really well for this recipe, but any heavy skillet will work as well. Add ¼ to ½ inches of cooking oil to the pan. You don’t want to drown the tomatoes in oil so don’t put much more than ½ inches of oil into your pan.


For an extra boost of flavor, add three tablespoons of bacon grease to the oil and stir until it is relatively diluted. The bacon grease will give your tomatoes an extra dose of salty deliciousness.
 Make sure to get rid of any dirt or foreign debris on the surface of the tomato. Pat them dry with paper towels and proceed to the cutting board. Patting them dry will make cutting them a bit easier.
 For tomato slices that stay together best when fried, make 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) thick slices. For even sturdier appetizers, cut the tomatoes into thirds.


If you are concerned that your tomatoes might be a little bitter (very green tomatoes can be) add a pinch of sugar each side of the slices. The sugar will cut the bitterness., There are many different recipes you can use. The most common one is to combine ½ cup of buttermilk with one large egg. Whisk the two ingredients together.If you do not have buttermilk, you can whisk three eggs together. If you want to add a bit of creaminess to the mixture, you can add a dash of milk.
 Again, there are several variations you can use for this part of the recipe. The most common is to use a ½ cup of cornmeal. Combine ¼ cup of flour with the ½ cup of cornmeal. Add one teaspoon of salt and a half teaspoon of pepper. Stir all of the ingredients together and set it aside.If you do not have cornmeal, you can use seasoned breadcrumbs (Italian or cracked pepper flavorings work well.) You could also crush up some crackers (Ritz work well) and set them aside in a bowl. The point is simply to add a bit of crunch to the fried tomatoes.
 Lay the tomatoes slices in the flour, coating both sides evenly. Once you have done this, lay the flour-coated slices in the buttermilk and egg mixture, making sure they are fully coated in the liquid. Once coated in the egg mixture, dredge them in the cornmeal mixture (or whatever crunchy coating you chose to use.) Make sure they get a generous dipping in the crunchy concoction.
 Place each coated slice into the hot oil in the skillet. Make sure to give each tomato enough space or else they might fuse together while they are getting fried. Fry them for three minutes on each side. A good way to know when they are done is to watch them until they develop a golden brown color. until golden brown.
 Use tongs to take each fried tomato out. Place them on a plate that has been covered with paper towels. The paper towels will absorb the grease that drips off of them, allowing them to become crunchy.
 Ranch also makes a great dipping sauce for these delicious fried treats.

