 If you have a ring stuck on your finger, and can't seem to slide it off, rub some conditioner around to help take it off with more ease. Hair conditioner will lubricate your skin to reduce friction and prevent irritation.;
, You can use conditioner as a quick and easy way to clean your face and remove makeup. This is also a great way to save room in luggage when you are traveling.Simply wet your face with warm water and massage the conditioner onto your skin. Wash it off completely when you are done, and be sure not to get any in your eyes.
If you wear contacts, make sure you take them off before washing your face., Hair conditioner can provide a closer shave than shaving foam, and it moisturizers your skin. It can also be easier to see the spots you may miss because of its thinner consistency., When dyeing your hair, hair conditioner can be used to line your hairline to help protect your skin from being dyed. It also helps to remove random dye marks from your skin after you have washed the dye from your hair.


Apply the conditioner to your hairline with your fingers or a washcloth.
To remove dye stains from your skin, gently rub the spots with hair conditioner and a wet washcloth. Be gentle, and use circular motions to avoid skin irritation.
 If you have ever had an "impossible to get off" Band-Aid or temporary tattoo, try rubbing them away with conditioner.


For pesky Ban-Aids, apply conditioner over the two sticky strips and wait about 30 seconds for the conditioner to soak through and loosen the adhesive. Then you are good to go.
For fake tattoos, soak a cotton ball in warm water, and then dab it into some hair conditioner. Rub the cotton ball against the fake tattoo using gentle, circular motions, and watch it disappear., Use your regular hair conditioner to soften your nail cuticles. Aim to do this at least twice a week to see a difference.Massage a small amount of hair conditioner on your nail bed until it absorbs, and then let it be.
 On dry days, hair can sometimes have a mind of its own and go off in different directions. Hair conditioner can be the perfect solution to weigh down your hair so it stays flat.Rub a small amount between your palms, and lightly spread it throughout your hair.
Be sure not add too much, because it can make your hair look greasy.

