 Be sure to stay well-informed if anything changes. Know their estimated time of arrival (E.T.A.), the terminal they will be arriving in, their airline, and if possible, the gate at which they will deplane. Knowing this information ahead of time will facilitate picking them up.;
, Online map sites such as Google Maps, Yahoo Maps, MapQuest, or Windows Live Local tend to confuse more than help. If you know your general location and how to get to the major highways around you, point your browser to the Logan International Airport Web page at http://www.massport.com/logan/. Then click on "Getting to and from Logan" on the right side of the page. Follow the directions.
 Make sure to give yourself a lot of extra time to get there, since Boston is notorious for its horrible rush-hour traffic. It is usually better to arrive a little before the person gets in, so you can help them get their luggage and so they won't wander around if they can't find you.
 Pay careful attention to the signs, especially as you get closer to the airport. The signs near the airport can be especially confusing. Be sure know what terminal you are going to, because if you miss your exit, you will have a hard time finding your way back to it. Also, beware that there may be some detours, so being alert and possibly having a helper assist you in navigating is a good idea.
 If you are waiting for too long (more than a minute or two) in the arrivals pick-up area, the airport police will ask you to leave (even during late-night and early-morning hours). Locating someone in an arrival area takes time and few phone calls, and can be an absolute nightmare.
 Some terminals, such as B, have their own parking garages, which provide fast and easy access to the terminal. If you're not sure or the terminal (such as C) does not have its own garage, park in central parking. In the road that circles the airport, there will be signs and a turnoff for central Parking. When you see the turnoff, turn off and follow the road (and signs) until you enter the Central parking garage. The bottom floors are usually full, closed off for another reason, or extremely crowded, so your best bet is to head higher up. When you arrive at a desirable floor, follow the overhead signs that point to the terminal you will be picking someone up at. Follow those signs to the terminal entrance (or to the entrance to a pedestrian bridge to your terminal) and then find the nearest parking to it.
 Be sure to take your parking ticket with you.
 If their cell phone is off, they are probably still on the plane. It is best to pre-arrange a meeting place, such as the baggage claim, or at the gate.
 Be sure to pay for parking on the way out at the ExitExpress pay stations. It will speed up your departure. Find your car, get in, and follow the signs to the parking garage exit.
 Tell them to be there promptly. When you are at the airport, follow the signs to the arrivals area of their terminal. When you get there, park by the curb and look around for them. Call them if possible and let them know where you are and what car you are in. If they are still getting luggage or are delayed getting outside, wait until your are asked to leave by the police. Then, leave the arrivals area and follow the signs to the main road. When you get back onto the main road, stay on it until the turnoff for the arrivals area again. Then repeat this step if they are still not there. Pay close attention to the signs. Stay on the main road and only turn off where you are supposed to.
 Follow the overhead signs to the highway that you came in on. Beware that you may have to pay a toll on some roads.

