 Because she represents the U.S. Army, the recruiter must meet certain physical qualifications before applying to the position. The recruiter can not have any tattoos associated her with any gangs or gang-related activity. Soldiers can not be pregnant at the time of taking the recruiter examination, though they may have children.


A recruiter must be between the ages of 18 and 35, though exceptions may be requested.
The recruiter must also meet standard U.S. Army physical requirements of body fat ratio or percentage, height, and endurance capabilities.
 As a recruiter, you will be serving as an ambassador to the community. You'll serve a field of 73 square miles, or 300,000 people. You will function as the liaison between the Army and the civilians in this area, reaching out to school administrators, civic functionaries, religious leaders and other community members who serve in leadership capacities.


As part of the Army's public relations team, you'll be writing, preparing and presenting approved marketing materials.
A recruiter is responsible for helping guide young Army recruits through the process of deciding whether a career in the military might be right for them.
The recruiter administers a standardized battery of tests to each new recruit before he is admitted to the Army.
A recruiter must hold a rank of sergeant, staff sergeant or sergeant first class .
 The application for Army recruiter consists of an interview worksheet as well as two interview and assessment forms. These forms are to be completed by your battalion commander and by your company commander.Include a photo ID, a form documenting personal finances, a list of preferred assignment locations, a WLC certificate and proof of a mental health evaluation.
Recruiter applications can take 4-6 months to process.
 Once a potential recruiter has passed the application process and background screening, she is eligible to take the Army Recruiting Course (ARC) at the Recruiting and Retention School in Fort Jackson, SC. This course is 6 weeks long. It trains new recruiters in interviewing, technology systems, interpersonal communication, Army programs, time management and enlistment requirements.After completing recruiter training, you'll wait for your assignment. Be patient, as this can be a lengthy process.
While you await your assignment, you'll need to take the Advanced Training Program (ATP). It's an online program that helps new recruiters retain what they learned in the ARC while they wait for their assignments.

