 Drinking a bit of water after you throw up can ease the discomfort of a sore throat as well as helping you avoid dehydration. The water can help to get rid of excess stomach acid that can coat your throat when you throw up.


If you still have an upset stomach, drink water slowly and don't drink too much of it. In some cases, filling the stomach with too much water or drinking too quickly can cause you to vomit again. Small sips when the throat pain flares up should do the trick.
You can also try drinking a little bit of apple juice or another clear fluid.;
, If plain water doesn't ease your sore throat, try a warm beverage, such as herbal tea. The warmth of a beverage like tea can really ease the pain of a sore throat when sipped slowly. Make sure you ask your doctor before choosing an herbal tea, especially if you are pregnant, breastfeeding, have diabetes, or heart disease.Ginger tea may help ease any lingering nausea and soothe your sore throat, but should not be given to children younger than two.You may also want to try peppermint tea, which can soothe and numb your sore throat. Do not drink peppermint tea if you have GERD or give it to young children.Make sure that the beverage is not too hot. A beverage that is too hot when consumed can make sore throat pain worse, not better.
Try putting honey in your warm beverage. Honey, in addition to the tea, can help to ease a sore throat.Do not give honey to children under 12 months old, however, as this puts them at risk for infant botulism.
 Warm salt water can ease a sore throat that was caused by throwing up. The salt water eases a sore throat by reducing any swelling and reducing symptoms.To make a salt water gargle, mix 1 tsp (5 g) of salt in 8 fl oz (240 mL) of warm water.Be sure not to swallow the salt water mixture. This can upset your stomach further.
 If you have a sore throat from throwing up but you are hungry, smooth foods can both ease your sore throat and fill an empty stomach. A food that does not have scratchy or hard components will be easy on an irritated throat and it can even help to ease a throat irritated by stomach acid.


Small amounts of foods such as Jello, popsicles, and bananas are all good choices for smooth foods that will ease the pain of a sore throat.Be careful when eating after having thrown up, especially if you are still nauseous, as eating too much food could cause you to vomit more. You may be tempted to eat something cool and smooth like yogurt or ice cream, but you should avoid dairy products until you are certain you have finished throwing up.

