 Do you find yourself running a lot of errands for your boss that are not in your job description, constantly babysitting your cousin’s children, bailing your son out of trouble every time you turn around, doing your “study” partner’s work just so you can be done? Do you cancel plans because the other person had a rough day and needs to talk? If you’re doing these types of things for someone on a regular basis – for free – consider yourself being taken advantage of, unfortunately.Unless they are doing as much for you, even if in other ways, pull back on your support. You will likely meet resistance, so kindly explain your reasons. It’s in their hands at that point.
 Rent is due in three days, but your friend still hasn’t returned the $300 you lent her three weeks ago. A colleague “borrows” an idea, then basks in the glory when others rave about his or her brilliance.If someone is constantly borrowing from you but not returning (or crediting) what’s borrowed, that person is, essentially, stealing from you right under your nose. Stealing from you and using you are on the same side of the coin, which is not heads up for you.


In the case of borrowed items, ask the person to return what’s been borrowed before you lend anything else. If nothing’s returned, don’t loan again.
In the case of borrowed ideas, decide if addressing the issue would create a bigger issue. If not, talk about it and in the future be careful about what you share and with whom.
 Pull out your calculators and add up how much the person is costing you. Is your partner living with you for free, or only paying the utility bills, for instance? Do you find yourself always picking up the restaurant bill when you’re out with your family? If your final calculation reveals a high figure, at a minimum your relationship isn’t balanced (maybe right along with your checkbook). At the most, you’re being used, both financially and emotionally.Now decide what you can afford, or if you want to continue assisting the other person at all.


For the big things like living expenses, let the other person know what you’ve decided, why you made the decision and both how and when you will implement the changes.
For smaller things like picking up a bar tab, simply pay only your portion. If your friend conveniently “forgot” her wallet, the next time you meet for drinks slip in a sly, “Hey, don’t forget your wallet if you’re swapping purses again.”

, Now tally the number of dire emergencies, such as needing a truck to move furniture, that only you’re able to help with and the number of last minute but critical needs, such as pet sitting while the other person is on vacation, that only you can handle. Add to that the frequency at which the other is in the midst of some kind of drama and needs you, right now. Subtract how often he or she is there for you when you need someone to talk to or need help (particularly serious help), and the result will strongly correlate with whether or not you’re being used.In fact, think back to the last time that person did you a favor without you asking. Or surprised you with a present, card or dinner.
Now determine if your return on investment, or ROI, is paying off for you.
 Because you feel a need to be in the relationship, you might find yourself working harder to make it work, in spite of being and feeling used. Often you do so much that you fail to take care of your own needs. At times you convince yourself that it doesn’t bother you because you love the person or you feel the person needs you. Yet this feeling is typically fleeting because healthy relationships require a give and take. Other times you feel stuck because it’s a relationship you can’t easily avoid, like those at work or even those with certain family members.When you find yourself wanting to please the other person, write down what you’re feeling, why you’re feeling this way and if doing what you planned to do for the other person will a) take away from what you need, b) go unappreciated and c) fail to solve the problem.
If the answer to all three questions is yes, do something for yourself instead.
 When you recognize the imbalance in the relationship, and are no longer able to brush it off, you often begin feeling resentful. This may lead to feeling irritated with the other person. Depending upon your personality, that irritation can show itself in a variety of ways, some of which could result in consequences you may not want to pay, that could make you feel poorly about yourself or cause you to live with regret.To avoid reaching this point, talk calmly in a neutral environment with the other person about how you’re feeling resentful. And, remember: It may not go the way you want, but it wasn’t going well prior to the discussion, either.

