 The way your loved one is acting, coupled with transactional irregularities on your loved one's accounts, can indicate he or she is being financially abused.Be on the lookout for unusual bank activity, such as large withdrawals or transfers from other accounts, or duplicate debit or credit cards being ordered.
If someone has been designated to pay the person's bills or manage accounts, and you notice past due notices, letters, or phone calls about unpaid bills, it's a sign that, at the very least, your loved one's money is not being managed appropriately.
You also should be wary if your loved one suddenly has a new friend who is offering to run errands or take care of financial matters. Keep in mind that elderly people, particularly those with confusion or memory loss issues, can easily be tricked into going along with something they never would have agreed to otherwise.
You also should note behavioral signs, which may be signs of financial abuse or of emotional abuse or manipulation. If your loved one seems depressed, is secretive, or is not willing to talk freely, there may be a problem.
 Most states require banks to report any signs or evidence they notice that points to elder financial abuse.Tell someone at the bank your suspicions and offer any evidence you have of financial abuse or exploitation. The bank will look into the matter and may lock down your loved one's accounts or call the police.
If you aren't closely related to the person being abused or exploited, you may have difficulty getting information out of bank personnel.
If you're hitting a wall, you may need to work with your loved one to draw up a power of attorney document so you can access his or her accounts.
 If someone is taking your loved one's money, setting yourself up as a financial guardian and requiring your signature on transactions can put a stop to the abusive activity.Generally, you don't have to execute any formal legal documents such as a power of attorney to have your name added to someone's checking or savings account – you just need his or her permission.
If you are added as a signatory on accounts, you will receive statements and have the ability to monitor activity and take action against any suspicious or unauthorized transactions.
 If you have evidence that someone is stealing from your loved one, you should report the activity to the police so they can launch a criminal investigation.Many law enforcement and APS agencies have cross-reporting programs that are designed to protect seniors and ensure that all reports of financial exploitation or abuse are thoroughly investigated.
If your loved one was targeted by a scam artist through the mail or over the phone, you may be better off filing a report with a state or federal government agency, but if the person is local, you should talk to someone in your local police department.
In financial exploitation cases, cover all your bases by filing a report with APS and with local law enforcement.
Law enforcement only investigates fraud or financial exploitation that is criminal in nature, while APS agencies investigate civil matters. However, the distinction between the two can be difficult to understand, and sometimes even professionals get it wrong.
 If your loved one is the victim of a scam, you may be able to file a fraud report with one of several different government agencies, depending on the method of contact used.For example, if your loved one has been duped by a fraudulent telemarketer, you can file a complaint against the company with the FCC. Get your loved one's phone records so you can provide the phone number, or check bank statements for the name of the company that was paid.
If frequent telemarketers are a problem, you also can place your loved one's phone number on the do-not-call list.
Work with your loved one to get his or her free credit report each year and review it for any suspicious or fraudulent activity.
Stopfraud.gov, a website operated by the federal Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force, has a list of agencies to which you can report fraud available at http://www.stopfraud.gov/report.html. If your loved one has been a victim of fraud, go through this list and file a report with the relevant agencies to launch an investigation.
You also can report financial fraud to your local law enforcement agency.

