 The Schrödinger equation is a quantum mechanical differential equation that describes the energetics of atoms and molecules. In addition, its solution of atomic and molecular wave functions gives the shape and energy of the various atomic and molecular orbitals of the molecule under investigation. The Schrödinger equation is a linear differential equation which involves complex numbers.;
, It was formulated by the Austrian physicist, Erwin Schrödinger, in the early years of the 19th century. It was formulated after the discovery by the French physicist de-Broglie that matter can have wave properties. The Schrödinger equation includes wave as well as particle parameters. Its Hamiltonian is a differential form of the classical Hamiltonian, written in quantum mechanical operators form. It involves energy as well as momentum operators.
 Energy in the classical sense has a quantum mechanical form that is represented by a complex operator which includes a derivative with respect to time. Kinetic energy in the classical sense is written as P**2/2m, where P is the particle momentum and m is its mass. Momentum of classical mechanics has a quantum mechanical analogue that has a complex structure, written as an operator.
 Due to the presence of a potential energy term in the quantum mechanical Hamiltonian, it is difficult to solve the Schrödinger equation accurately. The quantum mechanical Hamiltonian which involves the Schrödinger equation satisfies an eigenvalue relation which is written in the following operator form H(psi)= E(psi), where psi is the wave function. The solution of this differential equation for a particular system gives the energy of the system in addition to the wave function that describes its orbitals.


Due to its formidable mathematics, the solution of the Schrödinger equation, for many physical systems, is not possible to perform accurately. This is so due to the existence of potential energy perturbations that do not allow for exact solution of the equation. An example is the spin-orbit coupling in the hydrogen atom which is a relativistic effect that adds an extra potential energy term to the Hamiltonian due to the interaction of the electron spin and angular magnetic moment with a magnetic field that arises due to the relative motion of the nucleus around the electron.
The wave function that describes electrons is usually a complex wave function that involves imaginary numbers. Hamiltonian energies usually have real values that do not involve imaginary numbers. Hamiltonian operators in particular and operators in general that have real energy eigenvalues are called Hermitian operators. This is in contrast to non-Hermitian operators which do not represent physical variables and hence have complex energy values when solving the Schrödinger equation for these systems.
 It does not involve, for example, spin functions which are manifestations of relativistic effects that arise due to the solution of another quantum mechanical equation for particles that are called fermions and which have non-integer spin values. This equation is called the Dirac equation.


As an example, spin-orbit coupling in the hydrogen atom is not accounted for by the solution of the regular Schrödinger equation which does not involve relativistic forms of the Hamiltonian. L-S coupling or spin-orbit coupling arises naturally from the solution of the Dirac equation for the hydrogen atom.
