 The first step is to make an offer to the seller and come to an agreement on price.Also make an agreement for anything to be fixed, or for fixtures to be added to the property. For example, if you agree to purchase a flat provided that the owner replaces tiles in the bathroom, then make sure that you understand these changes are part of the contract.;
, You will need someone to draft the contract and perform relevant searches on the property. Accordingly, you should hire a solicitor or a conveyancer. Both can help with the paperwork, but there are differences between each.


A solicitor is a licensed attorney, whereas a conveyancer is not. Nevertheless, conveyancers specialize in property and must be members of the Council for Licensed Conveyancers.
You should consider a conveyancer if you are trying to save money. Conveyancers are generally less expensive than solicitors.You should use a solicitor if the conveyance is complicated. Many complications can arise during a home transaction. A qualified solicitor will be necessary if any of the following apply:

a boundary dispute
a lease extension as a part of the transaction
the sellers are getting divorced



, There are several ways to find a solicitor or conveyancer. Often, your estate agent will make a recommendation. However, you do not need to hire whoever is recommended. In many situations, the estate agent gets a commission for making the recommendation. Instead, you can search for a solicitor or conveyancer on your own.


If you are getting a mortgage, then you might have to use a solicitor or conveyancer approved by the mortgage lender. You might have to pay the bank’s representation fee if you choose not to.
You can find a solicitor or conveyancer locally. For example, you might have used a solicitor to help you draft a will. If so, you can ask if he or she can help you with the exchange of contracts.
You do not have to work with a local solicitor or conveyancer. Instead, you could use an online conveyancer. These businesses will work with you entirely online. You communicate by email or phone, and you can access your file through their web-based system. Online conveyancers are usually less expensive; however, they are not appropriate for handling complicated legal issues, for which you will need a solicitor.
To find a solicitor, visit the website for the Council for Licensed Conveyancers or the Law Society.
To find a conveyancer, you can compare quotes by visiting the HomeOwners Alliance Conveyancing website., Since you will probably exchange contracts between seven and twenty-eight days before completion, you should not wait until the last minute before hiring a solicitor.Instead, reach out as soon as you make an offer for a piece of property. Contact them ahead of time and ask a few questions:


How much experience do they have exchanging contracts? You will want to hire someone with sufficient experience so that nothing goes wrong.
Do they communicate by email? You will want someone who you can reach easily, especially as you approach the day of completing the sale. Solicitors are sometimes difficult to contact, so if you are looking to hire a solicitor, make sure you understand their policy on client communication.
What do they charge? You can comparison shop by contacting a few solicitors and collect their fee information., You should have your financing lined up before exchanging contracts. When you hire a solicitor or conveyancer, this person can look through the mortgage documents with you to make sure you understand the conditions.Before exchanging contracts, you need to have the following:An offer for a mortgage in writing.
Money set aside for the mortgage deposit.
 Your solicitor or conveyancer will draw up a draft contract and work with the seller’s solicitor to address concerns.Before exchanging the contracts, you should read it thoroughly. If you have any questions about terms that you do not understand, then ask your solicitor.After reading the contract, you should then sign it., Typically, contracts are exchanged by having both solicitors read the contracts out to each other over the telephone. This reading is recorded.


The purpose of reading the contracts to each other is to make sure that they are identical.
After confirming that they are identical, the solicitors then immediately send their copy of the contract to the other solicitor through the post.