 This step isn't exactly "necessary", depending on the look you're going for. If you do want shadow, apply it now before your eyeliner. I find that doing this beforehand is easier, but whatever works for you is fine.;
, For doing a cat-eye look, use a gel or liquid liner. This comes down to personal preference, however, a gel-liner offers more control. There are a huge amount of affordable and awesome liners, both gel and liquid that are $10 and under. If you aren't sure which to use, go to your local drugstore and peruse the makeup section. Or go to Sephora or the makeup section at Macy's. Ask the pros what they would recommend!

, This is not necessary if you are using a liquid liner. Most gel-liners come with a small brush. If it did not include a brush, or if the brush is of low-quality, invest in a good liner brush. Sonia Kashuk created a line of makeup brushes that are sold at Target. They're inexpensive and are of great quality. Remember, if you use low-quality products/tools, your makeup will reflect this fact.


For gel-liner

If you chose to go with the gel-liner, take your eyeliner brush and dip it into your gel-liner.
Evenly coat the tip of the brush. Steady your hand on something. Either sitting down in front of a mirror & resting your elbow on a firm surface, or resting your pinky on your cheek to steady your hand.
Since the goal of this is to not cause your eye to appear more round, begin applying the eyeliner just after the round peak of your eye.
Drag the brush close to your lash line, using small, firm strokes. If necessary, re-apply the liner to your brush.
Create the line to be thicker at the outer corners. Not only is this essential to creating the desired look, it is also vital in reducing the roundness of your eyeball.


For liquid-liner: Liquid liner is, in a way, easier to apply than gel-liner. It is thinner & easier to create a wing spontaneously with just a small flick. Also, it does not require you to purchase an additional brush or wash the said-brush. It's all-inclusive!

Use the same technique as the gel-liner, applying on the outer portion of your eye & using the same wing-technique.
However, be careful not to let the liquid liner get on your upper eyelid. Make sure it's dry!



, After the outer corner has been thickened, you have reached the defining moment of this makeup look: the wing. Take your brush, and make a small flick up toward the end of your eyebrow. Depending on your personal preference, you can make this as short or as long as you like. It's just important to A) make sure it is even on both eyes and B) make sure it is connected properly to the rest of the eyeliner. Make sure it is free of gaps!

, If you have wide-set eyes, I find that this is a good way to reduce that effect. Take your eyeliner (gel, liquid, or pencil-style) and apply it to the upper inside corner of your eye. I wouldn't necessarily apply it to the bottom inside corner, but whatever floats your boat!

, It just brings an extra level of drama. If you do falsies, cut 'em in half evenly & apply to the outer corner with lash-glue. This gives it an even more feline look by accentuating the outer half of your eye. If you don't want falsies, suit yourself. It still looks cool either way.

