 The conclusion of a biography should remind the reader of the subject’s achievements or actions. Briefly describe their greatest achievements so that the reader can remember why it is beneficial to learn about their life.A conclusion in Jane Austen’s biography, for example, should mention that she wrote six novels, some of which are regarded among the memorable and influential works of English literature.;
, It is important to describe the impact the subject had during their lifetime.If their actions caused political reform, describe the laws, changes, or conflicts that that took place because of their actions. If they enacted important societal changes, mention how their actions changed the cultural mindset.


A biography about Martin Luther, the sixteenth-century monk who lead the Protestant Reformation, should mention his impact on the development of religious beliefs throughout Europe. Not only did he challenge the ruling Catholic Church, but he made the Bible more accessible to all individuals, not just the clergy. A conclusion should mention that his actions influenced religious beliefs during the Renaissance., If your subject’s work, actions, or opinions had a wide-reaching influence that impacted future generations, mention that in the conclusion. Perhaps their work lead to the development of laws that are still in use today, or perhaps their opinions helped eradicate unfair societal norms.


A biography of Susan B. Anthony, for example, could mention that her actions and beliefs influenced generations of women and their continued fight for gender equality.
A conclusion of the biography of Albert Einstein could mention that his theories and publications have influenced the development of quantum theory and generations of scientists who work toward unifying his theories of the universe.A biography of author Upton Sinclair could mention that his novel The Jungle influenced the American public health system and helped create laws for regulating the food and drug industries.