 You can be friends with anyone you like, and having a diverse group of friends helps you learn a lot about other people. Do your best to not only be nice and friendly to everyone, but to build relationships with people outside of your comfort zone.Create a diverse circle of friends by reaching out to people regardless of their race, gender, what “clique” they fit into, or any other way that they might be different from you.
 Show kindness to everyone, whether or not you're friends with them. Even if you don't get along with someone or don't feel comfortable hanging out with them, show them respect and politeness. Don't be a bully or make fun of anyone.
 It can be tempting to gossip, especially with close friends or people you trust. It's best to avoid bad-mouthing though. Always assume that if you tell one person something, they’ll tell at least one other person. Before long, everyone will know what you said about so-and-so.


It's always best to be authentic, genuine, and sincere: in other words, don't be two-faced., Becoming a better person at school also involves your relationships with your family. Work on ways to build or improve your relationship with whoever is raising you. Talk to them about issues you face at school or with friends, and ask them for advice.Have clear and open conversations with them about how to be a better person.
Try asking, “What do you think makes a great person?” or “How do you think I can work on being less angry, or stay calmer when something dramatic happens?”

, In addition to your parents, teachers, coaches, and other trusted adults can be positive role models. You can look to them for a good example, and they can offer you advice about how to deal with specific situations. Consider favorite teachers, coaches, or club moderators.Ask them questions about decisions they made when they were your age, and ask them to help you respond to problems with schoolwork or friendships. Ask for advice about particular things and let a mentor relationship develop naturally.
Think about some really good people in your life who you look to as role models. What do you respect about them? What are their best qualities and values?
Don't take on a stranger as a role model or mentor. It should be someone both you and your parents trust.

