 Since Permethrin goes on your clothes and chemically bonds to the fabric, it is really long lasting and will stay active even after you wash the garments. It’s probably the best choice for a lasting, low maintenance repellent.US military studies show that a low concentration of Permethrin on clothing (.5%) gave protection for up to 97.7% of bites. It can also last from 2 weeks to 6 months, or about 5-20 detergent washings.
Look for pre-treated shirts, hats, and pants, if you are interested in using Permethrin. Brands like LL Bean and ExOfficio now offer such garments., DEET is not only powerful stuff, but it can give you excellent coverage if you’re going to be outdoors for a long period of time. In general, keep in mind that coverage will last longer with higher concentrations.DEET with about 50% concentration normally gives about 4 hours of protection, while increasing the level to 100% adds about one more hour. However, some brands with 100% DEET concentration can last up to 10 hours or more.
Make sure to read any labels carefully to see what sort of concentration the product has. Lower levels of DEET (under 10%) will give you at most two hours of protection.
 The dilemma many people have when choosing a mosquito repellent is that they don’t trust chemicals like DEET or Picaridin, fearing that they are toxic and “unnatural.” Unfortunately, the alternatives don’t always work better. Naturally derived mosquito repellents usually aren’t as effective and also don’t last very long.You’ll probably be OK with a natural active ingredient like citronella or peppermint oil if you’re only outdoors for a short time – at most a few hours.
For instance, Burt’s Bees Herbal Insect Repellant uses rosemary oil, lemongrass oil, and citronella and works for up to 6 hours. This is pretty exceptional.
More typical are products like Buzz Away Extreme, Badger Anti-Bug Balm, and All Terrain Herbal Armor, which use active ingredients like citronella and give protection from about 4 hours to as little as 20 minutes.

