 Start by considering how much time you spend on Facebook on a daily basis. Do you change your Facebook status every hour on the hour? Do you end up scrolling through your newsfeed for way too long? Do you tend to check your Facebook a little too often? These may be signs that you are spending too much time on Facebook.You can also think about your Facebook use on a weekly basis. For example, maybe you spend an average of two hours a day on Facebook. That means you end up spending 14 hours a week on Facebook, which may seem like too much, especially if you have a busy, demanding schedule.;
, You should also consider how you communicate with others on Facebook. Do you have long, meaningful chats with friends on your Facebook wall? Or do you give out random “likes” on posts by friends you have not spoken to in years? If you are starting to feel like your connections with others on your Facebook are superficial or unfulfilling, it may be time to consider taking a break.For example, you may track your interactions on Facebook for one week. Notice if you spend your time chatting with friends and having in depth, quality conversations with them. You should also notice if you spend most of your time scrolling through your newsfeed, wasting time reading about people you barely know.
If you start to notice that you use Facebook less to connect with others and more to simply pass the time, you may consider quitting the site. It may not be a useful thing that adds anything to your life.
 Consider if Facebook is taking up time you could be spending on other pursuits, such as your school work, your hobbies, or your career. You may realize that you are spending time on Facebook that could be going to other passions or goals. Cutting out Facebook could free you up to spend more time and energy on projects you want to do or goals you would like to achieve.For example, you may notice that the time you are spending on Facebook is getting in the way of you completing a personal writing project. Or perhaps all the time you are spending on Facebook is causing you to neglect your school work or your homework.

