 Stainless steel or metal with a “porcelain enamel” finish are the very best constructions, giving a combination of toughness, rust-protection and straightforward cleaning. Contemplate the lid – the heavier the greater – as this normally indicates build quality. Also consider your own DIY skills – welded pre built barbecues are likely to be much more sturdy, but it is possible to buy one and assemble your self if you like which may save you cash In terms of dimension, contemplate if you would like different height grills or additional touches like plate warming areas, utensil storage, table places etc. As expected, extra unique touches equals a lot more cash;
, Gas barbecues rely on a process of gas burners that are covered by warmth distributing materials which also act to burn off drippings to smoke the food. Cheaper designs use lava rocks or ceramic coals for this purpose, and do an ok job, although grease can accumulate and cause flash fires which we all know and hate from charcoal. When you really want the most effective look out for long bars or “flavourisers” that are designed to vaporize drippings quite rapidly to keep away from flares and create a smoky flavour (although you still won’t match charcoal in many an opinion)!


As for the number of gas burners, you get what you fork out for. Less costly one burner versions only enable the flame to be controlled over the entire cooking surface, and can have “cold spots” which may perhaps lead to uneven temperatures. Two/three burner types are genuinely worth it, offering you differing regions of temperature to cook different foods. Even so, if you're seriously feeling flush you may go for even much more burners (£££!), infrared heat sources (a bit over the top) and rotisserie back burners for that Michelin-starred experience. Try to keep away from side burners as these are high priced added touches and you’ll most likely find you don’t use them. You have variable warmth control on the primary grill anyway, and the side space is much better off reserved for your raw meat or a huge glass of beer!

, As burner numbers and size increases, you may expect the quantity of gas you need to power the barbecue to increase. That being said, efficiency is also a consideration, so if you are in doubt search for the BTU (British Thermal Unit) score of the barbecue to see how much gas you will will need. Really don't get too worried about it though the only real time to worry is if a big design has a strangely low BTU rating when compared to comparable sized versions. Far from becoming extra efficient, a substantially lower rating can indicate poor energy output and you’ll have a colder barbecue - this is rare though. The gas applied in most designs, called Propane, is really much less costly than charcoal, and a single canister can last for a number of cookouts.
 Costs and features will vary, but search for a medium size with lava rocks or ceramic coals, and try your best to get a model with as even cooking as feasible. Side burners or storage parts will only push up the price so a quality primary burner is much much more crucial in this range. Also, really do not expect swanky looks, concentrate instead on durability.
 You’ll need to look for stainless steel construction and a large grilling area, but still not be tempted by too many additional touches. In addition, at this selling price go for flavouriser bars instead or lava rocks or ceramic coals – you’ll end up with a significantly better flavour.
 Having said that, have a look around at the 4 burner types from Landmann, Electrolux and Beefeater when you really want some impressive kit. At this size anticipate sleek and solid metal with warranty, infrared rotisseries, enough space to cook for a mob and plenty of envy from your friends.

