 Use a data entry form when you have a simple form of text boxes that list the column headings as labels. A data entry form allows you to view and enter data more easily than moving from column to column, especially when you have multiple columns of data that do not fit on your screen horizontally. For example, you may have a customer listing with contact and order information that spans 10 columns. It is much easier to enter name, address, phone number, email, order date, order type, etc. with a data entry form than entering the details directly into each cell in each column.;
, Enter a title at the top of each column you want to use in the data entry form. Excel uses these titles to create fields on the data entry form.


For example, if you have “Name, Address, Phone number, Email, Order Date, and Order Type” as your column titles from left to right in the worksheet, you will see those same titles in the dialog box (data entry form), but listed one under the other.
Before you take the next step in the process, check that you have the Form button available on the Data tab. If you do not, add the Form button to the Quick Access Toolbar. Click Customize Quick Access Toolbar, select the More Commands option, change Popular Commands to All Commands, scroll down the list and click on Form. Then click on the Add button, and click OK.
 Click in any cell below the titles and go to the Data tab. Find the Form button and click on it. Excel displays a dialog box, showing each column title that you entered earlier in the worksheet as a vertical list of fields. The dialog box acts as the data entry form.


The Form button is either on the Data tab or the Quick Access Toolbar.
If you have named the worksheet you are working in, the dialog box (data entry form) will have a title. The title will be the same as the name of the worksheet. If your worksheet does not have a name, the title of the dialog box (data entry form) will be the word ‘Sheet’ followed by the worksheet number.
 Use the TAB key to move to the next field in the data entry form. Press the RETURN key after entering data in each field in the data entry form. The data entered will be added as the next row in the list on the current worksheet.
 Excel then closes the data entry form. You do not need to press the RETURN key for the last row.

