 One of the easiest ways to pay attention is to get rid of as many of the distractions as you can. If you're working a noisy place like a coffee shop and finding yourself people-watching, go somewhere quieter, with fewer people to distract you.


If you're having trouble paying attention at work because you're constantly checking your email, or going on Tumblr, you can download an app to help you monitor and avoid your distracting websites.Distractions can also be in our minds. If you're having a conversation and your thoughts keep intruding on your attention (these can be emotions, or feelings like 'tired,' or 'hungry') acknowledge that you're having the thought and tell yourself you will deal with it later when you're not in the middle of something else.
Even better, if it is something like hunger distracting you, eat something or get up and stretch so that your body isn't uncomfortable.;
, If you're in the middle of a conversation and you realize you haven't been paying attention, ask the other person for clarification on the last point you remember.


You can do this in a way that doesn't offend them. Say something like "I was just thinking about ___(whatever the last thing you remember) and I was wondering if you could repeat what you just said so that I don't miss anything."
You can also summarize what the person has said. What are the key things being said? Even if you don't relay back to the person what you've just heard, get into the habit of doing this mentally. You could even practice on TV characters.
 When you maintain eye contact with someone with whom you're having a conversation, you're more likely to keep your mind focused on what they are saying and they will feel like you are paying attention, as well.


Don't stare, or never blink. You can occasionally look at your hands, or the table, but return your eyes and your attention to your conversation partner.
 Studies have found that fidgeting can actually help you have better attentiveness. So grab something small like a paper clip or a bracelet or a rubber band and fidget with in in your hands.It's best to do this under the table so you don't distract other people with your fidgeting.
If you find your mind wandering you can also wiggle your toes in your shoes to get your mind back on track.
 If you can, impose a time limit on a task on which you're having difficult paying attention. This means if you're writing an essay, or a journalistic piece, set a timer so that you'll get it done.


You can even do this for conversations. If you know you're good for about an hour, after which you'll need a break, make an excuse to go to the bathroom, or go stretch, or convince the person you're talking to to go for a walk.
 Sometimes the best way to get yourself back into attention is to take a break from whatever it is that needs to get done. If you give yourself a little bit of time to space out and refocus, you'll find it easier to concentrate again.If you're at school, ask to go to the bathroom. Go splash water on your face, or do some easy stretches.
Doing some stretches, watching a youtube video, even just shutting your eyes for a few minutes, can all give you the needed break to get back to being attentive.
 Instead of doing things in one big go, it's actually easier to focus on the task if you intersperse it with other things. So don't just sit down to write that essay and do nothing else.


If you're at work, spend a half hour or hour on a task, before moving on to something else. Come back to it after you've done a couple different tasks. Especially try to switch up the types of tasks, so go from reading to writing and so on.
It's good to switch up your mental mode, as well. So go from a quiet, personal type moment, to a moment where you have to interact with different kinds of people.
 Meditation is one of those things that is good for so many different aspects of our lives, but it can also help improve your ability to pay attention in the long-run.Meditation increases your perception and your mindfulness, so you'll be better able to pay attention to your own body and to other people, because your mind will be more in the moment rather than racing ahead into the future, or lagging behind in the past.
You can even do some meditation at your desk at work, if you need a quiet moment. Close your eyes, draw in some long, deep breaths, and pay attention to your breathing. Even five minutes can give you a break and help refocus you.
 Pay attention to how you think about things and how often you get distracted. Note down where you're spending your attention. Are you thinking about what you want to eat for dinner? Or are you thinking about the work you're trying to accomplish or the conversation you're having?Writing down the thoughts can be helpful in noticing when you're not paying attention. Keep a journal with you and note down the errant thoughts when you notice them.
 When you've noted down how you're thinking about things and what you're focusing your mental energies on, make a conscious effort to change what you focus on. Instead of focusing on your dinner plan, when you find yourself falling into that thought pattern substitute it with what you're trying to pay attention to.


The more you do this, the easier it will become. Soon, you'll automatically divert from the less useful thoughts to the things you're trying to focus on.
 Getting enough sleep means that you will be more alert and your mind will have an easier time paying attention and working properly. Most adults nowadays have a sleep deficit, so it might take awhile to get yourself into a new sleep rhythm.


For two weeks, change your sleep schedule so you're getting more sleep. Go to bed earlier, shut off electronics like your computer and your phone at least 30 minutes before you go to sleep. You should try for 8 hours of sleep, at the least. At the end of those two weeks you should find that you don't need an alarm clock in the morning, you have more focus, and you feel better physically.
 Exercise is amazing, because it helps to improve mood and attention, reduces anxiety and worry. You should aim for at least 30 minutes of exercise each day. This can be anything from yoga in the morning, or walking to work.


If you find during the day that you're having trouble paying attention, step out for a brief walk or do some jumping jacks. Doing some exercise will help you refocus.
 It is incredibly important to let yourself rest from all that paying attention you've been doing. Make sure you schedule time-outs to do something that doesn't require much attention.


Take a nap, watch an episode of your favorite t.v. show, listen to a fun podcast while you knit a sock. Do something that you find enjoyable and relaxing!

