 Specific, measurable, attainable, realistic, time-bound (SMART) goals are the best way to success. This method of setting goals allows you to define a goal that can be reached in a way that you can measure your progress and success over a period of time. Once you have set your goal, go through each letter of the SMART acronym:Is this goal specific? Can it be more specific? Instead of saying “I will do well in school,” you should say “I will achieve a 3.0 this semester.”
How will I measure success? In the example above, success will be measured by your GPA.
Is my goal attainable? Are the resources needed available? - Do you have the books and other resources you need?
Is my goal realistic? Can it be achieved in the way that I propose? Are your grades currently at a place where a 3.0 is possible to attain?
Have I given myself an appropriate amount of time for this goal? If you set this goal in the last week of the semester, it might not be a reasonable amount of time. You should set such a goal in the beginning of the semester, giving you the entire semester to work on the goal.;
, To develop a motto or mantra to drive you toward success, you should consider your core values. What are the most important qualities and concepts in your life? Which ones will help you attain your current goals?Once you have your SMART goal set, you can use it to develop your motto. To use your motto or mantra, repeat it to yourself often (especially when your motivation needs a boost).Using the 3.0 goal above and noting that academic support is an important concept in your life, you might develop a motto such as “Go to class, don’t slack.”

, It is important to listen to music that you can identify with. Make sure that you identify with a positive, motivating message in your music. Music has the power to alter your mood and attitude in a way that few things do. If you do not identify with the music you listen to, try browsing the internet and trying different genres and playlists developed by others. These can easily be found places like Pandora and YouTube., It is often very helpful to have someone to emulate. It does not matter if your role model is your father, or your favorite superhero. Identify the things about that person that you admire and try to emulate them. Use these positive traits to propel yourself toward overcoming your problems on your own., One common mistake that people make is expecting to overcome their problems with no problems. This is not usually the case, especially with the added obstacle of having little or no support. Learn from your setbacks and keep pushing forward.