 If necessary, take some deep breaths or count slowly to ten to distract yourself from your anger or frustration.


If you don’t react poorly, they may be more willing to work with you on this.
Actively listen to them. Repeat their concerns in your own words so that you are clear about their objections.
 If you can put yourself in their shoes, you may figure out a way to calm them and make them feel better about your decision.


Maybe they’re concerned people will judge them because of your dreads. If that’s the case, say something like, “Mom, everyone knows how great you are. I don’t think that will change based on a particular hairstyle I choose.”
If they’re concerned about notions that dreads go hand-in-hand with a drug-fueled lifestyle, tell them, “I am the same kid I was yesterday. I just want to choose a new hairstyle, not a new lifestyle.”

, Unlike tattoos or piercings, other current ways to express individuality, dreadlocks can easily be removed if you change your mind about them in the future.
 Many people, including parents, mistakenly think that dreadlocks are dirty or smell. By gently informing them this is incorrect, you could help persuade them.


Educate them that dreadlocks are not a magnet for bugs, as some say.
Tell them that those with dreadlocks should actually wash their hair twice a week, because clean hair is more easily styled into dreads than dirty hair.Show them the research you have done on maintaining dreadlocks in a clean, hygienic way and promise them you will keep your hair neat and clean once you have your dreads.
 During the negotiation process, be open to their suggestions. They may be willing to strike a bargain with you so that everyone is happy with the result.


If necessary, tell them you are willing to wait a month or two before styling your dreadlocks to show them that this is not a passing whim on your part.
Ask them if there is anything else you can do to convince them of your decision. They may suggest additional research or more chores around the house.
Be open to compromising on the length of your dreads. Your parents may be more open to a shorter style.
Suggest that you get temporary dreadlocks so that they can see how they look on you. , By being respectful throughout the process and ending with a real expression of gratitude, you set yourself up for good discussions with your parents in the future.

