 To being the cleaning process, add enough water to your scorched pan to cover the bottom. The amount of water necessary depends on the size of your pan, but 1 cup is a good starting point. If all of the scorched marks aren’t covered, add water until they are., Once you have enough water in the pan, it’s time to mix in some vinegar. Pour 1 cup into the water, and gently swirl the pan’s contents to combine the water and vinegar. Place the pan on the stove, and turn the heat up to high to bring the mixture to a boil. Allow it to boil for approximately 10 minutes.The amount of vinegar that you add to the pan will depend on the amount of water that you used. Keep the ratio 1 part water to 1 part vinegar.
 When the vinegar and water mixture is finished boiling, remove it from the stove. Sprinkle 2 tablespoons of baking soda into the pan. The baking soda will react with the vinegar, causing fizzing and bubbling that will help loosen the scorched film and debris.The pan will be hot when you add the baking soda, so be careful not to touch it and burn yourself.
Allow the baking soda and vinegar to fizz for as long as it takes for the pan to cool.
You can also use cream of tartar in place of baking soda to clean a scorched pan. However, you should mix 1 tablespoon of the cream of tartar with 1 cup of water and omit the vinegar before adding it in the pan.
While baking soda can work well on a stainless steel pan, you shouldn’t use it or any other alkaline-based cleaning product on anodized aluminum cookware.
 Once you’re sure that the pan is cool, discard the water, vinegar, and baking soda mixture, and clean the pan with hot, soapy water. Use a sponge with plastic netting or brush to scrub at the bottom of pan, and remove the scorched debris.While it may help to use a sponge with netting or a scrub brush while you’re washing the pan, the baking soda and boiling water should have sufficiently loosened the film and debris so it’s easy to remove.
If there are any stubborn scorch marks that won’t scrub free, mix some baking soda with a few drops of water to form a paste. Apply it to the problem spots and allow it to sit for approximately 10 to 15 minutes before cleaning the pan as usual.
For extremely stubborn cases, you may need to repeat the entire process one or more times.

