 You'll naturally have memories to share and a bit more to say if you knew the person who passed away. Consider writing a draft on a separate piece of paper so you can get your thoughts down before you compose the note on your sympathy card. Think about what you knew about the deceased, and try to come up with a natural-sounding, heartfelt note. Here are a few examples:


Dear Steve, We were incredibly sorry to hear that Joan passed away. She was a kind, caring friend who always made time for other people, and we loved her. Her students will remember her as a devoted teacher and wonderful role model. If you need help running errands, keeping the house in order, or anything at all, please don't hesitate to call us. We love you and are thinking of you. With deepest sympathy, Marcia and Luke
Dear Mary Ann and Juan, it's impossible to express how sorry we are that your beautiful daughter has passed away after her struggle. What a brave, joyful child she was. We will miss her every day. Our thoughts and prayers are with you and your two sons. If there is anything we can do, please call us. With love, Hayden and Dwayne

, While you won't be able to share memories of the person, you can speak to the person's reputation or simply express how sorry you are for your friend or family member's loss. Here are a few examples:


Dear Molly, I am so sorry to hear that your father passed away. Though I never got the chance to meet him, I know how much everyone at St. Paul's admired his volunteer work. How wonderful that you were able to spend so much time with him in his final days. Please call me if you need anything or just want to talk. I'm thinking of you. With sympathy, Jim
Dear Victor, I was very sad to hear the news about your brother Hector. I know how close the two of you were. If there's anything I can do to help, please don't hesitate to call. Warmest condolences, Alicia

, The same sincere sentiments should be expressed when you're writing a sympathy card to someone whose pet has died. Try to remember a few details about the pet to include. Here are a few examples:


Dear Lucia, I'm very sorry that Shadow has passed away. I remember when you first adopted him 13 years ago. What a wonderful companion he was. Our walks won't be the same without him trotting by your side. With love and hugs, Jules
Bobby, I heard the news about your sweet Birdie. She was such a special cat. It's hard to believe she won't be romping around the garden next spring like she always loved to do when the weather started warming up. Thinking of you, Jordan

