 The right changes in the things you eat can lead to more, as well as healthier, sperm. Don't underestimate this step.


Reduce or eliminate processed foods and switch to a diet low in fats, and high in protein. Eat many vegetables and whole grains, and buy organic foods when possible. Drink plenty of water. Anything that is beneficial to your overall health is also beneficial to your little mini-me's.;
, These nutrients can lower sperm defects and increase sperm motility. It is as easy as including an orange for dessert! A single 8-ounce (230 ml) glass of fresh orange juice contains about 124 milligrams of vitamin C — a full day's supply.
 It's associated with increased semen volume, sperm count, and testosterone levels. Take in about 11mg daily, which you can get by eating walnuts, beans, oysters, beef, and chicken.
 Amino acids, traces of which can be found in meats, fruits, and vegetables, are believed to increase sperm count and keep the sperm from clumping. Amino acids that you can incorporate into your diet include:


L-Carnitine, which can be found in red meat and milk
L-Arginine, which can be found in nuts, sesame seeds, and eggs
L-Lysine, which can be found in dairy and cheeses

, Folic acid (Vitamin B9) may contribute to an increase for semen. The 400 micrograms daily are found in cereals, green leafy vegetables, legumes, and orange juice.
 If you do spend more time in the sun, be sure to lather up with some sunscreen to prevent damage from harmful rays and possible melanoma.
 Allicin, an organosulfur compound, increases sperm volume by optimizing blood flow to your sexual organs, creating millions of happier sperm. Find new and interesting dishes to add to your garlic repertoire, or beast it and act like a real man by adding a clove or two of raw garlic to your vegetable smoothie in the morning.
 If you want your sperm to be brimming with healthy little apples of your eye, consider incorporating more of the following foodsinto your diet:


Goji berries (antioxidants)
Ginseng
Pumpkin seeds (omega-3 fatty acids)
Walnuts (omega-3 fatty acids)
Asparagus (vitamin C)
Bananas (vitamin B)

