 When you adopt the dog, you should ask the shelter or rescue what type of food that the dogs eats. Make sure they tell you what brand and type of food (puppy, large breed, mature, etc.) that they gave the dog. Some shelters may even be able to provide you with a few days’ worth of the food. You will need at least a two week supply of it. You can ask the shelter:


"What type of food did you feed the dog? Is there a particular brand or formulation that you used?"
"How much did you feed them a day?"
"What times of day did you feed the dog?"
"Do you know where I can find the same brand of food? Is there a local store that sells it or can I buy it from you?";
, Start researching what type of food you want to feed your new dog. Decide whether you will be feeding them wet canned food, dry kibble, or a raw diet. Different sizes and ages of dogs require different types of foods. You should look for a food that is formulated for your dog’s specific needs.



Puppies, pregnant dogs, and nursing dogs should eat specially formulated puppy food.
Dogs over the age of seven years should be eating a formula designed for older or mature dogs.Dogs over twelve months of age should be eating an adult dog food that is appropriate for their size. Dog foods are often labeled for “small,” “medium,” or “large” breeds. A good adult dog food will contain at least 18% protein and less than 350 calories per cup of food., The amount of food you need to feed your dog will vary based on the dog’s size, activity level, and health. The instructions on the side of the food bag or can should tell you how much is appropriate to feed your dog. You can also consult your vet.


You can calculate an estimate of your dog’s caloric needs. Weigh the dog in kilograms, and multiply that number by thirty. Add 70 to this number to get a rough idea of how many calories they need a day.For example, if your dog weighs nine kg (or twenty pounds), they should be eating 340 calories a day. Measure out the right amount of calories by consulting nutritional information located on the food's packaging.
If your dog is very active, you may need to feed them more. Older and less active dogs may need to be fed less.
It is generally advised to feed the dog twice a day., When your dog comes home from the shelter, they may be stressed, anxious, or uncertain about their surroundings. Make sure that the dog is comfortable in their new home. Place the dog’s food bowl in a quiet area out of the way of children and other pets. Do not make loud noises while the dog is eating.