 If you want a girlfriend, you’re going to have to know some girls first. And unless you are a master of asking girls out, you’re probably going to need to befriend them before asking them out. There aren’t very many people, never mind girls who’ve dealt with a lifetime of harassment, that want to date someone they don’t know at least a little. Meet girls at school, while out doing activities (like going to the gym) or even at social events.
 More than anything you’re going to want to try to find nerdy girls. This isn’t nearly so hard as it sounds. They do, in fact, exist! You can meet nerdy girls in many of the places you usually go: the comics shop, local conventions, video game tournaments, etc. Impress her with your Sonic Screwdriver collection and let her impress you with her serious pwnage in League of Legends.


Go online to have an even easier time meeting nerdy girls. We suggest Tumblr. That’s a safe bet.
 Once you’ve met some girls that you think might be nice, find reasons to hang out with them so you can get to know them better and so that they can get to know you. The more you hang out, the more comfortable you will be hanging out around this girl.


This is easy to do if they’re nerdy: start a DnD group, arrange a group to go to the arcade, or get a bunch of friends together to go to a midnight release.
If they’re not nerdy, you can still easily throw a party, go see movies, or do something accessible like playing board or card games (who doesn’t like Apples to Apples?).
Hang out in groups first. This will make both of you more comfortable, since you’ll be able to get to know each other and interact without feeling like you’re on a date.
 Getting to know her will be very important. This shows her that you care about her and her feelings. It will give you things to talk about and ways for you to connect. Of course, getting to know her is going to mean talking and a lot of listening. Ask her about religion, politics, what she likes to do for fun, her family, where she grew up....and don’t be critical or demeaning about her answers! Respect her opinion and ideas. She’ll like that.
 If she’s nerdy, explore your nerdery together to find fandoms and activities you have in common. If she’s not nerdy, find ways that you can introduce her to nerdy things she might enjoy. Don’t forget to also find enjoyment in the things that she likes, not just show her all the things that you enjoy. If she’s a girl worth dating, she’ll have good taste. Just trust her and let her be your guide on the road to new awesome things.


Minecraft or the Sims are easy ways to introduce girls to video games. She probably already likes Harry Potter, Lord of the Rings, or Twilight (so introduce her to other good fantasy books or movies). Webcomics might be a good way to ease her into comic reading (try Questionable Content, Anders Loves Maria, or Dumbing of Age). And as far as getting her into sci fi or nerdy shows, start with Firefly. If that doesn’t work, Doctor Who.
Don't feel like you have to convert her to full nerd. If she can be converted to full nerd, she'll do that on her own. Introducing her to nerdy things is more about giving you some basic ground to meet on. But you really do need to meet her halfway and find enjoyment in the things that she likes too.
 You worry about friend-zoning. We know. And that might happen. But becoming friends with a girl, showing her what a wonderful person you are and how much happier she’d be if she was with a guy like you, is the best way to find a girlfriend that you can be happy with for a long time.


Be a good friend by being supportive when she's having a hard day, helping her take her mind off of her problems, being available to her if she needs help, and listening when she needs to talk. Care about her feelings as much as you care about your own.
 It’s cute when all Link can say in a conversation is “Hup Heh Yaahhh!” but it’s way less cute when you can’t get actual words out of your mouth. Speak! Talk to the girl. Don’t lurk in the corner, like some BBS newb. And definitely don’t spend all your time staring at her boobs. -100 XP, dude.


Also DON’T pull a Romeo and stalk her house, her Facebook, or any other “personal” space. That is not cool, will totally freak her out, and kill your chances with her.

