 Measure your dog’s neck, and find an old shirt with a collar that’s about the same size or a bit bigger. Use a seam ripper to pick apart the stitches holding the collar to the body of the shirt. Button the collar over your dog’s existing collar.You can also use a scissors to cut the collar away, but this method is not preferable since you’ll have to seam the cut edge to keep it from fraying.
If you don’t have a collared shirt from your own wardrobe that’ll work, it’s easy to track a cheap one down at a thrift store where they’ll have multiple styles and sizes available.
 Attach a fabric flower to your dog’s collar with a button snap closure. Sew one side of the closure to the base of the flower, and one side to your dog’s collar wherever you would like it to go. Then, simply snap the two together!It’s best to use a flower made from a fairly durable fabric. However, the nice part about this decoration method is that you can always change up the flower according to the occasion or as the old one wears out.
 Add a splash of color and/or pattern to your dog’s collar by giving it a cloth makeover.Cut a rectangular piece of fabric that is the length of your dog’s collar, and a centimeter more than twice its width. Fold and hem the short outside edges of your fabric so that it is the length of your dog’s collar minus the buckle and holes.
With the back-side of the fabric facing out, fold your fabric in half along the long edge, and sew the two edges together to create a loop. Trim your thread, and flip the loop right-side out so that the seam is on the inside of the loop.
Slip your dog’s collar through the tube of fabric with the seam at the back, and you’re done! If the shape isn't looking right, try pressing it with an iron to flatten the fabric and hold the folds.
 Give your dog a bit of hip or fancy flare by sewing them a bow tie. Use colorful, patterned fabrics to make their tie pop.Cut two rectangular pieces of fabric, one for your bow that’s twice as long as it is wide (for instance, 9” x 4.5”) and one for the tie with a proportion of about 4x5 (for instance, 2” x 2.5”).
Fold over the long edges of both rectangles so that the patterned front-side of the fabric overlaps in the back. Press the folds into place using an iron on a setting appropriate to your fabric.
Next, fold each piece in half with the overlapping back-side out and sew together along the short edges of the fabric to create two loops. Flip the fabric the right-side out to hide the seams inside the loops.
Press your longer rectangular loop into a bow with the seam at the center. Slip your bow through the smaller "tie" loop to hold it in place in the center. Press your tie with an iron to encourage it to hold its shape.
To attach your bow tie to your dog’s collar, simply slide the collar through the back of the tie loop, between it and the bow, and adjust it to the position you’d like on your dog’s neck.

