 Just start with an oval\circle or a rectangle, whatever the shape is.;
, Such as the basic shapes of eyes, which would be circles, almonds or ovals. The nose is just a line or teardrop to build from. The mouth would be an oval, crescent or rectangle.
 The chin would possibly be "V" with a square bottom. It could be modified for a full-figured girl.
,, The top lip should be consistently a little fuller, and the lower lip should be fuller in the center, tapering to the corners. Make a small hole in between her lips as if she was opening her mouth a little bit.
 Try to be as accurate as possible for this as it could define one girl from another.
 Do not make her ears "stick out". They should lay alongside her head. Do not make them too small or too big as this may offend her. The hole in her ear should be about the size of half a pea, don't make it too big either.
, Never put the piercings in first. If she does have any tattoos, make them as best as you can, don't try too hard as she wouldn't be focused on these anyway, you could even leave them out. If she only has studs do small circles, hoops and rings do a kind of "C" shape - stretchers just draw a line, thickness depending on how big it is, tunnels just do a kind of "hole in her ear with a layer outside it.
 You know what women wear for hair styles. Take ideas from real life to fit your model. Don't make it too short or in long heaps. Do a curve at the bottom of her hair and make some feathering. Be careful not to overdraw this. For the strands, if she has multiple hair colours, shade them in, corresponding darkest to lightest. If she has darker hair, like brown or black, and has a blonde highlight in it, shade the darker hair and leave the rest plain, with maybe a bit of shading. Draw faint lines to represent the multiple strands on her head, going down her hair.
 Thick near her nose, thinning outward. Make them smaller than her eyes but not by much, make it nice and neat and not scruffy. The ideal brows start just above the inside of the tear duct, and extend to the outer limit of her eye.
 A freckle or a mole is okay, but they are usually covered by make-up. If you add one, make it very slight.
, Unless you do this well, you might just be happy with the bust. Don't get into drawing the body unless you have a good eye for this type of drawing. If you do, make the body, go down to about even with her second or third shirt button. The shoulders should be curved, not triangle or square. Make her neck curve down into her body.
 The upper and lower lip, nose, eyes and forehead and opposite side of head and neck are all affected by the light.
 They just take away from the sketch.

