 Most dishwashers have an access panel or kickplate on the bottom that covers the water inlet, pump, motor, and hoses. To remove the panel, use a screwdriver and loosen the screws attaching the panel to the unit. Turn the screws to the left (counter-clockwise) to loosen them.


Removing the panel will help you find the source of the leak, which may be coming from underneath the dishwasher.;
, The pump and all its components are located under the dishwasher. Use a flashlight to inspect the pump, housing, motor, and the seal or gasket. Check for cracks in the pump or housing, and inspect the seal or gasket for damage.When there's a problem with the pump or pump components, water will leak from below the dishwasher.
 Most dishwasher leaks come from around or under the door, but water may also be leaking from below the unit. Determining the source of the water can help you narrow down the possible causes. Run the dishwasher through a normal cycle and watch closely to see where the water is coming from.

Water leaking around or under the door could indicate a problem with the gasket, spray arm, or float.
Water leaking from under the unit could indicate a problem with the pump, hoses, or water inlet.
 The gasket is a soft vinyl or rubber seal that makes the unit watertight when the door is closed. The gasket will either be on the door itself (around the sides and top), or on the tub opening. Check this for breaks, cracks, brittleness, or other signs of damage.Water leaking from the sides of the dishwasher doors usually means there's a problem with the gasket.
The tub is the interior basin of the dishwasher unit.
 The spray arm is inside the dishwasher, at the bottom center of the unit. This is what sprays the dishes with water during the wash and rinse cycles. Inspect the spray arm for cracks, warping, blockages, or other damage.

A problem with the spray arm usually causes water to leak from the bottom of the dishwasher door, where there's no gasket., The float is a safety device inside the tub that determines the water level and prevents the dishwasher from overfilling. When the dishwasher is in mid-cycle and full, turn it off, open the door, and check the water level. The water shouldn’t be any higher than the heating element in the bottom of the tub.If the water is higher than the heating element, there may be a problem with the float or float switch.
When the float is the problem, water will often leak from the bottom front of the dishwasher.
 The inlet valve is also below the dishwasher, and this is what connects the dishwasher to your home’s water supply. It may be a rubber hose, a braided hose, or a copper pipe. When the dishwasher is filling up, check the valve and the connections for leaks, which could indicate a crack or tear.Leaks or tears in the water inlet valve will come from below the dishwasher.
 The hoses connected to the pump under the dishwasher allow water to flow from one area of the dishwasher to another, and drain water from the tub. When the dishwasher is running, check the hoses for leaks or drips.When the hoses crack or tear, or when the clamps come loose, water may leak from the bottom of the unit.

