 Also known as isopropyl alcohol, this common household cleaner is inexpensive and can usually be found at grocery and discount stores. Rubbing alcohol is very effective at dissolving some types of adhesive. Apply a small amount with a Q-tip or cotton ball, let it sit briefly, and rub gently to remove.


Rubbing alcohol can dry out and irritate skin, especially in delicate areas like the face. Use only a few drops at a time and allow your skin to rest between uses.
 The active ingredient in most nail polish removers is acetone, a chemical solvent. Acetone also works as a solvent for many common glues and adhesives, dissolving them on contact.Rub a small amount into the affected area and let it sit for a few moments, then continue rubbing gently to remove.


Acetone can have a similar drying or irritating effect on the skin as rubbing alcohol, so take similar precautions.
If you can find it, pure acetone works just as well as nail polish remover.
Exercise care in using acetone; it is a highly flammable substance and thus should not be used in combination with heat.Avoid using non-acetone nail polish removers as they will not contain the solvent required to dissolve the bandage residue.
 Products like Vaseline made out of petroleum jelly work like oils and lotions to remove adhesive from the skin. A unique benefit is that petroleum jelly is extra-thick, so it's easy to let it sit for a long time (though its greasiness makes this unpleasant for some). Simply work a thin layer into the affected skin and let it sit undisturbed for five to ten minutes, then wipe off with a gentle rag or paper towels.
 Adhesive removers are generally manufactured either as sprays or disposable wipes. They are a little more expensive and harder to find than the methods above, but they work especially well.


You may be able to find these products at your local pharmacy. If not, a wide variety are available for order online. Prices vary from product to product but typically range between $10–$25 per bottle or package., Many chemical products (especially rubbing alcohol, acetone, and some adhesive removers) can irritate the skin if they are in contact with it for too long. To avoid this, make sure to wash the area with soap and water after each use of these chemicals. This will help remove them from the skin and reduce irritation.


If you aren't able to get all of the adhesive off your skin at once, consider waiting a day before you repeat use of a harsh chemical again. The break will give your skin a chance to rest and recover. Alternatively, combine a chemical treatment with one of the gentler solutions.

