 A cast iron skillet works best for this process because it is essentially nonstick. However, you can use any oven-safe skillet, such as a stainless steel skillet. Let the skillet heat under the broiler for about 20 minutes while you finish prepping the steaks.Make sure you don't use a nonstick skillet with a coating, as those are not usually oven safe.
 Coat the steaks in oil. Olive oil is a good choice (as long as it's not extra virgin),but vegetable or canola oil is also fine. Make sure to get the whole steak coated well. Season the steaks liberally with salt and pepper, preferably coarse ground. Make sure to coat both sides.You can also add a bit of garlic powder if you would like.
 After 20 minutes, place a burner on high heat. Using an oven mitt, take the skillet out of the oven, and put it on the burner. Sear the steaks on one side for half a minute, then flip them over. The pan should create a nice, brown sear on both sides.You can also sear them in the oven. Place the steaks in the pan, and stick them back in the oven. In that case, sear each side for 3 minutes, flipping in between.
Be careful of the grease splatter because the pan will be very hot. Also, use tongs to flip the steak, as they won't puncture the steak.
 Place the steaks back in the oven to finish cooking internally. Cook for 2 minutes on each side under the broiler, flipping in between. Check the temperature of your steak. It should be at about medium rare (130-135 degrees Fahrenheit). If you want it more done, put it back in the oven.If you seared your steaks in the oven, turn the heat to 500 degrees Fahrenheit, and continue cooking the steaks. For a 1-inch steak, you'll need to cook it another 1 minute or so for rare, 2-3 minutes for medium, and 4-5 minutes for medium well. Be sure to check the steak with your thermometer to get it at the right doneness.
Remember, the temperatures are rare (120-130), medium rare (130-135), medium (140-145), medium well (150-155), and well (160+).
Your steak will increase by about 5 to 10 degrees after leaving the oven., The steak needs to sit outside the oven for about 5 minutes with aluminum foil loosely over it. This resting period helps the steak finish cooking. It also maintains its juiciness, as cutting into it will let the juices seep out onto the plate. Once the 5 minutes are up, serve up the steak.,