 E6000 glues are serious adhesives. The chemicals and solvents that best dissolve them are quite harsh and need care, as well. Make sure that you set up and take all the proper precautions.


Find a well-ventilated area outdoors to work, like an open garage. A concrete floor is ideal but you can also place your bonded item on top of old newspapers.
Wear rubber gloves and a mask and protect other areas of your body by wearing goggles and a thick layer of clothes.
Acetone, naphtha spirits, and petroleum based solvents are highly flammable. Make sure that you do not use them near sparks or open flames.
Always read the manufacturer’s instructions and warning label before using a toxic product.
 Acetone and naphtha spirits are both solvents that will soften and start to dissolve E6000 bonds. Wet a rag with either of these liquids and apply it liberally to the glue.These solvents are strong enough to damage some substances. Do a small trial run before removing the glue if you are worried about the object.
Let the solvent set for 10 to 30 minutes. Since these chemicals can give off fumes, leave and return to see if the glue is removed.
Repeat the treatment if need be. Then, wash the item with dishwashing detergent and water to remove the glue and the solvent chemicals.
 For very heavy duty items, like metal car parts, you may be able to completely submerge the glue in gasoline or a similar petro-based substance. These chemicals are effective solvents but, obviously, should be used with extreme caution.Fill an appropriately sized bucket with gas. Be careful to avoid spillage when filling the bucket, as pools of fuel can pose a fire hazard.
Submerge the item in the bucket for 10 to 30 minutes while the glue loosens and dissolves.
Keep flames and fire well away from the area.
 Carefully remove the item from the bucket of gasoline. Soak the item for another 30 minutes or more if the glue is still intact.


Rinse the item using mineral spirits or other cleaning products. Then safely dispose of all water, oil and spirits, and solvents. NEVER pour these down sewers or drains and NEVER throw them in the garbage.Instead, contact your local environmental protection agency or municipal government to find out the best way to dispose of hazardous wastes.

