 It all depends on what you have, how much space you have, and what you personally find to be the most visually pleasing. This section will give you a few ideas on how to organize the top of your dresser. You don't have to use all of them. Instead, choose a few that appeal the most to you.
 This will give the surface of your dresser some color. You can even change the shawl out to match the season or holiday. Just make sure that the edge of the cloth does not cover the drawers.
 Keep the larger, bulkier items in the back, and smaller items in the front. This will not only look more visually pleasing, but it will allow you to see everything all at once. It will also make the items easier to reach.
 If you think your dresser top looks bare, try adding accessories. Do not add too many, however, or your dresser will look cluttered. It will also become more difficult to clean. Here are some ideas as to what you can put on top of your dresser to make it look less bare:


If you like plants, aloe plants, English ivy, peace lilies, philodendrons, and spider plants do great indoors.If you like plants but tend to forget about watering them, consider getting a pretty vase and adding some fresh, seasonal flowers into them. You can also consider using fake flowers instead; you can get some that look and feel very realistic.
If you like to take care of things, consider adding a betta fish bowl. Betta fish are very easy to care for and they come in many bright colors. They are great for adding a splash of color.
Add a lamp. This will not only add some brightness to your room when its dark, but it will also add a flash of color to your dresser top. Consider getting an ornamental lamp with an interesting shape.
 You can do this by hanging a mirror, picture, string lights, or a garland above your dresser. This will add color to the space around your dresser, and make it look fancier than it actually is.
 If you like to store your makeup on top of your dresser, it is important to keep it organized, or your dresser will look cluttered. Makeup that is tidy and well-contained can make the top of your dresser look very pretty. Here are some tips on how to better organize your makeup, perfumes, and makeup brushes more organized:


Get a makeup organizer. If you get one made out of clear, acrylic plastic, it will be less visible against the wall. It also won't clash against your makeup and decor.Get a small, decorative tray to keep your perfumes together.Consider storing your brushes in mason jars or short, cylindrical vases. Fill the bottom half of each jar or vase with marbles or glass vase filler, then stick the brushes, handle-side-down into the jars. The marbles will keep the brushes steady and prevent them from flopping about.
 Dresser tops are a great place to display your favorite jewelry pieces. The bright metals and gems will also catch and reflect the light, making your dresser look even prettier. You must keep your jewelry tidy, however, or your dresser top will look cluttered. Here are some tips on how to keep your jewelry organized:


Hang long necklaces from a necklace stand or necklace tree. Try to get a color that matches your dresser or room decor.
Keep random bits of jewelry in a little dish or vintage tea cup.Watercolor paint palettes are great for organizing small earrings and pins.Ice cube tray are perfect for storing rings and earrings., This includes items such as cell phones, keys, wallets, and other items you carry with you on a daily basis. Having something such as a tray or basket will keep all of these small items together and prevent them from wandering all over your dresser top. Here are some ideas for what you can use to keep your small clutter together:A wood tray with or without compartments
A small woven basket
A small plastic bin
A decorative bowl

, Even if you don't have any at the moment, it might be a good idea to have such a container there. This way, if you do come across spare change, you will have a place to keep it. Here are some ideas on what you can use:A piggy bank or a coin bank
A mason jar
A pretty bowl
A small, decorative vase

