 It is completely normal to have some discharge. Your discharge should be clear, a little cloudy, or sometimes white. Your vagina is self-cleaning, and discharge is part of the cleaning process. Your discharge should not have a strong smell or be itchy, although some smell is common, especially during your period.The amount and consistency of discharge changes throughout your menstrual cycle. It can go from thin and watery to thick. Sometimes you may have a little and other times a lot.
Every woman's body is different. A normal amount of discharge for you may not be normal for someone else. You should pay attention to your discharge so that you can gauge what is normal for you.;
, The two most common vaginal infections are bacterial vaginosis and yeast infections.Both of these infections are caused by organisms that naturally occur in your vagina. Yeast infections are caused by having too much yeast in your vagina, and bacterial vaginosis happens when the proper balance of bacteria in your vagina is thrown off.


Other common vaginal infections are non-infectious vaginitis (caused by an allergic reaction or irritation from certain products) and sexually transmitted infections such as chlamydia, gonorrhea, herpes simplex virus, or trichomoniasis., Abnormal vaginal discharge is one of the most common signs of a vaginal infection. If the color, consistency, or amount of discharge changes, you may have an infection.If you notice a fishy smell in your vagina, it is probably bacterial vaginosis. If you have discharge that looks like cottage cheese, you may have a yeast infection.
Abnormal discharge is also may be a sign that you have chlamydia or gonorrhea.Greenish, frothy discharge is common with trichomoniasis.
 Itching and burning are never normal and indicate that you may have a vaginal infection.Having an increased urge to pee or having a burning sensation when you pee is another sign that you may have an infection.
 Experiencing pain in your lower abdomen and pelvic area, swelling, soreness, and redness around your genital area is a sign that you may have some type of vaginal infection.Pain during sex is also an indicator of a possible vaginal infection., You should never try to diagnose and treat your vaginal infection on your own. If you notice anything unusual, you need to call your doctor. Many infections have the similar symptoms but require different treatments. Getting the proper diagnosis is very important.You should be prepared to tell your doctor the color, smell, and consistency of your discharge, the amount of time you have been experiencing symptoms, and any products (i.e. detergent, perfume, vaginal sprays, spermicides, or douches) that you have been using.Detailed information will help your doctor diagnose you.
Your doctor may do a gynecological exam after you talk about your symptoms. They also may take a sample of your discharge or urine to test for an infection.About 90% of vaginal infections can be cured within two weeks or less. Untreated vaginal infections can last for years and can lead to infertility and pelvic inflammatory disease.There are over the counter treatments for yeast infections. You should visit your doctor before you try a treatment. For example, if you take Monistat to treat a yeast infection when you really have bacterial vaginosis, your symptoms will not get any better.

