 For example, in Canada, tree-planting mainly occurs in British Columbia, Alberta, and Ontario, which all have unique conditions that must be considered. Research where in your region is best to plant your tree.


You can also search globally for potential employment.;
, This is done primarily online, through online applications. You will hear back from them either by email or phone.

Will you be living in hotels or in a bush camp, in which case you will need to provide your own tent.
Will you be able to purchase your planting equipment, shovel, planting bags, hardhat, and high-vis, through them?
Will meals be provided, and do you have to bring your own dinnerware and cutlery?

, Second-hand gear is great, since it will get very, very dirty anyway.


If you will be in a bush-camp, opt for a small to medium-sized tent, which will provide you enough room to live in, but be sturdier against wind. You don't want to come home at the end of a long day to a blown-over or rained-out tent. Furthermore, bring a pillow, warm sleeping bag or two, and ground pad; nights can be cold and you'll appreciate a comfortable sleep.
Bring some clothing made of synthetic material to work in on rainy days. You won't stay dry, so it is important to stay warm (in some areas, you might get snow in the first few weeks). Otherwise, you don't need lots of expensive high-tech apparel.
Employers often require steel-toed boots. Buy them slightly larger, since you'll often wear thick socks, and your feet will probably swell after walking all day.
Wool socks are excellent in reducing the number of blisters you'll get. Your feet will probably be wet or damp way more often than you think.
Black flies love dark colours, so opt for light-coloured shirts.
If you are buying your shovel second-hand and one of the kick-blades is removed, make sure the seller has the same dominant hand as you.
You'll drink a lot of water on the job. Bring a jug large enough to hold at least 135oz (4 L).
 You will be doing hard manual labour out-doors up to 10 hours almost every day. Increasing your endurance and strength in your upper and lower body, and core before the season starts will help you succeed.
