 Unlike sweet corn that you plan to eat, popcorn needs to be harvested after it already passes its sweetest, ripest stage. In this regard, popcorn can actually be easier to harvest than sweet corn for standard consumption.


Let the ears of corn stay on the stalks until both the husks and stalks have turned brown and begun drying.
Make sure that you harvest popcorn ears before a frost passes over your area.
 Since the stalks and husks are so brittle at this point, snapping the ears of corn off is usually quite easy. You can do so by hand and without using any tools.


Grab the stalk with one hand and simply twist the ear of corn off with your other hand.
 The corn needs to be cured or dried for an additional four to six weeks after you harvest it if you plan to use it for popcorn. The kernels need to be partially dry with only a little moisture in them.

Prepare the the corn for indoor curing by removing the dried husks from each ear. The kernels should already be somewhat dry.






Place the ears in mesh bags or spread them out in a single layer. Store them in an area with warm, flowing air, or hang the bags in your garage.






The ideal moisture content for popcorn is between 13 and 14 percent.
 When the kernels have finished curing, remove the kernels by grabbing the ear in both hands and firmly twisting the cob back and forth. The kernels should drop out as you twist.

Note that the kernels should loosen and drop with very little pressure.






Be careful as you remove the kernels since some with sharp points could scratch you up. If necessary, wear gloves during this stage to protect your hands.






If you are not certain about whether or not the kernels are ready to be shelled, test a few after a few weeks. Shell only a few kernels and try popping them. When the finished corn pops well and tastes good, the rest is ready to be shelled. If the popped kernels are chewy, the corn is still too wet and should be cured for additional time. Continue testing kernels in this manner once or twice a week., If you dried the corn kernels correctly, the remaining moisture inside should turn to steam when those kernels are heated. That steam is what causes the kernels to "pop" open.

After you cure the corn, you can hang mesh bags of full ears in a root cellar or another similar cool, dark, and dry space. When stored in this manner, popcorn can stay usable for years.






Store separated kernels in airtight jars and keep them in a cool, dark, and dry location.







