 You can do so either by clicking the Windows logo in the bottom-left corner of the screen, or by pressing the ⊞ Win key.
 The search bar is at the bottom of the Start menu.

For Windows XP, you'll instead click All Programs and select Accessories to find Notepad.
 It's a blue, notepad-shaped icon at the top of the Start menu window. Right-clicking it will invoke a drop-down menu., This option will open Notepad using your Administrator privileges., Notepad will open at this point., It's in the top-left corner of the Notepad window., You'll see this option toward the top of the "File" drop-down menu., This is the white bar at the top of the "Open" window; it will say something like "My Computer > Desktop" here. Clicking the address bar will highlight everything in it., To do so, you'll type C:/Windows/System32/drivers/etc in and press ↵ Enter. This address will take you to your computer's "etc" folder, from which you can change the file that dictates to which websites your computer can connect., This should be in the lower-right side of the "Open" window; clicking it will invoke a drop-down menu., You should see several files appear in the window., Doing so will invoke a drop-down menu., It's near the bottom of the window., This option is in the top-right area of the window., It's in the middle of the window., This box allows you to edit and, ultimately, replace the "hosts" file, which is exactly what you'll be doing., Since editing system files carries a degree of risk, Windows will alert you to the potential ramifications of doing so here., This will return you to the "Open" window., This will open the "hosts" file in Notepad, allowing you to view (and edit) its contents., You'll see two "localhost" lines of text here., It will say "::1 localhost" or "127.0.0.1 localhost" at the bottom of the page; you'll need to place the mouse cursor directly below the last line on this page.

Be careful not to delete anything in the "hosts" file.
 This line of text will prevent Facebook from being accessible on this PC.

You should also block www.m.facebook.com to prevent people from going to Facebook's mobile site. You'll do this on a line below the first Facebook address.
 It's in the top-left corner of the Notepad window., This is an option near the middle of the "File" drop-down menu., Doing so will bring up the "hosts" file again, among other files on this page., This will select it., You should no longer be able to log into Facebook on any browser.