 Some stuffed animals will be destroyed by being placed in the washing machine, while others will come out just fine.


Stuffed animals likely to cope with the washing machine include (with the proviso they don't fall into the next category): New to fairly new stuffed animal toys, strong stuffed animals, stuffed animals in good condition without threadbare or loose elements, stuffed animals without
Stuffed animals that cannot be washed in the washing machine include: antique or vintage toys (they're too delicate); those containing any form of music or sound box (it won't work after water goes into the squeaker/music maker); toys with delicate features or glued-on things such as sequins/rhinestones/glitter, etc.; toys containing Styrofoam balls; and any toy that has rips, threadbare areas or looks ready to split.


Realize that a stuffed toy will change in appearance post washing, whether done by machine or by hand; it is the nature of the materials from which it is made. If this is a concern for you, consider dry washing or spot cleaning, or speak to a toy conservator about any special methods that might work.;
, For the sake of a gentle wash, a front loader will give a kinder wash to your stuffed toys than a top loader with an agitator column. In the case of using a top loader, it's a good idea to include clothing as a buffer against the agitator constantly banging against your stuffed toy during washing.
 Some parts risk coming loose during the machine wash, while other items such as clothing and bows are better washed separately. Determine whether or not any of the removed parts also need washing; if so, they are likely best washed by hand or spot cleaned.
 It will need to include sufficient space for closing and tying off as well.


Alternatives to the pillowcase include a mesh bag used for delicates or a lingerie washing bag, again used for delicates. The downside to this may be size, depending on how large your stuffed animal is. If very larger, resort to the pillowcase.
, This will ensure that the bag is firmly closed, preventing the stuffed animal from falling out of it. When tying, be sure to enclose the stuffed animal such that it cannot move around with the pillowcase but is held very firmly.
, The water should be no hotter than the warm setting.
, Either place the stuffed animal on a porch out of direct sunlight or balance it somewhere in the laundry to drip dry. Do not place in the dryer; the synthetic elements are liable to melt, shrink or change shape and your stuffed animal will not look the same again.
 After washing, the stuffed animal probably won't look exactly as it did prior to washing. However, you can use a baby brush (very soft bristles) or your fingers to brush or comb down the nap in the right direction again, making the "fur" look normal again. As well, make any other needed adjustments, such as tying back bows, adding back removed elements and putting clothing back on, where relevant.

