 In general, acute back pain will improve on its own with proper self-care. Lower back pain is particularly common among adults. If your back pain does not improve after 4 weeks, see a doctor. You may need to consider other treatment options.Common causes of back pain include arthritis, degenerative disc disease, and other nerve and muscular problems. If your back pain persists, see a doctor., A lot of back pain can be managed on your own, or with complementary treatments. However, if you have certain symptoms, your back pain could be a sign of more severe health issues. Seek medical attention immediately if you have any of the following symptoms:Pain extending from the back down the leg
Pain gets worse when you bend over or bend your legs
Pain gets worse at night, or wakes you up
Fever with back pain
Back pain with bladder or bowel trouble
Back pain with numbness or weakness in the legs

, Regular massage has been shown to relieve back pain and disability.Massage is especially helpful at providing fairly quick back pain relief; one study demonstrated that weekly massage treatments significantly improved back pain and function after 10 weeks compared to typical back pain care routines.Some health insurance companies and health providers will cover “medical massage” when you are referred by your doctor to a licensed massage therapist for treatment. Talk with your doctor to see whether this is an option for you.
In a trial that compared massage, acupuncture, and self-care education as treatments for lower back pain, massage was shown to be the most effective treatment for pain and disability. The massage treatment group also used the least amount of pain medication., Spinal manipulation, also known as “spinal manipulative therapy,” is performed by several types of health care providers, including chiropractors and physical therapists. Several studies have shown that spinal manipulation is effective for treating mild to moderate lower-back pain.Always have this and other complementary procedures done by a trained, licensed professional. While spinal manipulation is usually safe when done by a professional, it can cause serious health issues if done incorrectly.
Spinal manipulation is not a good choice if you have nerve pain or damage. Consult with your doctor before starting this type of treatment to ensure it is safe for you., Acupuncture is not a “magic bullet” treatment for back pain. It tends to work best at treating acute lower back pain. Several clinical trials have shown that professional acupuncture is helpful at relieving pain from lower back pain.It is important to note that while several studies show that acupuncture is generally effective at relieving back pain, acupuncture may not be effective at improving function or disability. Acupuncture in conjunction with medication appears to be more effective at reducing pain and improving functionality than either treatment alone.Ask your doctor for a referral to an acupuncture practitioner. It’s important that all of your healthcare providers work together to care for you.The national certification board for acupuncturists in the United States is the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine.Not all health insurance will cover complementary medicine, but insurance is more likely to cover a certified practitioner.
 Cognitive-behavioral therapy, or CBT, identifies negative and unhelpful thoughts and beliefs and replaces them with positive, healthy ones. A CBT approach to treating pain focuses on how you respond to pain symptoms.CBT has been shown by several studies to effectively treat some types of chronic pain, including back pain.CBT can be a good choice when there is no obvious cause of back pain.
Consult your doctor or your insurance company for the names of therapists in your area. Interview a couple of them and ask about their experience in using CBT.