 Loose tank tops are best for layering. Wear it with a blazer or a jacket. Pair it with a denim jacket and denim shorts, along with block heels or sneakers., You can leave the jacket/blazer buttoned or unbuttoned. For a more polished look, opt for a plain white or black blazer with a solid-colored tank top. For something more summery, opt for a jacket/blazer with a pattern or bold embellishment., Leave it unbuttoned so that the tank top is visible underneath it. This is perfect for cooler days, and for extending your summer wardrobe into the fall and winter.
 You can wear a woolen vest or even a leather one. Whether you choose to button it up or leave it unbuttoned is up to you.Be sure to choose a color that complements your tank top and the rest of your outfit. Neutral colors, such as black or grey, go well with most other colors.
 The best tank tops for this sort of layering have some sort of lace either along the neckline or bottom hem. When worn under a regular shirt, the body of the tank top will not be visible. Only the lace will peek out from behind the upper shirt for a girlish, feminine touch.


Try to use a neutral color for at least one of the shirts. For example, you could wear a pink tank top under a creamy-white shirt, or a white tank top under a navy shirt.
 This will help cover private areas that you don't want people to see, such as your bra. You can match the color of the tank top to the shirt, or use a contrasting color. For example, you can wear a black tank top under a black,lacy shirt. You can also try a black tank top under a white lace shirt insteadThis can look more dressy, depending on what sort of bottoms you wear. To make the outfit look more casual, pair it with blue jeans. To make the outfit look more dressy, try black or ivory slacks.
 If you desire extra heat but don't want to completely change your outfit, tank tops are the answer. Layer them underneath your clothing, making sure that you hide it if you don't want it to be seen.
 If you are going to wear a nice, expensive shirt, consider wearing a tank top underneath it. The tank top should match your skin tone, and it should not be visible once you put on your fancy shirt. The tank top will absorb your body sweat and oils, and protect your nicer shirt from getting stained to some extent.


Plain, cotton tank tops are usually cheaper than fancy dress shirts made from expensive silks; they are also easier to clean.

