 You'll need a bowl large enough to contain your eggs, and something to beat the egg mixture. A whisk or a fork can work well for this.;
, Carefully crack the eggs against the lip of the bowl, or against the countertop if the bowl isn't heavy (but be careful not to get egg everywhere!). Pull the shell apart, making sure not to get any shell into the bowl.


If you do get shell into the bowl, remove it with a spatula or spoon.
 Take your fork or whisk and scramble the eggs together, making sure that the egg whites get fully mixed with the yolks. Be careful not to scramble the mixture too vigorously; you don't want your egg to fly out of the bowl.
 If you've chosen to add in herbs or spices, now is the time to add them. Ensure that the pieces are flake-sized, and sprinkle them into the egg mixture if they are. Then scramble it thoroughly again to ensure they get properly mixed in.


If the pieces are not flakes, you may want to wait to add them until you cook the eggs.
 Grease the skillet with butter to make sure that the eggs don't stick to the pan. Use minimal amounts of butter; you don't want your eggs to be drowning in it! Once the pan sizzles slightly, it's ready to cook the eggs.


Don't use oil to grease the pan; this changes the taste of the eggs. If you're worried about your fat intake, try using a low-fat substitute such as margarine.
 Don't worry about whether or not it covers the whole pan; just make sure that the eggs get in.
 After you pour the eggs into the pan, scatter in other food ingredients, such as large herbs, vegetables, cheese, or anything else you wanted to add. Take care to make sure these don't overcook while you cook the eggs.
 Move the eggs around in the pan with a spatula to make sure that they get cooked thoroughly. You may wish to use the spatula to separate some of the pieces, which can make it easier to cook since it's in smaller amounts. Once you've cooked one side of the eggs, flip them over to make sure the other side gets cooked, as well.


The definition of "thoroughly cooked" scrambled eggs may vary. Some people prefer slightly runny scrambled eggs, while others prefer for them to be cooked all the way through. In either case, make sure that the eggs don't "leak" - there's a difference between "slightly runny" and undercooked, and undercooked eggs carry the risk of transmitting disease.
 Once you're sure that the eggs are thoroughly cooked, use the spatula to remove the eggs from the pan and place them on a plate. If using other ingredients, feel free to top the eggs with more of it; you can also garnish the eggs with herbs if you like, maybe add some vegetables to the side, and serve it alone or alongside another food such as bacon, toast, or bagels.

