 Don’t focus on the tone in which you were spoken to or even everything that was said. Instead, try to summarize the criticizer’s main points. What were they ultimately getting at? Do any of those points resonate with you once you boil them down to their most basic parts? Summarizing the criticism allows you to react calmly while ensuring that you heard everything that was said., When you receive criticism, you need to address the problem by acknowledging that there has been a misunderstanding, agreeing completely with the other person, or disagreeing and looking for a sort of compromise. Whatever you do, remain calm and don’t pretend the conversation never happened. Face the criticism head on, without emotion, and put it behind you.One common method to remain cool when criticized is to acknowledge true statements that have been made, and to correct or clarify incorrect information. This shows that you’re engaged in the conversation, listening, and taking ownership for that which you’re responsible.
 Criticism is a tool meant to help a person modify their behavior or action, and nothing more. If you are criticized, it’s normal to feel uncomfortable, or even angry or confused. But don’t let it stop you. This is one person’s perspective, right or wrong, and nothing more. Take what you can from it, learn what you’re able, and continue carrying on., If you’re criticized and believe that the other person is right, say so. Let them know that you’ve listened to them, heard them, processed what they said, and are taking ownership of your mistake. This is an incredibly effective method for keeping cool when criticized as well as descalating any emotions.You don’t have to agree with everything that they say. You might only think that you’re wrong about one point – say so.
 Receiving criticism can feel awful, and sometimes it can lead to feelings of self-doubt. Treat criticism as an opportunity for growth and as a learning experience, though. Maintain your self-esteem and look at the situation as an opportunity to learn from your mistakes. Criticism, when constructive, is meant as a helpful tool, not at an attack, and should be treated as a positive learning experience.

It’s not always easy to separate yourself from a situation enough to find the positive. Before you react, step back, calm down, and try to objectively evaluate the situation. This should help you see it in a more positive light.

