 Flood proofing means to remodel or rebuild using materials and methods that will prevent or minimize damage from future floods. There are five types of flood proofing:


Most buildings can be raised so that the lowest floor is above the possible flood level.
Moving a building out of the flood-prone area is the surest way to protect it from flood damage.
Flood walls, berms, and levees all work to keep flood waters from reaching your house.
Dry floodproofing means sealing a building to keep flood waters out.
Wet floodproofing means modifying a building so that flood waters will cause only minimal damage to the building and contents.
 Once you’ve determined the repairs and flood proofing measures you are going to take, local codes generally require that you get a building permit. Before you make repairs or alterations to your home or property, make sure your plans are reviewed and approved by your building department.
 Many problems result from rebuilding too quickly after a flood, before everything dries.
 If you're going to replace a flooded furnace, water heater, or air conditioner, install the new one on a higher floor. If your new air conditioner or heat pump will be outside, install it on a platform above the flood protection level.
 Wash and disinfect the studs and sills if the wallboard and insulation had to be removed. If you are going to rebuild the walls, remember that metal studs and sills are not damaged by water as much as wooden ones.


Think horizontal rather than vertical. Install the wallboard panels sideways so they are only four feet high. If the next flood is less than four feet deep, you only have to replace half the wall.
Do not paint until the surface is completely dry. If the surface still contains moisture, the paint will peel. Things look dry on the surface long before they are dry on the inside, and this can lead to costly mistakes.
 Some floors are made with particle board or plywood, materials that fall apart when wet for long. Do not lay new flooring or carpet until the sub flooring is completely dry. Floor joists and some wood floors will regain their shapes if allowed to dry naturally.
 This is especially valuable to enable you to handle the difficult jobs such as foundation repair and electrical work. If you've been satisfied with work done by licensed local contractors, try them first.

