 Just like a purse, wallet, trunk, or garage, the bigger a backpack is, the more stuff will be piled into it (and the heavier it will be). Forget about logos, designs, or brand names, and choose a well-constructed, age-appropriate pack that is the right size for your child. If that means doing the bag shopping without the kid, so be it.If you can’t cinch the straps tight enough to stay snugly over the shoulders, or if the backpack sags well below the waistline when worn, it is probably too big for your child.;
, A backpack that has padded straps and a padded back (that is, the side that makes contact with the kid’s back) will be more comfortable and may help prevent pinched nerves in the neck area. Choose models with waist straps as well, as these help to ensure better weight distribution and pack stability.Check that the straps are made of strong material, are well attached to the bag, and have sturdy but easy-to-operate buckles. Leather straps, for instance, might be more fashionable, but often simply add more weight without adding strength. Check a backpack in use for frayed straps, ripped canvas, or broken buckles.
 Backpacks that have one giant pocket are more prone to be overloaded with an assortment of books and who-knows-what-else. Alternatively, packs with more compartments and pockets can help reduce the overall max load and ensure that the pack’s weight is less prone to shifting out of balance, which can cause falls or back injuries.Backpacks with more compartments and/or pockets can also help a disorganized child find what he needs more quickly.
 The proliferation of overloaded backpacks, even among young children, has led to the development of packs with wheels and telescoping handles (akin to carry-on luggage). Such packs can reduce the likelihood of back or shoulder strains, but also can increase the likelihood of trip-and-fall injuries. They also tend to be heavier than traditional backpacks, which can cause increased strain when they need to be carried.Using a bag with wheels can also put stress on the shoulder of the arm that is pulling the bag. If your child currently uses a bag with wheels, it’s best to make sure they alternate hands rather than using one hand all the time.
Some school districts ban the use of wheeled backpacks because of the increased risk of students tripping over them in the hallway or on stairs. Check your school’s policy before considering a purchase.
Indeed, tripping is the most common cause of backpack-related injuries that require emergency room visits., How do you know if you child’s backpack is too heavy? Experts tend to recommend that children not carry packs that weigh more than 10 – 20% of the child’s body weight, with 15% as a common standard maximum.Weigh your child (without the backpack), then multiply the result by 0.15. Then, weigh the loaded backpack alone. If it weighs more than your multiplied result, it’s too heavy.
For instance, say you have an 80-pound child with a 17-pound backpack. 80 x .15 = 12. Since the bag weighs more than this amount, it is too heavy (by at least five pounds).
If your child has to lean forward to hold the pack on his back, or complains of neck, shoulder, or back pain, the backpack is likely too heavy — regardless of what the scale says.
 Once you determine that a backpack is too heavy, your next task (with your child’s help) should be to take everything out and decide what must stay and what can go. Use “I have to have this in there because…” as your criteria, not “I might possibly need this sometime if…”.Remember, every little bit of weight shed helps. How many extra pencils does your child need? Does she really need that backup calculator? A lot of seemingly important stuff can actually be ditched, not to mention the superfluous stuff — toys, keepsakes, last Thursday’s unfinished lunch — that you’ll find in a kid’s backpack.
Conduct a regular “weed out” every couple of weeks or so to prevent unnecessary accumulation of stuff.
 As you refill the weeded-out and lighter backpack, pay close attention to how you fill it. Unbalanced or shifting loads can throw a smaller kid off balance easily, and are more likely to cause discomfort or injury. Put heavy items like books in first, then distribute smaller items throughout the additional compartments and pockets., In addition to reducing the overall load carried, you can also decrease the likelihood of soreness or injury by making sure that your child wears the backpack properly. The weight of the pack should be distributed primarily over the shoulders and upper back, with the chest in support — these are some of your strongest muscle groups.Straps should be snug without cutting into the shoulders. The bag portion should be centered on the mid-back, with the bottom of the bag sagging no more than four inches below the waistline. The bag should never touch the child’s backside while being worn.
 Ask your child to think of the backpack as a temporary conveyance — like a delivery truck — and not as a permanent home for her stuff — like a motor home. She should use it to carry what she needs when she needs it to where she needs it. Load and reload it frequently with what she needs right then.


Kids should use a locker and/or desk as their primary storage spaces, not their backpacks. Recommend that she make more frequent trips to lockers or desks in order to unload and reload the backpack with what she needs at that moment.Procrastination can also cause overload problems, by causing a kid have to bring all her books home on Friday, for instance. Work with her to make sure homework and assignments don’t back up to the point where everything needs to be done all at once.
It may be a long shot depending upon your school’s budget situation, but you may want to ask whether your child can have two copies of her textbooks — one for school and one for home. The adoption of e-textbooks (at least as a supplement for homework) may be a more practical and cost-effective solution., Make sure you educate your child about avoiding carrying a bag on one shoulder. Some kids may want to switch from a backpack that rests on both shoulders to one shoulder, such as a messenger bag. This can put stress on that shoulder, in addition to the child hiking his shoulder up to keep the backpack in place. This can lead to shoulder and neck pain if it is done on a regular basis.


Both shoulder straps must be used to effectively balance the load — even if slinging the pack over only one shoulder is considered “cooler.”

, Most of the prevention measures for backpack safety involve strains and injuries caused by overweight loads. However, when it comes to injuries that lead to emergency room visits, less than one-fourth involve the shoulders (12%) or back (11%), and the most common cause of significant backpack injuries is tripping over one (28%).The majority of all ER-worthy backpack injuries involve the head or face, hands, wrists, or elbows, all likely spots for trip-and-fall injuries.What does all this mean? While it is important to take precautions against your child lugging around a backpack that is too heavy, make sure she is just as vigilant about paying attention to her surroundings to avoid injuries caused by tripping over a backpack or being struck by a swinging bag, strap, buckle, etc.