 The more you get to know about coral reefs, the more you will learn how absolutely vital they are to many ocean organisms. Once you've learned more sufficient information, start sharing your knowledge about coral reefs to help many other people to become more aware of the damage being done to reefs and what they can do to help stop this.Coral reefs are home to thousands of different organisms and species of fish, many of which are endangered themselves. Since each of these organisms plays its own important role in the ocean’s ecosystem, the loss of their home—the reefs—can have a seriously detrimental effect on the ocean overall.
Involve others by teaching them to appreciate the beauty and ecological importance of coral reefs.;
, If you have some extra cash, you can donate on the web or through the mail to various charities that fund the conservation and protection of coral reefs. The Coral Reef Alliance, The Reef-World Foundation, Coral Cay Conservation, and even your local aquarium are some reputable suggestions, just to name a few.



Zoos and aquariums may offer useful information, and are often very involved in conservation efforts.
You can support these organizations with time, money, or by simply spreading the word.
 Thanks to social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram, it’s easy to quickly and widely spread the word about causes you’re supporting. Make a post on your social media platforms directing your friends and followers towards coral reef conservation websites and donation pages.Follow social media accounts associated with different coral reef preservation and protection groups and organizations. Try re-posting or reblogging their posts to keep your own followers in the loop and updated on the issue.
 Whether you live near the water or not, you can urge your local or state representatives to take part in saving and conserving coral reefs. From voting on important issues to using their governmental platform to raise awareness of the issue, these elected officials can be especially helpful in the battle to save coral reefs.


If you live in the US, you can easily find out how to contact any elected official via the federal government’s website., Print a pre-made information flyer from an existing coral reef conservation organization or create your own with facts provided by these organizations. Print copies at home, or go to your local print shop. Then, head to an area populated with a good amount of pedestrians, and hand the flyers out. This gets the information into the hands of other people and helps spread awareness of the issue.


You could try setting up an information booth in a public space, as well. You could hand out flyers, and also offer information on how others can become involved themselves. Just make sure you have any permissions needed before setting up.

