 Take out a pen and paper and write about significant times that you’ve felt negative emotions toward your parents. What boundaries did they cross in those situations? Once identified, you know that these are the boundaries that need to be protected in order for you to effectively deal with your parents.For example, you might ask yourself: Are my parents controlling? In what ways? Are they embarrassing? In what ways? Are they too anxious? When? Are they generally perfect but I would like them to treat me as an adult?
It is important for you to consider how you would like to be treated. This varies by individuals. Some people see no problem with certain behaviors that might really frustrate other people. Make a note of what bothers you, but also why it bothers you.
 Find a quiet time to sit down with your parents and discuss your concerns and your need for defined boundaries. Tell them that you would like to strengthen your relationship by understanding what actions (and words) are okay and not okay for both them and you.


Don’t be too radical with the boundaries that you suggest early on. Take a more moderate position and see how your parents react.
A moderate boundary is one which requires only a minimal change in behavior by your parents. A more radical boundary is one which changes the nature of your relationship with your parents and may prompt a severe response on their part., Before you talk with your parents, think about what you plan to do if your boundaries are ignored. Your reaction needs to fit the degree of the negative action. Only establish consequences that you are willing to enact. Consequences should provide an immediate and consistent end to conversation or activity prompting their disrespect.


For example, if your parents comment negatively about your friends or push for too much information, you say, “I know that you are concerned, but I need you to be nice to my friends. Now, I will have to take that time and spend it out with them instead of here.”

, It is important to establish that each action creates a reaction. If your parents decide to ignore your boundaries, you will want to warn them first. Then, if they continue to push your limits, you will need to let them know that you will take action to protect yourself.


Don't be surprised if your parents enact consequences when you violate their boundaries as well.
 Your parents are probably trying their best to look out for you. This means that they may respond angrily and negatively to your attempts to set boundaries, or that they may try harder to impose them before giving up. Just remind them that is part of you becoming a successful, independent adult.Avoid getting into a series of arguments with your parents. If emotions are high, remove yourself from the situation and address the issues later.

