 Although some under-eye circles can be reduced or eliminated by the lifestyle choices we make, other culprits are not so easily taken care of. Genetics, ageing, and even the color of your skin may make dark under-eye circles an unwelcome fact of life.For those people who suffer from less controllable variables, solutions in the form of makeup exist.


Apply a salmon-tone corrector to the inside corners of your eyes and blend out with a brush. Be sure to dab, not pull.
Apply concealer to the space beneath your eye in a triangular shape, again dabbing and not pulling. Avoid getting any concealer or corrector too close to your bottom lash line, as this may result in makeup malfunctions.;
, A nude shadow over the entire lid helps to even out color and can serve as a base for other colors. Use a darker shade of medium brown along the crease line to help give more definition. Highlight the area directly underneath your eyebrow and above the crease with a very light color.


Using non-neutral, colored eyeshadow can provide extra drama for the eyes, but not all colors are considered equally appropriate for all eye colors.
Generally speaking, your optimal eyeshadow colors will be complimentary, or opposite, to the actual color of your eyes on the color wheel. People with green eyes should consider violets, purples, chestnuts, plums, and browns.
Blue eyed individuals most often look best in eye shadow shades that are gray, rose, mauve, peach, orange, and bronze.
Hazel and brown eyed people possess a neutral eye color and therefore can usually wear any color from purple to amber.
 Using a dark, usually black but sometimes brown, eyeliner, draw a dark frame for your lashes as close to them as you can get. Try to keep the application as even as possible, but thicker on top.
 Dark colors make spaces appear smaller, and by contrast light colors make them appear bigger, so applying a bright color to the skin nearest your eyes will help them to appear larger. Your waterline is the thin strip of flesh right along the inside of your lower lashes. The tightline is the paralleling area on your top eyelid.
 If your cheeks or lips are drawing people's attention with bright, bold, or dark colors, your eyes will no longer be the center of their attention. This will make your eyes appear smaller in comparison to these other emphasized areas. Choose neutral colors close to your natural skin tone and avoid lip glosses to achieve this effect.

