 Does the urge to cry accompany certain emotions, events, individuals, or types of stress? Is the source something that you can minimize contact or interaction with?


If the answer is "yes," develop ways of avoiding or restricting contact with the source. This could be as simple of avoiding lengthy conversation with a coworker who hurts your feelings or avoiding sad or violent films.
If the answer is no, consider reaching out to a therapist for coping strategies. This is particularly appropriate for when conflict with close family or loved ones is identified as the source of negative emotions that lead to crying.
 Although distractions are useful when crying occurs at inopportune times, take the time when you are in a safe, private place to experience your emotions authentically. Be introspective, analyzing your feelings, the sources, and possible resolutions. Ignoring your emotions or trying to repress them constantly is counterproductive to healing and improvement. In fact, ongoing problems can linger in your subconscious and actually increase episodes of crying., Develop the habit of self-policing your negative thoughts and remind yourself of good things about yourself. Try to maintain a 1:1 ratio of positive to negative thoughts whenever possible. This will not only make you happier in general, it will help prevent unpredictable emotions by training your brain to know that, in spite of problems, you are a worthwhile individual.
 If you are having difficulty controlling your tears or you're not even sure why you're crying, journaling can help you get to the root. Journaling can have a positive impact on your health, can help you see the positive benefits of a stressful event, and help clarify your thoughts and feelings.Writing about anger or sadness can decrease the intensity of these emotions, which may help curb your crying. You will also get to know yourself better, becoming more confident and aware of situations or people that are toxic and should be removed from your life.Try journaling for 20 minutes a day every day. Practice "free writing," in which you don't worry about spelling, punctuation, or any other "shoulds." Write quickly so you can't censor yourself.You'll be surprised by what you learn and how much better you will feel.
Journaling allows you to freely express your emotions without judgement or inhibitions.If you have experienced a traumatic event, journaling can help you process your emotions and can actually make you feel more in control. Write about the facts of the event and the emotions you experienced to get the most out of your journaling., If nothing seems to help curb episodes of crying and negative emotion and it's having an impact or your relationships or employment, take the first step toward a solution by contacting a licensed therapist. Often the problem can be solved with behavioral therapies; however, if there is an medical reason for these problems, a therapist can ensure you receive proper medication.


If you are experiencing symptoms of depression, seek help from a counselor or mental health professional. Symptoms of depression include: persistent sad or "empty" feeling; feelings of hopelessness, guilt, and/or worthlessness; thoughts of suicide; decreased energy; difficulty sleeping or sleeping too much and appetite and/or weight changes.If you are experiencing suicidal thoughts, get help immediately. Try calling the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1 (800) 273-8255, or visit IASP to find a helpline in your country. Or call someone you trust to talk about how you are feeling.
 Grief is a natural response to loss; it could be the death of a beloved family member, the loss of a relationship, losing a job, loss of health, or any other loss.Grieving in personal – there is no "right" way to grieve, nor is there a prescribed time table for grieving. It may take weeks or years, and there will be many highs and lows.Seek support from friends and family. Sharing your loss is one of the most important factors in healing from loss. A support group or grief counselor may also be helpful.Eventually the emotions connected to grieving should become less intense. If you experience no improvement or your symptoms only seem to get worse over time, your grief may have developed into major depression or complicated grief. Contact a therapist or grief counselor to help you move toward acceptance.