 NVC uses a type of emotional intimacy that not all people are comfortable with all the time, and they have the right to set boundaries. If someone is not open to expressing their feelings, do not push or manipulate them into doing so.Do not start psychoanalyzing someone without their consent.If at any time someone no longer wants to talk about their feelings, they have the right to do so and can leave the conversation.
People with intellectual and developmental disabilities, especially when stressed, may have trouble speaking in and interpreting NVC style. If this is the case, use clear and direct communication., You are not required to change your actions just because someone else doesn't like them. If someone is asking you to bend over backwards or ignore your own wants and needs, you are allowed to say no.


If someone is behaving aggressively, you can ask yourself what they need. However, this can be emotionally draining work, and it is okay to avoid them and say "their negativity is not my problem."
People are not obligated to cater to your feelings. If someone says no to your request, avoid getting angry or guilt-tripping them.
 People may use NVC to hurt others, and it is important to be able to recognize when this happens. Sometimes you don't need to meet someone's "needs." It's important to remember that tone is less important than what the person has to say, and some feelings should not be shared.


Abusers can use NVC to control others. For example, "I feel disrespected when you don't check in with me every 15 minutes."Criticism of tone can be used to derail a conversation about someone's needs (e.g. "I feel hurt when you say you're upset with me" or "I feel attacked when you use that tone").People have a right to be heard, even if they can't say things in a way that will please everyone.
No one should be forced to listen to deeply negative feelings about them. For example, it is not appropriate for a parent to tell their autistic child how horrible it is to put up with them, or for someone to tell a Muslim that they feel all Muslims should be deported.Some ways of expressing feelings can be abusive.
 Saying "I feel humiliated when you make fun of me in front of my peers" isn't going to do anything if the other person doesn't care how you feel. Nonviolent communication can work wonders when people are accidentally hurting each other, but not when it is done on purpose, or when one party doesn't care whether they are hurting someone or not.In these cases, it's better to be clear by saying "stop it," "leave me alone," or "that hurts."


Sometimes, if someone is upset with you, it isn't because you are doing something wrong. If one person is attacking another, both sides are not equally valid.
Placing value judgments like "she is being mean" or "this is unfair and not my fault" is sometimes necessary, especially for abuse victims, oppressed people, bullying victims, and other people who need to protect themselves from others.