 It appears the same, but you'll probably have less tell-tale nervous eyes. You might wear a hoodie/silly hat and shades; so they can't see your "tells" as easily, when you're playing weak or strong, but trying to look consistent.;
, Do not bluff preflop too often. But, when you have been playing conservatively/tightly, and it seems like it is your turn to take down a pot -- it can seem real. Playing tight all the time is a form of tilting in their favor, so occasionally play your cards irrationally (for your own reason) and break out of the tight pattern (but don't ever say it's your turn, until you win). Bluffing is a big part of poker.
 Think it through before you say your bet, like what the consequences would be. Be consistent with the hand that you are representing by how you have played previously and think about what present hole cards connect on the board. Heads up, you have A♥J♣ and your opponent holds A♦Q♠ with a board of 2♣9♥7♦4♣,__, but you had raised preflop; so, your opponent would have put you in a range of high cards or a possibly a pair (but s/he has no reason to fear a flush or straight with the splits and rainbow board). Your opponent may call or raise your turn bet thinking that both the flop and turn would not make a hand with you probably holding high cards. You also, probably won't fold, naturally thinking, "ace high is good," not knowing that only another J or drawing a Q can make your hand worth anything.
 Heads up, you have 7♥4♥ and the board is Q♥9♣6♥A♦,__ you will usually not get the heart on the river to make that heart flush draw, and you would lose the showdown with your two low cards and three big cards on the board. Even a seven or four, on the river, might not be enough to win. So what -- well, when the ace came on the turn, would be the time to bet representing an ace with a flush draw (the turn and river are like drawing, but everyone gets the same draw) like A♥x♥ and if your opponent folds more than 3 out of 10 times, your turn bet might be a win (so, note the tendencies of opponents.)

, Don't fiddle with your necklace, tap your foot, or blink too much. It makes you seem guilty.
 Act like you learned your lesson to not bluff; so, do not do this often. By giving action/bluffing, and revealing a weak hand once, then when you get a great hand later, you will get bluffing action back to build the pot, if they think you are weak/bluffing again. This is different from when you bet in the big blind (first player past the button) with some trash hand, they accept that. You get a "free play" when your hand connects with the flop and afterward, then at the showdown your opponents see your trash hold cards. Always look at the position, in relation to the button, that you and your opponents have.
 The other players could be irritated and spurred on to tilt after this and, so, put more money in the pot than necessary, trying to tempt you to "Just try bluffing with trash again, buddy." But now you should only bet if you're strong, and fold until you have good cards, to take to a river showdown. However, if you hadn't shown those weak cards, just discarded them after everyone folded, you could still seem scary/more real, and could play more bluffs, by not having stirred up the opponents.
 In each case, you would have to be paying attention to your opponent's play in the hand and prior to the hand to get a read on his hand.
 With high cards there is a possibility of making a top pair with more cards to come on the turn and river, and it would be no shame to go to showdown with high cards without a made hand.
, Here, you are thinking beyond making the cut, and going for the final table. Trying this buying-in and paying to play each hand can be worthwhile because of the payout structure. Be ready for the rewards and consequences of losing, in this daring play.
, But otherwise, bluff against fewer opponent rather than many opponents.
 Use this when drawing, for example, but the pot odds are not sufficient. The bluff adds to the overall expectation, because some of the time without your holding good cards, your opponent will fold when you bluff.

