 Your child likely already plays a number of fascinating, imaginative games. Perhaps he likes to pretend that he is someone famous or enjoys playing "cops and robbers." Figure out a writing activity that fits into your child's interests and enthusiasms to spark his creative writing talents.For example, you might:


Ask that he write a letter from the perspective of a character he likes to play
Suggest that he write about "a day in the life" of his imaginary friend
Help your child invent an imaginary country and ask him to write about what people do there
Ask your child to create a "mashup" story that includes his favorite characters from completely different worlds, There are a number of games and toys that can help build your child's vocabulary. These can all help your child develop a love of words and learn how to use different words appropriately.Some popular word games and toys include:


Scrabble
Mad Libs
Magnetic poetry
Boggle
Balderdash
Catchphrase
Taboo

, If your child is shy or uncomfortable coming up with her own creative writing ideas, propose a game where the two of you can write a story together. Try to keep the story silly and light-hearted in order to keep your child interested and engaged. A few game ideas include:


Write a story by switching off each sentence. First you write a sentence, then your child continues with the next sentence, then you take over again, etc. Try to add unexpected surprises and goofy twists to keep the story fun and exciting.Draw a picture and ask your child to imagine a story behind the picture.Make a list of words by having you and your child point to random words in a dictionary. Then brainstorm a way to use all of those words in a single story.
 Depending on how old your child is, your child might have a limited attention span. Keep the games age-appropriate and brief in order to keep your child from becoming discouraged.Limit these games to 15-30 minutes and allow your child to quit early if she seems bored, stressed out, or tired. Remember that these games must be fun in order to work.