 It is important to understand the difference between compulsive buying and impulsive buying. The distinction between the two depends on the person’s motivation, or intent for making the purchase.


Someone who is a compulsive buyer is more likely to have financial issues than an impulsive buyer. They might also have relationship distress with family and friends, and emotional confusion. A compulsive buyer is at higher risk of addictive behaviors. These addictive behaviors include the motive to shop to soothe uncomfortable internal emotional feelings, stress, and anxiety.
An impulsive buyer is usually someone who buys things on a whim typically as a reaction to an external trigger. For example, you may see a desired item in a store window, and without thinking about your budget, you purchase it.;
, If you find something you want to buy in the moment, ask yourself some questions before you make the purchase. Taking some time before you run to the register can help you decide on whether you need that item or not.


Ask yourself, “Is this a want or a need? Can I afford it without any debt? Can it wait a month? Will it go on sale? Can I live without it? How will it affect my life?”, It’s easy to swipe a credit card, but parting with cash is a bit more difficult. People who pay in cash tend to spend less than those who use a credit card. Consider putting your credit cards away and moving to a cash-only system.Have cash budgets for each area you need like transportation, entertainment, and food. Put each week’s allotment in an envelope.
If you’re buying things online, use a debit card instead of a credit card.
 Create a mandatory waiting period before you make a purchase. Many stores will put items on hold so that you can go home and come back another day if you still want it. You may really like an item now, but not feel so strongly about it a different day. Creating a waiting period can help you decide whether you really need it or not.Some people choose to wait a week before going back and purchasing an item. If you choose to wait this long, it’s unlikely you will have the same feelings about the item that you did at first., If you’re quick to pick something off the shelf because it’s on sale, recognize that this is where most impulse shopping happens.If you’re enamored by a sale item, ask yourself what makes you want it. Is it because you actually want or need the item, or are you drawn in by the price or potential savings? Do you like the feeling of getting a bargain, even if you don’t need the item?


Sales don’t usually last only a day. Come back and buy the item a different day if you really want it.
 Know when to avoid going to the store or logging on to online shopping sites. If you’re feeling hungry, angry, lonely, or tired, don’t let yourself be tempted to shop. Recognize that you’re most vulnerable in these states and put the credit card away. If you get the sudden urge to shop, ask yourself if you’re feeling one of these things.Deal with these states instead of going shopping.
Remember these vulnerabilities by remembering the acronym HALT (hunger, anger, lonely, tired).
 If you go into a store knowing what you need, it’s easier to navigate your way around and stay on task. Before you head out to purchase items, take a moment and decide what you need. Write down the stores you need to go to and what you need in each store. When you’re in the store, stay focused on only getting the items on your list.Whether you’re buying lots of things or just a few, a list will help you know what you’re looking for.
If you get distracted by something that’s not on your list, write it down and save it for the next shopping trip.
 Plan your grocery shopping after you eat, not before. Plan a weekly (or bi-weekly) shopping trip so that you can anticipate going food shopping. If you can anticipate when you will shop for food, you can prepare ahead of time by eating and creating a shopping list Stay away from groceries and food when you’re hungry, as you’re more likely to spend more money when you are hungry.If you need to buy groceries and you’re hungry, stop and get a snack or a meal first.
 If you find yourself turning to shopping when you’re feeling emotional or having a bad day, recognize that there are other ways to deal with these emotions. Shopping is not the only thing that can lift your spirits or help you feel better. Emotional spending is often a culprit for impulse buys. If you feel like you want to buy something, do another calming or stress-relieving activity instead.For example, take a walk, take some deep breaths, meditate, listen to music, or write in a journal.
 Some online retailers allow you to keep your credit card information and address on file so that check-out is easy and streamlined. Don’t keep this information on file and make yourself manually enter it in. Getting up and punching in the numbers to your credit card may give you enough time to realize you don’t actually want or need the item.Opt out of keeping your information on file. Some retailers keep this information on file if you sign up as a member, so use the “guest” option instead.
Disable the “Autofill” option in your browser so that your address or other personal information does not automatically pop up.
 Just like you can put items on hold in a store, use your wish list the same way. Keep the items you like but are not ready to buy on a wish list. Unlike retail stores, online retailers often have more stock, so the fear of the item being gone is less likely.Go back onto your wish list later and clean out the items you no longer want. If something still catches your eye, decide whether it’s a worthwhile buy.
 If the website allows for one-click buying, disable this feature. Put all of your items into the cart before purchasing them. That way, you will see what the total amount is altogether and decide whether it’s in your budget. You might get to check-out and realize you’re spending much more than you want to, then remove some items from your cart.


If a website is making the checkout process faster, beware that this can increase your impulse buys.
 Recognize the signs that your impulse buying may be turning into an addictive behavior. Like any other addictive behavior (alcohol, drugs, gambling, sex, etc.), people can become addicted to shopping. A chemical response in the body occurs while endorphins and dopamine are released in the brain. Just like other addictions, this creates a pleasurable feeling motivating the person to complete the task again to recreate and feel the same response again. Pay attention to the following signs:


Being secretive that you are shopping, and withholding how much you spent on your purchases from others.
Spending more than you're able to afford, and maxing out your credit cards.
Shopping with the motive to self soothe uncomfortable feelings and emotions, such as fear, grief, anger, hurt, resentment, anxiety, depression, and so on.
Your shopping is affecting your relationships with your friends and family. They may be concerned that you are spending too much.
You go on frequent and intense shopping sprees, which also cause you to neglect other responsibilities at home or at work.
 If you notice that your shopping is disrupting your normal daily functioning at work or at home, and you’ve been neglecting your tasks, then you should seek professional help. If your shopping is a way for you to self soothe your internal emotions, then you should also seek professional help to address your concerns. Therapists use multidisciplinary approaches to help you gain more control over your spending and help you to improve your finances and relationships.
 If shopping is your hobby, consider finding some new ones. Window shopping can be a source of impulse buying, so try to avoid this activity altogether. If you insist on going window shopping, don’t bring your wallet with you.Spend some time enjoying nature and go on a walk or a hike instead.
 If you love to buy random things, try to anticipate these expenses instead of completely cutting them out. It can be nice to find an item of clothing you love or gift you know someone will appreciate. Instead of forbidding yourself from buying these things, plan some money each month especially for these items.If this spending is way over what you can afford, take $50 or $100 each month for these kinds of purchases. If possible, take it out and cash so that when it runs out, that’s it for the month.
 If you want something new, go home and donate a similar item before buying a new one. For example, if you want a new shirt, pick one shirt from home you’re willing to donate. If you cannot find one you’re willing to give away or donate, then you cannot add to your collection.Having to part with something first can give you time to think about how much you want that new item.
 If you make a purchase, make sure you keep the receipt. Look at the store’s return policy and do not buy something that cannot be returned. Only buy things you know you can return. If you do have buyer’s remorse, it will be fairly simple to make a return.Keep all of your receipts together. Consider having a receipt envelope where all of your receipts go after you make a purchase.

