 The female Sim must be in the young adult or adult life stage. The male must be a young adult, adult, or elder. Have them interact with social and romantic options until they have nearly full relationship bars.


Some non-human Sims can have a baby, which will typically have characteristics from both parent species. Zombies, SimBots, Servos, and Mummies cannot have children.;
, The "Try for a Baby" option only appears if there's an object nearby where the Sims can "WooHoo." Some objects have a higher chance of babies than others, or give special traits. Here are a few of the best options:100% chance: Vibromatic heart bed (High End Loft stuff pack) — baby will have Excitable trait
75%: Normal bed
75%: Sarcophagus (World Adventures expansion)
50%: Hot tub (various expansions) — baby will have either Hydrophobic or Party Animal trait
50%: Treehouse (various expansions) — baby traits depend on specific treehouse

, Have the two Sims interact romantically near the chosen object. As you do, keep an eye on the short term context messages. If the interactions go well, the other Sim will think you're being Flirty, then Alluring, then Extremely Irresistible. You'll need to reach the third stage to have a baby.


It doesn't matter whether you control the male or female Sim.
 Once the interaction has reached "Extremely Irresistible," select the "Try for a baby" option under the Romance menu. The two Sims will move to the nearby object and have some censored fun.


This option will not appear if your household lot already has 8 Sims living in it.
There may be a small chance of pregnancy from the "Woohoo" option as well, but that's an unreliable method., If the female Sim gets morning sickness the day after the attempt, she is almost certainly pregnant. You'll know this happens when she gets the Nauseous moodlet and/or throws up.


One way to know for certain if a female Sim is pregnant is if you click "Go Here" anywhere on the ground. If you do not have the options "Automatic," 'Run" or "Walk," then you're Sim is definitely pregnant.
A short song right after the attempt is another sign of success.
If this doesn't happen, just try for a baby a second time. You can keep trying as many times as you like.
 A Sims pregnancy is much easier than a real one, since it only lasts three days! Still, it pays to be prepared for the following changes:On day two, the mother will be visibly pregnant. She will also get a few days of maternity leave (paid time off work), starting today.
On day three, meet the mother's needs and address negative moodlets fast. If she is unhappy during this stage, you will not get to select the baby's traits.
At any point while pregnant, eating 3+ apples makes a boy much more likely. Eating 3+ watermelons makes a girl much more likely., Set up an area for the baby near the parents' bed, as well as a bathroom. A crib and a teddy bear for the baby to sleep with are essential supplies.
 Some Sims will have birth inside the house, while others will call a taxi on their own and visit the hospital. There are no big differences between them, but the home birth usually leads to a higher starting relationship between mother and baby.


The birth can happen very quickly, or last several game hours. Don't let the noise or the panicking husband worry you — nothing bad can happen.

