 The best thing you can do to foster mutual empathy in your relationship is to actively listen to one another. This isn’t just taking in what the other person says, but really hearing what they say. This means you pay attention as the other person speaks.Don’t pay attention to other things, like the television or your cell phone. Don’t let your mind wander. Keep your mind focused on your partner.
Maintain eye contact and turn your body so you are facing your partner.
Be conscious of your facial expressions. A neutral expression can help the other person feel at ease and able to share. Couples are often very familiar with and hyperaware of their partner's facial expressions and how they relate to what is being said.;
, One way that you can really start to empathize with your partner is to paraphrase what they say. This helps you understand what they are saying and make sure you heard it correctly. Hearing your partner’s feelings coming out of your mouth can help you put yourself into their shoes.If your partner finds this annoying, explain to them that you are trying to actively listen and empathize. The more practice you get, the better you will be about doing this internally.
For example, if your partner just told you about their bad day, you may say, “You had a bad day at work because of your coworkers. Now you feel stressed and discouraged because of this.”
You can also use this to clarify what your partner is saying. You can say something like, "It sounds like you're mad at your boss because they talked down to you in front of your coworkers."

, When you talk to your partner and listen to what they have to say, try not to judge them. You may find yourself jumping to conclusions and judging their actions and feelings; however, this is not an empathetic reaction. Instead, try to understand what the person is saying or figure out what why they did what they did.You are not saying that your partner is right or wrong. You are just trying trying to see things from their perspective.
Ask more questions to help you understand your partner instead of judging.
Look at things from their point of view and put yourself in their shoes. Don't make a quick conclusion about your partner of their actions. Instead, pause, think, and have compassion for them.
 You may feel that your life is too busy and you can’t figure out how to make time for your relationship. The person may end up an afterthought at the end of a long day. To help foster empathy, you should focus on the other person more. Make them a priority in your life.Make a list of qualities you respect and love in your partner. Remind yourself of these qualities daily.
Tell yourself mentally to give time and attention to the other person in the relationship every day.

