 Go to a local bar or club that has live music, or the booth at a theater during a play, and watch what the sound person does. Pay attention to the set up of cords and sound boards. Watch how they interact with people. Take note of when they adjust levels and what the result is.Lots of churches have high quality sound systems and people who run them, so this is also a great place to go for an opportunity to watch.;
, The music industry involves a lot of making connections and getting your foot in the door. Once you find a sound engineer, ask if there is anything you can do, even if it just means taping cables down. You can start to build these connections, which may eventually lead to more involvement.Some people may tell you no. Maybe they don’t want you in the way. You can be persistent and tell them you’ll do anything and won’t bother them. Still, there’s a time to give up and find someone else to ask.
If you are at a venue and you see people setting things up, ask if you can help. They will most likely welcome another set of hands.
 This is an industry that takes a while to work up the ranks into top professional jobs. If you have the opportunity to carry in sound equipment, do it. Maybe sometime you will get to help set everything up. Then you may get to run a sound check. Every chance you get to learn a little more is a building block for your career.Even though it can be hard, don’t think you are too good for anything. Just swallow your pride and take the chance to help out and get some experience.
If you consistently show up at the same places and you are always willing to help in any way you are asked, people will start to notice and may trust you to do more important tasks.
 More than helping out at gigs, an internship will help you get more consistent experience. You may have to go unpaid for a while, but if you can afford to do this, you will learn enough to make up for the lack of pay. Find out if there is a studio near you and see what types of opportunities they have available.


Since there are so many different jobs that sound engineers can have, the range of internships may vary a lot. Any production company that has internships available is worth checking out, even if what they do is not exactly what you are interested in.

