 Turn the oven on to 325 degrees F (160 C). Spray a 10 to 12-cup (2.5 to 3 L) Bundt pan with baking spray. Ensure that the pan is completely coated so the cake doesn't stick.Coating the pan is especially important if the Bundt pan has intricate details and places where cake could stick.;
, Take 1/4 cup (55 g) of finely ground pecans or pecan meal and sprinkle it over the inside of your greased Bundt pan. Turn and shake the pan so the pecans coat the pan evenly. The pecans will add a slight crunch to the cake and will give it a nice golden color. Set the pan aside while you make the cake batter.You can purchase ground pecan meal or make your own. Just process the whole, toasted pecans until they are ground into a powder., Measure out and place most of the light rum cake ingredients into a large mixing bowl. Beat them together on medium speed for 2 minutes, so they're completely combined. You'll need:2 cups (8 1/2 ounces or 240 g) of flour
1 1/2 cups (300 g) of sugar
1/2 cup (115 g) of unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup (130 g) of instant vanilla pudding mix, dry
2 teaspoons of baking powder
1 teaspoon of salt
1/2 cup (120 ml) of vegetable oil
1/2 cup (120 ml) of milk
4 large eggs

, Scrape down the sides of the mixing bowl with a rubber spatula. Stir in 1/2 cup (120 ml) of light rum, 2 teaspoons of vanilla, and the 1/4 teaspoon of butter rum flavor. Beat the cake batter for another minute on low speed.The butter rum flavor is optional. Consider adding it for a robust flavor. Keep in mind that butter rum flavoring doesn't actually contain any rum.
 Spread the cake batter into the greased pan coated with pecans. Use a spatula to ensure that the batter is level in the pan. Bake the cake in the preheated oven for 45 to 55 minutes. Stick a cake tester or skewer into the cake. If the tester comes out clean, the cake is finished baking.Take the cake out of the oven, but leave it in the pan while you make the syrup. You'll also pour the light rum sauce over the cake while it's still in the pan.
 Measure out and place the syrup ingredients into a medium-sized saucepan. You'll need 1/2 cup (115 g) of unsalted butter, 1/4 cup (60 ml) of water, 1 cup (200 g) of sugar, and 1/2 cup (120 ml) of light rum.You can use salted butter. Just keep in mind that the sauce may have a richer flavor.
 Turn the saucepan on to medium-high heat. Stir and cook the sauce until it boils. Reduce the heat so it just bubbles lightly. Simmer the sauce for 5 to 8 minutes and keep stirring it. The sauce will thicken.It's important to let the sauce simmer so the sugar dissolves completely.
 Turn the heat off and stir 1/2 teaspoon of vanilla into the syrup. Use a long wooden or bamboo skewer to poke deep holes across the entire light rum cake.

The skewer should come out cleanly after poking the holes into the cake. If cake batter comes out with the skewer, the cake needs to cook longer.
 Take a 1/4 cup (60 ml) measuring cup or jug and fill it with light rum sauce. Slowly pour it over the cake so it goes into the holes and across the surface of the cake. Continue pouring the sauce over in 1/4-cup (60 ml) increments until all of the sauce is on the cake.Don't worry if the sauce goes onto the cake, instead of just in the holes. The cake will still absorb the sauce.
 Tear off a few sheets of plastic wrap and cover the soaked cake loosely. Let the cake sit overnight so it has a chance to soak up all of the light rum sauce. Keep the cake at room temperature. When you're ready to serve the cake, run a knife around the edges of the cake and the pan. Flip the cake onto your cake pan and slice it.If the cake is sticking to the pan, you can place it in a warm oven (350 degrees F or 175 C) for 5 to 10 minutes. This will liquefy the syrup so you can easily flip the cake out.

