 Also called the International Dialing Prefix (IDD) or exit code, the international prefix is the number that allows you to dial outside the country. Many countries have their own code, but several unrelated countries still share the same number. For instance, an international call from inside Turkey and the U.K. starts with 00, while a call originating from Greenland or Nigeria starts with 009.For many countries in Africa, Asia, Europe and South America, the international access code is 00.
For Australia, the international access code is 0011.
The U.S. is 011.;
, Each country has a code that is required when calling into that country. They are usually one to three digits long. Some countries share calling codes, and they are typically geographically adjacent. The country calling code for Russia is 7.


An example of shared calling codes is Morocco and the Western Sahara. Both have 212 as their calling code.Some Russians may put an 8 in front of their phone number when giving it to you. This is a remnant from when Rostelecom was the primary mobile provider. When calling internationally into Russia, disregard the 8., Some countries have regionally based numbers that are only significant within the country. There are over 75 local calling codes within Russia. Codes for Russia can be up to five digits long. Typically, mobile numbers, which don’t necessarily equate to a geographical location, start with a 9 for the “city” code.Some of the major codes for Russia are as follows:


Moscow – 495
St. Petersburg – 812
Novosibirsk – 383
Yekaterinburg – 343
Novgorod – 81622

, This is the personal number you are calling in Russia. This may range from 5 to 7 digits, based primarily on location and size of the location. The numbers are typically represented as xxx-xx-xx for areas that are large enough for their own grouped city code, or xx-xx-xx for the smaller locations.


Businesses often regroup their numbers into different configurations for easier memorization (e.g. 111-222, 12345-12). 