 Once you remove your steaks from the pan, grill, or oven, you'll probably get a whiff of their delicious aroma and want to bite immediately. Resist this urge! Instead, let your steaks sit under tented tin foil for about ten minutes before you cut into them. You'll be glad you did — steaks that get a chance to rest are slightly moister and more flavorful than those that don't.The reason this "resting" tactic works has to do with the way that a piece of meat is constructed at the microscopic level. Meat is made up of tightly-packed muscle fibers — as these fibers cook, they contract, forcing out moisture in the inside of the meat. By giving the meat a chance to cool slightly after cooking, you're allowing the fibers to relax and reabsorb some of this flavorful moisture.
 New York strip steak is a versatile dish that pairs excellently with countless side dishes and garnishes. For a quick solution, try serving your steaks with sauce. Pre-made sauces are ready instantly, while from-scratch sauces can take as little as a few minutes to prepare, making them a great choice if you're in a hurry. Here are just a few sauces that some food experts recommend for strip steak:Flavored butter (garlic, parsley, thyme, etc.)
Barbecue sauce
Peppercorn sauce
Pesto
Red wine reduction

, What meal is heartier or more satisfying than steak and potatoes? Lots of potato side dishes pair excellently with steak, making for a complete, filling meal. Try serving some of the following potato sides with your steak:


French-fried potatoes (fries)
Baked potatoes
Scalloped potatoes
Roasted potatoes
Mashed potatoes
Boiled potatoes

, While potatoes are super-reliable side dishes for steak, they're far from the only things that pair well with it. There are a huge variety of foods that taste great with steak. Here are just a few serving suggestions — note that there are no real limits to what you serve with your steak except the ingredients you have handy:


Fried/caramelized onions
Wilted spinach/chard/collard greens
Macaroni and cheese
Grilled or fried tomatoes
Salad
Roasted vegetables
Onion rings
Bruschetta

,