 Although this may sound simple, it actually is rather difficult to find a good name for your clan. If your clan is going to be a PKing clan, give it a name which sounds deadly and doom bringing. However, a weak-sounding name full of fun and sarcasm will be excellent for higher level clans (100+). During this period, create a set of rules for your clan that all members should follow. Planning out a unique uniform is recommended as well. Preparation builds confidence for you and those already in the clan.;
, Every clan should have a set of requirements, whether they are 60+ in a certain level, or 100+, or even all levels. Think thoughtfully about choosing your clan requirements, do not make them too insanely high or no one will be allowed to join, yet, be careful not to let everyone in, this will make your clan be considerably weaker. Remember to employ skillers, they are very helpful in money making and gathering raw resources for your empire.
 Keeping your clan organized is not an easy task when it begins to grow. You could start out with MSN or IRC at first, but when you eventually have 20 people, it gets very confusing. A good way is to simply set up forums using InvisionFree, although you could do whatever else you want, but keep in mind that the forums are vital to keeping the clan organized. Organization always boosts morale in a variety of ways.
 It is not advised to walk around RuneScape simply spamming about your clan, as this is frowned upon. Instead, when recruiting in game, chat freely with a player you have interest in. After the player gets to know you and you know the player well enough, ask the player about joining your clan. If you feel unready, ask to join your clan chat. Rank the player, then begin to discuss further and express your interest in him/her, and finally invite the player to join your clan.


When recruiting via forums or somewhere not in game, be sure to describe your clan in full detail. Explain how your clan will be different from every other clan, and be sure to include who to contact if they have any inquiries.
 As a leader, you have to sacrifice the most, you are not a dictator although you could be called one as an inside joke. Stand up for your other members, even the weakest one. Pour out your heart and soul, devote your RuneScape time to the clan. Lead by example, the character you set will be the character which your clan will follow. It is okay to poke fun, but be serious when it is time to be serious. Never bark out orders from the back. You charge into battle, and your members will follow suit. Put others first, it is your members that matter.
 Examples:


If the clan requirement is that you must be level forty, offer a reward of ___k if someone reaches level 80.
If non-members are allowed in, give members each 1k!


Doing the above will encourage your members to work harder, thus making your clan that much better!

, Clan events are the backbone of your clan is the reason why there is a clan. Events can vary from going to Clan Wars, Drop Parties, or just hangovers. Think of something that will be enjoyable for everyone. A fun one is cabbage bombing, the act of dropping literally hundreds of cabbages around certain areas. It certain builds attention for your clan and is a morale booster. Drop Parties are also enjoyable, but don't drop so much that everyone on the server comes! Remember to plan out the events carefully, choose a date and time which most (if not all) can show up. Announce this on your website and give them at least more than a week in advance. Anticipating events even longer are excellent as you could set the planned event to a tentative date which more people could show up on. Usually having several smaller events each week and two big events every month is good way to keep your clan in good shape yet not exhaust them.
 Making allies with other clans certainly help. It benefits both clans as they can have joint events once a month, promoting the two of them, allowing them both to grow. They can also turn entire battles in Clan Wars or Bounty Hunter to your side. If you want to merge, do not merge immediately after befriending another clan, merges should slowly take place over a longer period of time, and then an official merge. Allies can also provide resources of weapons, food, and other things. However, don't make too many allies either.
 As a clan, you need a natural competitor. Besides your enemies, there should be some clans which you should war with regularly. This keeps your clan members active and working, preparing for the next war for glory. Do not be too bitter with enemy clans, however. This stirs up hate and may make your clan lose morale and possibly members. Rivalries should be healthy rivalries which help both clans prepare much more and thus gain levels at a rapid pace.
 Waging war with other clans is tough business. War is not pretty at all, and may cost vast amounts of resources. Do not declare war if you are not prepared, and be sure to inform all members of your clan to be on top alert. Turn up security a notch, accept new member requests VERY carefully, they may be spies. Keep your plans for the war secret in which only clan members could see. Do not wage war if nobody in your clan wants to. It's okay to say "no", and if the challenger teases that you are scared, simply ignore them and tell them to pick on someone their own size.
 Compile a list of how many members you have (and how many are going to show up), levels, average level, and compile a list with the same template but on the opposition. Discuss your strengths, their strengths, and weaknesses. Make sure everybody knows what to do. Get food early in advance, train levels to counter their strengths and hit their weaknesses. If their clan has many melee based warriors, try to get as many people in your clan to train their magic. It does not need to be trained all the way up, but just enough to be effective yet not neglecting other duties. Strategize on formations and areas to hide in, areas to attack through. Organized flanks are effective as they can easily pile and protect the rangers and mages, yet staggered and spread out by a fair distance is excellent to pick off running enemies and makes the job harder for enemy rangers and mages. Make sure there are no confusions on the day of battle, and that everyone has a part. Everybody should know what they are doing. Be cunning and creative!

, After your glorious victory, have a celebration or a feast with your clan. A party is a fun way to celebrate and boost morale and confidence further. Thank everybody who participated, even those who did not go to the war, but contributed. Have every member feel that they were important. Have fun with it, take it as a personal win and point out any issues encountered during the process of the war, although do this very subtly while everyone is dancing and enjoying the party. If you lost, quickly attempt to regain morale, have a party anyway and make a speech about the accomplishments. Have your clan members feel good and have achieved something.

