 Get out 1 pound (45 g) of pizza dough and place it on a large sheet of parchment paper. Use a rolling pin to roll the dough into a large oval that's 2-inches (5 cm) longer and 2-inches (5 cm) wider than your slow cooker. Sprinkle 2 tablespoons of cornmeal over both sides of the dough. Lower the parchment paper with the dough into the slow cooker.If you're using frozen pizza dough, let it thaw in the fridge until it's soft enough to handle.
 Put 3 tablespoons of butter in a large skillet and turn it on to medium. While the butter melts, peel and dice 1 shallot and 2 cloves of garlic. Add the shallot to the butter and saute it for 1 to 2 minutes. Add the garlic and saute the mixture for another 2 minutes.Shallots have a strong, concentrated flavor. If you'd like to substitute onion, you could dice and use half of one onion.
 Open one 28 ounce (794 g) can of crushed tomatoes and add it to the skillet along with 2 teaspoons of dried Italian seasoning, 1 1/2 teaspoons of sugar, and 1 teaspoon of salt. If you want to add meat, you could stir in 1/2 pound (230 g) of cooked Italian pork sausage.You could also substitute ground beef or scatter pepperoni over the pizza crust.
 Sprinkle 2 cups (200 g) of shredded Italian blend cheese over the crust in the slow cooker. If you want to use any pepperoni, sprinkle it over the crust. Pour the tomato sauce evenly over the cheese.If the edges of the crust are hidden by cheese, you may need to lift and pull on the sides of the dough to make them stand out.
 Unroll a long piece of paper towel, so you can lay it across the entire length of the slow cooker. Set the lid on the slow cooker, so the paper towel is held in place. Turn the cooker on to HIGH and cook the pizza for 2 to 4 hours. You can also cook it on LOW for 4 to 6 hours. The crust should cook completely and the cheese will melt once it's finished baking.The paper towel will catch any of the moisture from the lid. This will prevent it from dripping onto the pizza, which could make it soggy.
 Remove the lid and paper towel from the slow cooker. Grab the parchment paper and slowly lift the pizza up and out of the slow cooker. Sprinkle the pizza with extra parmesan cheese and freshly chopped parsley. Slice it and serve the pizza immediately.Use caution when you lift the hot pizza out of the oven. You may want to wear oven mitts.

