 Teach children to be mindful of their own space and other children’s space. For example, teach them to keep their hands and feet to themselves and not touch other children without their permission. Some kids like to reach over and grab something off other children’s desks, so teach them to ask for what they want instead of taking it. When playing with other children, make gentle reminders to respect their space.Say, “Please put that back and ask if you may see it.”
Try to arrange playdates for your child with other children to work on manners. Make sure to let the other child’s parents know that you will be working with your child on manners during their playdate.;
, Taking turns is an important skill at school, whether it be getting food at the cafeteria or waiting to use the slide during recess. Find opportunities for your child to take turns with other children. Have them play board games, share toys, or do activities on the playground. Teach them that just as they waited to take their turn, other children are waiting to take theirs, too.Play games in your family that encourage taking turns.
 Kids should learn not to embarrass themselves or gross others out while eating lunch in the cafeteria. Enforce polite eating habits at home by reminding children not to talk with their mouths full. Children should stay seated while eating and not run around or leave the table. Once their food is finished, they can throw away any trash, put dishes in their lunch box, and clean up their space. Discourage your children from throwing food.Keep children focused on their own food. Don’t allow kids to grab food from another child’s plate or do something gross or unwanted to another child’s food.
 Waiting in line is a common part of being in school, whether it’s to wait to go to recess, being in the lunch line, or lining up to go to gym class. If your child is impatient or struggles to wait in line, practice waiting in lines together. For example, go to the grocery store and model patient waiting while people ahead of you get their groceries. Explain to your child that sometimes you’re first in line and other times you’re last in line.Say, “It’s hard to wait, but we’ll get to the front soon. We have to wait patiently until then.”
Teach your child about healthy and appropriate things they can do to pass the time, such as making small talk, looking around and taking in their surroundings, or seeing if they can be helpful to someone.
 It’s important for children to learn to cover their mouths when they sneeze and use tissues for coughs or sniffles, so as to not spread germs to their classmates and friends. Practice hygiene at home by reminding your child to cover their mouth when they cough or sneeze. Whenever your child wipes their nose, make sure their tissue goes into the trash can right away.Go over good bathroom hygiene, too. Remind them to wipe thoroughly, always flush the toilet, and wash their hands each time they use the restroom.

