 If you want to YOLO, don't try to do it all at once. Do new stuff each day, but only a few things. If you YOLO yourself to death today, you've still got to do some exciting stuff tomorrow. Think of it as a life-long process. Pace yourself.


Avoid having identical days back-to-back. Especially if you're in school or working, it's easy for all the days to blend together if you're not careful.
Sometimes, YOLO can get a little repetitive. You don't have to go crazy every day, if that's your usual go to. Sometimes the wildest thing you can do is take it easy.;
, Instead of making plans, just show up and come up with plans on the fly. Fly by the seat of your pants. Allow for spontaneous chance to make your plans for you, and you'll be grabbing life by the horns. Make it up as you go along.


Don't decide what you're going to do with your friends on Friday night if it's Tuesday. You've got a whole lifetime to live in between those days. Don't worry about what you're going to do tomorrow, just worry about the next 15 minutes, and how you'll make them fun.
 Shake up your regular routine by introducing new people into your world. The more people you know, the more unpredictable life will be. Just walk up to a new student at school and introduce yourself, then start a conversation.


Make lots of different kinds of friends. Don't limit yourself by social types. If you're a jock-type, make friends with some smart kids at school, or some artsy kids. Have male friends and female friends, gay friends and straight friends. Get to know everybody.
 One of the easiest but nicest ways to try a new thing each day is to try a new food. Little changes are the easiest to make regular in your life. Eat something different for lunch each day. Switch it up.


You don't have to go crazy with expensive meals. New food doesn't have to be fancy. Just try a different variety of energy drink to add a little spice to your life, or a different variety of cereal.
Give yourself a food challenge to make yourself get creative. If you have a sandwich every day, cut bread out of your diet so you'll have to figure out how to have different foods, other than sandwiches.
Instead of going on a big shopping trip once a week, go on small trips regularly, so you can get different stuff. If your parents do the cooking, try volunteering to do more meals, so you can change it up yourself.
 Giving yourself the right soundtrack for adventure can help you write those adventures. Don't get stuck in a musical rut. Find new tunes and explore different kinds of music to make each day sound different, even if it starts to look the same.


Look backward. If you mostly listen to new bands, figure out who your favorites were influenced by, then check those acts out. If you like Katy Perry, check out Madonna, Cher, and then go back to Etta James and Bessie Smith. Find the history of the music you like.
Look forward, too. Always keep an ear to underground music blogs and sites to get a feel for new music. Or just plug into Spotify or Pandora and listen to what it suggests.
 If you mostly do what's expected of you, or say what you think other people will want to hear, you're not YOLO-ing. Instead, listen to the beat of your own drummer. Don't change what you say or do to accommodate the opinions of others. Speak from the heart and drop some truth bombs.


Stop trying to sacrifice yourself to make other people happy. Don't compromise if you want to be the singer in the band because you've got the best set of pipes.
Remember to keep yourself in check and be honest with yourself. It's important to be tactful and not be cruel. YOLO isn't an excuse for being a jerk.
 After you YOLO, snap a picture and share it with your friends. YOLO is a movement of seizing the day. That means that every time you do something awesome and spontaneous, you should share it on social networking as quickly as possible.


Just met a random at the mall and hopped in the foundation to scrounge for change? Upload the pic to Instagram with some captions. Live-tweet all the weird stuff the dude says. Then summarize your day on Facebook later. That's YOLO.
YOLO was primarily used as a hashtag (#YOLO), but entered regular speaking vocabulary. The difference between "carpe diem" and "YOLO" is pretty much just that YOLO is for the Internet generation., YOLO is like a bucket list that always keeps regenerating itself. Each day should be like your last. But it's still a good idea to have a real bucket list, since you probably just can't wake up today and decide to hike to Machu Picchu. Plan complicated or difficult things you definitely want to accomplish ahead of time.


What do you want to do before you die? What can you do today to move yourself closer to that goal? Look at the little steps that will need to happen to get there.
If you want to hike to Machu Picchu, you might not be able to leave today, but you can research how to get there, how much it will cost, and other information. YOLO by getting smart.
 If you want to feel that jolt of adrenaline to help remind yourself you're alive, doing something death-defying is a great way to YOLO. There's a right way and a wrong way to do anything, including stunts. Learn to do something the right way, and you'll be able to keep yourself safe:


Go skydiving
Go rock climbing
Learn to sword fight
Learn to ride a motorcycle
Swim with sharks

, Make the world you YOLO a little bigger by experiencing more of it. Experiencing different cultures and communities can be a thrill and a life-changing experience for lots of people, young and old. It's never too early or too late to embrace travel.



Head out by yourself to find out how you can handle yourself on the open road. If you want to experience the thrill of living off your back, traveling solo is something you should try at least once in your life.
If you're feeling really brave, learning to hitchhike safely or hop a freight train like it's the 1930s.
 Sometimes, you'll just run out of steam in life. For some people, it's a sign that you need to make a bigger change, beyond the scope of your regular YOLOing. Consider making a significant life change and moving forward into the great wide open:



Quit your job spectacularly and start a new career

Go to college
Get a tattoo
Get a piercing
Cut all your hair off

Break up with someone and be alone for a while, or start dating if you're ready


, If you enter into a creative hobby in your spare time, you can stay engaged in exploring your hobby and in learning new things. Every day you spend working on a creative project is a new day that you're YOLOing. Try any of the following:



Write a book of poetry or a novel

Work with wood
Write a screenplay
Make a film

Build a rat rod or a demolition derby car


Start painting or performing and be an artist


, Even though it might seem real, Facebook isn't your life. If you're spending hours and hours plugged into your computer, pull yourself away and go outside. Try to avoid sitting with your laptop, phone, tablet, anything with an Internet connection for more than 20 to 30 minutes a day.


If you have to spend more time at your computer for school or work, try to balance it with a significant amount of time doing other things. When you're done with work, don't mess around on Facebook or YouTube. Go play basketball or hang out with your fiends. Don't check your e-mail until the next time you're at work.
 Sure, there are a lot of decent shows on television. But you've got plenty of time to watch them. If you want to YOLO, you've got to get off your duff and start doing things. That means not sitting around catching up on Downton Abbey.


Earn your TV time by doing other fun things. For every hour you YOLO, let yourself watch 30 minutes of TV. Good trade.
 When you're around people, especially new people, you'll be off balance and living in the moment. It's easier to YOLO when you're socializing with your friends as much as possible. Make lots of friends and spend time with them.


YOLOing doesn't mean that you have to do everything that your friends do, or that you should be a total follower. Use your own voice and do what you want. Don't just follow the crowd.
 Being agreeable is a good way to YOLO. Do you want to go out tonight? Sure, why not? Do you want to drive across town and check out the rodeo? Heck yes. Do you want to go to the dance and perform "Thriller" as a flash-mob with your friends? Believe it. If it comes down to "doing something" vs. "not doing something," err on the side of doing something.


Stop saying "can't" when you get an invitation. You "can't" dance? Come on. Believe you can and start moving. Say you can and worry about the details later.
Again, this isn't an excuse for engaging in risky or dangerous behavior. If doing something legitimately makes you uncomfortable, don't do it.
 Exercising can be a dull enterprise, or it can be a great and healthy way to seize the day and YOLO, if you do it right.Exercise doesn't have to be a strict kind of aerobics. It can be a blast. Try the following YOLO-worthy exercise ideas:


Take a hip-hop dance class
Hula-hoop dance
Play dodgeball
Play ultimate frisbee
Play badminton
Take a boxing class

