 While each airline has its own rules regarding the size of your carry-on suitcase, most airlines follow a rough guideline that is 45 linear inches (14 x 9 x 22 inches). However, if you can find a carry-on suitcase that is 20 inches (50.8 cm) long, you will be good to go--almost every airline deems that the perfect size for the overhead compartment. Check your airline’s website for the specific requirements of that airline.You should also look for a suitcase that only has two wheels, because four-wheelers have a tendency to roll all over the place (especially if you let go of them while on the bus transporting you to your flight)., Once you have laid them out, reduce the amount by half. Think lightweight, since you’ll be packing all of your stuff into a tiny suitcase. Do you really need twelve pairs of pants and eighteen shirts? Chances are, you probably don’t. Only pack what you really need. Also aim for lighter materials that you can layer. Denim is heavier than other materials like cotton so consider the weight of your clothes when packing.


Coordinate the colors of your outfits. This will help you to stretch the clothes you bring into more outfits. Remember that black goes with everything.
If you are really having trouble limiting the amount of clothing you are bringing, try following this rule: shirts get worn for two days each and pants or shorts get worn for three days each. Apply this rule to the clothes you have laid out and see if that reduces the amount at all.
 Because you have a carry-on, you will most likely be limited to the standard one-quart, plastic, resealable bag of toiletries for your liquid items. You can also bring a bag for dry items like makeup, deodorant, etc. For larger liquid items, consider buying these when you get to your destination, or use the free ones that you get at hotels and motels.
 You should wear your heaviest items on the plane so that you don’t have to stuff them into your carry-on. Wear your jeans and jacket or sweatshirt, as well as your heaviest shoes, so that you have more space for other items in your carry-on., After all, you are allowed two carry-ons, one that gets stored in the overhead compartment (your suitcase), and one (your bag) that gets stored under your seat. See Method One for tips on how to properly pack your carry-on bag for the flight.
 There are many different ways to pack efficiently. Use one method, or try a combination. Make sure to keep anything you will need to take out for security (like your toiletries) right at the top. Some of these techniques include:


The Rolling Method: Roll, roll, roll your pants into a little tube! Rolling your clothes up into tubes is a great way to save space, particularly when compared to folding all of your clothes. It also does less wrinkle damage.Use compression bags. These bags can be purchased at most everything-stores like Target, Bed Bath and Beyond, etc. Stuff your clothes into these bags, zip them up, and then squeeze them so that all the air gets removed. You will be shocked by how tiny these bags filled with clothes can get.
Stuff things into every nook and cranny. Stuff your socks in to shoes, dresses into nooks and crannies--anything you can fit. It won’t be the most organized carry-on, but you will definitely have everything you need.