 You can be practically anything such as wild, shy, sweet, rebellious, funny, punky, unique, etc. Pick one or two that fit you as you are now. You can even go with a unique form of scene.;
, Get into the scene vibe before it takes over your look. You can be very random if you'd like. Make sure everyone hears every word you say. Scene chicks are very confident with themselves, so embrace your flaws and know that you're pretty! Don't care what others think about you, just be you and be outgoing. Be original--that's what scene's all about.
 Start finding some clothes that look scene-ish. For the top, cartoon tees are really popular among scenes. Band Tees are also a big hit. Shirts that say random sayings are really popular too. At this age, you have an advantage because you can most likely fit into both girls' sizes and juniors'/women' sizes. Hot Topic is the main place you'd find sweet clothes, but if you still fit into kids' sizes, try Justice. Don't go to any preppy stores like Abercrombie, Hollister, or Gap.You can also check out thrift stores where you can get amazing bargains. Grab a few hoodies--some plain ones and/or patterned ones look cool. You could also try Four Leaf Clothing, Darkside Clothing, Blue Banana, and more.
 Skinny jeans are a must! Black and denim are usually the ones available in kids' sizes, but if you're really tall, Hot Topic, Vans, and some more places have awesome colored and patterned skinny jeans that are so scene. You can also wear skirts and colorful tutus. Make sure the skirts don't go below your knees and wear leggings. It's never a bad time. Wear your tutu to the grocery store.
 Some really scene-like shoes are Converse, Vans, and ballet flats in "happy" colors. These include hot pink, neon green, orange, yellow, turquoise, and deep purple. To make your Converse look neat, use some awesome laces. Steer clear of flip-flops, unless you're at the beach or pool. You can grab a white pair of converse and paint a totally random pattern on it yourself for a more unique look.
 Remember those colorful necklaces you wore when you played dress-up as a kid? Remember the corny bracelets with the random colors and chunky beads? Rather than throw them away, you could recycle them. Wear them with your new scene attitude. Wear bracelets galore, this means bracelets up and down your arms, and try some cool belts over your shirts. Earrings aren't a big issue, so you can get by with some cool studs.
 Most people say scene hair must be long. That's an over statement. You may want the look everyone else has, but short hair is always cute and funky too. Just get really choppy layers, and bangs. Usually, your parents don't mind if you have short or long hair. Stand out.


For hair accessories, try clip-in extensions (they aren't permanent). Most parents, at this age, will probably not let you dye your hair. Some days, you can put little plastic bows in your hair or tie some ribbons in it. Think silly, cute, and colorful. If your parents won't let you dye your hair, talk to them about Kool-aiding it. Kool-aid lasts for 4-7 days, depending on how long or how many times you shower, and it does not damage your hair at all.
 Your parents or school may not like the popular, wild scene makeup most scenes wear. Tone down some of it and it should do. That means dust on some eyeshadow in bold colors like purple, green, yellow, pink, or blue. Try a little bit of eyeliner, but only on the top lid. Make it winged a bit going toward your forehead. Just a bit of light pink or clear lip gloss will look nice too.
 To be Scene, you have to love the music! Some big music examples are: Blood On The Dance Floor, Brokencyde, Millionaires, I Set My Friends on Fire, Owl City, and Breathe Carolina are just some good examples of scene music. Try looking up bands like the ones listed. If your parents look for the "explicit" label, try buying the clean versions of those songs.

