 Consider dropping your own assessments of their problem and related ideas about how to fix things. Instead, consider ways you could be more empathetic. For instance, consider letting go of your desire to fix their problem and try to understand the details of their situation.You may not agree with their interpretation of their situation, but you should still listen attentively and try to understand them.
 Often, unsolicited advice comes from a place of not adequately understanding the situation or challenge that another person is going through.To move beyond this problem, you could try to understand and empathize with the challenge that they are going through. It might help to ask them clarifying questions:


“Can you tell me a little more about that?”
“That sounds really tough. I’m not sure I understand how you got into that situation. Can you remind me how that happened?”

, After listening attentively, you can ask them directly how you could help out. They may simply say that you are helping by offering an attentive ear. If they need something specific, they may tell you. If they are specifically looking for advice, they will have the opportunity to ask you for it. Try saying:“I’m here anytime you need me. Really, anything you need.”
“What can I do to help?”

, Advice that is specifically requested is much more appreciated than unsolicited advice. If you are called upon to give advice, you can go ahead and offer your two cents on how to resolve the situation. Give advice if they ask the following kinds of questions:"I really need advice on how to resolve this situation with my brother. I'm at a loss right now. Do you have any experience that would help?"
"Have you ever dealt with a family member dealing with depression? Do you have any advice based on that experience?"

, Rather than telling them specific things to do, you should convey your care for them and listen to their problems. You shouldn’t promise to keep any secrets, since you may have to convey the information to a mental health professional. Listen with attentive ears to everything they have to say and try to be there for them.If there is an emergency, you should call 911 and wait until help arrives.

