 Although you can make a worthwhile amount of money this way, don't mistake this as an efficient money-making venture. Treat it as a game or a hobby and you'll have a much better time. Realize that most days, you won't find a significant amount of money., Money is one of the filthiest things that people touch on a regular basis, germ-wise. That's because it's handled by so many people, going from person to person all the time. When you're out money hunting, keep a bottle of hand sanitizer with you and don't be stingy with it. Especially after you check places like public restrooms and parking lots., When you're just out going about your business and you happen upon money, you can just store it in your pocket or purse. But if you go out with the intention of searching for money, it's best to have something to keep it in while you're out, like a coin purse or a small bag.


It's also worth having a place to store your found money at home, like a piggy bank or something equivalent.
 There are three main methods for turning coins into cash. You can use a machine designed for such a thing, like Coinstar. You can take it to your bank and use their coin counting machine if they have one. Or you can retrieve some change roll paper from your bank and roll the change up yourself, then exchange it at the bank.Whether or not using your bank to exchange your coins for cash is your best option depends on a few factors. Some banks have coin counting machines and some don't. Of the ones that do, some require a fee to use and some don't. Some banks will provide you with coin roll paper for free and some don't.
Keep in mind that while Coinstar is the most convenient method, they also take 8 to 10 percent of your profit for their services. This can be avoided though, if you use their gift card program instead of turning in the voucher for cold hard cash.
 Your options for what to do with the money you find are unlimited. But since lost money hunting works better as a hobby than as a money-making method, it's probably wise not to use this money for things you already buy, like groceries and gas. Instead, consider putting the money you find into a savings account. Either open a new one or put it into an existing savings account.Another idea of what to do with this money is to save up for something unnecessary but fun, like a bike or a gaming console. Having a concrete goal that you're working towards when finding money will make you more motivated and make it more like a game.
 People often empty their pockets in their bedroom, which means under your bed and bedside furniture is a great first place to look. Of course, sofa cushions and chair cushions are another great place for loose change to be found. Check under and around all the furniture in your house.Don't forget about your washing machine and dryer. People often leave money in their clothes on accident and then wash them, leaving coins and cash in and around the washing machine and dryer., It's no strange occurrence to occasionally find money in the pair of pants you're wearing that you had completely forgotten about. So do yourself a favor and seek out all the forgotten money now. Go through all your pants and jacket pockets for money. And while you're at it, go through any purses and bags you use as well., Anywhere you sit down regularly is a prime location to look for lost change. Make a sweep through your car, under the seats and in the seat cushions. Coins tend to collect in places that are frequented often but never thoroughly looked through., This includes stores, restaurants, public telephones, public transportation, and bars. Keep an eye on the floors of these places, and you may be surprised by how much money you can spot. Try to be at least a little discrete about this though. You don't want people questioning why you're roaming around a restaurant with your back bent and your eyes glued to the ground.Be careful to not pick up money that was just dropped. You might find a stray dollar in the corner of a bar, but if it was just dropped by someone, return it them if they're not picking it up themselves. The goal is to collect money left behind, not steal.
Pay careful attention to sides and corners, where coins can easily roll out of sight and out of the way.
 Inspect under bleachers at sporting events, fairs, and other venues with open-bottomed bleachers. Also check car parking lots, especially those of night clubs and bars. Do so in the morning hours, before traffic starts moving. It's amazing what people will drop when they are drunk, tired, and distracted.Whenever you need to go to a store, park far from the store, so you can search for money on the ground as you walk.Pay extra attention to self-pay parking lots and drive-throughs. People will reach from their car window to pay, and often drop coins to the ground. Most people won't bother to get out of their car to collect this change., Check the coin return slots in vending machines. Look behind and underneath them for change that has rolled out of sight. Most people will not bend down and rummage under a vending machine to find a coin they've lost., Look down alleyways, and often-used footpaths where people may drop their spare change. This is an easy thing to do when you're out on other business. It's just about making a habit of being observant of the ground and what you might come across., Check behind the public toilet seat. People have to drop their trousers, and anything could come out of those pockets, including change or bills. Also, look behind the cushions of the sofa, and seats, that you find in the foyer and bars of a hotel. This can be done by discreetly running your hand behind the cushions after you sit down.