 Make it private so you feel free to write honestly. Every night, make entries about people, places, world events, life events, or anything else that triggered negative energy over the course of your day. Write freely and honestly about why you felt negative., Monitor your journal for emerging patterns to your negativity. This will begin to give you a roadmap of what you are sensitive to, what is causing your distress, and if there are things that are outside of your control over or if you find yourself writing about things that you have the capacity to change.For example, maybe you find yourself writing about how much you hate your job. Use your journal to guide your thoughts about what kinds of changes you could make in your life to reduce the daily negative energy you feel at your job.
 Toxic interpersonal relationships can lead to stress, anxiety, depression, and other negative emotions. Discuss with your friends or family, anyone close to you. Question everything you feel about the person you are with. Is he/she the right match for you? Is the relationship causing this pain and anxiety? Try resolving the issue by having a healthy conversation with your partner. Try letting go if it's not something you are not looking for. Also, examine how you interact with the people in your life. Determine if your personal or social life is a source of negative energy. Don’t make the examination about placing blame but simply explore what your relationships bring to your emotional energy. If you identify relationships that seem to bring mostly negativity, ask how you can make changes to those relationships.


Some of the most common signs of a toxic interpersonal relationship include viewing the person primarily with contempt and through a critical lens, taking unnecessary steps to avoid the person, and feeling as though even good times with the person end up hopelessly swallowed by the other negative interactions., Are you taking on negative energy that isn’t yours? Examine the ways that you allow yourself to soak up negative energy, take responsibility for things that aren’t your fault, blame yourself for things you had no control over, engage in negative self-talk, or if you view yourself in a negative light in general.Consider using your journal to create a concrete way to become aware of yourself and your own negative thinking. What are you holding on to? What can’t you forgive? What grudges do you keep alive? What are you angry about? What do you need to focus on letting go?

, Daily meditation may make it easier on a regular basis to release negative energy, as well as creating more self-awareness and creating resilience to negative energy in general.Sitting for ten minutes a day counts as a meditation practice.


Even if you don’t focus on your breathing the whole time, don’t get discouraged. Try to remember that just sitting is the practice. Imagine your thoughts are like cars on a highway, and as you breathe, you are just observing your thoughts race by.
 Start making lists every day of things you did that you were proud of. Use that list as motivation for the next day. You can also explore things you could have done or said differently that would have resulted in less negative energy. Explore your own actions and reactions and begin to feel confident in your ability to make decisions that will allow you to release negative energy.For example, say you experienced road rage that day and felt a lot of negative energy while driving. Did you allow yourself to stay angry or did you practice some belly breathing and help yourself let go?

, Remember that feeling negative emotions is often healthy and natural. Accepting that life is difficult, that things will be challenging, and that problems will arise is a huge step toward building a resilient attitude.It's natural to feel negative feelings from time to time. Instead, maintain perspective on the fact that how you deal with the associated emotions is what matters.Keep in mind that whatever the situation, you are equipped to handle what life throws at you.


For example, if you lost your job, you could reframe your negativity and anger into an underlying awareness that life is about doing, you will find another opportunity, and you will make things work. You never know what life has in store, and sometimes the most difficult things we experience turn out to be for the best.
 Spirituality can help you make sense of tragedy, feel comforted, and help you gain illumination and meaning on your journey.Spirituality can mean whatever it needs to mean to you. Developing a sense of connection to the world in a healthy way that gives you a sense of life outside yourself is really the biggest goal. Explore what resonates with you and what doesn’t. When exploring spiritual avenues, always listen to what feels right for you.


If faith isn’t something you are interested in, Buddhism offers a deeply spiritual way to connect with the world without any belief systems whatsoever.
Some situations —if the negative emotional energy is due to an argument, for instance—It is impossible or hard to get up and walk away. In these situations, be polite, take a long pause, think your words over, and then respond. Mind your tone as well.

