 If you're more touchy-feely with your loved one, you're more likely to feel romantic -- and in the mood. No matter how long you've been together, you should cuddle, kiss, and show your loved one affection often enough to make that person feel truly loved.


You don't have to hold hands all the time, but if you're going for a walk, hold your loved one's hand.
If you're watching a movie, put your arm around your loved one, or snuggle up next to him or her.
Don't let a day go by without kissing your loved one, even if it's just a peck on the lips.
Hug your loved one as often as you can.
Think of new ways to give your loved one affection. It can be by tickling him or her in bed, gently stroking his/her hair, or by squeezing his/her side.
 To keep things fresh, you should not only give your loved one compliments whenever you can, but you should think of new and exciting compliments to give your loved one to make him or her feel truly special. Though you can go back to the same old compliments -- the beautiful color of your wife's eyes, or your new boyfriend's sexy smile, you can also mix things up by thinking of something new to appreciate about your loved one.


Find one new thing to compliment your loved one about each week. It could be a physical trait, or an aspect of his or her personality. Thinking of something new will also make you find even more things to appreciate about your special someone.
You can write the compliment in a note that you leave for your loved one to find. That will be even more romantic.
 If you want to keep the romance alive, you have to keep things fresh by always attending to your looks. If you've been with the same person for years, you can start to get lazy, wear sweatpants all the time, and forget to shower or shave, but that's not the way to go if you want to keep things romantic. Try to pay as much attention to your looks as you did when you first met the person you love.



Groom daily. Shower, shave, wash your hair, and do whatever you have to do to keep looking fresh.
Continue to dress up for date night. Even if it's your 500th date night, you should keep things fresh by always attending to your looks.
Try out a new haircut, style of makeup, or a new set of clothes you never normally would wear. Keep things feeling fun and different.
 Pretend that you and the person just met, and you want the person to fall for you. What would you do to impress him or her? To show him or her that you're interested? To win your loved one over? Treat your partner like he or she is single, like you're trying to earn his or her affection and trust.


The opposite of being romanced is being taken for granted. No one wants to feel like he or she has already been "caught" and it's over and done with. Put on a show! Stay on your toes!
The most romantic ideas come to people when they fear they might lose the one they love. But you don't have to actually be on the verge of losing someone in order to tap into that mindset.
 Many people associate the beginning of a relationship with romance, excitement and inspiration because everything is new. You've just met this person and the relationship is unfolding--what will happen tomorrow? Next week? Next month? Will he/she call? Will we kiss? Will he/she visit? But after the relationship is established, we settle into a routine, and nothing is new anymore.


To be romantic, to reintroduce the excitement that characterized the beginning of the relationship, do something different, something that your partner wouldn't expect. The more out of the ordinary, the better!
Take your partner on a weekend trip out of the blue, stop him or her in the middle of the street for a long, lingering kiss, or mail a letter to your partner listing all of the reasons you love him or her -- even if you live at the same address.
 If you make your bedroom more sexy, you'll feel more excited about getting frisky with your loved one. Make sure your bedroom is a den for sex and excitement, not a place for you to throw dirty clothes or old food wrappers, or a room that doubles as an office or a playpen for your children.


You and your loved one can work together to make your bedroom more simple and more sexy, leaving you no option to do anything other than sleep or make love in the bedroom.
Even working together to "sexify" your bedroom can make you feel more romantic and sexy.
 Whether you've been sleeping with the same person for years or just getting past the kissing stage in your relationship, you should always make things romantic in the kissing or love-making department. Never forget to look into your loved one's eyes, to tell him or her how much he or she means to you, and to deliver fresh compliments when you're kissing or just snuggling.


Don't just cut to the chase -- take the time to make the other person feel loved or appreciated.
 Though it may not feel very romantic to spend time apart from the person you love, spending some time apart, even if it's just a weekend away or a longer period of time, will help you remember why you love each other and will make you miss and appreciate each other even more.


Making time to hang out with your friends separately will help you appreciate your date nights together even more.
While you're apart, you can even both make a list of all of the things you miss about each other. That will be very romantic.
If you're apart for a few weeks or even longer, then you can write each other letters -- along with or instead of calling and emailing -- that say how much you mean to each other.
 Exploring the outdoors can make any couple feel romantic, whether you're nature lovers or not. Even taking a walk together every morning can make you feel more romantic, and so can going on a short hike, walking along the beach, or spending an afternoon picnicking or hanging out in a park.


Make sure to spend at least one day a week doing something outdoorsy together.
Even enjoying a home-cooked meal on your balcony or on your back porch can make you feel more romantic.
Watching a sunset together is always romantic no matter where you are.

