 Accepting your stress will show you what stressors you are aware of and what stressful things you need to avoid. It also will show what you need to work on when stressed. Once you accept your stressors, you will be able to handle them in a healthy manner.;
, Try to eliminate all the constant stressors in your life. This will help you focus on what you really need to focus on without any of the extra stressors getting in the way. This will help you in your everyday life.
 Print out all of your syllabuses for each class and mark on a calendar when your exams are, when your homework assignments are due, when papers are due, etc. This will help you stay organized and know how to manage your time to know when you are going to study for each exam.
 If you take on another obligation won't help when you are already stressed. When you have to study, going out with friends will only make you stress out more because it will disturb your schedule. Do not do more than you can handle.
 To keep yourself healthy, eat fruit and vegetables as snacks while studying. Drink water to keep yourself hydrated. This will help keep your brain focused on what you are studying and will also be healthy for your body.
 Change your diet to healthy foods and drinks. This will have a big impact on your anxiety and stress levels. Some of the foods/drinks that you should avoid are : coffee, sugar, and alcohol.
 Procrastinating your assignments and studies will be something that will extremely stress you out. When you keep looking at the clock to make sure your turning assignments in on time or because you are studying the day before an exam will cause you to have stress which will lead to anxiety and that is not healthy. Avoid all this by doing things in a timely matter. This will help take away stress and will be healthier for your brain and body.
 Taking a nap will help you relieve stress and will help you relax. Taking a power nap will help you stay productive and it good for your well being.
 Even though it is good to manage your time with your schoolwork, you should also manage your time with things you enjoy to relax yourself. Make some time just for yourself to keep your brain going. This will be a good stress reliever.
 Doing some physical activity will help take away stress and will help you forget about everything that is causing your stress. Going for a walk or for a run will help you take away the stress. This will also work in favor in your health. Exercising is good for your physical health.
 On your spare time before you go to sleep, write about your feelings and express all the stress in a diary. Write more about positives things but also write about how you are feeling. This will help your mental health to be stable which is healthy for the brain.
 Have positive thoughts when trying to deal with stress for your education. The stress will be worth it in the end when you end up getting the job that you always wanted and worked for. Try to do some relaxation activities and meditation while going through the stress.

