 There are many different ways to record interview audio today. Below are a few common options:


Digital Audio Recorder: A small handheld device that records audio to digital media. These are reasonably-priced and easy to use.
Smartphone App: A downloadable program that lets you capture audio to your phone's storage. Usually free. Audio quality depends on your phone's built-in mic.
Computer Recording Program: Lets you capture audio directly to your computer with the built-in mic or a peripheral mic. Some, like Audacity, are free.Most have easy options for cutting and editing the audio.;
, The types of microphones that you buy separately are usually better than the mics that come built-in for computers and phones. Since you're just recording voices, you don't need an extremely high-quality mic to get good results. Lots of peripheral mics cost as little as $20.Most peripheral mics will be able to plug into a headphone jack, a computer's USB port, a MicroUSB port, or some combination of these. Make sure the microphone you're buying works with your recording device before you pay for it.
Another big advantage of peripheral mics is that you can position them much closer to your interviewee's mouth. This allows you to pick up the audio better., You don't need to use a professional recording studio or another space that's designed to capture sounds perfectly. However, there are a few things to consider:


Pick a spot with as little background noise as possible. Keep in mind that planes, cars, lawnmowers, and other distant sounds can be picked up by audio recording devices even if they don't sound loud to the human ear.
Only record indoors. Outdoor areas seldom lack background noises.
Pick a spot that's "dead". This means a room without an echo. Rooms with lots of hard, flat surfaces tend to have the worst echoes. By contrast, rooms with rugs, carpets, soft furniture, and blankets tend to lack echoes., You don't want to find out that your mic is broken after you finish an interview. To ensure your equipment is working perfectly, record a brief practice clip before you start the interview proper. 30 seconds or so should be plenty of time. Below is a brief checklist you may want to consult:


Make sure you can start and stop the recorder easily.
Make sure your mic is picking up your interviewee's voice. If you will be talking, make sure it can pick up yours as well.
Make sure that both your voice and your interviewee's are being picked up at a reasonable volume. Move the mic(s) closer or farther away from each person or adjust their recording levels as needed.
Make sure you can save and listen to the test file you create.
 Now that you're all ready to record, learn a few easy tricks for ensuring that you get the best possible content for your recording:Make sure your interviewee understands that s/he is being recorded and consents to the process.
Make sure you and your interviewee are both comfortable (especially if the interview will be a long one). Have some water handy in case either of you gets thirsty.
Let your interviewee talk. Try to let your subject express his or her thoughts fully. Silent cues like nods can be good for getting the interviewee to elaborate without losing the thread of the conversation. If you're running short on time, wait for your interviewee to finish a sentence or idea before interrupting.
Tend towards open-ended questions. Asking something like "How did you feel when this happened to you?" as opposed to "What happened next?" will usually lead to a longer, deeper conversation.

