 Learn not to buy the same old thing.


Therefore, whenever you're buying clothes, ask yourself 'Is this similar to something that I already have?/Is there something different I could buy that I don't have yet?' Of course, this doesn't mean you have to buy clothes that don't suit you, or that you can't buy anymore of a particular type of clothing, it just allows you to pause and think about whether this purchase is going to make a good addition to your wardrobe;
,


A good idea would be to write down, at the beginning of each season, what clothes/accessories you want. For example, my winter list could be: a long cardigan, creative recreation shoes, skinny jeans, black & white tee shirt, cropped leather jacket .
 When you're shopping, carry around this list (or memorize it). Make the clothes on your list your number one priority before buying anything else. This is a good way to gradually build up your wardrobe.
 Even if a top looks great, if it doesn't go with anything you own it will be a pretty worthless purchase.
 Going to school replaces going to work, and unfortunately you can't earn money by going to school. Thus, we have a lot less money to spend on clothes and so on, and a higher proportion of our money is eaten up by buying single item

, You do need a couple of high quality 'wardrobe staples' - clothes that are the statement pieces of your outfit, or the foundations upon which you build your outfit on, and these are usually worth spending more money on (see TIPS for examples, male & female)

, Then there are other clothes that are 'basics'. These are things like basic tee shirts, leggings, tank tops and so on. These don't have to be so expensive (no one looks at you and goes 'oh, i wonder what brand of socks he's/she's wearing'), and therefore you can and should buy a wider variety of them. Buy buying cheaper basics you'll have more money left over for the statement pieces

, Look around and see if other shops give you better prices, better choices and better quality. Particularly in this day and age, salespeople can get really pushy trying to sell you clothes, but don't feel compelled to buy something - you should not be under pressure

, You cannot build up your dream wardrobe in a day. It will take time. Start off with a few clothes, a mix of statement pieces and basics, and work upwards and outwards from there. Budget your money carefully, decide beforehand what you want and how much you're willing to spend on it. Have patience and don't pick quantity over quality

, When buying expensive stuff, you don't have to buy it on the day, you can always come back two or three times to look at it before actually buying it. A good rule of thumb is: if you wake up the next morning and that piece of clothing or that bag is the first thing on your mind, then you really do want it and you should go and get it. Otherwise, it might have been a case of a sudden rush of the blood to the head

,


This does not mean dress like a hobo, or wear a chicken costume. It just means that you don't have to jump on the bandwagon every time someone declares something 'hot', 'in', 'so now' (which is usually a multiple times a fortnight).
 You do not 'have to' buy it now. Buying things just because its in fashion even if it doesn't suit you or you don't like it all that much means that you'll end up with no cash and lots of clothes that you don't look good in and don't wear. Bear in mind that though pink and white polka dot leggings may have seemed like a good idea at the time, in retrospect it might not have been such a smart buy

, Remember that the people who declare something as being 'in', are not gods, they're just people with their own opinions. Definitely pay attention to the trends - they're a good way to get ideas, but develop your own version of the trend. Stick to the clothes you look good in, and know what doesn't work for you. That way you'll make sensible choices that you will wear again and again

