 A traditional strop is made of leather, but an old pair of jeans will work almost as well. You should use old jeans as opposed to new jeans or jeans you wear regularly. You'll be using the cloth to rejuvenate the blades on your safety razor, but doing this could cause the fabric of your jeans to fray or deteriorate over time. Use old jeans so you don't do damage to a good pair of jeans!, A table or the counter top of your bathroom sink should be suitable as a sharpening surface. Clear the area first; an uneven surface could negatively impact your sharpening, and clutter might obstruct your sharpening motion.


You should also make sure the area is dry when using this sharpening technique. For the best results, you'll want to sharpen your blade when it's dry., This can be done in a cup of warm, soapy water. Dish soap should work well for busting up any razor gunk that's accumulated on your blades. For best results, you may want to allow your razor to soak for 15 to 30 minutes, swirling your razor in the water occasionally.


You might also use a specifically formulated razor blade cleaning solution. These are designed to work especially well on skin and hair buildup. Explore the shaving section of your local pharmacy or online vendors to find a razor blade cleaning solution., You can remove much of the excess moisture from your razor by holding it firmly and shaking it into the basin of your sink. Then, to ensure the blade is completely dry, you should use a cloth to wipe away remaining moisture. Do this by running your razor along the cloth with a motion that follows the direction of the blades.


To prevent fuzz or lint from building up, you might consider using a lint-free or microfiber cloth to dry your razor., You'll want to do this with the direction of the blades and not against the blades. Do this about approximately 20 times in one direction with short, quick strokes. This process, called stropping, will remove burrs and irregularities from your blades, honing your razor's edge.


To evenly and completely strop your blades, you'll want perform the same motion in the opposite direction (on the same section of denim) as well. Switch directions and run the blade along the jean fabric around 20 times in the same fashion you did previously.Use light pressure when stropping. Pressing too hard can actually cause damage to the edge of your blade., Be careful while doing this; you don't want to cut yourself while sharpening! Use moderate pressure and run the blades of your razor along the straight part of the top of your forearm with the direction of the blades and not against. Use quick, short strokes, and perform this motion about 10 - 15 times.


Your arm is very similar to an old fashioned leather strop, which is a piece of leather used for sharpening blades. In the same way a strop sharpens a blade, so should your arm.Since you are running your razor with the blades and not against, your safety razor shouldn't cut the hair on your forearm. Be careful not to slip and run the blade side-to-side, as this could result in you cutting yourself., Especially dull blades might require more strokes for best results. With the same motion you used for your first stropping, run your blades along the jeans with and not against the direction of the blades. Use light pressure and short, quick strokes for roughly 20 strokes, running your razor back and forth along the jeans, always in the same direction of the blades.