 There are a number of specific hazards in your home that you can deal with before an earthquake occurs. The biggest danger is actually from falling objects inside your house. Luckily, these sorts of injuries can be prevented with some forethought:


Fasten all shelves securely to the walls.Use brackets to attach wall units, bookcases, and other tall furniture to wall studs. Standard steel brackets are fine and easy to apply.
Place large, heavy objects on lower shelves or on the floor. They might fall during an earthquake and the less distance they have to fall, the better. You can also screw objects onto things, such as a desk.Use non-slip mats to prevent objects with a low center of gravity from sliding. For example, fish bowls, vases, floral arrangements, statues, etc.
Use an invisible nylon cord to secure tall, heavy items that can topple over to the wall. Place an eye screw in the wall, and tie the thread around the object (such as a vase) and then tie it to the eye screw., In a last-minute pinch, placing masking tape across the diagonals (in an "X") of your windows can keep them from shattering.Most earthquake prone areas will already require these windows, but you should check to make sure.
 in closed cabinets that have latches. Lock or latch them up so that the cabinet doors cannot fly open. Use poster tack/plastic putty to keep ornaments, figurines, and glassware adhered to shelves and mantelpieces.


There are even special commercial quake putties available, allowing you to secure objects in place without decorations.
 Heavy pictures, light fixtures, and mirrors should be hung away from beds, couches, and anywhere that someone might sit. Conventional picture hooks will not hold pictures during an earthquake, but they are easy to fix - simply push the hook closed, or use a filler material to fill the gap between the hook and its backing. Other alternatives include buying special art hooks and ensuring that heavy paintings have adequate, strong hooks and cord., f you have any deep cracks in the ceiling or foundations, repair these immediately. You might need to consult an expert if there are signs of structural weakness. Make sure your foundation is properly braced and that all modern laws are being complied with.


Have flexible fittings placed on your gas pipes. A professional plumber will need to do this. It's also a good idea to have flexible fittings on your water pipes, so have these fixed at the same time.
If your house has a chimney, secure it to the walls of the house using galvanized metal angles and bands at the top, ceiling line, and base. The angles can be bolted to the wall, and to ceiling joists or rafters if you have cladding on the house. For the part of the chimney sitting above the roof-line, brace it to the roof.Evaluate your electrical wiring, electrical appliances, and gas connections. Do any repairs if needed. During an earthquake, faulty fittings and wiring can become a potential fire hazard. When securing appliances, be sure not to drill holes in them - use existing holes, or make loops from leather, etc., that can be glued onto an appliance.
 If there aren't civic groups present in your area focused on earthquake preparedness, work on putting one together. The first step in keeping everyone safe is education.

