 Different dogs have different needs, but almost every dog will need the following: an insulated, dry space that he can call home whether it's hot or cold. Pay attention to these factors when building a dog house:


Think about insulation. Remember that the base builds the foundation for the whole house and creates a space of air between the ground and the floor that acts as insulation for the house. A house without a base is cooler during the cold months and warmer during the hot months.
Consider the specific elements that might affect the base in your outdoor environment. If it rains often in your area, make sure to use a non-toxic, water-resistant material and build the base high enough off of the ground to prevent flooding.;
, Cut 2x4 wood boards into four pieces, with two at 22-1/2" long and two at 23" long for a medium-sized dog.
 Use a countersink drill bit to pre-drill pilot holes. Then attach the base pieces together using two 3” galvanized wood screws in each end.
 The dimensions are 26" by 22-1/2" for the above sized frame.
, Using wood for the dog house will help keep the house insulated, even if the wood is rather thin. For the front wall of the house, make the opening for your dog as small as possible (although still comfortable) in order to allow the house to retain heat.
 Each side should be 26" long and 16" wide, while the front and back should be a 24" by 16" rectangle with an attached 12" high and 24" wide triangle on top of the rectangle. Cut out this shape in one piece for both the front and the back of the house.
 Leave a 3" tall space at the bottom of the opening to cover the base. To create the round arch at the top of the opening, use any round object you have handy, such as a mixing bowl.
 Using a piece of 2x2 fir or cedar wood, cut out eight pieces to use as framing to secure the walls and roof. You will need four corner framing pieces 15” long and four roof framing pieces 13” long.
 Then place the side panels on the base and screw galvanized wood screws every 4–5 inches (10.2–12.7 cm) around the perimeter.
 Place the front and back panels on the floor base and attach to the framing with galvanized wood screws every 4–5 inches (10.2–12.7 cm) around the perimeter.
 This not only allows rain and snow to slide off of the dog house, but also gives your dog more room to stretch out in his humble abode.
 These pieces will rest on top of the side panels to form a triangular sloping roof.
 Screw three 1-1/4” galvanized wood screws into each panel.
 Secure the roof panels to the framing pieces using 1-1/4” galvanized wood screws at 3" intervals.
 Using only non-toxic paints that won't harm your dog, you can paint the outside of the house to match your own, or pick a fun theme like an underwater scene. If you have small children, it can be fun to allow them to paint the dog house as an art project.
 To keep the dog house extra dry, you can cover the entire roof with asphalt-impregnated roofing paper, or tar paper. Once you've covered the house, you can then add shingles for a traditional, sophisticated look.
 Keep your pup comfy by adding a blanket, dog bed, or piece of carpet inside. To add carpet, simply cut a piece of carpet to dimensions one inch smaller than the floor panel and secure it to the floor. Use wood glue if you want the carpet to be permanent, or duct tape if you want to be able to replace the carpet at a later time.



Hang a name plate with your pooch's name over the front of the opening using a small nail and any type of material sturdy enough to withstand the elements. You can get personalized plates made of metal, make and paint a plate out of wood, or even hang spare dog tags. Make sure that the nail does not poke out to the inside of the house.
Attach small hooks to the outside of the dog house to serve as a place to keep your dog's leash or any other toys.

