 In the Mosaic Covenant (The Old Testament), you see that God kept His promises, and the Jews expected the fulfillment of the messianic prophecy.


Who was born in Bethlehem who fulfilled this prophecy:
"But you, O Bethlehem Ephrathah, though you are little among the thousands of Judah, Yet out of you shall come forth to Me The One to be ruler in Israel, Whose goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting." Micah 5:2 (written around 700 B.C.)
Who is this eternal ruler born in Bethlehem and who is from of old, from everlasting -- Messiah who would step forth from Eternity. So the Messiah said to be one called Yeshua was to be born in Bethlehem, as the promised Messiah fulfills all these predictions!;
, Daniel said that the Messiah would come 483 years (Jewish lunar 360 day years) which is 476 years on the Graeco-Roman 365 day calendar, "365.25 days for leap year", after the orders would be given to rebuild the temple in Jerusalem. So if in fact, 476 years after King Artaxerxes issued the decree to rebuild the temple in 443 B.C. -- and if Jesus actually arrived in 33 A.D. in Jerusalem riding on a donkey -- then was He the Messiah? Daniel said that the Messiah would be "cut off" to pay for your sin and to bring you to right standing before God.


"Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion (Israel)! Behold, your King is coming to you; He is just and having salvation, yet He is lowly and riding on a donkey." Zechariah 9:9 (written around 500 BC)

, There was no printing press and no mass produced Book for the people to read. There were rabbis, the scribes and many Jewish priests who taught the people that the Messiah would overcome the enemies of Israel (Assyrians, Babylonians, Greeks and Romans). Jewish scholars (who had access to scrolls in the synagogues) would know the prophecy pertaining to the Messiah's affliction but made His victories the center of Messianic theology. Most refused to accept Jesus as the Messiah as He did not make war with the sword and conquer the Romans; instead, He conquered our iniquities (sins). Jesus said that His kingdom was not about this earth (and so not for politics), which might not satisfy the theocracy the Jewish people had in mind (a king with Godliness). The original man, Adam, was not under the codified law, but under the original Law of Love and that law was to be instituted by the Messiah (to give right standing with God).
, Read the whole chapter of Isaiah 53, but here are verses 3—5, "He was despised and rejected by men... Surely he took up our infirmities and carried our sorrows, yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him, and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities; the punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed." So did Jesus fulfill the ancient prophecies concerning the Messiah -- yes!

, Here are some of the verses: "Let us, therefore, lie in wait for the Just Man, because He is not of our turn, and He is contrary to our doings, and upbraids us with transgressions to the Law, and divulges us with sins of our life. He boasts that He has Knowledge Of God, and calls Himself the Son of God. He has become a censurer of our thoughts. He is grievous unto us, even to behold: for His Life is not like other men's, and we esteemed Him to be different." Note: Wisdom is a book not in the Hebrew Bible and is a Deuterocanonical book considered canonical by Catholics and Eastern Orthodox ("belonging to the second canon"), but considered non-canonical by most Protestants. , Some more traditional Jews, such as the Orthodox and Hasidic tradition, actually maintain the beliefs taught by the Jewish priests of Jesus' day and still wait for the Messiah. Some other groups of Judaism have not even accepted the original prophecies and do not believe there is any promised Messiah at all.
 Light the corners, taking the light of God's word to the ends of the earth.


Consider whether you believe that Jesus is Messiah, and that eternal life is just a prayer away: "Lord Jesus, beginning today, I ask you to become the Lord of my life. I believe that you died for my sins and rose again from﻿ the dead. Lord, I confess that I am a sinner and I repent of my sins. Thank you for forgiving me and cleansing me. Come into my life and guide me to live for you from now on. In Jesus Name Amen. Ba Shem Yeshuah Amen."

