 You need to understand the entire story, not just your role, to be effective. Remember that your job is not to stand out, it is to a part of the larger story. You need to understand the story, both its themes and motifs as well as your own role, to get to that point.


Once you've got a grasp on the full story, turn to your parts and read them an extra 1-2 times. Now, focus on your character's role and lines.
If you had to sum up the movie in 1-2 sentences, what would it be? How about your role?

, To really get into your character, you need to know who they are. You don't need to write out a biography, but you should figure out their basic story and life. Sometimes you can discuss this with the director, and sometimes you just need to trust your gut. Don't worry about going too in-depth. Instead, just answer a few basic questions:


Who am I?
Where do I come from? Where do I want to go?
Why am I here?, All characters, in almost all stories, want something. All characters have a need or desire, even if it just a desire to be left alone, like The Dude in The Big Lebowski.' This desire is what drives your character throughout the entire plot. It is perhaps the most important factor of your role.


A character's desires can change, but you need to know when this happens in the script.
As an exercise, try and pick out the desires of your favorite characters/actors. In There Will Be Blood, for example, Daniel Plainview is completely driven by the need to get oil. Every action, look, and emotion springs from this unending, passionate greed., You want to know the lines so well you don't have to remember them. You just have to think about how you're going to say them. Get a friend to play the other roles so that all you have to do is play your part. You can then bounce back and forth like a real conversation.


Experiment with the lines. Try them multiple ways. How does this affect the scene?
Memorize the lines before perfecting them. If you keep trying to remember the words, you're never going to make them sound natural.
 Remember that you are there to serve the story, not yourself. Chat with the director to figure out if there are any specific traits, emotions, or ideas they want in the character. That said, you should bring your own ideas to the role as well. Let the director know your own vision for the character, but be willing to include their ideas as well.


If you are going to an audition, pick a direction for the character and stick with it. You won't have time to ask advice and then change the character in the audition, so just trust your instincts., The basics of human emotion are universal. You may have never saved the world from an alien invasion, but you have felt fear before. You've had to be courageous, and you've stepped up in times of trouble. Find the emotions and experiences that relate to your character if you're ever confused how to act. Great actors show people another side of themselves. They are relatable and human, even if the character is nothing like the actual actor.


Start by figuring out the basic emotion of the scene -- happiness, regret, sadness, etc. Then build from there.

