 It is recommended that you avoid travelling while pregnant, as this increases your chances of developing traveler's diarrhea. You should be particularly careful to avoid high-risk areas — these include developing parts of the world like the Middle East, Asia, Africa and South America.


The main cause of a traveler’s diarrhea consuming water or food that is contaminated with bacteria. Pregnant women have a particularly sensitive stomach due to hormonal changes that take place in their bodies, so you have to be very careful about what you ingest.
If you have to travel while pregnant, avoid drinking tap water at all costs, and only drink bottles or boiled water. Not only should you avoid drinking the tap water, you should also avoid brushing your teeth with it or making ice cubes from it.
If you buy fresh fruit from a local market, make sure to wash it thoroughly with bottled or boiled water and then peel it before eating. Avoid fruits that can't be peeled or that you haven't peeled yourself.
 Good personal hygiene is essential for avoiding diarrhea. You need to be particularly vigilant about washing your hands, as they can easily pick up bacteria that causes diarrhea.


Wash your hands before and after using the restroom or changing the baby's diaper. Always wash your hands before preparing food, or after handling raw meat.

Wash your hands thoroughly using hot water and anti-bacterial soap, then dry completely using a clean towel.
 Sometimes diarrhea occurs when expectant mothers start exercising during pregnancy, especially if they didn't exercise before. This occurs as a result of increased intestinal activity.If possible, try to start an exercise program before you become pregnant and continue with it throughout your pregnancy. In this way, you can avoid "shocking" your body with exercise.
If it's too late for that, you should do your best to slowly ease yourself into an exercise routine while pregnant. Start out with something easy, like a daily 20 minute walk. Then you can gradually increase the length and intensity of your workouts.
 One or two bouts of diarrhea in a 24 hour period is fairly normal and not something that you should be concerned about. However, if you have more than three instances of diarrhea in a 24 hour period, or the diarrhea persists for more than a full day, you should consult a doctor.


You should also see your doctor if you experience any of the following: a combination of vomiting and diarrhea, mucus in diarrhea, diarrhea that is greenish in color, diarrhea that is bloody or black in color, a combination of constipation and diarrhea, or a combination of abdominal cramping and diarrhea.Any of these may be symptoms of a more serious underlying condition. Therefore, it is important to see a doctor as soon as possible to prevent any possible complications that could harm you or your unborn baby.

