 You may be tempted to ditch all the high-sodium foods at once, but it will take a little while for your taste buds to adjust. Make your changes gradually.For instance, you can try making a recipe you like, but add half the salt than you normally do.If you try to go cold-turkey, you may be tempted to go off the low-sodium diet all together.;
, Fast food meals are usually high in sodium, as are quick meals at home, such as dry pasta mixes. Fast food restaurants are not the only culprits. Most high-end restaurants utilize a lot of salt to enhance flavor in their food. It is almost always thrown into every component of the dish; even sweet items! Make meals from scratch, and you'll be in control of how much sodium goes into the meal., Instead of boxed meals, buy uncooked meats (fresh or frozen) and fresh or frozen vegetables and fruits. Canned vegetables often contain added salt, unless you specifically buy ones without.However, canned fruits are fine, as they usually don't have added salt., That is, skip lunch meats, sausages, pepperoni, and beef jerky, as they all have extra salt.If you love sandwiches, try roasting a chicken or beef roast for the week, then carving off pieces to use in sandwiches., Foods like olives and pickles are preserved in a brine, which is a mixture of salt and water. If you're on a low-sodium diet, you should avoid these foods., Most prepackaged salad dressings and condiments contain high amounts of salt, so unless they are specified "low-sodium," you should avoid them.Some condiments do offer low-sodium alternatives, so be sure to check around on the condiment aisle.
Consider making your own salad dressing to avoid sodium in pre-packaged varieties. A simple blend of oil and acid (ex: lemon juice) can make a tasty dressing. Salt is truly not needed.
Try making a simple vinaigrette at home. Mix together a splash of olive oil with a splash of balsamic vinegar. You can keep it that simple, or you can add in a few herbs, such as an Italian seasoning mix. For a fruity flavor, add in a spoonful of your favorite jam or preserves and mix well.
 For instance, try pork loin instead of ham. Pork loin is not cured like ham, yet it can be very flavorful with the right spices, such as sage or rosemary.Try interesting alternatives. For instance, instead of breadcrumbs, try topping dishes with ground broccoli. Instead of frying eggs in bread and salted butter, try using unsalted butter and rings of onion or bell pepper., Try out new (no-salt) seasoning mixes, such as a curry mix or a steak rub. Add a dash of balsamic vinegar for flavor instead of salt. Skip the salt at the dinner table, and instead, use pepper. You can add flavor to dishes in a variety of ways without adding extra salt., Use flavors such as lemon, garlic, and onion, along with a little olive oil, to marinate your meat and vegetables before cooking. Marinating them first will create more flavor, keeping you from missing the salt., If you can't grab the salt, you won't add more salt to your food at the table. Sometimes adding salt can be a mindless action, so just removing it from the table will make it easier for you to remember., Once you've learned what is high in sodium and what is not, stop stocking the high-sodium foods. That way, you won't be tempted to eat them. One surprising food that is high in sodium is cottage cheese. If you must keep high-sodium foods stocked for another family member, try keeping them in a separate cupboard or on a separate shelf.