 Because type 2 diabetes is such a complex condition requiring constant monitoring of one's diet and lifestyle, it has been shown in studies to lead to heightened risk of anxiety and depression.Note that there is a cyclical relationship between psychological and physical health. In other words, failing to deal with psychological issues such as anxiety and/or depression can in turn make it much more challenging to maintain your physical health. This also goes in the opposite direction — failing to take care of yourself mentally can make it difficult to deal with your physical health as well.;
, If you notice yourself falling into any of the following patterns, consider checking in with your doctor and sharing with her what is really going on for you:Losing motivation to follow your regular medication routine and/or routine blood sugar checks.
Lacking desire to follow through with physical exertion or with your recommended diet — this can be a sign that the burden of living with the condition is taking a toll on you.
Withdrawing from social events. Sometimes people with diabetes begin to avoid social events, which can result either from depression or from the stigma of having to turn down certain food or drink options that are not conducive to someone living with diabetes.
Losing your overall sense of joy in life.
Constantly worrying about future complications of the condition, and the impact it may have on your lifespan and long-term health.
 Sometimes milder cases of anxiety or depression that can result from conditions such as type 2 diabetes can be eased by the simple act of sharing with someone how you are really feeling. As human beings, we are hard-wired for connection, and having someone who is sharing in your emotions and experiences, and who can help to motivate you when you are feeling down about your condition, can dramatically improve your frame of mind about it.
 Many people have reported that they find it boosts their spirits to include their families (be it their spouse, their children, or even a friend) in their treatment plan.For instance, some people do routine blood sugar measurements with their spouse as a part of their daily routine.
Others plan their exercise routine around something that involves taking the children with them, like hiking.
Some people find it extremely helpful when their whole family unites to create a healthier diet plan that is not only conducive to living with diabetes, but also beneficial to the health of everyone in the family.
A team approach can not only hold you accountable to maintaining your positive lifestyle changes, but it can also offer moral support from those who love and care for you most.
 Needless to say, there can be a lot on one's mind! Some strategies you may find helpful are:


Going to the washroom to privately measure your blood sugar, if you are uncomfortable doing this in a social setting.
Asking the waiter for an appetizer of bread so that you have a backup of something to eat after taking your insulin if there is a delay in the food arriving.
Choosing to go out with friends who are already interested in healthy eating, so that you do not feel like the "odd one out."

, Living with type 2 diabetes can be challenging, so be sure to reward yourself with positive self-talk, and to surround yourself with friends and family that support you and the positive effort you are making towards your own health. If you are interested, you could also consider joining a Diabetes Support Group, where you can meet others who are facing the same challenges and feel less alone.

