 Once you have a manuscript ready, you need to shop it around to publishers. Before you do so, however, you need to have a sense of what's out there. Learn about a variety of publishers to find a publishing house that's a good fit for your work.


Do research on a variety of publishers. Books In Print is a database available through libraries and online that lists a variety of publishers and the kind of work they generally look for. The Children's Books Council publishes an annotated list of children's publishers each year and the Writer's Market has many books available detailing where to find a publisher.Remember, many publishers do not take unsolicited submissions. Finding an agent may be your best option to submit to some of the bigger publishing houses., There are a variety of organizations you can join that will give you an edge in the children's book community. You can network with other professionals and have access to valuable resources that can help you successfully publish your book.


The Society of Children's Books Writers and Illustrators helps writers find critique groups and offers many national and international conferencing events that allow you to network with other writers.Many online events, such as National Novel Writing Month (NANO), encourage writers to network via social media. Agents and publishers occasionally pay attention to events and competitions sponsored by online communities, so strive to get involved via the digital realm., An agent is probably the best means to get attention for your manuscript. In order to get an agent, you'll have to write a query letter detailing the book you're writing or planning to write.


A query letter should be fun and creative. Start off with a picturesque outline of your novel's basic plot or what makes it stand apart from the pack. Write, revise, and proofread a variety of query letters and have other writers look over your work and give you honest feedback.Much like publishers, look for agents relevant to your interest. A good way to find agents is to look up the authors whose work you admire and see who represents them., Before you send your manuscript out to anyone, make sure you're following standards. Improper formatting or loose adherence to standards may result in your manuscript being tossed aside.


Follow all protocol regarding contacting a publisher. If the guidelines say no unsolicited submissions, it's probably best not to send your manuscript in. If the guidelines say you cannot contact editors with questions, do not call or email editors while your manuscript is being reviewed.Manuscript format varies from publisher to publisher. Some publishers expect certain margin sizes, a particular types of paper, a specific font, and other guidelines. Make sure you know manuscript format thoroughly before submitting your manuscript to a publisher., It can take a long time for things to get moving in the publishing world. It may be months or even up to a year before you hear back from a publisher. Use this time wisely, focusing on sending out more manuscripts and producing new work.