 Tea is an alternate source of caffeine that is generally healthier than coffee. It does however have less caffeine than coffee, depending on the type. Black tea has the most caffeine per cup: about 65 mg as opposed to the 150 mg in coffee. If you wish to have the same level of caffeine as coffee, drink a couple cups of black tea in the morning and throughout the day as needed. Tea is less dehydrating than coffee, and dehydration can lead to tiredness. Other health benefits include reducing the risk of heart disease, some cancers and type 1 diabetes among other diseases. Stick to teas with no added sugar as opposed to sugary bottled teas. Sugar temporarily increases your energy level, but it also creates sugar crashes about 20 minutes after you consume it that can make you feel seriously tired. , There are countless energy drinks out there on the market that are formulated to make you feel more alert. The most well-known energy drinks contain around 80 mg of caffeine per 8 ounce serving. There also are energy drinks that come in shot form in case you are in a hurry.Many of these drinks come in low-calorie or zero-calorie versions if you are watching your weight.
 Many supermarkets now offer more natural energy drink options along next to the more well-known ones. These may be a better option for you if you are careful about having only natural ingredients. They also offer a different taste alternative if you don't like the taste of most commercial energy drinks.


Try drinks that use the ingredient guayusa, a natural source of caffeine that also contains antioxidants, which stop you from getting the caffeine jitters. Look for these products at Whole Foods or Vitamin Shoppe. Try drinks made with Yerba Mate. Mate is traditionally a South American tea, but there are several energy drinks that are made using an infusion of Yerba Mate. These drinks can average up to whopping 140 mg of caffeine per serving. , If you want a quick and convenient caffeine fix, consider trying caffeine pills. Many caffeine pills contain about 100 mg of caffeine. Make sure to follow the directions on the box or bottle when taking these pills. 