 Your highlighter is the lightest of your three eyeshadow shades. Using your eyeshadow brush, dab it on the inside corner of your eyelid on both your upper and lower lids. Sweep it directly under your eyebrows as well, from the beginning to the end of your brows.
 Take your middle eyeshadow shade and sweep it over your entire eyelid. Be sure to blend it at the inside corners with your highlighter, so that there isn’t a harsh divide between the two colors. Apply it upwards only to the natural crease on your lid, not all the way to the highlighter underneath your brows.
 Begin at the outside corner of your eyes, and sweep in a ‘C’ shape from the about halfway inwards (from the outside of your face) on the lash line, back up and around to about halfway inwards on the crease of your eyelid.









The darkest part should always be the point at the upper edge of your lash line. Whenever you need to apply more of your dark shadow, start at this point and work inwards or upwards.
Don’t apply the shadow too far in. You want the inside third to half of your eyelid to not have any dark shadow. This will help your eyes to look open and bright.
To add a dramatic look to your classic smoky eye, sweep your dark eyeshadow to a point (more of a “<” shape than a “C” shape) towards the end of your eyebrow. Make sure that the darkest point still remains at the outside corner of your lash line.
Sweep a little of your dark shadow under your eye onto your lower lid. Again, start at the outside corner and bring it only about halfway in. This will help to balance the darkness out on the top of your eyes.
 Clean your eyeshadow brush with makeup brush cleaner, face wash, or shampoo and water. Dry your brush on a clean towel or rag by sweeping it quickly back and forth across the fabric. Then, use your brush to blend the colors together.









Start by blending the lightest colors. Make sure that your medium (lid) color does not have a harsh divide with your dark (crease) color. Gently move your brush in a “C” shape at the meeting of these two colors to help them to form a smooth ombre effect.
Blend the dark crease shadow outwards towards your brow bone. It should fade softly into your skin, and should not significantly overlap your highlighter that has been placed under your eyebrows.
 If you want a smooth cat-eye look, bring your eyeliner from the inside corner lash line toward the end of your eyebrow. End it in a tapered line slightly before the edge of your eyeshadow (where the darkest part meets your un-shadowed skin). For a smudgy look, draw a thick line across the top of your lash line, and then use your fingertip or a small eyeshadow brush to smudge and blur the line.









To add more drama to your smoky eye, tightline your eyes. This is when you use your eyeliner to draw a line on the inner-rim of your eyes, located directly under your upper lashes and above your lower lashes. This can be difficult for some, as it involves using eyeliner very close to your eyeball.
Tightline the inner rim of your lash line nearest your tear duct by your nose with a white eyeliner pencil. This will help your eyes to pop, keeping them looking bright even with all the dark smudging above.
 Carefully apply your mascara, wiggling your brush between your lashes to help define them. Add no more than two coats to avoid clumps and an unnatural appearance. Apply a single coat to your bottom lashes to define them without giving yourself raccoon-eyes.
 If any eyeshadow or mascara fell onto your cheeks below your eyes, use a large makeup brush to brush it off in quick, broad strokes. If any of your mascara smeared along your eyelid or cheeks, use a q-tip dipped in makeup remover to take it off, and then use your blending brush to fix any extra makeup that may have been removed.







