 The easiest way to ensure your hair stays to one side is to blow dry it that way! If you’re working with leftover curls, you certainly don’t need to wash your hair all over again. However, this step is definitely helpful if your hair was straightened or if the part isn’t on the side. Wet hair will let you start with a brand new canvas, and you can mold it into a side swept style right off the bat., For this side swept style, a deep part works best. Part it on the opposite side that your hair will be going on. In other words, part it on the left side if your hair will go over your right shoulder, and vice versa. This way, the majority of your hair will already be flowing in the right direction. The less you have to worry about keeping pulled to the side, the better.








To get a perfectly straight part, use the pointed sign of a rattail comb. Trace the part from front to back, pulling your hair to either side.
 Any time you work with hot tools, it’s important to apply a heat protectant. Blow dryers and curling tools are damaging to hair, and a good heat protectant will keep your hair from becoming broken and fried. There are sprays, creams, and serums on the market, so you have many options to find one that works for your hair.You can find heat protectants at your local beauty supply store, as well as pharmacies.









Heat protectants can also add shine and prevent frizz, so pick a product that addresses any other hair issues you may have.
 After you’ve parted your hair and applied your heat protectant, it’s time to get blow drying. The important thing to remember while you’re doing this is simply to keep brushing it in the direction you want it to go. Using a round brush or a paddle brush, continue sweeping your hair to one side.








Don’t worry about making this a perfect blowout. Focus on pulling the hair the proper direction.
 Once your hair is dry, the fun part begins. As your curling wand warms up, section out your hair. Clip up the top and middle sections of your hair, leaving only the bottom section of your hair down. By curling one section at a time, you can ensure that you don’t miss any pieces.
 The easiest way to do this is with a curling wand, because you can have total control of the curls you create. If you want loose curls, you can wrap your hair loosely around the wand, and you can create tighter curls by doing the opposite. Pick up one-inch sections of hair and wrap the hair down the barrel of the wand.








Hold the hair in place around the wand for three to five seconds. The longer you hold your hair, the tighter the curls will be.
 As you continue curling pieces and working through the sections, alternate the direction that you curl your hair. In other words, wrap some pieces going towards your face and other pieces away from your face. This will help create extra volume by making sure that multiple curls don’t blend into one big curl.









Curl the strands of hair near your face going away from your face. This will keep your look sleek and tamed.
 Once your entire head of hair has been curled, pull your hair to the direction you desire. Use your fingers to comb it to one side, going over the shoulder opposite of your part. Double check that all strands are curled and you’re happy with the result.
 Once all of your hair is pulled to one side, use one hand to hold it taut. Carefully insert a bobby pin at the nape of your neck going upwards, holding the pulled hair to one side. Insert another bobby pin directly above the first, again going straight up. Add as many bobby pins as you need in order to hold all of your hair in place, going to the side. They should form a vertical line going halfway up the back of your head.








Choose bobby pins that are the same color as your hair. You will be concealing them with hair afterwards, but this will help minimize any pin showing through your hair.
 Grab a section of hair from the top of your head above the bobby pins. Use your fingers or a brush to gently comb the hair and smooth it out. Bring this section down so that it conceals the line of bobby pins you just created. Carefully tuck the end of this section of hair at the nape of your neck, securing it in place with one more bobby pin. This time, insert the bobby pin underneath your hair, so that it is hidden under the rest of your hair.








If you’re having trouble visualizing this step, think of it this way. The first bobby pins will help sweep your hair to one side and hold it there. Then, hair from the top of your head will go straight down, hiding these bobby pins. This hair will be secured by tucking it underneath the side swept hair with one more concealed bobby pin.
 After you’ve added all of your bobby pins, move your head around a bit. Double check that everything feels secure. Use a handheld mirror to look at the back of your head and double check that your bobby pins are mostly hidden. Finally, spray your hair with hairspray. This will help hold your bobby pins in place and also prevent any flyaways or stray hairs.








