 Wash your hands for at least 30 seconds in a sterile sink designated only for handwashing. Dry your hands with single-use towels and use the towels to turn off the faucet. Put on a pair of sterile, latex-free gloves before touching instruments, surfaces, or any other objects.Be sure to wash your hands and change your gloves between each procedure.
 Using a confident, calm voice, let the patient know who you are and that you’ll be drawing blood. Make sure you’re speaking to the right patient, and that they’re actually supposed to have blood drawn.Say, “Hello! I’m James, your phlebotomist, and I’m here to take a couple blood samples. Are you Jane Smith?”
If the patient seems nervous, try to be extra friendly and try to reassure them. Let them know collecting a blood sample is a quick, routine part of medical care, and that it’ll be over in just two or three minutes.
 Check the paperwork that lists the ordered tests and verify them with the patient. Ask the patient if they’ve fulfilled any instructions, such as fasting or stopping a medication.You should also ask about any allergies, such as to latex, at this time.
 If they aren’t already in position, have the patient sit in a sterilized phlebotomy chair or, if they’re in a hospital bed, sit up as best they can. Have them extend their arm and locate a straight, visible vein, preferably around the inside bend of the elbow. Apply a tourniquet three to four inches above the selected site, and ask the patient if the tourniquet is comfortable or too tight.If you can’t find a good vein, try massaging the forearm to increase blood flow or applying a warm, damp washcloth to the area for five minutes.
Avoid drawing blood from a scarred area, hematoma (or bruised area), or an IV (intravenous) site.
Collect the sample promptly after applying the tourniquet, and avoid leaving the tourniquet on for more than two minutes.
 Wipe the selected site with 70% rubbing alcohol to sanitize it. Apply firm but gentle pressure, and wipe in a circular motion from the center of the puncture site outward to cover an area of at least two centimeters (about an inch). After sanitizing, wait 30 seconds for the area to dry completely., Have the patient make a fist, and hold their arm with your thumb below the site to pull the skin taut and anchor the vein. Swiftly inject the needle into the vein at a 15 to 30 degree angle and avoid excessive probing, or moving the needle away from its point of entry. Fill the collection tube; for serum tests, it’s recommended to collect at least twice the volume of blood the test requires.For example, if a test calls for four milliliters of blood, it’s best to collect eight to ten milliliters to ensure sample viability and test accuracy.
 If you’re collecting multiple tubes of blood for multiple tests, fill tubes in the correct order to avoid cross-contamination of tube additives. Make sure to cap the sample tubes with the appropriately colored cap.For example, a blood culture tube, non-additive tube, coagulation tube, clot activator, and serum separator must be drawn in that order. A serum separator tube should be capped with a gold top., Release the tourniquet before withdrawing the needle.Remove the needle swiftly and gently in a straight backward motion along the angle of entry. Apply a clean gauze pad to the puncture site, then have the patient hold the pad in place with gentle pressure.Ask the patient to keep their arm straight to prevent a hematoma, or bruise, from forming.
Discard the used needle and syringe into a sharps container.
 Label the samples immediately with at least two patient identifiers, or according to your lab’s standards. Generally, you should include the patient’s full first and last names (or, in some cases, a unique ID code), along with their date of birth or hospital or office file number.When handwriting a label, use a ballpoint pen instead of felt tip to prevent accidentally wiping away information during handling.  

