 Sometimes, ocarinas come with an instrument chart or other instructions on how to play the instrument. If it did, study the chart to see which holes you have to cover to produce a specific note.









If your ocarina did not come with a user’s manual, follow the instructions in the next step.
 You can produce a wide range of sounds by covering and uncovering different combinations of the four holes with your fingers. As such, you want to make sure that you have a labeling system that helps you remember which combinations produce specific sounds.









Put the ocarina’s mouthpiece in your mouth as though you were going to play it and look at the positioning of the holes from this perspective.
In your mind, label the top left hole “1”, the top right “2”, bottom left “3”, and the bottom right hole “4.”
Drill those hole positions into your head so that you can easily read these instructions for how to play scales.
An “x” will be used to symbolize an open hole, meaning you should not cover that hole with your finger.
So, for example, a Middle C is represented as 1 2 3 4. This means you should cover all four holes with your pointer and middle fingers while blowing through the mouthpiece.
A D, on the other hand, is represented as 1 X 3 4. This means that all holes should be covered except for hole 2 — the top right hole.
 Go through them slowly at first and try to memorize the finger patterns needed to create this progression of notes. Don’t worry about speed yet — just memorize how to play a scale. Use the following finger patterns to work through the scales:









Middle C: 1 2 3 4
D: 1 X 3 4
E: 1 2 3 X
F: 1 X 3 X
F# (Gb): X 2 3 4
G: X X 3 4
G# (Ab): X 2 3 X
A: X X 3 X
A# (Bb): X X X 4
B: X 2 X X
C: XXXX

, The best thing you can do to become a proficient ocarina player is to be able to move up and down your scales. There are two things you want to focus on during this practice: 1) memorizing the notes produced by your finger patterns and 2) speed. The better you get at those two things, the more you’ll be able to enjoy the actual music you’re playing.









A scale of C progresses thusly: C-D-E-F-G-A-B-C.
Practice it going up (ascending) and down (descending). This is the basis for many pieces you will play.
 Everyone knows what musical notes look like, but being able to decode them into an actual song might be beyond your grasp. Although many people take lessons with professional teachers to learn musical notations, you can find many places online where you can learn how to read music for free. Once you can read music, you’ll be able to play along with the melodies to your favorite songs with your ocarina.









You can find sheet music for your favorite songs either by purchasing books or by searching online.