 A healthy body is very often considered an attractive trait. This doesn't mean you need to become a body builder or marathon runner. Start by making basic healthy decisions in your everyday life, and take it from there. Maintaining a healthy lifestyle can demonstrate maturity and responsibility, which are attractive traits to a potential mate.Studies show that 12% body fat in men, and 20% body fat in women is a good goal to strive for. In men, a 12% body fat ratio increases testosterone levels and boosts immune system.Women have more body fat than men, and at a 20% ratio, a women's curves are more defined.
Eating more fruits and vegetables is a great way to become more vibrant while you diet. Fruits and vegetables are loaded with antioxidants and plant-based pigments, which give skin a healthy glow.;
, No matter how groomed you are, or how much make-up you wear, studies have shown that sleep deprived people look less healthy, more tired, and overall less attractive.


Aim to get 8 hours of sleep each night to fight off red eyes, and other symptoms of sleep deprivation.
 Showers solve most problems. Brush and floss your teeth regularly. Comb your hair. Get regular haircuts. Keep your nails clean. Smell nice. Scent is a strong influencer on attractiveness. Personal hygiene is very important.
 Health is a huge contributor to overall attractiveness. You will automatically look more attractive if you look both emotionally and physically healthy.In addition to your diet and exercise, meditation is a powerful tool to relax your mind, lower stress hormones, improve you mood, and clear your skin.


Whether it's meditation (focus on your breath), mindfulness (focus on the now), or just paying attention to what is happening in the present moment, these practices will lead you to embody a sense of calm and ease.
It's a slight shift with a big impact. Train yourself to be here now and watch how others respond to your aura of grace.
 Open body language can be more attractive than any outfit. You can use your body language to convey availability and attractiveness.


Don’t cross your arms, don’t check your phone in front of your chest, and don’t hug your purse or hold your glass of wine at your canter. Each of these can convey a closed off, unavailable person.
 Generally, when we can’t see someone’s hands, we have difficulty in trusting them. Research shows that a person’s most attractive trait is their availability.When you are socializing, show people that you want to connect with them by keeping your posture open and available.


Don’t put your hands in your pockets, under the table, or in your coat. People may be less likely to open up to you if they can't see your hands.
 It's incredible how important, yet simple this one is. When we smile, we automatically become more approachable, more interesting, and friendlier. Smiling is a huge tool in attractiveness.Smile at people you see, most of them will smile back.
 Good eye contact can communicate more than words. Through eye contact you can express that you are engaged, listening, and in the present. You can show that you care about the individual you are looking at.


Avoid looking down or shifting your gaze. This can show that you are uninterested.
Sometimes too much eye contact can come off as creepy or weird. Practice holding eye contact for a second longer than you normally would and focus on something, like the color of the persons eyes. This kind of eye contact is more personable.
 Wear clothes that fit you well and flatter your figure. Studies have shown that wearing red can increase your attractiveness to a potential mate.Ladies, put on a red dress or wear a little red lipstick.
Men who grow a light beard are considered more attractive to some. If you grow facial hair, be sure to keep it well groomed., Keep your head up and your eyes forward. By walking with a confident stance, you will begin to feel more comfortable within yourself.This is one of the easiest and cheapest ways to become more attractive. Simply stand a little taller.
 Encourage others to talk about themselves. Shine the spotlight on them. Give them your full attention and appreciation by focusing only on them. When we let people talk about themselves, it triggers pleasure responses in their brain.Put your stuff away. Don't check your phone. Don't glance at your monitor. Don't focus on anything else, even for a moment.
 Ask them about positive things in their life. When they reply, ask them how they are feeling about life in general. Since you’ve already gotten a positive answer to the first question, you are more likely to get a positive answer to the second one, leading to a positive overall experience with you.


Become memorable and attractive through the way you let them express themselves to you.
 The words you use can have a huge impact on how you come across to others.Avoid being negative as much as possible. Prioritize positive words over negative ones. We all associate happy, enthusiastic, and fulfilled people with attractiveness. Say things like:


"I believe in you." These four short words can have a huge impact on how people feel both about themselves and about you.
"How can I help?" Offering assistance doesn't mean you have to go out of your way to help some, but often we cannot accomplish things alone. Saying this will show someone you are an ally.
"Here's what's happening." No one wants to be left out. If you make an effort to include everyone, they will associate a positive connection with you. Share the information you have to become more likable. You can also use this phrase to demonstrate decisiveness in a positive way.
"I'll find out."
"You're welcome." Somewhere down the road we stopped saying, "You're welcome" and started saying "yep," and "no problem." Saying the former establishes that you have done a worthwhile favor, whereas the latter shows that what you have done was insignificant. Use the former to show a person how much you care.
 Laugh easily. Playfulness, as a personality trait can bring a bunch of positivity to your life and the lives of others. Not only can playfulness help reduce stress levels, but it will also help you appear more confident and comfortable.


Take care to tease lightly and play close attention to the other people around you. No matter what your intentions, playfulness isn't attractive if you end up hurting someone's feelings.
There is a time and place for playfulness. If you are in a professional environment, where playfulness is generally not encourages, save it for when you leave work. However, you can still exercise kindness and warmth.
 Slowing down your speech can actually make you more interesting to others. This gives them a chance to digest what you are saying. Speaking slower also demonstrates confidences and a relaxed state, while speaking quickly might make you look overly excited, eager, or nervous.


Especially if you are nervous, practice speaking slow. This will help you remain calm, and maintain control.
You are also less likely to stumble over your words if you speak slowly.

