 The hypotenuse side of a right triangle is always the side opposite to the right angle. In order to find the length oh the Hypotenuse side we first need to recall the three trigonometric ratios. so: Sine of an angle = opposite side ÷ hypotenuse side, cosine of an angle = adjacent side ÷ hypotenuse side and tangent of an angle = opposite side ÷ adjacent side.
 In order to find the length of the hypotenuse side of a right triangle we simply eliminate the side which will not be used in the calculation., Eliminate the formulas containing opposite in the above triangle we are left with the cosine formula. Write down the formula, substitute the values in the formula and then simplify by transposition in order to obtain a value for the Hypotenuse., Known values should be on one side of the equation and the unknown on the other side., To find the adjacent side, start by removing the sine formula because it does not have an adjacent side in it. By comparing the cosine and tangent formulas to the question, determine which of the two is more suitable to be used. Remove the one which is not needed. Eliminate the tangent formula if the question does not have an opposite and if it does not have a hypotenuse remove the cosine formula., The diagram above provides an angle and the side opposite to it and we need to find the adjacent side so we use the tangent formula. Substitute the known values into the formula. Simplify by transposition in order to obtain a value for the unknown side., In order to find the opposite side, you first need to narrow down your selection of which formula to use by eliminating the one that does not have opposite. Cosine should be eliminated because it does not have opposite. Take the sine and tangent formulas and make a comparison between them and the given question. If the question does not have a hypotenuse then use the tangent formula and if it does not have an adjacent, use the sine formula., From the diagram above there is no adjacent, so use the sine formula. Substitute the known values into the formula. Simplify the equation by transposing to obtain a value for the unknown side.