 It will be easier to identify, stop, and prevent drug activity in your neighborhood if you work together. Your neighbors may have noticed things you haven’t, and vice versa.;
, If you suspect that there are drug dealings going on in your neighborhood, look for warning signs. Visitors at strange hours, blocked-up windows, and odd smells may be signs of drug activity.Excessive foot traffic to and from a house and loitering may be signs that illicit activity is occurring.
Another suspicious pattern is the presence of many cars that stop at the house for a short period of time and then leave.
Other possible signs of drug activity include graffiti and gang activity in the area, although these are not always linked.
 Surprisingly, people can be careless about concealing drug paraphernalia such as hypodermic needles and pipes, even when a police presence has been established in the neighborhood. If you see signs of these materials, call the police.If you find evidence of drug paraphernalia, don't collect it or look around for additional materials. Take note of where you found it, what type of paraphernalia it was, what time of day you discovered it, and on what date, and report those details to the police.
 Always stay safe and don’t approach potential dealers, but gathering details about the activities you observe can help police take the proper action. If the drug dealer lives nearby, you can often document activities from the safety of your own home.If you observe suspicious traffic activity, take notes of license plate numbers, car models and colors, and approximate times of visits.
If you are concerned about a particular individual, write down a detailed description including height, build, hair color, and any identifying features. Also include the circumstances that have caused your suspicion.
If you feel that the situation is dangerous, be cautious. Do not openly collect information, take photographs, or do other things that might provoke a hostile dealer. Remember: if they are operating in your neighborhood, they may know who you are.
 You can choose to remain anonymous if you will feel safer that way. Provide the police with as much detail as possible about the situation you’ve observed: where you believe drug dealers are operating, what they look like, when their customers come by, how many cars you’ve seen, etc.


Call from a safe place. Don't place a call where potential dealers can hear or see you. Don't tell suspected dealers that you will call the police.
Always contact the police and allow them to handle drug activities. Attempting to stop these crimes yourself may cause you or others harm. It may also cause difficulties in prosecuting criminal cases related to the activity later.

