 If you are focusing on increasing muscle strength and muscle size, an evening workout may be best.You have eaten throughout the day so your body has plenty of fuel and your muscles are warm.On the other hand, evening workouts can be easy to brush off. If you have a lot of evening commitments or are usually fatigued at the end of the day, it will be hard to find time the time or energy to exercise.You are less likely to get injured during evening exercise because your muscles and joints have been working all day.If you plan to exercise at a gym or outside, know what time your gym closes and how much daylight you will have in the evening.
 Evening exercise helps some people fall asleep while it gives others an energy boost. Evening strength training in particular may help you fall asleep and stay asleep throughout the night.On the other hand, high-intensity training may cause you to be more alert and have trouble falling asleep.


If you find that you have trouble going to sleep at night, yoga or stretching exercises can help you relax.You may save your evening workouts for low-intensity exercises (i.e. walking, yoga, stretching) and do more high-intensity workouts (i.e. running, cycling, interval training) in the morning.
 It takes your body two to three hours to digest a meal and absorb nutrients. Eat a snack before your workout and have dinner when you are finished. If you want to eat dinner first, eat earlier than you typically would.Foods such as white rice, pasta, bread, and potatoes encourage sleep. Eat them at least one hour before you plan to go to bed. If you plan to go to bed at 11:00 pm, you need to eat before 10:00 pm. Eating turkey and/or pumpkin seeds can also help you sleep.
 Try to finish your workout about two hours before it is time for you to go to bed. This will give your body time for you to wind down. For example, if you plan to go to bed at 11:00 pm, be finished working out by 9:00 pm.


Your melatonin (i.e. hormone that makes you sleepy) levels peak around 10:00 pm. Your workout performance and form may suffer if you are tired and exercising this late.Sleep is just as important as exercise and helps your body recover after exercise.