 If you get pimples, use a gentle, non-abrasive, and alcohol-free acne treatment. Don’t vigorously scrub your skin when you wash your face, because this takes away the natural oils and can make your skin dry, flaky, and can even cause more acne.Try to treat your acne naturally, or talk to your doctor about products you can use.


Ask your doctor for a referral to a dermatologist if you have acne that won’t go away within four to eight weeks of using an over-the-counter treatment or if your acne is painful.There are medications you can take, but some of them, like Accutane, have lots of side effects.Never use your fingernails to scrape your skin or pick at acne scabs. Squeezing, popping, or picking at pimples can cause infections and leave scarring., If you feel self-conscious about your skin you might be tempted to go heavy on your makeup. However, wearing too much makeup can make your skin dry or oily and cause breakouts. Only apply light layers of foundation and use makeup minimally for a natural, healthy look.


There are techniques you can use to hide acne with makeup.
 Keep your finger and toenails trimmed and free of jagged edges. Clean underneath your nails when you wash your hands (and feet), and use an under nail scraper to get dirt out from under your nails if you need to.Use sharp clippers or small manicure scissors to cut straight across your nail, and round out the corners in a gentle curve with a nail file. Use hand lotion on your nails and cuticles.Don’t bite your nails or pull off hangnails. This can cause an infection and look messy. Use clean nail clippers, instead.Paint your nails if you want to! Or just apply a protective layer of nail hardener or top-coat for some shine.Only use acetone-free nail polish remover., If you want to wear perfume or body spray, go for it! Just avoid wearing too much. This can be overpowering and unpleasant to some people. Spray your perfume two to three times in front of you and then walk through it – this will give you a nice smell without being overpowering.


Do not dunk your hairbrush in perfume or spray perfume directly onto your hair. This can dry your hair out.
Remember, wearing perfume does not take the place of taking a bath or shower every day.

