 This makes sneaking your stash into the bathroom more convenient based on where you are and who you’re with. For example, if spending the day at school or work, store tampons and pads in your purse, desk, backpack, pencil case, lunch box, and car., This tricks people into thinking you’re looking for items other than feminine products. For example, if tampons are stored in your purse, rummage in your bag and grab your mobile phone or lip balm at the same time.
 Wait until others are distracted and paying attention to something else before grabbing pads and tampons from your stash. For example, if watching television with friends, wait until commercial breaks are over before heading to your stash.
 People are less likely to pay attention to what you’re doing if you act calm and natural, while being fidgety, nervous, and frantic can make you look suspicious and sneaky., Most popular tampon and pad brands offer products with quiet, easy-to-open wrappers so you can be discreet on the go.
 Most tampon brands offer compact versions, which are full-size tampons wrapped in a way that makes them smaller for storage and hiding., When reaching for your stash, quickly slip a pad or tampon up your shirt sleeve. This discreet move takes just seconds, and effectively hides tampons and pads of all sizes.
 Boots are an ideal hiding place since they’re roomier than most shoe styles. Before heading to the bathroom, discreetly bend down to adjust your boot or sock, and slip a pad or tampon into its side.
 If using a notebook or textbook, slip a maxi pad into the center of the book and return to your desk or locker before heading to the bathroom.
 This hiding place is most effective if you’re going straight to the restroom, and won’t affect the shape or function of your pad., Back pockets on your pants and jeans are ideal for hiding maxi pads and liners, while front pockets are more effective at hiding tampons.
 Given your clothing isn’t too loose, the waistbands of shorts, skirts, and pants keep pads and tampons snug and secure on your way to the restroom., Pads and tampons resemble common makeup items such as compact mirrors, powder, mascara, and lipstick. Take your makeup bag with you to the bathroom and pretend to retouch makeup.

