 A doctor can help you isolate the cause of your biting, or can refer you to a specialist. Serious chewing and biting that causes bleeding, scarring or another damage to your lip or mouth requires medical attention. Lip biting is often a symptom of anxiety, but it can also be a symptom of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), or body-focused repetitive behavior (BFRB).


Lip biting can be a tic. These are most common in young men and often disappear without treatment after a few months. A doctor can help you eliminate other possible causes.Ask your dentist about acquiring a mouth guard for help with lip biting, chewing, and clenching. If you tend to bite at night or during sedentary activities such as reading, watching television, or studying, these can be extremely helpful.
 Whether you bite your lips due to anxiety or a severe compulsion, getting therapy is more effective than medication. Your therapist will likely train you in habit reversal. This will involve mindfulness techniques, relaxation techniques, and competing response techniques. Ask for a referral for a therapist with experience treating compulsions and anxiety.


Ask your therapist about cognitive behavioral therapy, which focuses on the relationships between thoughts and behaviors.Support groups can also be helpful, especially if you don't know other people who understand what you're going through., If nothing seems to be helping, you may have an anxiety disorder that could be mitigated with medication. Generalized anxiety disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and other anxiety disorders don't always respond to talk therapy. Depending on your diagnosis and health profile, a psychiatrist might prescribe a medication to treat your anxiety.This might include an antidepressant, such as medications in the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) and serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) drug class.
You might be prescribed Buspirone, a medication formulated specifically to treat anxiety, or Benzodiazepines, which are sedatives prescribed to treat severe cases.
Not all causes of lip biting respond to medication. BFRB, for example, responds best to habit reversal, with medications only prescribed for co-morbid conditions.