 Bullying doesn’t always happen in person. In today’s world, cyberbullying is also something people have to deal with. Like regular bullying, however, there are ways to prevent and stop cyberbullying. First, be conscious of what you post online. Don’t post anything that you don’t want shared with everyone you know. If it could be embarrassing or hurtful to you or others, don’t post it.


Always remember, absolutely nothing you post online is private. Take a minute to think about all the people who might look at your post or picture, including your friends, classmates, teachers, parents, and even strangers., It is also important to keep your passwords for your social media accounts to yourself. Giving someone your password allows them to access your account and post whatever they want, which could be something hurtful to you or another person.


The only people you should give your password to are your parents., Your parents can help you decide what you should and shouldn’t post online, so let them know what you’re doing and who you’re doing it with. They have your best interests in mind and want to keep you from opening yourself up to being cyberbullied.In addition, they can help you figure out how to get rid of the unwanted post and help you block the person so they can no longer communicate with you online.You may also consider asking an older sibling if you don’t feel ready to talk to your parents about it. If your sibling was also bullied, then they may be able to give you some feedback.
 Sometimes, no matter how careful you are, cyberbullies still get to you. If you’re being bullied online, never respond. Responding to a mean comment or post might only make things worse and give the bully more fuel to keep bullying you., It is always good to keep a record of any online bullying that is going on. Documenting when someone is bullying you can make it easier to let your parents or another adult know exactly what happened. If you can show them exactly what the bully said or did, they can help you figure out the best way to deal with it.There are a few ways you can document online bullying. You can print out the post or email that contains the nasty content, or save it to a file on your computer. In addition, you can take a screenshot of the text, post, or message on your phone.
Always remember that if the bullying gets intense, seek help. It is better to seek help early rather than wait.

