 Antihistamines work by reducing your body's allergic reaction to an irritant (in this case, mold). They may or may not be paired with a decongestant to reduce nasal stuffiness. You can purchase antihistamines without a prescription at most pharmacies and drug stores.Antihistamines (including OTC antihistamines) should never be given to anyone under two years of age, as they may cause life-threatening problems in young children.Antihistamines may have negative interactions with certain medications or if used by people who have certain medical conditions.For example, antihistamines can raise your blood pressure, so you may not be able to take them if you have high blood pressure. Antihistamines may also not be advised for people with glaucoma, kidney disease, and urinary problems. Talk to your doctor before taking antihistamines, even if they are OTC medications.
Common side effects include drowsiness and thick secretions from the respiratory system. However, some rare, more serious side effects have been reported in some individuals., Topical medications like creams, lotions, and ointments may help alleviate the symptoms of skin irritation. These medications come in both prescription-strength and over-the-counter formulas.Your doctor may prescribe a steroid cream, an antifungal cream, or some other type of topical treatment.
You can also use over-the-counter cortisone (steroidal) cream to reduce inflammation and irritation.
Treat rashes and itchy, irritated skin at home using over-the-counter moisturizers, such as Benadryl or hydrocortisone cream.
Choose a topical cream, ointment, or lotion that has a low alcohol content and is designed for people with eczema, as these will be more gentle on your skin.
Be aware that some of these creams may contain alcohol, which can irritate your skin. This is especially important to keep in mind if you have a rash, which may become infected or lead to scarring from using a cream that contains alcohol.
 If you have a skin rash or irritation caused by mold, the intense itchiness will cause you to scratch excessively at the affected area. It's important to take some basic steps to reduce the risk of breaking your skin as you scratch, since this could lead to an infection and further irritation.Keep your fingernails trimmed short to avoid scratching your skin too hard.
If you scratch in your sleep, consider wearing light fabric gloves to protect your skin.
Above all, make sure to talk with your doctor or dermatologist. Skin damage from a mold allergy is very serious.

