 The younger they both are the better. If you get both your guinea pig and cat when they are each very young and allow them to grow up together, they are especially likely to become friends.Try to introduce your cat to your guinea pig before the cat is ten weeks old. Cats this young are undergoing the critical socialization period of their development, and will be especially susceptible to information indicating that the guinea pig is a friend and fellow housemate.
 If you don’t get your cat and guinea pig when they’re both young, introducing them to each other may not go entirely smoothly. We’re talking weeks of hardened stare-downs and weird, carnal noisemaking.


Don’t push either one of them. Trying to expedite the process will likely add stress to the situation and make it harder for them to calm down around one another.
 Once they’ve acclimated to one another’s scent, allow quick eye contact sessions from a distance. These are the best way to handle visual introductions. Place the cat inside a kennel.
Let the cat watch as you praise the guinea pig and feed the guinea pig treats for being calm and relaxed. The guinea pig will likely play its part because guinea pigs tend not to overthink things.
Stop the eye contact session after a minute or two, or if either of the animals become overly energetic or nervous. The goal here is to instill calmness in their relationship.
 On another early visit, bring the cat into the room where your guinea pig is kept (but never into the guinea pig’s actual enclosure). Double check that your guinea pig is secure in their housing area and that the cat cannot reach them.Bring the cat into the room, in your own or another human’s arms.
Whichever human you have assist you should already have a good relationship with each pet.
Hold one of your pets and have another human hold the other one.
Each human should pet the animal they’re holding.
If each pet remains calm, allow them to watch as the other animal is treated fondly by the other human.
Decrease the physical distance between them incrementally. Move closer by a foot each time you have a petting session.
 Take a small amount of time each day to repeat this process. Talk to your guinea pig during these sessions so your cat becomes aware that they are a part of the family.


Once the two humans holding the pets are close enough to touch the pet that the other human is holding, hold the distance.
If you can sit next to one another with both animals remaining calm, you’re at a good distance to start cross petting.
Reach towards the other person and pet the animal that they’re holding. Take turns petting the pet the other person is holding. This will show both the cat and the guinea pig that everyone is calm with everybody else.
Reward calm, relaxed demeanors with treats and affection.

