 This time represents the next three digits of pi: 3.14159. Take a minute to acknowledge pi in whatever way you see fit at that moment During this minute, you can cheer wildly, or even have a countdown leading up to "pi minute" the minute before.


For added effect for a countdown, have a "pi drop" where you drop a big pie off a balcony or another elevated structure. You can even add a lot of sprinkles to the pie to make it look like a disco ball.
If you've written a pi song or made a pi dance, this would be the perfect minute to share your art.
Note that there is some debate regarding the exact time that Pi Day should be celebrated. Though 1:59PM is probably the most common, some believe that the 24 hour clock should be used instead, which would mean that Pi Day should be celebrated at 1:59AM or 15:09PM.
 This step is absolutely necessary for two reasons: first, to utterly confuse people who have no idea what you're talking about, and secondly, to have fun seeing how many things can be referenced with pi. This will help you reach an even higher appreciation for the amazing number that is pi. Consider two approaches:


Use pi to tell the time. Convert naturally circular things into radians, like the hours on the clock. Instead of it being 3 o'clock, now it's 1/2 pi o'clock. Or, instead of it being 3 o'clock, convert the inclination of the sun into radians and describe that as the time.
Simply use 3.14 as a unit of measure. Instead of being 31 years old, you are 9pi years old. With this same approach, you can find out your next pi birthday -- just don't forget to celebrate it when it comes!

, Don't let this be a one-time thing — you owe it to pi to celebrate again and again. Set the date for next year and consider creating a pi club or website in the process.


Talk about your plans for Pi Day the following year. This will help generate enthusiasm.
Take notes after your Pi Day celebration. What can you do next year to make your celebration even more incredible?
Next year, talk about the day months in advance so your skeptical friends can be convinced to join in. You can even advertise for the event by emailing your closer friends or even setting up a Pi Day Facebook page.

