 Most of the supplies you need to make a pillar candle will be the same as what you used for a candle in a jar. The main difference is that because a pillar candle stands alone, you will need a mold instead of a jar. A proper candle mold is ideal, but you can also use:


An old juice box or milk carton with the top cut off. Be sure to clean it with soap and water before reusing it as a candle mold.
A clean, empty juice tin
A muffin tin (to make votive candles)

, Melt the wax in the double boiler. When it is fully melted, add the dye. After 20 minutes, add your fragrance. For a natural wax candle that isn’t dyed or scented, just set the wax aside for 20 to 30 minutes to cool.


You can determine how much wax you need based on the size of the jar you’re using.
 For a proper candle mold that has a hole in the bottom, thread the wick through the hole, then insert and tighten the wick screw. Apply putty to seal the hole and prevent wax from dripping out.With a DIY mold, dip the wick in wax to straighten it, then dip the base in the wax so you can glue it to the center base of the mold. Use a chopstick to press the wick tab into place.
For either mold type, keep the top of the wick in place with a clothespin or by wrapping it around a chopstick sitting across the mold rim.
 When the wax is ready and the wick in place, pour the wax into the mold. Leave a half-inch space at the top of the mold. Allow the wax to cool to a semi-solid state, then poke four relief holes around the wick with the chopstick.


These will allow air to escape, and prevent cracking. Allow the wax to cool to room temperature.
 In the double boiler, reheat the remaining wax to a liquid state again. When it has completely liquefied and is good and hot, pour the wax into the top of the mold to fill the relief holes. Allow the candle to cool and cure.
 When the candle has set and cooled, it should slide out of the mold easily. In the event that it doesn’t come out, refrigerate the candle for 15 minutes, then try again.Trim the wick to one-half inch.

