 With a French bustle the loop and the button are both located under the skirt. When connected, the finished look will have a puff in the middle of the back of your skirt with the lower half of the skirt lying straight down. This kind of bustle is very visible, creating a layer, or more, on the back of the dress that is full and puffy.
 The position of this tie will depend on where you would like the bustle puff on the back of the skirt of your dress. Just remember that the top of the puffy area will be where you attach the tie.


If you are planning on having multiple points of attachment, for instance if your train is really long or you just like the look of multiple sections of full puffy bustle, then you will need to attach several ties at the top of the inside of your skirt.
 This tie should be high enough to hold the skirt off the ground but far enough away from the first tie that when they are tied together is creates a pleasant puffy area. You may need more than one tie, depending on how long your train is.


When using multiple ties, use different color ribbons to color code which ties go together. This will make the job much easier and will also make the ties easier to see under all the layers of tulle and skirting. If you are afraid that the different colors could show through your fabric, just number the ends so that they correspond with the tie you will attach in the next step., Make sure that they are secure and then fluff the back of your dress until it appears just right. If you have multiple ties, make sure they are connected to the correct corresponding tie.


It will be important to have someone help you with this kind of bustle. Assign someone to help bustle your dress for you on your wedding day. You will normally bustle your skirt between the wedding and reception. Have this designated person attend your dress fittings so they can learn how to properly bustle your dress. Generally, this person is the maid of honor or another member of the bridal party.

