 Before you make any decisions about starting a new business you need to do some thorough research of global tea markets and the wider tea business world.Look online for stories and statistics that can tell you about the big picture of tea. Here you will get a good idea of the state of the market, where there is growth, and where there is stagnation or decline. You can also get an idea of the potential long-term trajectory of a successful tea business.Look for case studies on tea companies in national and international business and financial websites to learn from successful businesses.
If you are starting an online business and intend to sell your goods internationally, it's important to get this broader perspective from the start.
 In today's ever-growing entrepreneurship environment, determining how you will set your business apart is crucial. No matter if you choose to sell nutritionally sound, high-end, or exotic teas, identifying your specific angle and sticking to it is a necessary step. Ask yourself what would be unique and different about this business.
 Now you need to develop a sound business plan. A tea business can be a relatively simple buy and sell business so you should try to keep your business plan clear and focused to reflect this. Include information on what will make your business unique, as well as your goals and the strategies you will enact to reach these goals. Try to include all the pertinent details, but keep it concise.Have a clear timeline with specific goals you will achieve by specific dates.
This could include the day the website will go live, and the point at which you will turn a profit.
A good clear and achievable business plan is essential, especially if you are hoping to gain funding from a bank to support your start-up costs.
There are some examples of tea business plans available that you can read online., As part of the process of developing you business plan, you will need to ensure you have a full understanding of all the legal requirements associated with starting a new business. This will include things such as taxes and rates. You cannot skip this part, and it's important to get it right. For this reason it's advisable to speak to a solicitor who specialises in new businesses for advice and guidance.


For an online business you need think particularly about how you will protect your customers' privacy and financial information.
In the US the Federal Trade Commission deal with new online businesses., Typically, the best and most popular teas come from the leaves, barks, and roots of plants and trees grown in China, Africa and India. While you may be able to obtain teas from other parts of the world, their quality may not be as high as those grown in these three regions. Contact companies who are already experienced in exporting tea to other parts of the world.


Make sure that these individuals are aware of exactly what types of teas you are interested in carrying, and have agreed to a specific price, before signing a contract.
Speaking to other people in the tea business can be a helpful way to find out more about the reputations of specific suppliers.
 The next step is develop your website. This is effectively your store front so it's essential that it is attractive and draws in customers who won't dawdle on your site if they don't like it. You need to keep it simple and clear, as you will have just a seconds to grab someone's attention. Research successful sites online, and try to stick with the following basic principles:


Make navigation across the site simple, easy, quick and intuitive. You should have a template so that every page is negotiable in the same basic way.
Keep the page clean, with just one or two basic fonts on a white or pale background. Only use video, graphics or audio if they really enhance your message.
Make it easy to buy with as few clicks as possible between the potential customer and the check-out., Once you have your site live, with your goods ready to go, you need to drive traffic to your online store. Consider using pay-per-click (PPC) advertising to get traffic to a new site. PPC ads appear immediately on search pages so you can avoid some of the lengthy process of moving your site up the list of search results. You can also use PPC ads to test out which key words are the most effective for you.Once you know which key words come up most frequently you can ensure that they appear throughout your website to optimise it for search engines.
Use analytics to assess the performance of your website and see where your traffic is coming from.

