 If you find a mutual attraction with a married man ask yourself if you really want to pursue this relationship knowing that you will spend holidays alone and that you will always take a back seat to his family.;
, Realize that if you do anything to cause his wife to discover your secret, he will only hate you for it and you will likely lose him.
 You are dispensable. She is not. She gets half his assets if they divorce. He has worked hard for what he has attained and hates the thought of losing it. His kids need him, and if he is the kind of man you think he is, he will not want to hurt his children.
 This means the fun, non-committal things such as mind-blowing intimacy, indulgent fantasies, and listening when he needs to talk. These are the things he wants from you. Be his fantasy girl. He has enough reality in his life.
 If you really want to hold onto him, you must accept that commitment is not to be. This does not mean you become a doormat. Long-lasting affairs are built on trust, intimacy and respect, just as any good relationship is. Usually long-term affairs are affairs of the intellect as well as affairs of the heart and body.
 Make sure he understands and respects that you have a life outside of him. You are not his servant; you are his respected lover and confidant.
 They will only serve to make him question why he's hooked up with such a nut case.
 First of all, there is no need - after all, YOU are the one trying to take something that isn't yours, so you're in no position to judge her; secondly it makes you look catty and insecure. There is no reason to be angry at the wife for being what caught his eye FIRST.
, He won't leave her for you...you are second best and need to accept that position...or you can just go and find love the traditional way.
, Are you willing to risk this? Are you willing to be exposed to everyone that you know that you are an adulteress? Be mindful that a jealous woman researches better than the FBI. She will find out and expose you.

