 Isotonic drinks will replenish lost fluids while also giving your body a some extra carbohydrates to help provide energy.The concentration of carbohydrates and electrolytes in these drinks nearly mimics the concentration present in blood allowing for efficient absorption of fluid. Choose an isotonic fluid replacement drink for normal workouts and moderate sweating. To be considered isotonic, a drink contain roughly the same salt and sugar content as the human body does.For example, you might drink an isotonic drink during and after soccer practice. Or, you might drink an isotonic drink after running a 5K.;
, Isotonic fluid replacement drinks help to rehydrate you faster because they contain about the same amount of sugar and salt as your blood. To make an isotonic fluid replacement drink, you will need:3 cups or (about 800 mL) of water
1 cup of fruit juice (any kind) OR 1 cup of tea and 2 tablespoons of sugar
a pinch of salt

, Get a large pitcher and pour in your water. You will need about three cups or 720 mL of drinking water to make an isotonic solution.Make sure that the water is at room temperature or slightly warm so that the salt will dissolve easily.
 Next, add your tea to the pitcher. You will need to add about one cup or 240 mL or fruit juice or tea to the water.The fruit juice will add flavor and sweetness, while the tea will just add flavor.


If you are using tea, then you will also need to add about two tablespoons of sugar to the tea to get the right sugar content.Add the sugar while it is still warm and stir the sugar into the tea until it dissolves. Then add the tea to the water.
 You only need a pinch of salt to get the right sodium level for your isotonic fluid replacement drink. Pinch a little salt between your index finger and thumb and drop it into the pitcher., After you have added all of your ingredients, stir or swirl the ingredients together so that they are well-combined. Then, it will be ready to drink! Pour some into a water bottle and take it along for your next workout or enjoy a glass right away.

