 Others can often perceive someone’s potential reaction to teasing by the way they act under pressure. If your perspective on teasing is the same as theirs—that it makes you get angry—then making fun of your quirks is what a bully is likely to do. But if your perspective is indifferent towards teasing, you may find that bullies don’t think you’re much fun—and they’ll leave you alone., Instead of engaging with the bully and teasing them back, wait until they are done taunting you throw and a one-liner at them before walking away.After saying your line, shrug, turn on your heels, and walk calmly away. This displays that you aren’t easily ruffled, making you a boring target. You can try one-liners like these:


“Thanks for telling me that.”
“Oh, I thought I was cool.”
“So what’s your point?”
Try to keep a sincere tone of voice instead of a sarcastic or angry tone, as this might display your irritation and perpetuate the teasing.
 Using a confident tone of voice displays your refusal to back down to the teasing. Don’t sound like you are going to cry; don’t sound like you are angry or upset; and don’t whine. Instead—even if you’re shy—raise your voice so that they can hear you and make your tone even and strong.


A shaky voice is also an indicator that the teasing has worked to upset you.
 Looking as strong as you sound is also important. You can communicate your inner confidence—or look like you have inner confidence, even if you don’t feel it—by using body language to your advantage. Things like gesturing when you talk and having good posture help your body take up more space, making you actually feel confident.Make sure that your posture is assertive. Stand with your feet firmly planted on the ground, your arms hanging down at your sides, and your hands relaxed. Maintain eye contact with the bully and keep your face relaxed. You might even want to smile a little, since this demonstrates assertiveness.Try power posing for extra confidence. Standing in a powerful position can increase your sense of well-being and confidence for a short period of time.For example, you can try standing like a superhero with your hands on your hips, legs shoulder width apart, chest out, and chin up. Stay in this position for a minute or two.
 Bullying often gets worse when you get angry in response, so it is a good idea to respond in a calm, cool way. Instead of bursting into tears or yelling out an angry response, try to react as little as possible. Doing so will show the bully that you are not afraid of him or what he is saying to you.


Avoid responding directly to what the bully has to say. Instead, try saying something to show your lack of interest or concern. For example, you could say something like, “Are you done talking? I haven’t really been paying attention.” Or, “Your life must be pretty lame since you are always so interested in mine.”Try to avoid starting a teasing cycle. It can be tempting to fight back by teasing a bully the same way they are teasing you, but it is likely that such an action will backfire on you because it shows that you’re irritated. Showing any kind of emotional reaction to teasing usually makes the teaser want to do it more.
 Do an experiment. For one week, take your new attitude with you wherever you have been getting teased (or keep the new attitude available if you aren’t teased on a regular basis). Allow the people to tease you without reacting at all, as much as they want. If after a week they haven’t moved on to teasing someone else, you don’t have to use this strategy anymore.The best way to appear calm through a teasing session is to choose to believe that their teasing doesn’t bother you. This way, if you answer a direct question or use a one-liner, your voice is strong and sincere instead of angry or sarcastic.
Say to yourself, “It’s all right if they tease me because it doesn’t bother me at all.” Choose to believe this mantra, and it will show.
 You may be the target of teasing not because someone thinks little of you, but because they are attracted to you and don’t know how to talk to you except through negative attention. Even if they do have negative intentions for teasing, if you see it as a compliment that you have been chosen, you may be better able to resist getting angry.

