 If you are in school, try to talk to your school’s nurse, counselor, or social worker for more advice. If you are not in school, talk with your health insurance provider to find out if you may be eligible for counseling and if there are mental health professionals in your area. They may be able to provide you with specific, local resources that can help you in your situation. They also may be able to offer psychological assistance during this time., There are many support groups for teen mothers that are available both in person and online. These groups can allow you to vent your feelings to people removed from the situation. Some people within the group may have had similar issues with their own parents. They may be able to offer you resources and advice tailored to your specific situation.


You can contact your local department of social and health services, council, or school district to see if they offer support groups for young moms.

Young Mommies and Young Mom Support are online support groups for teenage parents.
 If you can, talk to your other parent or a close friend or sibling of your mother’s to see if they can help you reach out to your mother. They can have a private conversation with your mother to convince her to relax her control.


You can say, “I’m really struggling right now, and I was hoping you could talk to mom to help her understand what I’m going through.”
If your parents are separated, you might want to consider if living with the other parent may be an option for you.
 Teen parents often isolate themselves and thus become socially distant from their peers. This can lead to depression and other mental health problems. To help you remain healthy and happy, try to pick up new hobbies that you can do from home while watching your child. These can be creative activities, calming routines, or online social groups. Some outlets you might consider include:


Writing in a journal
Meditation
Yoga
Starting a blog for other teen moms
Online book club

