 Vintage cuts and patterns fit well with the cerebral emo image, so thrift stores are a great place to shop (and you’ll save money!). Look for prints like polka dots, plaid or a checkered design.Look for 70’s style jackets. Those are very popular amongst emo girls, and they go with everything from jeans to dresses.Also look for 50’s style vintage dresses, especially halter dresses or dresses in an A-line cut.;
, Look for understated colors, rather than flashy neons or pastels. Black is usually a big component in an emo wardrobe, but you can still wear color. Look for classic primary or jewel-toned items. There really are no hard and fast rules about colors, though, so if you like something, get it. You can always accessorize to include different colors, too.
 Emo dresses usually come in two different cuts: jersey or tunic dresses or fuller, A-line dresses. Try to buy dresses that fit into one of these two categories.


Dresses can and should include cool details, like a corset bodice or shoelace detailing.
If you prefer skirts, try to buy them short and pleated.
 Wearing dresses can be hard, especially in the winter. To make your look more seasonally appropriate, add leggings or tights. These should be brightly colored or striped and can include cool textures, like fishnets.


If your tights or leggings have a tear in them, even better!
You can also wear leggings or tights under cut-off shorts or miniskirts.
 Emo girls love to express themselves, and graphic tees are a great way to do this. Buy a t-shirt with a band you like or quote that is meaningful to you. Hoodies are also a great (warm) way to express yourself.Tees and hoodies should fit well and should not be oversized to the point where you’re swimming in them.
Pair your tees and hoodies with a slightly faded, fitted pair of jeans. To add a bit more flair, wear a pair of striped socks over your jeans.
 A pair of Converse shoes are the perfect touch to complete any emo kid outfit. Converse are the most popular shoes for emo girls, but Vans are a close second. Either pair of shoe is great to wear with pants or skirts and dresses.


Ballet flats are also a good option if you want to go a little more girly.
To make your shoes more fun, try switching out the original laces for something more colorful.
 Emo style is all about mixing cute with hardcore. Buy a headband with a bow on it, or a studded belt. For maximum effect, wear more than one belt at a time.If you have piercings, feel free to rock them.


Chunky bracelets are also very popular in the emo girl community.
If you’re wearing denim, try ironing on or sewing on patches to give your look a little more flair.
 You don’t have to change your hair color just because you want to start dressing emo, but if it’s important to you, there are lots of colors to choose from. Most emo hairstyles center around jet black hair, bleached blonde hair or some combination of the two.If you have naturally dark hair, try adding some very light highlights. If you have naturally light hair, try adding very dark lowlights.
You can also experiment with dying your hair different bright colors. Purple, red and pink are currently very popular, but you can dye your hair any color you’d like.
If you aren’t ready to commit to a big color change right now or if your parents say you can’t, try experimenting with wash out dye.You can also try streaking your hair, so the color is less aggressive. Or buy colored clip-ins and layer them amongst your natural hair color. The possibilities are endless!

, There are certain haircuts that are strongly associated with emo culture. These haircuts include, straight hair with very sharp cuts or hair cut with very dramatic layers.If you have short hair, try a sharply angled bob cut.
If you have long hair, try adding long layers on both sides.There is a misconception that you can only be emo if your hair is straight. This is not true. Curly haired girls can be emo too.
 This is a popular emo hairstyle you can pull off even without getting a haircut. To do this, take a section of your hair from the back. Using your comb, back comb or tease the bottom of this section until the crown of your hair has a little more volume.Be careful not to tease too hard, or you might damage your hair.
When the back of your hair is fully teased, wear your hair down, or throw it up into a casual ponytail.
 Bangs are a signature emo look for women. Bangs should be heavy and thick or styled into a fringe. Regardless of how they are cut, you’ll want them long enough to touch your eyebrows or possibly to hang over and cover part of your eyes.This will allow you to hide behind your bangs when you feel sad.
 Your eyes are the windows to your soul, and for emo girls, you want them to be a focal point of your face. Use eyeliner or kohl to heavily line your eyes, almost to the point where you look like a raccoon.To apply liquid eyeliner, start at the top of one eyelid and draw a line from one corner of the lid to the other. Try to draw your line at ½ a centimeter and allow it to air dry so it doesn’t smudge.Draw over the liquid eyeliner with a black crayon or pencil eyeliner to make your eyes extra dark and dramatic.
If you’re not allowed to wear makeup to school, don’t worry! Save it for a special event or Halloween. You can still dress like an emo girl without all the makeup.
 Because the eyes are such a focal point in emo makeup, the rest of your face should be left relatively untouched. Try adding pale or neutral lipgloss to make your lips pop a little. You can also add a little blush to give your cheeks a little color., Nails are a big deal for emo girls, so go crazy here. Paint them dark or bright colors or alternate between the two. If you have a little money laying around, splurge for a gel manicure so they’ll last a little longer.


Try making your fourth finger on each hand a different color than the rest.
Use nail decals or stickers to attach fun images like cartoon characters or skulls to your nails. Mix and match for a cool combination.