 If your aim is simply to freshen up your breath, there are a variety of products you can choose from to cover the bad odor. These leave your mouth tasting pleasant and temporarily make your breath smell better. Cosmetic mouthwash is a good choice for rinsing after you've eaten a particularly pungent meal, like garlic spaghetti sauce. It serves the same function as an after-dinner mint, with fewer calories.If you have chronic bad breath, cosmetic mouthwash isn't going to address the source of the issue nor will it help reduce plaque, gingivitis, or cavities. It masks bad smells, but it doesn't kill the bacteria that produces them. The point of cosmetic mouthwash is just to make your mouth taste and smell good.;
, Therapeutic mouthwashes fight bacteria that cause bad breath while reducing plaque and treating gingivitis. Some may even whiten teeth. If you're looking for a mouthwash that actually cleans your mouth, choose one with therapeutic agents that will reduce harmful bacteria in your mouth. Look for an over-the-counter mouthwash in the toothpaste aisle that is labeled as being antibacterial or antiseptic.


Using an antibacterial mouthwash may help you tackle the root of bad breath, which is often caused by bacteria. This is because it will kill bacteria and inhibit its reproduction in your mouth. That said, some antibacterial agents, such as such as chlorhexidine and cetylpyridinium, may discolor your teeth.You might also want to try an antiseptic mouthwash. This will stop the growth of bacteria as well as fungi, protozoa, and viruses. However, antiseptic mouthwash contains a lot of alcohol, which can dry out your mouth and cause irritation., If your goal is specifically to keep your teeth from getting cavities, you might want to choose a therapeutic mouthwash that contains fluoride. It helps to reduce the lesions that lead to cavity formation.Fluoride is in most commercially available toothpaste, and it is also added to the water in many cities, but you might want to consider using extra fluoride if your teeth are particularly prone to cavities.While fluoride does help to reduce cavities, some scientists posit that it can be toxic to the body and the environment.Research the pros and cons of using fluoride before you decide to make it a part of your daily routine.
 If you have an infection, mouth pain, lack of saliva (xerostomia), or another medical condition, your doctor or dentist might prescribe a special mouthwash to treat the problem. Use the mouthwash as directed by your physician. Check the instructions that come with your prescription to learn about dosage and side effects.
 If you want to start using mouthwash, but would prefer to know exactly what you're using to rinse your teeth every day, choose one (or make your own) that is made with herbs that promote good oral health. Clove, peppermint and rosemary are all herbs that are traditionally used in preparations for the mouth and teeth due to their antibacterial, antiseptic and cooling properties.