 Since a belly putter must anchor at your belly, length is more important than in traditional putters. To choose the right length, stand up straight and hold the club against your stomach. A club of proper length will reach just above your belly button. You don’t want your putting stance to be too upright or too hunched over.In your putting stance, the club will anchor at this point.;
, Hold the belly putter as you would a traditional putter with both hands positioned on the lower end of the grip. Your palms rest on the back of the shaft, and your fingers and thumbs wrap around the front, away from your body. Your dominant hand should be lower on the grip than your other hand because it will be the one that directs the putter.


You may need to move your hands farther up or down on the shaft depending on your height and the length of the club.
 This will be the anchor point that allows the club to swing without twisting. The shaft should sit slightly to the top left of the belly button for right-handed players, and slightly to the top right for left-handed players.This may take a little adjustment depending on your personal preference. Some players rest the top of the shaft directly over their belly button rather than to either side. Find what works best for you.
 The goal is to ensure a stroke in which the club hits the ball at a 90-degree angle, not tilted forward or backward. If you position the ball near your front or back foot, the angle of the club will be affected, impeding a clean hit.The ball should be about a foot in away from your feet, depending on how tall you are. Shorter or taller players will have different size clubs that may require the ball to be slightly closer or farther away.
 As with a traditional putter, the first step is to square your feet up so you are positioned parallel to the hole you are putting to. Keep both feet straight ahead of you. Your feet should be about shoulder-width apart. Bend your knees just a little.


You will need to adjust for uneven greens as you would with traditional putting. If the green has any slope, point your feet accordingly so your stance is aimed parallel to where you want the ball to go.
 Placing the club’s head behind the ball, bend your torso slightly forward so you are almost leaning on the club. Your eyes should be looking down directly over the top of the ball. This helps you line the club up for the shot. It also helps the club swing as smoothly as possible.As you swing, keep your head in a fixed position and your eyes on the ball.
 Keeping the club anchored to your belly, rotate your back shoulder up for the backswing, then follow through with an equal tilt of your front shoulder. The club should swing smoothly back and smoothly forward, maintaining the same speed through the whole swing.


Your wrists should stay in a fixed position through the whole swing. Do not twist them in any way as this will affect the shot. Your shoulders should be the only part of your body that moves.
 As with traditional putting, your club should swing as far forward as it does backward. The length of putt you are making will determine how far back you need to swing. Longer putts, depending on the slope of the green, still require extra strength, as do traditional putters.


You don’t want to strike the ball and let the club stop. Rather, it follows through to set the ball’s path.
Shorts putts require very little backswing, but you still must follow through to an equal point once you hit the ball.

