 While it's technically an informal saying, it's acceptably proper for the vast majority of social occasions.


Pronounce “arrivederci” as: ahr-ree-veh-DEHR-chee

Technically, the "ci" syllable at the end of "arrivederci" makes it an informal word, but it's such a common phrase that you should be able to use it in any friendly setting, even when talking with strangers or elders.;
, This is another direct way to say "goodbye" in Italian, but it's more formal than "arrivederci." You probably won't need to use it often, but it's good to know.


Pronounce “arrivederla” as: ahr-ree-veh-DEHR-lah

The "la" syllable at the end of "arrivederla" gives the term greater formality. You should generally use this phrase when you need to show a higher level of respect for someone, such as someone you meet during formal or professional occasions.
If in doubt, it's safest to use "arrivederla." The other person may tell you that it's too formal, and at that point, you should switch to "arrivederci." Since the initial mistake would show extra respect, though, the other person probably won't be offended by it.
 While "ciao" is a popular way to say both "bye" and "hello" in Italian, you should save it for people you already know instead of using it with strangers.


Pronounce “ciao” as: CHOW

The word "ciao" actually comes from the phrase "s-ciào vostro," which means "I am your slave." It was originally use as a polite, semi-formal way of saying "I am at your service." The original phrase is now outdated, but the shortened form "ciao" remained as a popular way to greet friends and family. It should not be used with strangers or elders, though., The English equivalent of "addio" would be "farewell."It's not an especially common phrase, but it's common enough and fitting enough for most circumstances.


Pronounce “addio” as: ah-DEE-oh

This term originally came from the phrase "a Dio," meaning, "to God." It's still relatively polite thanks to these origins, but the phrase is more commonly and generically interpreted as "farewell."

, The English equivalent of this phrase would be "take care!" Saying this to someone as you part ways conveys interest in the other person's well-being.


Pronounce “stai attento” as: sti ah-TEN-toh

More directly, the phrase should be translated as "watch out" or "stay alert." The verb "stai" can be translated as "stay" or "remain.” The adjective "attento" means "attentive," "careful," or "alert."

, During the morning and afternoon, you could say "buongiorno." In the evening, however, you'll need to switch to "buona sera." Immediately before bedtime, you should use "dormi bene."


"Buongiorno" (bwon-JOR-noh) can be used as both a greeting or parting term. When used in parting, it essentially means "good day" or "have a good day." The term "buon" means "good," and "giorno" means "day." Similarly, you could also use the longer form,“buona giornata” (bwon-ah JOR-nah-tah) to convey the same sentiment.
"Buono sera" (bwon-ah SEHR-ah) can also be used for both greetings and partings. The term "buono" means "good," and "sera" means "evening," so the entire phrase means "good evening."
"Dormi bene" (dohr-mee BEHN-ay) is strictly used for nighttime farewells. "Dormi" means "sleep," and "bene" means "well." The entire phrase means "sleep well."

, There are two phrases you can use to convey positive sentiments toward someone before he or she goes on vacation: "buon viaggio" and "buone vacanze.""Buon viaggio" (bwon vee-AH-jo) means "good trip" or "have a good trip." The term "buon" is translated as "good," and "viaggo" is translated as "trip" or "journey."
"Buone vacanze" (bwon-ay vah-CAHN-say) can be translated as "have a good vacation" or "have a good holiday." The term "buone" means "good," and "vacanze" means "vacation" or "holiday."

, If you intend to see someone again after a brief parting, two proper ways of saying "goodbye" would be "a presto" and "a dopo."


"A presto" (AH pres-toh) means "see you soon." The term "a" is a preposition typically translated as "to," and "presto" is an adverb meaning "soon" or "before long."
"A dopo" (AH doh-poh) means "see you later." The preposition "a" still means "to," and the adverb "dopo" means "later" or "after."

, If you know you'll see the other person the following day, you can say "see you tomorrow" by saying "a domani" or "ci vediamo domani."


"A domani" (AH doh-mahn-ee) means "see you tomorrow." The term "a" can be translated as "to," and "domani" is translated as "tomorrow."
"Ci vediamo domani" (see veh-DEAH-moh doh-mah-nee) also means "see you tomorrow." The verb "vediamo" is the conjugated form of "to see," and "ci" is a pronoun indicating that you're speaking to the second person "you." The term "domani" still means "tomorrow."

, This is a rude way of saying "get lost" or “beat it” to someone who's bothering you. Since this is so impolite, though, you should be careful about when you use it.


Pronounce “sparisci” as: spah-REE-shee

This phrase is a conjugated form of the verb "sparire," which means "to disappear." Shouting "sparisci!" at someone would be the same as shouting "disappear!"
While there may be an occasion to use this, you should avoid using the phrase with anyone dear to you or anyone you need to respect. Even if you intend to use this parting term as a joke, there's a risk that the other person may still take offense to it.

