 Even if, after a divorce, your “family” consists of just you and your child, it’s important to have regular conversations with your kids. During these meetings, share your point of view about their performance both at school and at home. If your child has been undisciplined in either category, use the meeting to reiterate your rules and expectations.If they have not met your expectations in either category, remind them of the consequences and implement the necessary form of discipline.
For instance, if your child hasn’t been completing homework, you could revoke their phone privileges for a few days.
If you have remarried, you should, of course, include your partner in the conversation as well.
Family meetings shouldn’t take too long. Depending on how much you want to communicate with your child, and how much they want to share with you, five to ten minutes is usually enough time.
A good way to integrate regular meetings into your family schedule is to have them at the same time once each week, then get a pizza, go bowling, or do something equally fun after the conversation.
 If you and your ex don’t agree on certain rules, your kids will surely let you know. If they come back from a weekend with your ex and challenge a certain house rule on the grounds that “But Dad/Mom lets me!” don’t rise to the bait. Instead, reaffirm your rules by saying, “Well this is not their house. In this house, the rules are different.”Your child might ask, “Why?” Explain that you and your ex have different views about what is acceptable and what is not.
Use these opportunities to remind your child of why there are certain rules and what the consequences of disobedience are.
 Kids can be sneaky. If they try to convince you to change a rule based on something that your ex supposedly does – especially something that causes real concern -- be sure to follow up with your ex. Let your kids know you intend to do so by announcing, for instance, “At your dad’s house you’re allowed to eat all the candy you want? I’ll have to talk to them about that tomorrow!”You should also follow up when your kids report that their friends’ parents allow them to do something that you don’t approve of, too. If your kids aren’t behaving appropriately at their friends’ houses, you might want to reconsider allowing them over there.
 If your ex has a reasonable rule that they feel very strongly about and they want you to implement it too, you should include it in your household’s rules. Don’t purposely neglect to enforce rules that your ex wants in order to gain points with your kids or snub your ex. This might make them do the same thing to you, leading to unhappiness for you and your kids.Doing this will hurt your kids, because they will end up with less guidance and authority in their lives, and feel frustrated by their parents’ immaturity.

