 Depending on the surface you're working on, you can use a stiff bristled or soft bristled brush. An old toothbrush will work in a pinch.


Loosen any dried crust from the upholstery and brush it off using a small brush or vacuum cleaner.
 You can use any solution that is safe for the surface you are cleaning. A commercial carpet cleaner, leather cleaner, or upholstery cleaner will work; you can even use a laundry stain remover for surfaces like cloth or carpet. You can make your own solution.


If you are cleaning leather upholstery, make a paste by mixing 3 parts baking soda to one part warm (but not hot) water.
If you are cleaning vinyl, cloth, plastic, or carpeting, mix together eight parts warm (but not hot) water with one part white vinegar. Add a half teaspoon (5 mL) dishwashing liquid and mix well.
 For set-in stains, you should let the solution sit until it dries, then re-wet the stain with the solution a second time and let it sit for a few more minutes before scrubbing.


This ensures that the solution penetrates through the stain so that when you scrub it you can remove all of the dried vomit.
 To penetrate the dried stain, use the hardest brush you can safely use on the material with the stain.Some surfaces like vinyl or leather will be scratched by a hard bristled brush, so you'll need to use a sponge or soft-bristled brush. For surfaces like carpeting or cloth upholstery, use the firmest brush that will not damage the surface.
 You don't want to saturate the surface of your car seat or carpet, but you need to use enough water to remove the cleaning solution.


Try dipping a wash rag in clean water, blotting it on the solution, then wringing it out. Repeat this process until you've soaked up all the cleaning solution, and the stain should come up with it.
 If all else fails, you may need to resort to professional-grade steam cleaning. You can rent a carpet cleaner from a big box home store, and these can be used for carpet or cloth upholstery in your car.


Don't use a steam cleaner for stains on leather, plastic, or vinyl.

