 If your home network only has Windows 7 and 8 computers, the easiest way to share your printer with other computers on the network is by using a HomeGroup. Click here for detailed instructions, or read on if HomeGroups don't apply to your situation.
 Since the computer will need to be on in order to print, you should install the printer on the computer that is powered on the most.


Most printers will install automatically when you connect the USB cable to the computer. Click here for instructions on installing a USB printer if the printer doesn't install on its own.
 You'll need to enable printer sharing to allow other computers on the network to connect to your installed printer.


Open the Control Panel and select "Network and Sharing Center" or "Network and Internet".
Click the "Change advanced sharing settings" link.
Expand the "Private" network settings. These are the settings for your Home network.
Select the "Turn on file and printer sharing" option. Click Save changes.
 Now that printer sharing is enabled, you can set the printer to be shared.


Open the Control Panel.
Select "Devices and Printers" or "View devices and printers".
Right-click on the printer you are sharing and select "Printer properties". Do not select the "Properties" option.
Click the Sharing tab, check the "Share this printer" box, and click Apply.
 If you are trying to connect to the shared printer on a Mac, skip down to the next step.


Ensure that the computer sharing the printer is turned on and logged in.
Open the Control Panel on the computer connecting to the shared printer.
Select "Devices and Printers" or "View devices and printers".
Click Add a printer at the top of the window.
Select "Add a network, wireless or Bluetooth printer".
Select your network printer from the list and click Next.
Install the necessary drivers if prompted. Windows should be able to find and install the correct drivers for most printers.
 If you're using a Mac computer, you can connect to a printer shared by a Windows PC.


Ensure both computers are in the same workgroup. Click here for detailed instructions.
Try to download Mac drivers for the printer before proceeding. Check the manufacturer's support page to see if OS X drivers are available for the printer you are connecting to. Download them if they are available, but don't worry if you can't find any.
Click the Apple menu and select "System Preferences".
Click the "Print & Scan" option.
Click the "+" button to add a new printer.
Select the "Windows" tab.
Select your workgroup, the name of the computer sharing the printer, and then the printer you want to add.
Click the "Use" menu and select "Other..." if you were able to download an OS X driver, then select the driver you downloaded. If you weren't able to find a driver, click "Select Printer Software..." and look through the list to see if compatible software is available. If you can't find a match, select "Generic PostScript Printer".
Set any configuration options. After loading the driver, you will be able to set any configuration options allowed by the printer.
 Once you've installed the printer on your operating system (either Windows or Mac), you can print to it just as if it was connected directly to the computer. Just select it in the Print dialog box in any program.


If the printer is not appearing, make sure that it is turned on, and that the computer it is connected to is turned on and logged in.
 This can be caused by problems with the Windows print sharing settings. If you are encountering this problem often, try connecting to your printer via its IP address. Click here for detailed instructions.

