 Since uric acid is produced from the metabolism of purine in the body, it is best to avoid foods that contain purine.Purine-rich foods are mackerel, anchovies, organ meats, dried beans, peas, canned goods, instant noodles, wine, and beer.
 Foods rich in fructose consume a lot of adenosine triphosphate, or ATP, when metabolized.This ATP is an energy-supplying molecule that the cells in your body use.
Large consumption of ATP leads to its depletion, and results in the generation of substances such as lactic acid and uric acid.
Foods to avoid are apples, bananas, grapes, pears, agave, melons, asparagus, beans, broccoli, cabbage, onion, tomato, peanuts, raisins, figs, carbonated drinks, fruit drinks, ketchup, canned goods, chocolate, pastries, and breakfast cereals.
 Increasing your daily intake of fluid helps dilute your urine, decreasing your body's acid level and eliminating toxins from your body.Increasing your intake of water increases your urine output.
The more urine output is increased, the more uric acid will be flushed out of your body through urination.
Drink at least 10 or more glasses of water daily.
 Alcohol interferes with the removal of uric acid from the body in a variety of ways, such as:When alcohol is converted to lactic acid, it minimizes the amount of uric acid that is eliminated from the body through the kidneys. This is because the lactic acid competes with the uric acid for removal from the kidneys into the urine.
Alcohol increases your body's levels of ethanol (alcohol), increasing your body's production of uric acid.
 Dietary fiber may aid your body's absorption of uric acid in your bloodstream, allowing it to be removed by your kidneys.Include at least one high-fiber food in each major meal or snack.
Some good high-fiber foods are pineapple, oats, isabgol, cucumbers, oranges, barley, carrots, and celery.
 Anthocyanins prevents crystallization of the uric acid and uric acid deposit in your joints.


Foods rich in anthocyanins are eggplant, blueberries, cranberries, plums, black currant, grapes, pomegranates, red fleshed peaches, and cherries.
You can include at least one of these foods in each major meal or snack.

