 Instead of cooking the grilled cheese in a skillet, this sandwich is baked in the oven. To ensure that it’s hot enough to melt the cheese, preheat the oven to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully heat., Take 1 large, rectangular loaf of focaccia bread, and use a sharp knife to slice it half horizontally. Place the bottom piece on a large cookie sheet with the cut side up, and leave the other aside for a moment.Ideally, you should use a foccacia that fits tightly on an 18-inch by 13-inch (46-cm by 33-cm) baking sheet.
 On top of the piece of bread on the cookie sheet, spread 1 ½ pounds (680 g) of grated cheddar cheese in an even layer. If you want to add any other fillings to the sandwich, such as crumbled bacon, sundried tomatoes, caramelized onions, or pesto, sprinkle them over the bread as well.You can substitute any cheese that you like for the cheddar. Just make sure that it melts well. Fontina, Gouda, provolone, mozzarella, and Colby are all cheese that melt well.
If you’re planning to add other fillings to the grilled cheese, spread half of the cheese over the bread, lay down the fillings, and then cover them with the remaining cheese.
 Once you’ve added all the cheese and other fillings to the sandwich, place the other piece of foccacia on top with the cut side down. Set a large, heavy skillet that’s oven-safe on top of the sandwich to help weigh it down.If you only have smaller oven-safe skillets, use multiple pans to weigh down as much of the focaccia as possible.
 With the heavy pan on top of the focaccia, set the baking sheet in the preheated oven. Allow it to bake until the cheese melts, which should take 8 to 10 minutes.Keep an eye on the sandwich to ensure that the focaccia doesn’t burn.
 Once the cheese is completely melted, remove the grilled cheese from the oven. Use a sharp knife to slice the sandwich into 9 pieces, and serve.You can cut the grilled cheese into smaller pieces if you want to serve a larger crowd.
Consider cutting the sandwich into bite-size pieces and using them as an appetizer at your next party.

