 You may no longer be interested in the previous version of a popular game, those building block sets meant for “little” kids, or last year’s must-have Christmas toy that’s still in the box. But odds are someone else is.With an adult’s assistance, set up an account on one of the many auction or direct-seller sites. You probably won’t break the bank, but you may be surprised by how much people are willing to pay for good-condition items.
If you have older relatives or people without the time or computer skills to sell their stuff online, you can also offer to do it for them — for a reasonable cut of the profits.
Make sure you can always deliver on what you sell. Don’t exaggerate the quality or condition of your items, and ship them out properly and on time. Otherwise your career in sales likely won’t last long.;
, People love to be able to scour product reviews before buying online, and companies love receiving favorable reviews. Done smartly, you can earn some extra cash legitimately by writing reviews.There are plenty of product review schemes and scams to watch out for, however. A large number of websites offer to pay for product reviews, and many seem to come and go out of business quickly.You can opt to work through affiliate programs run by large companies like Amazon (https://affiliate-program.amazon.com/), which may offer you some more confidence in its legitimacy and stability.
A better avenue may be to review products for independent, ad-supported sites that compensate you for your work. For instance, there are sites that review children’s books that pay a small amount for accepted reviews., This is another area where there is legitimate money available, but also a lot of scams and fraudulent sites. Consult with a knowledgeable adult before getting involved in any pay-for-survey schemes.Like most things in life, if it seems too easy to make money doing something, the odds are good that there is something wrong with the scheme.
Research legitimate survey sites that will pay you a small amount (as in pennies) for completed surveys. You’re not going to pay for your first car this way, but you may have a bit extra pocket change.
 If not already made clear here, the internet is full of money-making schemes that are actually money-taking scams.You may be wise enough to know that those spam emails offering ways to make $10,000 per month from your home computer are fraudulent, but other scams can seem more legitimate. It is always smart to have someone you trust (and who is experienced with computers and the internet) to advise you.
You’ll hear people talk about making money by selling your progress in an online game (letting others skip ahead by paying you to do the work, essentially), or by selling virtual items or characters for real money.Such plans usually violate the terms and conditions of the games, however, and can cost you your access. They can also cost you time and money, as there is no way to ensure that you will be paid.

