 Look around at your world, and try to determine what kind of biome you are in. They can be forests, deserts, oceans, taigas, jungles, etc. If there are trees, iron, water, clay and coal, you're off to a great start!;
, This may sound strange, but it is one of the only things you can do at the moment. You will need wood for the rest of the game to make pickaxes to mine later on. You can make loads of items with them! Try to collect about 10-20 wood blocks.
 You should now proceed to drag the logs into the 'Crafting' section of your inventory. On the output side, you should have wood planks. Collect at least four.
 This will make a crafting table. You can use it to make many things in the Minecraft game, including chests, beds, furnaces, weapons, and more important stuff like that!

, Put one wooden plank on the bottom, and one on the top. You should see four sticks in the output. Collect them to make torches and handles of weapons.
 You should look in the sources for the Minecraft Wiki. Look up Wooden Pickaxe, Wooden Axe, Wooden Sword, and Wooden Shovel on the wiki.
 Take your shovel and dig through the dirt, then take your pickaxe to carve a small room out of the stone.
 Again, use the wiki to learn how to make them.
 Do NOT dig straight down! Use a stair-like fashion where you can climb up and down the ledges. Mine until you find coal! If you find coal within 4 minutes, skip to step 11. Also, if you find a cave, remember where it is, but avoid it, they are far too dangerous for you to explore at the moment.
 If so, skip to step 11. If you did not find any coal. It's okay, just go to the surface and find some logs. Make a furnace (use the wiki) and put it down. Put your logs in the top part of the furnace, and some wooden planks in the bottom. The outcome will be charcoal, a carbon copy of coal (no pun intended).
 Put the stick in one of the bottom squares of the crafting table, and the coal/charcoal above it. The output should be 4 torches.
 If you need more light, repeat step 11 until you have reached your desired amount.
 By now it should be night-time. It is essential that you make a door. Make your doorway 1x2 so the door fits perfectly. You will probably start off with wooden doors. When you get slightly advanced later in the game, replace with iron doors for better security.
 In this time you should make a chest (look on the wiki, last time it will be said).
 This is probably the most dangerous time that you have experienced in Minecraft so far, so be prepared. Don't bring anything except your sword and be alert for monsters.
 Now is your time to be relaxed and have fun. Kill everything that moves except yourself, and get great rewards by doing so.
 You may have to kill animals, but if you're too nice to slaughter them, find some apples by punching more trees, or harvest some wheat with a hoe. Wheat seeds are obtainable through grass, which should be abundant in your Minecraft world. Mine with your pickaxe to find some iron and coal. With iron, you can craft shears to shear sheep so you don't need to kill them. You need 3 wool blocks to make a bed. The easy way out is to kill sheep, but if you keep them alive you can continue shearing them and eventually breed them.
 Put it somewhere in your house that looks good; it is recommended you expand your house! With a bed, you can save your spawn point, so if you die, you will respawn in your house. Continue to kill until the sun sets.
 When the sun sets, grab your pick, shovel, and bolt again, for the monsters are coming out. Go into your mine and continue mining, since iron ore will be very valuable to you. Look for iron, coal and rare ores for about 7 minutes, because that is when the sun will start to rise. Always be alert for monsters, especially creepers, which will explode if they come too close.
 If that is the case, then keep looking., At sunrise, kill all mobs again, since you will need all of the items that they drop when killed. See all of the crafting recipes you can make with these drops at the Minecraft Wiki.
, Make a basic checklist of things you might want to find. Some suggestions are: Sand, Clay, Ink Sacs, Cactus, Birch Tree, Spruce Tree, Oak Tree, and Mountain Biome. Mountain biomes are VERY useful for mining and finding/making unique structures.
 Smelt sand in the furnace to create glass, put cacti on sand around your house to make a monster barrier, put cacti in the furnace to make green dye, use ink sacs as black dye, decorate with different kinds of wood! Really, there are infinite possibilities!

, You have iron tools, but still live in a cave. Now that you are more experienced, consider building an outside portion to your cave or even move and build an entirely new house! You can make windows if you have glass.
 Grab a stone or iron sword and of course, a pickaxe, and set off down into the cave. Be sure to bring LOTS of torches! You will find lots of coal and iron as well as gold and redstone if you go deeper down. If you're lucky you might even find diamonds, but be careful as there is often lava flowing underground. Don't bring items that are unnecessary, as your inventory will be filled to the brim after your mining trip!

, If you explored the cave, you are sure to have found plenty of iron! Smelt it, and use the wiki to figure out how to make it into armor. Of course, before you use good iron on armor, be sure to make backups for your tools.
 If you dig down to layer 11 by using F3 (please remember not to dig straight down), you will have the highest chance of finding diamond. You can make a strip mine there for a high chance to find diamond. A strip mine is usually one wide and two tall, and is the most effective way of getting diamonds. It is suggested you use a diamond pickaxe to mine it, but an iron one will also work.
 Diamonds have many of the same uses as iron, but they don't need to be smelted, are far more powerful, much more durable, and have extra purposes. Diamonds are usually favored by Minecraft players as a great achievement.
 Find a lava pool towards the bottom of the world, but be sure not to fall in! Lava deals deadly damage. If you have made a bucket with iron, you can scoop up some water from the surface and bring it to the lava pool. Right click on a wall in the room (not the lava itself), and watch the magic happen. All of the lava will transform into obsidian! Only a diamond pickaxe can mine obsidian.
 This is a very useful resource due to it being the strongest naturally placeable block in the game. You can also make a nether portal, but you will need a flint and steel. The Nether is the 'Hell' of Minecraft, a lava-filled, glowing red and dim place. To get there, you need to make 4 obsidian blocks parallel to each other on the ground. On the outer 2 blocks, place 4 more blocks on them. Then connect it at the top. You should now have a 4x5 rectangle with a hollow 2x3 inside, all 1 block thick. You can now use a flint and steel on the inside and enter the nether!

, In the Nether, it is a completely different world. Almost all of the blocks are different. You will find lots of valuable resources such as glowstone and nether wart, fight dangerous mobs and maybe even find a Nether Fortress (a generated structure). There is so much in the Nether that is unique, you will just have to see for yourself! Have fun playing!

