 It takes discipline, but it's a faster jump start than Rosetta Stone or Rocket Language Programs. They are all good, but none like Pimsleur.Google Pimsleur to find it. Sometimes you can find videos that will help you on youtube if you look hard enough.;
, You can work on literacy (reading and writing) later. After you've listened to the Pimsleur program a few times, you're finished with the first phase.
 Do not do something that will bore you. You will never learn that way. You learn by reading and listening to what interests you. Think about what you normally find interesting in your native language, and apply that.
 Don't start studying an old Bible version in an old language version that no one uses today. You can type in the title at Wikipedia to find out if it's outdated language or modern language.
 Read through each page or section a few times defining all of the words that are unfamiliar -- and then play the audio and follow along, checking your pronunciation. Keep repeating these steps 'til you feel familiar with the section. Then go to the next chapter or section. Do not just read the language. That will kill your pronunciation while learning to read it. You could have to look hard for readings with audio, but there are some helps for Dutch, French, German and Spanish in the "Resources" section below.
 This will help you keep reading later on when it gets harder. The books written by John are very basic English, while the book of Revelations is supposed to be one of the most interesting, although harder to comprehend.
 If you have a strong internet connection, these TV channels may be useful to you, from all around the world and all found on this free website: wwitv.com.
 It's somewhat based on the book of Luke and is available in almost every language. It has everything from Spanish to the super minor languages like Sranan Tongo. Check it out. It's an invaluable resource., It's better than anything. Of course, you may try everything from Babel software, Google translation, etc. Once you have this addon installed on Firefox, restart Firefox. Then you can highlight any word or combination of words and then press the F8 button on the top of your keyboard to bring up a very quick bar on the bottom of your screen, with the best machine translation you may ever see. It can be better to translate two or more words at once for the sake of context. Check for getting it here: https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/7361/

, It may be the best single-word-pronouncing service out there.
 It might be more useful to use tabs. You will probably be going back and forth a lot between these tabs and could appreciate something faster then the slow invention called a mouse. Press the CTRL + TAB keys together to move one tab right. To move left, press the three key combination: CTRL + SHIFT + TAB. If you are not using a browser with tabs, you can use two windows: one for the audio and the other for reading along with it. To switch back and forth, use ALT + TAB.
 This will make it easier to learn because it helps you stay interested and it's very hard to get bored that way.
