 Applying makeup over acne starts with preparing the skin properly beforehand. Clean, smooth and moisturized skin creates a healthy looking complexion.Wash your face well with warm water and a facewash to clean dirt and impurities off your skin.


Wash with just your hands rather than a wash cloth to avoid over exfoliating, which can cause worse skin irritation and more acne.;
, It’s tough to apply foundation over flaky skin. If your wash didn’t remove all flakes, try simply patting your skin with Scotch tape to gently remove flakes., Over flaky areas, dab a small amount onto the area with your ring finger and let sit for 5 minutes before continuing your makeup routine.
 Acne scars and pimples can make a bumpy surface that draws attention to problem areas when it catches the light. Use a silicone primer to smooth and fill in fine lines.
 Avoid a caked-on look by using clean, bare hands and a light touch to apply a sheer foundation.Overloading skin with too many layers will block pores, encourage breakouts, and actually emphasize your skin’s texture and acne.


Pick the correct shade of foundation for your skin by selecting two shades that come closest to your skin tone, applying each of them to your jawline, and comparing them in a mirror outside in natural light.Match your foundation shade to the skin on your neck so that your face and body turn out the same color., Add a small dot of concealer over each blemish and lightly tap it with your ring finger until it blends with your foundation.Using concealer over your whole face will look cakey. Let your healthy skin shine through by using concealer only as needed.


You want to detract attention from pimples, and covering a pimple with light concealer actually highlights it. Use a concealer that is slightly darker than your foundation but will still blend with it., Otherwise carry blotting papers with you to gently remove excess oil without smearing makeup throughout the day.
 Paint over each scar with a color corrector then tap it with your ring finger to blend. For instance green counteracts red, so a green tinted concealer can cover redness from acne. Peach, tangerine, and deeper orange shades neutralize acne scars well.,, Use lid liner, eye shadow, mascara, blush, or lipstick to highlight and create focal points around eyes, lips or cheeks and draw attention away from the blemished areas.If your pimple is on your chin or cheeks, focus on your eye makeup. Avoid glosses or bright lipstick as this will draw attention to your lips.
If your zit is on your forehead or upper cheek, a dramatic lip shade will direct attention to the lower part of your face.