 On the outset, porn seems like the perfect career for adventurous, sexually-active actors. You get paid to have sex almost every day, and the pay is actually pretty good once you get started. But porn comes with a series of risks as well, and they may outweigh the perceived benefits. Things to remember include:


Your image, once filmed, will be online forever, even if you try and switch careers.
You need to take the time every day to stay in shape, eat well, and keep clean and hygienic.
You are not having sex for fun, you are doing it for your job. Expect the intimacy and spontaneity of sex to disappear during a 4-hour video shoot.Maintaining a committed relationship while in porn can be almost impossible, as jealousy is only natural.;
, This is a heavily enforced rule in the porn industry because breaking it can lead to years of prison and hundreds of thousands of dollars in fines. Even if you are a consenting, willing participant, you must be 18 to be in porn in the United States.You must bring proof of age (valid passport, ID, etc.) to with you to a shoot in order to act. Producers are required to copy this proof and keep it on record for years., The average rate for a straight porn star in Brooklyn, NY, is $500-600 for one video shoot. Gay porn stars, however, make three times that, no matter the gender. The general rule of thumb is that the weirder it is from “average,” the more you will get paid. So a straight, guy-girl scene might make $800 while an intense bondage or novelty scene can make $2,000 or more.The average female porn star averages $50,000 a year, but can make upwards of $350,000.
Top male performers can make more than $100,000 each year, but average far less., Strictly speaking, it is only legally possible to make or act in porn in Los Angeles and New Hampshire.That said, most videos are not location specific, making it impossible to determine where it was shot, so producers will often make videos anywhere. There is a porn industry in many major cities, but to have the best chance of breaking in you need to move to LA. Some major hubs include:


Los Angeles, San Fernando Valley, California. This is the porn capital of the world.New York City, New York
Orlando, Tampa, and Miami, FloridaSan Diego and San Francisco, CA
Portland, OR, The porn industry is inundated with young talent that flocks to Los Angeles hoping to make it big. The sad reality, however, is that not everyone can be a well-known, marketable star in any industry. If the only reason you want to be in porn is to be famous, pulling in a six-figure salary every year, you will be sorely disappointed. The porn industry is at its most competitive thanks to the explosion of internet porn, so be ready to work hard to make a name for yourself. Porn is not a lavish lifestyle, it is a job, and you need to treat it as such.


While no one should ever force you to do something, having wider preferences and being willing to try more things will lead to more gigs and greater success.