 Examples for girls: Vee, Bea, Jeci, Petta, Nico, Viva, Ivy. Examples for boys: Mort, Slate, Tum, Joe, Pikey. Or choose a short, sweet nickname used in your early childhood. It's best if this name is spelt out all in lower-case and followed by a full stop. Name generators are great way to figure out a great name.;
, Just go back to the original, plain Facebook-like one you're given to start with. Or just get a very simple Myspace layout with a cool design or a nice color.
 Chances are it's full of cringe worthy lines such as 'I don't care what anyone thinks about me' or 'I live life each day as it comes'. Very cliché. But a) no one cares and b) you're much better off without it. Try to write something that is less stereotypical, like what are you going to college for or what you do in your spare time. Writing something like "I like hanging with my friends, texting, boys, and going to the mall" means tramp.
 Now this could also go horribly wrong. No blonde jokes, or in fact any jokes at all. Perhaps something funny a friend said once. Make it like a quote-board.
 Put a few photos you've uploaded from photobucket in. This is Myspace which is more graphics and media based, save the interests for Facebook. People don't really take the time to read their interest. Clip art based on your interests will give the person an idea at a glance. For example, you like rap music, you put a few pictures of your favorite rappers on your profile.
 Try to get cool effects and Photoshop a little bit. Myspace is more for graphic designer type people.
 Have plenty of tagged photos (it shows you're popular and well liked) but what ever you do, DO NOT create a fake tagged photos folder (yes, some people are stupid enough to try). Keep your main album down to about 8 photos at most. Have at least 2 of you on your own looking attractive, at least one of you with a member of the sex you're interested in(makes you look appealing), and at least one of you with a friend/friends/family. Include prom and sport photos and just hanging out. It is great to have a photo of your interest to have a glimpse to people what you are like.
 Try to keep them to a minimum as well.
 Don't upload a bunch of pictures that all look pretty much the same. That just gets boring.
 It makes you look desperate. Judge your Myspace popularity by your profile views, not by your friend count. Randoms could be dangerous and when you read the status feed, it won't be as interesting as your local friends.
