 If you want to make your fantasy world feel real, include some non-human characters. Part of the fun of a fantasy world is seeing mythical creatures come to life. However, make sure your creatures read as realistic.


You can use traditional mythical creatures, like vampires or mermaids. Just make sure to establish the rules for those creatures in your own story as variations of mythical creatures vary. In Twilight, for examples, vampires can choose not to eat people and sparkle in the daylight. In Buffy, however, the majority of vampires cannot control their tendency towards evil and will die if exposed to sunlight. If you write vampires into your story, how would they work?
Feel free to create your own creatures. However, be careful when doing so. Do not combine too many different types of mythical creatures or animals. Stick to a character with a few characteristics and powers. For example, a vampire-mermaid-unicorn that breathes fire, tells the future, and lives underwater may feel overwhelming. Instead, you could create a winged horse that can fly and also communicate with its owner telepathically., When writing fantasy characters, you can follow some basic storytelling conventions. All characters should have motivation.


Your characters should all have flaws or strengths that relate to their central motivation. Ask yourself what each character wants. For example, maybe a character named Ramona was abandon by her mother. All she wants is a family of her own. She tends to be overly jealous and clingy with her friends, a flaw, but one that's understandable given her abandonment issues.Make sure your character's actions are believable in the context of your story. For example, Ramona is from a hunter/gatherer class, but displays an ability to talk to the dead. She may have some special knowledge of ancient hunting techniques, learned from a long-deceased relative, that will help other characters out in a crisis., Almost all fantasy stories have a hero. One character with unique strength and determination helps move the plot forward. This character will fight the main antagonist and solve the central conflict. Decide on who your hero will be before you begin writing your story.


Usually, the hero does not realize he or she is special right away. Luke Skywalker does not realize he can use the force until meeting Obi Wan Kenobi. Harry Potter does not know he's a wizard until Hagrid informs him. Try to choose an otherwise ordinary character as your hero. Readers will more easily relate to a character who seems like a mostly normal person.Try to find ways to foreshadow the hero is important, however. This is usually achieved by telling the story from the hero's perspective. Returning to the above example, if Ramona is going to be the heroine of your story, try having her narrate or frame the story from her point of view., Many fantasy stories feature a mentor. As stated, Obi-Wan serves as a mentor for Luke Skywalker in Star Wars. Harry Potter has a variety of mentors, like Hagrid and Dumbledore, who help introduce him to the wizard world. A mentor can help your fantasy story run smoother.


Traditionally, the mentor is someone slightly older than your hero. The mentor generally knows the rules and conventions of the society your hero is navigating. The mentor has often known the whole time the hero is special or unique.Introducing a mentor is a great storytelling technique. It allows you to explain the conventions of your world in a manner that does not feel clunky or overly expositional. Think of how awkward Star Wars would be if Luke simply explained the force to the audience. Having Obi-Wan explain it allows the force to be explained smoothly. He's introducing the concept to Luke for the first time, as the audience is first introduced as well.
 A villain is an important element of a fantasy story. The hero should have a central antagonist to fight against as the story progresses. Spend some time developing a credible villain.


A villain's motivation should be clear. Many villains want power. However, wanting power for power's sake can feel dull. Think of Scar in Lion King. Yes, he wants to rule the kingdom, but he also feels inadequate when compared to his brother. Sibling rivalry drives his actions as much as a desire for control. Think of a deeper motivation for your villain.Try to be empathetic when writing your villain. Audiences will be more moved by your villain's plight if they feel they understand him or her. For example, give your villain a tragic backstory. This can help explain why he or she has turned to evil in the present.Create an interesting visual appearance for your villain. Try to aim for something sinister. Think of how scary descriptions of Voldemort were, given his slit-like eyes and nose. Think of your scariest nightmares and pull imagery from there.

