 First, take off your shoes so that you're in your socks. When you're ready, get a running start and jump forward. Try to land on both feet. Let yourself slide forward and come to a stop. Look at your feet — the one you put forward should be the one you put forward on your board.


For example, if you put your right foot forward while sliding, you probably have a goofy stance.
This test has a small risk of slipping and falling, so only do it someplace that's clear of furniture, obstacles, and other people. If you're worried, you can always wear a helmet or try one of the other tests.
 Tell a friend that you want her to come up behind you in a few minutes and surprise you with a gentle shove. Your friend should pay attention to which foot you step forward with. The foot that you stick forward to catch yourself should be in the front when you ride.


For example, if you step forward with your left foot, you probably have a regular stance.
 After a few seconds of pulling as hard as you can, have everyone freeze. Look at your feet. The foot that you put forward should be the one that you put forward on your snowboard as well.


For example, if you tend to put your left foot forward while playing tug-of-war, you probably have a regular stance.
 Walk to the bottom of a set of stairs. Stand close enough so that your next step will be on the first step. Now, start walking up the stairs. The foot you step with first should be in the rear on your snowboard.For example, if you step with your right foot first, you probably have a regular stance.
The tricky part of this test is that it's easy to think about it too hard and use a different foot than you would naturally. Try not to focus too hard on the test — for instance, you may want to bring a magazine so you can read it for a minute to get your mind off the test, then step suddenly.
 Grab a good-sized ball like a soccer ball or a rubber kickball. Hold it in front of you and kick it hard as it falls to the ground. The foot you use to kick should be in the rear when you're on your snowboard.For instance, if you find that you naturally kick with your left foot, you probably have a goofy riding stance.
 If you skateboard or surf, the stance you use for these sports is almost always the same one that will naturally suit you when snowboarding.


For instance, if you put your left foot forward when you ride your longboard, it's very likely that this regular stance is what you should use for snowboarding as well.

