 Tell them what you want them to do, not what you don’t want them to do. Otherwise, they may get confused.For instance, say, “Savannah, can you use your indoor voice, please?” instead of “Savannah, don’t talk so loudly.”

, If a certain child is being disruptive to the group, ask them to come and sit or stand with you. Remain in a place where you can keep supervising the others.If two or more children start fighting, have all of them come over with you. Separate them so they can’t keep fighting.
If the disruptive child is upset or angry, give them some time to cool down. Ask them to sit quietly, or read them a book until they’re calmer.
 In terms the child can understand, explain why their behavior wasn’t acceptable. Help them understand how their actions affect other people.For instance, you could say something like, “Do you remember how you felt last week when Jill took your markers without asking? That’s how Michael felt when you took his toys today.”
Take the child’s age into account as you talk to them. Younger children may need multiple reminders before they understand why certain behaviors are wrong.
Talk to the child privately if you can, and discipline them separately away from the group. Don’t lecture them about misbehaving in front of the rest of the group.
 Effective discipline involves teaching, not punishment. Avoid implying that the child is a bad person for misbehaving. Instead, tell them that you know they can do better, and help them think of more appropriate ways to act.For instance, don’t say, “Why are you being such a bad boy?” or “Why can’t you behave?” Instead, say, “It’s not okay to hit other people, because that hurts them. Let’s think of some better ways to tell people you’re mad at them.”

, Teach the kids in your group that actions have consequences. For disruptive behaviors like fighting, create some negative consequences, like missing recess. For positive behaviors like sharing, offer a few words of praise or a small treat like a sticker., Don't let a few bad apples spoil the whole bunch. It's unfair to punish the entire group of kids if a few are acting up. In such cases, it may work to give the misbehaving kids an extra assignment to dissuade talking or playing. Other kids might work silently or go outside for recess.


When misbehaving kids see others getting free time or special treats, they are more likely to clean up their acts. If the other kids don't get any special treatment, there's no motivation to behave well.
Constantly calling out a single child or solely blaming them for misbehavior can make the child feel isolated from the rest of the children. They may start thinking that they do not fit in, and it may create resentment.
 It is always more effective to use positive reinforcement than to use negative punishment. Try not to blame the children or criticize them heavily, as they may begin to resent you or feel bad about themselves. Instead, reduce their privileges by using timeouts and restricting their playtime. This will teach them that their actions have consequences.

