 Structure is another skill that typically comes to the writer as he or she writes. If you intend to write for a living, whether professionally or just as a hobby, it is important to read as much as you write. Whether you are planning to write for a living or not, if you are planning on writing something, be sure to carefully read a long piece of professional work and pay close attention to how the author forms his or her sentences. Here are questions to ask yourself when reading a piece of work:


How does the author transition into the next paragraph?
When does the author use a section break and why?
How often does the author use certain words or phrases? If it's often, how does that contribute to the work?
What is the author's purpose in this particular piece of writing? What is he trying to say to the reader?
Does the author use references, metaphors, or other such comparisons? How does this contribute to the overall work?
(for fictional writing) How does each scene compare to the ones around it? How do they contrast?
(for fictional writing) How might the impact of the work change if it were written in someone else's point of view?
Can you talk to the author? If so, have a chat about why he or she has used particular techniques in the writing, and take notes. You can learn a lot from another writer's knowledge and experience imparted in this manner.
 Why are you writing? To persuade, inform, or entertain? Does this purpose stay adamant throughout your work? It's okay to do a combination, such as informing before persuading, or entertaining while persuading, and so on, but be sure that everything makes sense. If you're writing something for a teacher, professor, or publisher, be sure that your writing meets their requirements.
 Be careful that you haven't fallen for a cliched style of writing, such as using a marketing tone that causes your work to read like an infomercial. Given the pervasiveness of marketing, such writing is a common fallback for many writers and comes across in such things as:


Making assumptions about things the reader lacks (for example, "so, you're trying to be the smartest ever, but you have failed so far")––the author can never presume why a reader is reading his or her work or anything about the reader's life;
Trying to perfect or arrange the reader's life with simplistic or opinionated solutions (for example, "if your self-esteem if better, so too your life will be!"). Providing shallow solutions, offering platitudes or pushing your own agenda down the reader's throat will cause the reader to feel cheated, questioned or uncertain, none of which is ideal if you want to keep your reader enthralled by your writing; or
Making almost every sentence appear as a climactic moment, as if the excitement is barely containable (including overuse of exclamation marks). For example: "Get a boat! Be free in your boat! Sailing home is the best way ever!".


Remember that not all of life is about transformational potential summed up in a simple platitude, so take care to curb your enthusiasm. Too much of this bubbly or bossy style of writing can alienate a reader.
 This may become difficult, depending on what your purpose is. When checking your writing, be sure that it includes relevant information. However, even if something is related to your topic, it doesn't necessarily mean it's relevant, as the following examples make clear:


For example, if you're writing to inform the public about global warming, don't include how you felt when you saw your neighbor throw an aluminum can on the ground. If you're writing to inform the public about the effects of bullying, don't say things like: "How would you feel if you were bullied?" or "You wouldn't want someone to do these things to you." Such moral judgments narrow your audience and alienate those who feel you've just judged them harshly without reason, which you don't want.


Even if it may seem relevant, be sure it's really something that must be included in your work. If it adds no real meaning to your work, you should probably consider omitting it.
 Picking up from the last point, this is one of the key things a writer must learn and embrace. Yes, you have spent hours crafting the perfect paragraph, laced with deep meaning and pretty word associations. Yet, if it holds up the story or points being made, if it adds nothing vital and useful, or if it is clearly a saunter off into the craft of writing without relevance to the story or central point, then it's fluff and it needs to go. You will get better at spotting this the more you practice editing. Hence, this is why it is really useful to edit other people's work, to help you recognize when you fall into the same traps. Every writer overwrites; the good writers either know how to chop well or trust their editors to do it for them.

