 Substances in the cigarettes cause your respiratory tract to become inflamed, which makes you much more prone to getting a bacterial or viral infection.


Smoking leads to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which can make you more prone to infections like bronchitis.
 Dust and other particles, like bleach, asbestos, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide, floating around in the air can really irritate the lining of your throat and respiratory tract.When your respiratory tract becomes irritated, it will also become inflamed which greatly increases your chances of developing bronchitis. If you work at a job where you are exposed to airborne particles a lot, you should wear a face mask that covers your mouth and nose so you aren’t breathing those particles in all day.You should also always shower after work so that you wash off any extra particles that may have landed on you during the day so that your house and bed don't get filled with the particles that you bring home from work.
Prolonged exposure to irritants can lead to serious health conditions, such as silicosis asbestosis.
 In particular, vitamin C and zinc have been shown to enhance the effectiveness of your immune system. If you feel like your immune system is weak, and you’re afraid that you will develop bronchitis because of this, increase your intake of foods that contain a lot of vitamin C and zinc..


Foods that are rich in vitamin C include: lemons, grapefruits, strawberries, raspberries, blackberries, kiwi fruit, oranges, lime, pineapple, Brussels sprout, spinach, onion, garlic and radishes.
Foods that are rich in zinc include: spinach, mushrooms, beef, lamb and pork meat.
 If you have an immune system disorder, you should take every precaution to avoid getting bronchitis, since it will be harder for you to get rid of.


Immune disorders include intense allergies, asthma, lupus, type 1 diabetes, and multiple sclerosis.
Ways to boost your immune system include taking multivitamins, reducing the amount of stress you experience, getting enough sleep, exercising at least four days a week, and getting your immunizations.For more information on how to strengthen your immune system, click here.
 Because of this, it's a good idea to get the flu shot so that you reduce your chances of getting the flu, which can lead to developing bronchitis.


The flu shot is recommended for those six months of age or older.
Par of the shot is manufactured in eggs. If you have an egg allergy, talk to your doctor before getting a flu shot.
 There is a routine immunization schedule for infants and children, which provides long-term immunity against a number of potentially serious infections, some of which could lead to bronchitis.


Speak to your local public health nurse or to your family doctor if you have questions regarding the status of your child's immunizations.

