 The likelihood is that the person you’re dealing with is not always a whiny person. They’re probably just having a really bad day. This understanding will give you the energy and gumption to deal with the situation. You’ll also realize that every interaction someone has helps make their day better or worse. Try to be the person who breaks the bad-day cycle for your whiny customer. , One of the tricks to dealing with a whiny customer is to try to empathize with them so you can figure out why they’re feeling bad. This will serve you well, because not only will you be able to better understand their position and argument, but it’ll help you keep your cool if they’re frustrating you.


Put yourself in their shoes, and try to view the situation from their perspective. You might find out that they’re right, and you might be able to better help them.
Try to think about a time when you might have been in their position.
Try to forget company rules and policies (for a minute) in order to understand their perspective. This does not mean you have to break rules or policies., One main reason why humans just can't seem to accept criticism is because we feel the critic is wrong. Before you dismiss the criticism out of hand, consider whether or not the customer might be right. Even if the tone is sharp, the criticism could be accurate. Either way, don't take the remarks personally, or to heart. Stay cool, thank the customer for his or her input, and let them know you'll take that comment directly to your supervisor.


Consider that the customer might be right.
Understand that people make mistakes, and someone in your organization might have made one.
Realize that criticism is useful in improving any person or organization., If a customer starts to insult you or curse at you, you need to stay cool and keep grounded. You should not be required to take cursing or insults from anyone, even your boss. If a customer is abusive to you, stop him right there. Don't return cursing with cursing, don't return an insult for an insult. Consider the following:


Ignore the insult and try to get the customer focused on the problem instead of on you.
Just say something like, "Pardon me, but I won't accept being spoken to this way. I will ask you to be civil to me, or leave."
If the customer fumes and stomps out, be sure to contact your supervisor and let him know you had an altercation with a customer.
Never curse at or criticize the customer., The last thing you want to do is make the customer think that from the get-go you’re not going to do anything to help them. You need to give them the exact opposite impression – that whatever they want, you’ll try to help them.


Be conscious of your facial expressions. Don’t look frustrated or exasperated.
Continue to smile and be pleasant, no matter how unpleasant they might be so far. Remember, you’ve only been dealing with them for a minute or two.
Keep positive body language. Don’t cross your arms, clench your fist, and don’t violate someone’s personal space or move in toward them., Don’t jump to conclusions about a customer’s position or what they want before you’ve heard their side of the story and had a chance to evaluate it. Often times we don’t understand someone else’s view without actually hearing their complete version of events. Allow yourself the ability to analyze the situation without prejudice.


Don’t stereotype based on race, ethnicity, socio-economic class, or gender.
If you’re used to common problems, don’t expect that every problem will conform to this expectation.
Evaluate every interaction and complaint individually., The first way of heading off any problems with customers is to have a smile and seem to be happy when they first approach you. Hopefully, if they see you are smiling and happy, they’ll approach you with a better attitude with the hope that you’ll try to make them happy. Ultimately, the customer thinks that you are there for them. While their expectations might ultimately be realistic or unrealistic, a smile will certainly help put them at ease and set the tone of the entire exchange., Keep a slight smile and remember that a difficult customer has probably just had a difficult day or gotten bad news. It is possible that he’s just a jerk, but that's pretty rare. Try to help smooth his or her ruffled feathers by being helpful and attentive, and keeping a compassionate attitude toward him or her, and a sense of humor about the whole thing., After the initial contact, you should explain to the customer that you’ll do what you can for them. Hopefully, this will satisfy them a little bit, and they’ll understand that you are indeed there to provide customer service., Chances are, the first thing the whiny customer will do is vent to you about what they’re unhappy about. However, sometimes their explanation might not be as clear as they think. So make sure you actually understand what they’re talking about before you take any action.


Be polite and sound sympathetic if you have any follow up questions that could clarify their position.
Listen, listen, listen. The key to understanding their position is listening to what they’re saying. Listen to every word.
Restate the problem back to them once you think you understand it. Then give them a chance to confirm that you’ve articulated their problem., Many times it’s not you that caused the customer to be whiny or upset, but rather, it’s the frustration they’ve gone through when dealing with your company or organization. Make sure to apologize to the customer as soon as you can for any frustrations he might have had before speaking with you.


Don’t admit that your organization wronged the customer, but rather apologize for any frustrations he might be experiencing.
Note that a small problem might have been aggravated by thirty minutes on hold with third-rate music.
Assume the best and keep in mind that you, too, will occasionally be on the customer's end of a complaint., The customer who gets whiny like this simply wants you to care about the fact that he's upset (even if it really isn't your fault he is). Giving him a little validation here does not hurt you or your shop. Just keep soothing him and telling him how sorry you are that he was inconvenienced. Even if there are no other customers, it's pretty hard for someone to keep on being a total jerk to you when you're so willing to agree with him.


Tell him you understand his position and that you would be upset as well.
Tell him that if there is anything else you can do to help him, you will.
Tell him that he is an important customer, and you don’t want him to be upset., If you can, find a solution that will make your whiny customer happy. The best solution would be to try to rectify the problem that the customer is complaining about. The quicker you can find a solution, the happier the customer will likely be. After all, the problem is what they’re unhappy about, and if you provide quality customer service and are solution oriented, they should be satisfied and come back to your business in the future., If the customer is demanding something either unrealistic or realistic, do whatever you can within the policies you work within to make them happy. If you’re able to give them store credit, a refund, or whatever, do that. There is no reason to let a customer walk away unhappy if you can make them happy.


Many customers will often be happy as long as they think they’ve gotten something out of their complaint.
Use your best judgement, if you think the customer is a scam artist, don’t give in, and refer it to a manager.
If company policy permits it, just give them the best you can do right away. There is no reason to draw out a confrontation and make the customer more unhappy when you can offer them something right away – as long as it is reasonable., If you’ve done everything you can for the customer, remind them of the business’s policies. Remind them that you are bound by those policies. Ultimately, you as a customer service representative or a retail worker are bound by the policies of the business you work for. Let the customer know this fact. You’re not the owner and your continued employment is dependent on your following the policies and rules of your employer., Frequently, customers might be frustrated and whiny because they already know that you, as a regular employee, will be unable to do what they want to do. They might also think that you’re not intelligent or are below them. If either of these are the case, don’t be afraid to bring in a manager or someone else that is currently working with you. Not only will this relieve you of responsibility, but the customer will think that they are making progress.