 Use base cleaner and a rag to remove dirt and debris from the snowboard. You can purchase base cleaner from any snowboard shop.









Any non-polar solvent or citrus oil will work fine for cleaning your board. Some of these include: Orange degrease solvent, Citra Kleen, citric-naptha wax remover, lighter fluid, paint thinner, and kerosene. Use caution when working with hazardous materials and do not smoke around flammable products like kerosene and lighter fluid.
If your snowboard is extremely dirty and in need of a deep clean, you can swipe the hot wax iron over the bottom of the board, rub a thin layer of wax on the board, and immediately scrape it off using a scraper tool.
The hot scrape technique deeply cleans your board and removes any trapped debris.
It is often a good idea to hot scrape your board during or after the spring season as plant debris start to creep onto the snowboard runs.
 Check the wax packaging to make sure that your iron is set at the correct temperature. If no temperature is provided, just be sure that the wax doesn't start smoking when you rub it on your iron. If smoking occurs, turn the temperature down. The temperature should be lower for softer







, Move the iron around as the wax melts so that it drips thoroughly across the bottom of the board. Start by outlining the edges in wax and then filling in the center.
 The wax should be a bit thicker around the edges of the board, however. Be sure to keep the iron moving continuously as you spread the wax. Avoid keeping the iron stationary as this can cause damage to your snowboard.
 Make sure the room your board is drying in is well-ventilated to assist in the drying process.
 Hold your scraper at a 45-degree angle and scrape in long stripping motions from the tip to the tail. Do not scrape horizontally across the short length of the board. You will remove most of the wax during this step, but don't be alarmed. Your board absorbs much of the hot wax and a thin layer produces the best performance.
 Brush from the tip to the tail to structure the base with long, vertical grooves. These small grooves encourage forward momentum when you're riding.
 A shammy works well for buffing a newly waxed surface. Buff in small, circular motions.







