 Dressing for a wedding is tricky because it varies depending on time of year and wedding location. The one constant rule for weddings is don’t wear white. Other than that, take your fashion cues from the invitation.If the wedding explicitly states black tie, plan to wear a tux or evening gown.
If the wedding takes place during the day or outside, wear a more casual dress or suit. Men may be able to get away with slacks and a button down shirt.
If the ceremony takes place in a house of worship, bring a sweater to cover any exposed shoulders.
 Once upon a time, the only appropriate clothing to wear to a job interview was a suit. Now, times have changed, and depending on where you’re interviewing, a suit may be a little too much.If you’re interviewing for a job in finance, business or law, men and women alike should expect to wear a suit.
If you’re interviewing for a startup company or for a more creative field, try wearing a dress and cardigan or a pencil skirt with a cropped jacket. Men should wear slacks and a nice button down shirt.
 Since you’ll be in class all day, you’ll want to pick an outfit that is comfortable, while still expressing your sense of style and personality. Make sure to pick an outfit that fits within your school dress code, otherwise you may be asked to go home and change.For girls who like to be comfortable, wear a pair of jeans with a graphic tee and add a zip up hoodie for warmth. Give your outfit an added boost with a pair of patterned sneakers.
For girls who like to dress up, wear a skirt and blouse, with patterned leggings tucked into boots.
Most guys prefer some variation on jeans, t-shirts and sweatshirts. On days where you’d like to look nicer, swap out the hoodie for a pullover sweater.
 Your work outfit will be dictated by your company culture and it may take a few weeks of working in an office to figure out the rules. And while some offices allow you to wear jeans to work, you can never go wrong with business casual.Look at what the most powerful person in your office wears and take your cues from them.
Very few workplaces are cool with employees wearing shorts or flip flops. Avoid both of these clothing items at all costs.
Lots of corporate offices tend to run cold, so wear light layers to keep yourself warm.

