 In the typical western diet, the average ratio of omega 6 to omega 3 is 15:1, and can be as disproportionate as 25:1. This is a problem. The idea ratio is closer to 4:1 and an overabundance of omega 6 fatty acids causes excess inflammation in the body. Increasing omega 3 fatty acids has been shown to decrease risks of heart disease, excessive inflammation and arthritis. Both fatty acids are needed for cognitive function, immune response, reproductive health, metabolism and many other functions.
 Most types of fish are high in omega 3 acids and will help you achieve a healthy balance between omega 3 and omega 6. Seafood that is high in omega 3 fatty acids and low in mercury include salmon, herring, sardines, oysters, mackerel (not king mackerel), trout, and shellfish.If you’re planning to get the majority of your omega 3 from seafood other than fish, such as shellfish (mussels, oysters, lobster, etc.), you may need to eat more than two portions a week, as these items can be lower in omega 3. Check the nutrition label when purchasing food to check the omega 3 content.
 Most red meat is relatively low in omega 3 fats, because the animals have been fed primarily grain. However, grass-fed beef contains lower rates of omega 6 and more omega 3, making it a more balanced meat option. You’ll likely be able to find grass-fed, non-processed beef in the organic section of your local grocery store.White meats including chicken and pork are especially high in omega 6 fats. So, if you prefer these meats, make sure to avoid processed options and choose organic brands as these often contain less omega 6.
 This diet focuses on consuming more fish, whole grains, nuts, fruits and vegetables and decreasing red and processed meat, solid fats, and alcohol intake. Studies have shown the Mediterranean diet to have more balanced omega 6 to omega 3 ratio, lower risk of cardiovascular disease and lower total mortality rate.The Mediterranean diet is very similar to the USDA’s Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH).

