 The more opportunities you find to say thank you, the better you will feel about your life at the end of the day.;
, When you show it to others, they will immediately mirror it back to you. Try it and see for yourself.
 The more gratitude you express to the people you live with, the more they will reflect it back to you. Gratitude can have a profound impact on your household. It's like setting off a happiness explosion that permeates every room of the house.
 It recognizes their efforts and models polite behavior. The more gratitude you show for your children, the more confidence they have. Their appreciation for you will also increase.
 Gratitude is a great way to interrupt tantrums in small children by playing the “thank you” game. Instead of sending them to time out, sentence them to think of three things for which they are grateful. The results will be more effective in changing their attitude and recovering their composure. This one skill is like giving them a happiness pill that lasts for the rest of their lives.
 You will be amazed at the results of noticing and appreciating the work your spouse puts into building your life together. You'll find gratitude is a great way to rekindle the love you have and keep it burning. At the end of the week, you are likely to continue this practice indefinitely!

, These can be small things like a great cup of coffee, or big things like good health. Take a moment to feel the appreciation as you say them. When you establish an attitude of gratitude at the be-ginning of your day, you're also setting up the conditions for the kind of day you are going to have — a happier one.
 This can be something like being grateful for a skilled physician in times of illness or having a little bit of savings when your job is eliminated. This is hard to do, but finding the good in the bad motivates you to keep going when you might be tempted to give up. It also prevents you from seeing the bad as being worse than it is.
 Interrupting your destructive self-talk with gratitude helps to build your confidence instead of tearing it down.

