 Ticket aggregators are websites that collect data from a number of travel companies, airlines, hotels, and other travel options. You can then compare the prices side-by-side. To use an aggregator, plug in your dates and destination. You may want to try a few dates to see what deals come up for you.If you use a .edu email address for your account on Kayak.com, special deals from StudentUniverse will display alongside other discounted fares.Skyscanner.net searches and compares dozens of rates and airfare options. It also offers special advice to student travelers., Some airlines offer special packages and deals for students. If there is a certain airline that serves your route, you can research to see if they have any specials for students. This can vary greatly based on the time of year, airline, and destination.


American Airlines offers discounted vacation packages to students with a student ID through their AA Vacations service.Lufthansa has special deals and rates for students through their Generation Fly website.Low cost airlines such as Ryan Air or Aer Lingus are popular with students for their low-cost flights across Europe. Be aware of extra fees, however, as these can quickly add up.
 Railcards offer discounts to students and young people to reduce the cost of rail travel. While these may have a small upfront fee, you can often make the money after a single trip. Look in your rail company to see if they offer a student rail card.Amtrak offers a 15% discount card to students between the ages of 13 and 25.In the UK, a 16-25 Railcard can save up to 30% on rail fares for people between the ages of 16 and 25. Full-time students over the age of 25 also qualify.Full-time students with an International Student ID card can qualify for unlimited travel in Ontario, Canada through ViaRail.Eurail offers a 35% discount to travelers under the age of 25 with a Youth Pass., Youth hostels offer cheap accommodations, and they often have many deals for students. Some hostels may even organize special tours or events for student travelers. Read reviews to find a hostel that is both affordable and safe. Signing up for a hostel membership can also save you money.


In the UK, you can become a member of the Youth Hostel Association. Not only are there special rates for people under 26, but full-time students over the age of 26 can save 10% on a railcard.Hostelling International offers a network of safe, clean hostels around the world. By becoming a member, you can save 10% on bookings.