 Usually, your skin secretes natural oils to keep it soft, healthy, and moisturized; however, if something removes these oils or interferes with their production, your skin can get dry, flaky, and cracked. To soothe your skin once it dries out, apply a moisturizing lotion, cream, or balm often. These moisturizing solutions work by holding moisture close to the skin with a layer of oil or fat. Consider make lotion application part of your daily routine — for instance, you might try keeping a bottle of hand lotion at each of your kitchen and bathroom sinks so you can apply after each wash.


As a very general rule, the thicker the moisturizer, the more it will help your skin regain its moisture.Thus, thick creams, balms, and "butters" are usually more effective than thinner, watery lotions; however, these can sometimes leave you with an unpleasant "greasy" feeling. Try a few options to see what works best for you.
 In many parts of the world, winter means cold, dry air outside and hot, dry air (from a heating system) inside. Together, these conditions can be very tough on your skin, causing dryness, cracking, and irritation. One of the best ways to keep your skin safe in the winter is to keep it covered up with long sleeves and other skin- covering accessories. The less of your skin that's exposed to the dry, biting air, the less you'll have to deal with its dehydrating effects.
 Stronger abrasives (like pumice stones and stiff brushes) can sometimes be great for eliminating tough, built-up dead skin deposits; however, if used too often (or if used on sensitive skin), these abrasives can leave the skin red and raw, making it vulnerable to dryness and irritation in the long run. If you're noticing pain or redness after exfoliating, take a few days off from your daily routine, then switch to a milder abrasive.


For instance, if your stiff-bristled shower brush has been irritating your skin, try switching to a gentle washcloth, which should allow you to exfoliate at a much more manageable pace.
 Hot water, though relaxing, strips away essential oils from your skin and leaves it vulnerable to drying out. To avoid this, simply keep your water temperature warm, not hot, and limit your showers to a reasonable length — about 10 minutes or less. The cooler (and shorter) your shower, the less likely you are to dry out your skin.


The same principle applies to baths — shorter and cooler is best. You'll also want to avoid bubble baths and other soap-based soaks (except those known to be "moisturizing"), as these can also strip your skin's natural oils.
Pat (rather than scrub) yourself dry after bathing. The back-and-forth action of a towel can remove natural oils loosened by the warm water and irritate delicate skin.
 Some soaps and cleaning products contain chemicals that can dry out sensitive skin and remove its natural protective oils. Alcohol-based soaps are especially bad. Although it's great for killing germs, alcohol can seriously dehydrate the skin.While good hand hygiene is crucial for preventing the spread of disease, you don't need to ruin your hands with harsh soaps to stay clean, so try switching to a milder soap (like Dove "Sensitive Skin") or one billed as "moisturizing" to prevent dry, cracked skin.
 For some, spending a few minutes in a steam room or sauna can help soften dry skin, unclog pores, and, most importantly, just feels great. If you have access to a professional-quality steam room, consider spending a few minutes to a half hour or so in the steam room occasionally as part of your weekly routine.


Stay safe when using a steam room or sauna — never stay in longer than is comfortable, never raise the heat so high that it's hard for you to breathe or stay awake, and, most importantly, never combine sauna time and alcohol use.