;
, You don't want people simply clicking on the screen and cheating!

, If a person playing your game presses an arrow or space button, nothing will happen. In addition, the transparent thing on the bottom left hand of the screen will disappear.
 Remember, you will have to be prepared to spend a lot of time if you are going to complete this game!

,, You could get a picture off the internet, but if you have good powerpoint skills you could make a character yourself on autoshapes

, If you are a beginner, you could get a map of the world. Or you can just use Paint and then paste the file in PowerPoint.
 You can do this by right-clicking on the screen, and clicking background. Click the down arrow and then click Fill Effects. Click the "picture" tag and choose choose the World Map from you computer.
 Click on one and drag it over say, China. Hyperlink the action button to next slide.
 On the top left hand corner, draw a health bar and above it a text box saying Lv(insert level). Also include a health bar for the enemy.
 Name one something like "Slash" and the other one something like "Slice".
 Copy and paste the fighting slide twice. On both slides, remove the two fighting text boxes. Hyperlink (Right click on object, hyperlink, place in this document, slide-) the "slash" text button to the first slide you copied, and the "Slice" text box to the second slide you copied.
 (slideshow, custom animation, add effect-) Make the health bar go down to halfway. You can do this by making two identical health bars, one on top of the other except the top one is half the length of the bottom one. Then, click the big one, go to custom animation,add effect, exit and then click wipe. Make the direction "too right".
 Then make your enemies sword fly toward you. Make this "after previous" so this does not happen while he is losing health.
 Make it's direction go left.
 The enemy should then exit. You choose. Make an arrow saying "continue" pop up, hyperlinking to the next slide. When the next battle comes along, you should be lv2.
 Now, when you click on the powerpoint it will automatically start up.

