 A key tool for survival, exploring, and camping. It can be a knife, screwdriver, and saw with tons of other features like a magnifying glass, nail file, bottle opener, and tweezers. Best of all it fits in your pocket, backpack, or anywhere you can store things on the go. Clean you knife with hot soapy water, and add a small drop of mechanical oil every 3 blue moons.;
, Can be used to keep your head cool, protect your treasure, or even wrap a present. (Not to mention a whole bunch of other important things.) Tied to a stick, it can carry your treasured possessions on your adventures.
 A stretch of rope and a knowledge of knots will take you many places-and may help you get out of them. With a stick and hook, catching a meal in a nearby river will be a pinch-as long as you bait your hook.
 Life is about memories: a quick sketch of a bird or plant, a wishlist, a jot of the most important thought ever. A pad and pencil is also perfect for writing down a license plate at the scene of the crime, spying, or even writing the Great American Novel. Your pencil can also be sharpened with your knife.
 For when hair gets in the way (obviously). It can be used as a rubber band too. Or you can use your bandana or pencil.
 For strapping things on the go. It can be used for other purposes too, but that's pretty much it.
 Basic tool for sleep out and reading under the covers at night. A small piece of red cellophane make a good ghost story even creepier. A solar or shake-the-battery flashlight is good too, but always bring an extra pair of batteries if using a normal one. Eventually you can get a headlamp, so you have two useful hands.
 You need to know where you are, and a compass can help. Of course, you'll need to know how to use a compass too. Hang it around your neck with a whistle if your out exploring, hiking, etc.
 Because they're good to have on hand when things need to be put back together, when you want to express eternal friendship to an new pal by decorating with a few beads as a gift. Just make sure you don't poke yourself with them. When they say "safety" pins they aren't very accurate.
 Two inches wide and as hard as nails. Good for clubhouse construction. The list of things it can do would be too long for me to put here, so here's the scoop: used for almost anything.
 Old standbys, but not the most essential item (unless that book is a how-to book.)

, To carry your essential gear. No need for lots of pockets. Just something enclosed on the inside is fine. If you want, tie your bandana to a stick instead.
 It's a quality not a thing, but it's essential so we'll include it here. Forget perfect on the first try. In the face of frustration, your best tool is a few deep breaths, and remembering you can do anything once you've practicing two hundred times. Seriously.

