 If you suffer from allergies, ask the doctor if she recommends a steroid and/or antihistamine nasal spray to help resolve the issue.
 While Eustachian tube blockage is often short-lived and harmless, it can lead to painful and disorienting ear infections.If your blockage progresses to that level, contact a medical professional for a prescription for antibiotics. Your doctor may not prescribe them unless you also have a fever of 102.2°F (39°C) or higher for 48 hours.


Follow dosage instructions for antibiotics precisely. Finish the entire antibiotic cycle, even if your symptoms seem to resolve before you’ve finished it.
 In severe cases of blockage, the doctor may recommend surgical treatment reestablish airflow to the middle ear. There are two types of surgery, and a myringotomy is quicker option. The doctor will make a tiny incision in the ear drum, then suction out any fluid that's trapped in the middle ear. It seems counter-intuitive, but you actually want the incision to heal slowly. If the cut stays open long enough, the Eustachian tube swelling can go down to normal. If it heals quickly (within three days), fluid may collect in the middle ear again, and the symptoms may persist.
 This surgical method has a higher likelihood of success, but is a long, drawn-out process. Just as with a myringotomy, the doctor will make an incision in the eardrum and suction out the fluid that's accumulated in the middle ear. At this point, he will insert a small tube into the ear drum to ventilate the middle ear. As the eardrum heals, the tube will be pushed out on its own, but this can take six to 12 months. This method is recommended for patients who have chronic problems with blocked Eustachian tubes, so discuss it carefully with your doctor.


You must protect your ears entirely from water while pressure equalization tubes are installed. Use earplugs or cotton balls while showering, and use specialized ear plugs while swimming.
If water passes through the tube to the middle ear, it can cause an ear infection.
 Clogged Eustachian tubes are usually the result of some type of illness that causes mucus and tissues swelling, blocking the normal passage of air. The most common causes of mucus accumulation and tissue swelling in this area are colds, the flu, sinus infections, and allergies.Don't allow these conditions to get out of hand and progress to inner ear problems. Seek treatment for cold and flu as soon as symptoms appear, and talk to your doctor about ongoing care for recurring conditions like sinus infections and allergies.

