 In general, ingesting essential oils such as peppermint oil is not recommended. While the practice is employed in some parts of the world, essential oils are unsafe to consume without professional medical guidance., The menthol in peppermint may provide relief from the symptoms of gastrointestinal discomfort caused by irritable bowel syndrome, or IBS. In order to do so, however, the capsule must make it to your intestines without breaking down.An enteric coating will help capsules pass through the stomach without breaking down.
Enteric coating will also help reduce potential heartburn, which can be a side effect of taking peppermint oil capsules.
 As soon as you start experiencing symptoms of IBS, which may last for days at a time, take a capsule. Start with one at a time to see if this is enough. Take the capsules daily, for as long as digestive discomfort is bothering you.If symptoms persist after taking one capsule, take two capsules before your next meal. Never take more than three capsules at one time.
If you forget to take a dose, don’t double up later. Simply resume the dosage that has been working.
 Similarly, avoid taking the capsules immediately before or after a meal. Taking a capsule with a meal can disrupt your digestion and prevent the capsule from helping., The capsules will come with information on how to take them, including things like how much water you should drink, and liquids you should avoid taking with the capsules. The important thing is to swallow the capsules whole, without chewing or breaking them in any way., Other indigestion medications, including antacids such as Tums, may interfere with your peppermint oil capsules and prevent them from working. Accordingly, avoid taking any other medications or herbal remedies for two hours preceding of following each dose.If your symptoms persist, a treatment option other than peppermint oil may work better for you.
 Peppermint teas is not only refreshing, it can help reduce some mild symptoms of indigestion. For instance, if you are experiencing gastrointestinal discomfort, peppermint tea may help. Get peppermint tea from your local grocery store or health food store or make your own.To make your own, use 1-2 teaspoons of dried, ground peppermint leaves per cup of water. Boil the water first, then add the leaves once the water settles and let sit for 10-15 minutes.
Peppermint tea will lose effectiveness in treating upset stomach if used habitually. Only use it when you have discomfort in the mid or upper portion of your belly.
 Stated simply, essential oils can be toxic to the liver or kidneys if taken in unsafe quantities. Similarly, natural processes within your body may change the effect of the essential oils, and the oils may also interact negatively with medications, either suddenly or after extended use., Do not take peppermint oil if you are pregnant or breastfeeding. Do not take it if you’re experiencing intense constipation, have passed blood in recent stools, or are experiencing irregular vaginal bleeding. Additional factors that may put you at risk include:Loss of appetite or recent weight loss.
Illness.
Difficulty urinating.
An allergy to menthol, peanuts, or soya.
 Most commonly, peppermint oil can cause heartburn, stomach indigestion, and a surprisingly burning in your backside. These side effects may subside once your body acclimates to the capsules. However, if any of these symptoms become especially bothersome, discontinue use of peppermint capsules and mention the side effects to your doctor.Though uncommon, signs of peppermint allergy include rash, headache, feelings of shakiness or unsteadiness, and a slow heartbeat. If you experience these or any other unexpected effects, notify your doctor.
 Alcohol consumption may increase the likelihood that you will experience side effects. It may also prevent peppermint oil from helping ease indigestion.