 Rose bushes are graded by growers according to their size and vigor. They can be graded at 1, 1 ½ or 2. Grade 1 rose bushes are the healthiest. They are the size they should be at 2 years old, they have good healthy stems and foliage and are growing vigorously. Buy a rose bush that is graded at 1 or 1 ½ for best results.


Grade 1 ½ rose bushes have healthy stems and leaves but they are not growing as vigorously as they could be.
Grade 2 rose bushes are generally low-quality, small for the species or cultivar and growing more slowly than they should be.
 Roses, in general, are high-maintenance plants. They are highly susceptible to bacterial and fungal diseases as well as insect infestations and must have their flowers removed as they fade.


If you are too busy to check the rose bush once or twice each week for these maladies and prune flowers off regularly, buy a rose bush that doesn’t require so much attention. “Knock Out”™ roses like “Radrazz” (Rosa “Radrazz” “Knock Out”™), for example, are highly resistant to common rose diseases. They also do not need to have their flowers removed as they fade., Roses are generally hardy in USDA Hardiness Zones 4 to 9 (meaning they can stand temperatures that dip to -25 degrees F -34.4 degrees C)but this varies, depending on the species and cultivar. Look up which Hardiness Zone you live in on the USDA Hardiness Zone Map (you can find this online) and purchase a rose bush that is hardy in your area. It is better to buy a rose bush that is hardy to one zone above and below your zone to allow for unusual temperature extremes.


For example, if you live in USDA Hardiness Zone 5, the “White Meidiland” rose would do very well. It is a white-blooming shrub rose that is hardy in USDA Hardiness Zones 4 to 9 and blooms from spring to fall. It can grow in zone 4 but may need some extra soil or mulch piled over the crown and lower stems to protect it from the cold.
Rose bushes sold at a nearby garden center or nursery should do well in your area as they are not likely to sell roses that are not hardy in that zone.

