


Consider using this technique for the Orgreenic roasting pan, baking pan, or grill pan. For stovetop Orgreenic cookware, opt for the stovetop or sunlight methods.
 You only need to use about 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of oil. Using your fingers or a clean paper towel, spread the puddle of oil over the entire inner surface of the pan, coating the bottom and the sides.


Vegetable oil, vegetable shortening, canola oil, peanut oil, and grapeseed oil are all acceptable choices. Avoid using butter or olive oil, however, since these fats have a notably low smoking point.
 Place the pan in the middle rack of the oven and keep it there for a full hour. If you notice smoke coming off the surface of the pan before that time, you can remove the pan early.


Note that smoke may never actually come off the pan when using this method. That is acceptable, as long as you keep the pan in the oven for the full amount of time.
If you place the pan in the oven upside-up, the fat could start congealing inside of it. For that reason, many recommend placing the pan upside-down inside the oven. Place a baking sheet lined with aluminum foil on the rack beneath the pan to catch and oil or fat drippings during the process., Remove the pan from the oven and set it out at room temperature. Allow the temperature of the pan to drop to room temperature before touching it again.


Consider opening the oven door slightly and allowing the pan to cool for a few minutes inside the oven before removing it. Make sure that the oven is off when doing this. After cooling the pan in the oven for 10 to 15 minutes, remove it and finish the cooling process at room temperature.
Never attempt to cool a hot Orgreenic pan in a refrigerator or freezer.
 Use a clean paper towel to clean off any excess oil from the inside of the pan.


The surface may still feel greasy but should not feel sticky. The greasiness you feel is normal, though, and should not be scrubbed away.
 Even using the oven method, your Orgreenic pan will need to be seasoned once every six months or so. You can re-season it using this same method or with one of the other described methods.


If food begins to stick to the food before six months pass, re-season the pan earlier than planned.

