 Lay a dropcloth or towels along the baseboard where you intend to start. Ideally, your sponges shouldn’t be dripping wet when you use them, so feel free to skip that part if you’re confident in your ability to catch the occasional drip that may run down the wall. However:Do keep some towels around just in case your bucket suffers a major spill. Play it extra safe and lay one out to set your bucket on while you work.;
, Depending on how strong your solution is, you may find the smell of vinegar a little overwhelming. If so, open windows and/or set up some fans to improve air circulation. Vinegar fumes aren’t dangerous, but they may tempt you to rush through the job. Avoid doing so, since a rushed job may lead to drips and other water marks that will remain visible after the walls have dried., Unplug power cords from outlets. If you intend on cleaning outlet covers and/or where they cover the wall, switch off the fuses for those outlets before doing so. Do the same for light switches, telephone cords, and any other fixtures with an electric current., If you're cleaning the entire wall as opposed to spot-cleaning, take down anything that's mounted to them. Ensure a thorough cleaning without any obstructions that might be hiding dirt. This can include any:


Photos, posters, or other artwork.
Shelves, coat hooks, or other functional items.
Electronics, like wall-mounted TVs or speakers.
 Expect a relatively small amount of vinegar mixed with warm water to be sufficient for the job a lot of the time. Simply combine 2 to 3 tablespoons of white distilled vinegar with 1 gallon (3.8 L) of water in a bucket or similar container. However:Keep in mind that you’ll be carrying that bucket around the room with you. Depending on the size of your bucket, adjust the amounts as needed to keep it only halfway filled to avoid spills.
 Pick an area that is blocked from view by furniture or otherwise hidden. Wet a sponge in your mixture and squeeze it until the excess water has been wrung out. Wipe the area in a circle, using minimal pressure. Repeat with a second sponge and clean water to rinse. Then pat dry with a soft cloth or towel.Use soft sponges (as opposed to a more abrasive kind meant for scrubbing burnt food), especially if your walls are painted. Using tougher sponges could ruin your paint’s surface.
 Compare the test-spot with the rest of the wall. If your mixture did the trick, use it as is. If the test-spot still seems dirty, increase the ratio of vinegar to water and repeat. Start by adding ½ cup (118 ml) of vinegar to your gallon of water. If that still seems weak, keep adding ½ cup of vinegar at a time.Extremely dirty walls may require a ratio of 2 parts vinegar to 3 parts water., If the dirt on your walls has crusted over and/or built up, you may need something a bit more abrasive than just vinegar and water. Start by adding a ¼ cup (55 g) of baking soda to your solution and test-clean again.If necessary, keep doing so up to 2 to 3 cups (442 to 662 g). However, bear in mind:If your walls are painted, abrasive agents like baking soda may damage the paint, especially if it’s latex-based. If your solution starts ruining your paint job, you may need to apply a fresh coat rather than clean.
 Again, only fill it halfway so the water doesn’t slosh over the sides as you carry it. Use this for rinsing. Depending on how strong your solution is, and/or how much surface you have to wash, refresh the bucket with clean water periodically, as needed.Additionally, you should use a second sponge for rinsing. As with the rinsing water, replace as needed if it becomes too foul as you move along.
 Again, only use a soft sponge for this to avoid causing permanent streak marks. Soak it in your solution. Then squeeze it dry over your bucket until no more water drips from it., First, break your wall up into columns in your head, each about a foot or two (30 to 60 cm) wide. Start cleaning each column where the wall meets the ceiling, and go down from there before proceeding to the next one over. This way you're more likely to catch any accidental drips of water that may run downward., Remember: if your walls are painted, vigorous scrubbing can damage the coat. Use as little pressure as needed. Wipe in a circle, reversing directions occasionally, to further reduce the risk of damage., Ideally, you will be using as little liquid as possible to avoid water stains and marks. Still, if left to air-dry, the liquid you did use may cause permanent eyesores, so don’t try to clean the whole column at once. Instead, only wash a couple square feet (60 cm) at a time.If you’re working on a ladder, you may want to work on even smaller sections since you may be going up and down in between the washing, rinsing, and drying.
 As soon as you’re done washing with your solution, switch sponges. Repeat the same process with fresh water. Pat the area dry with a soft cloth or towel, replenishing them as needed.