 Sometimes, nothing can be more fun than doing karaoke with your best friends. Sing your lungs out and have your friends videotape it or record on another recording device. Make up crazy dance moves and just act goofy. Don’t be self-conscious about it—the worse you are, the more fun it will be. If you’re nervous about singing on your own, make sure you get a singing partner or two. Pick old songs from when you were in elementary school and have fun belting them out at the top of your lungs.


If you really want to get fancy, you can even get a karaoke machine for you and your friends to use at home, so you’re less self-conscious. But remember that part of the fun of karaoke is embarrassing yourself in front of strangers.;
, You don't have to be good to have fun bowling. Bring a bracelet-making set and a group of friends to the bowling alley and bowl your hearts out. While the others are bowling everyone else makes friendship bracelets, so there’s never a dull moment. This can be a fun way to bring together friends who like bowling and jewelry making too.


Bowling can get a little boring if you’re with a big group and have to wait forever for your turn. Making bracelets while you wait can make it so you always have something fun to do.
 If the weather is hot and humid outside, what better way to have fun than to get wet? Invite your friends over for a watery day. Make a slip 'n' slide by putting a plastic tarp on a hill. Make sure you pin it into place so it doesn't blow away! Then get the hose and pour water onto it while you and your girls slide down. Have a friendly water balloon fight afterward and dry off with towels, lemonade, and brownies.


Don’t think you’re ever too old for a slip ‘n’ slide! This can be a cool way to channel your inner-child.
You can also get all fancy and buy a slip ‘n’ slide, but that’s not as fun as making your own.
 Have a group of nine or ten friends head to the park with you for some softball! Nobody has to be very good at it, and the game doesn’t need to be very competitive at all, though you can add a fun bonus, like having the losers buy pizza for the winners. Plan to play for just an hour or two and make sure not to take yourselves too seriously. Playing a team sport together can help you bond with your friends while getting some activity, too.


If people get bored but you want to stay outside, then you can do cartwheels, play kickball, or try to make a human pyramid.
 Picnics don’t have to be just for you and your family. Pick a nice weekend afternoon and invite your friends out to a picnic at a park, by a lake, or even in your backyard. All you need is a blanket and some simple foods, such as sandwiches, cheese and a baguette, grapes, or some hummus and pita chips. You can also bring along a pizza or even some sushi if you want to be a bit creative about it. The important thing is that you and your friends have fun sitting and relaxing and eating the tasty treats you’ve brought.


You can have each friend bring something different, so everyone is contributing.
You can also bring some fun activities to play outside after you’re done with the picnic, such as ring toss, badminton or frisbee.
 Sure, you may think the playground is for kids in elementary school, but there’s nothing stopping you from having a fun retro playground day with your friends. Have fun hitting up your local playground for a few hours, going on the swings, the merry-go-round, running up the slide, or even playing tetherball or lava tag. Let go of your self-consciousness and just enjoy the moment.


If you’re with your true friends, then you’ve got nothing to prove. Knowing how to have fun and let loose is more important than acting all mature anyway.
If you want to have the playground to yourself, go closer to dusk so it’s less likely that there are little kids there.
 Manhunt is another underrated outdoor activity that is perfect for teenage girls. Manhunt is just a version of hide-and-seek played outside, normally in the dark. You can play in the dusk and stick close to home if you want to feel safer. The bottom line is that someone is “it,” and the rest of the people scatter within a given area and find a good hiding spot. The darkness and outdoor element adds an extra bit of fun and excitement to the game.


If the person spots you, then you can still run away, as you would in tag. Just make sure you’re being safe, and this will be a fun way to spend a few hours.
 If one of your friends has her license, take a fun day trip to the beach over the weekend. Enjoy soaking up the sun, reading gossip magazines, splashing in the waves, or even building a sandcastle. If you’re at a beach near a boardwalk, have fun strolling around it, playing carnival games, and maybe even hit up a ride or too. Remember that you’re never too old to go to the beach.


Everyone has that one friend who hates going to the beach because she’s afraid of getting burned. Make sure you get her to come along and bring an umbrella, or rent one, to keep her happy.
 Spending an afternoon in a thrift shop is one of the most fun things you can do with your friends. Pick a thrift shop in your area and have fun exploring all of the cool clothes and other unpredictable items you may find there. Make a goal of having everyone purchase just one item and wearing it out that night. Try on all of the funky clothes you find and even take some photos to see how cool or ridiculous you look.


The key is not to take yourself too seriously. You’re not shopping for your prom dress; you’re just trying to have some fun.

