 Toy breeds and puppies require more glucose than larger dogs, so they are more susceptible to hypoglycemia. To avoid this, feed your small dog often.Feed your dog a meal high in quality protein, high in fat, with complex carbs, like white rice.Make sure to keep small dogs warm if they are underweight or don’t eat.;
, Puppies under three months old can get hypoglycemia because they haven’t developed enough to regulate their blood sugar. Because of this, stress can bring on hypoglycemia. Limit stressors, such as poor nutrition, cold environments, and intestinal parasites., If your dog is going to be engaging in high levels of activity, such as hunting, then you need to feed him beforehand. Give him food a few hours before the activity. The food should be high in protein and fat.Intense exercise when a dog hasn’t eaten can cause hypoglycemia.
 Hypoglycemia is associated with certain conditions. If your dog has diabetes mellitus, she may develop hypoglycemia if she does not eat and is then given a dose of insulin, or is given too large a dose of insulin. Dogs with Addison’s disease, severe liver disease, pancreatic tumors, or portosystemic shunts are also at risk.If your dog has any of these conditions, then make sure to monitor her energy levels and make sure she eats often enough, and eats the right kind of foods.
 Dogs who have diabetes could end up with hypoglycemia if given too much insulin. It is more likely if the dog isn't eating well, if the dog skips a meal, if the dog vomits, or if amount of food changes.If your dog gets daily insulin, make sure the same person does it every day. This can cut down on double doses. Giving a dog too much insulin can result in death.Make a food and activity log for your dog to make sure he is getting consistent levels of food and activity.
 Pregnancy can cause blood sugar irregularities. If you have a pregnant dog, monitor her food intake and energy levels., If your dog gets hypoglycemia because he is not eating, you should want to find out why. Your vet can figure out if there is an underlying condition. There may be other factors that cause hypoglycemia, which can also cause problems and need to be checked by the vet.

