 Taking the underground, particularly during the rush hour, can put you under pressure so knowing where you are going beforehand simplifies matters. If getting to your destination on time is important, planning an alternative back-up route in the event of a line going down is advisable.;
, This used to be notoriously inaccurate, but is now vastly improved. It will recommend the quickest route, tell you about any major delays and even provide you with a map of the area to print out. Using the advanced options you can specify which means of transport you are happy to take and to specify your walking speed, etc.
 The majority of London Underground stations have notice boards next to the ticket machines with reasonably up-to-date information on delays and issues on all lines, so check these for updates whenever you see one.
 When the tube trains become full all the seats are taken and standing passengers are pushed together but remember disabled travellers and pregnant women should be given theses seats. So try not to sit in them or if you do be prepared to offer them to these people. Don't wait to be asked.
 In it considered good form to wait until those leaving the train have done so before jumping on. And it actually speeds up the time the train waits at the station.
 The London Underground is broken up into six travel fare zones, with tickets priced differently and valid only within specific zones and certain times. Check which zones you are traveling in and make sure your ticket covers all of them. In addition, if you are traveling in the morning during peak time, make sure you buy a ticket valid for this period.
 For example, Euston station has six platforms for just two underground lines! This may sound complicated but it really works quite logically. Which platform you are going to will depend on which direction you are traveling in (ie. Northbound, Southbound, Eastbound or Westbound) and, occasionally, which branch you are on (the branch will usually be named after a major station on the line). Take the time to familiarize yourself with the signs at the station if you are confused.

