 These are fairly much as follows:


Solid fabrics: This is one single colour, with no patterns.
Mini print fabrics: This is fabric with prints on a tiny scale. These are usually found in limited colours. They're ideal for beginners working with prints because they don't tend to show up mismatches in any obvious way.
Calico fabrics: This refers to small-scale prints, in a variety of colours.
Dot fabrics: This type of fabric has one design feature reprinted to appear like polka dots at even spaces. It might be dots, flowers, geometric shapes, etc.
Airy fabrics: This refers to fabrics with subtle line designs and very few colours in the same fabric.
Large scale fabrics: This fabric has large prints/designs across all of the fabric. It's not always ideal for small pieces on a quilt as the design can be chopped off too much to be able to know what it is.
Stripe fabrics: Any fabric containing small to large stripes. They can lead the eye in one direction and can give a sense of the quilt having been pieced.
Geometric fabrics: Straight lines across fabric in geometric patterns.
Tone on tone fabrics: This is a print in one colour in varying gradations of the colour.
Directional fabrics: This is fabric that features a design all headed in the same direction. Generally not recommended for beginners because if this design gets skewed, it can look terrible.;
, Homespun fabrics are a good solid choice that consist of plain dyed and pure cotton. They range in quality, so take care when selecting. The colour range is enormous. If you purchase high quality homespun fabrics, be sure to check that it has been pre-shrunk and mercerized before use. Checking for colourfastness is also important.
 However, be careful if you're a beginner––solid fabric piecing and sewing must be good or errors show up easily. For the beginner, look for prints that hide imperfections easily.



Choose large prints when you want to make a feature part of the quilt. Large prints will also work well for borders.
Choose small prints when you want to add them to small pieced blocks. Small prints can work as binding, backing and sashing.
Choose stripes and checks when you want to create a really spiced up block or a narrow border or sashing. They also make fetching binding.
 If you're making a monochromatic quilt, this is a good choice.
Black and white prints: This is a very interesting quilting combination that could be used for a bold statement quilt, a quilt that mimics zebra stripes, or a more subtle black and white pattern for a vintage look.
 These have a retro look and can be from eras as far back as the 1700s through to ones that pick up on prints from the 1920s and 1930s, which used to be called "feedsacks", and include patterns up to the 1950s. These prints range from dainty ones with small floral patterns, depictions of people and animals, to more bold geometric shapes and bright colors. During the Depression era, fabric chemists perfected pastels, so fabric harkening back to this era will often have a pastel color quality. Some also feature prints of old products such as biscuits (cookies), tea and chocolate but these can also be viewed as novelty prints.
 When you want to add a fun and cute element to a quilt or you're making a themed quilt, the novelty prints are ideal. They'll often reflect current trends and have images of teacups and teapots, cupcakes, animals, plants, sports, etc. They make great backing but can be fussy to cut.
 Blender fabrics work to bridge or harmonize between different colors or patterns and serve to unify the quilt as a whole.
 While you may think that the colors go well together when purchasing them separately or matching them in your mind's eye, it isn't until you place them down side by side that you'll really know whether they're a good match or not.


You'll often find a few colours stand out more than others. Is this the look you want to achieve overall?

