 Show them that you are only interested in your professional relationship by avoiding casual language or gestures. When you keep the conversation focused on professional topics, you show them that you aren’t interested in anything romantic.If they ask for personal details, turn it back to the workplace. Say, “We need to focus on meeting this deadline, so let’s limit our conversation to work topics.”

, Sexual advances at work can be tricky since they can come from a boss, client, or coworker, any of which can put your career in jeopardy. Make it clear that you aren’t interested in their advances. Be firm, then transition back to work topics.Say, "I agreed to this meeting to discuss the project we’re working on, and that’s all I’m interested in discussing.”

, Notify your boss or HR about the inappropriate advances, and ask what changes you can make to create distance between you and the individual. If you can, avoid spending one-on-one time with the person.After they make an advance toward you, keep all meetings in a professional environment. For example, don’t go to one-on-one lunch meetings or out to coffee.
Ask a coworker to help provide a buffer between the two of you.
 Write down each thing that happens, as well as how many times that it happens. You’ll need a record of the events and what was said in order to file an official complaint. This record can also get your workplace to take you seriously if you need to switch projects or clients to avoid the individual., While you may not want to report a single incident, if the person continues to come onto you at work, whether it’s a coworker or a client, you need to report it to your boss or HR. Bring a detailed list of everything that has transpired.Don’t focus your complaint on your feelings, but do tell your boss or HR if the behavior feels like harassment or has created a hostile working environment.
 While it’s hard to pass up a business opportunity, allowing someone to wreck your reputation or constantly harass you is not acceptable. Set firm boundaries by discontinuing your work together.Try to switch your project or client with another coworker.
Document the reason why you stopped working with that person.

