 Do some research on the style, and then buy some comfortable clothes to fit the style. Make sure you buy some clothes in that style for formal and casual events.

Also, think about whom you might see, what you might do, and where you might be. Don't buy something formal for a meeting at work, and don't buy everyday casual clothes for a wedding reception.



 

;
, When you're at the store buying clothes, either buy a whole, matching outfit, or think about and make sure you have matching clothes at home. If you get home and find out you don't have anything to match it, it might mean another trip to the store to either return the clothing article, buy more clothes to match it, or have an unmatched outfit. If you're wondering about what matches, see the list for a couple of basic matches.

White and everything






Denim and everything






Black and everything (but navy blue)






Pink and black






Yellow and green






Blue and green






Purple and blue






Pink and purple






Orange and yellow






Red and orange






Brown and green







, Instead of just basic pants and shirts with one color, look for patterns like plaid, striped, polka dotted, Tye-dye, or just something other than basic colors. When you buy patterns, not only does it reduce the chances of someone having the same outfit as you, but it also gives your look a new "bang"! The catch about patterns, though, is that they're harder to match. While white matches with everything, it gets boring after a while.



Does it fit me correctly?
How often will I get a chance to wear this?
Do I like it?
Do I have anything to go with it?
Is it comfortable?

, If it doesn't fit you correctly, it could could take you months to grow in or out of it - and weeks for the fashions to change. If you won't get to wear it very often, you don't want to spend a lot on something you'll only wear once or twice a year. If you don't like it, don't get it!

There's a great substitute out there for the article of clothing you bought but hate. If you don't have anything to wear with it, either take the article or clothing back, or buy some more clothes to go with it. If it's not comfortable, check how long you'd have to wear it. If it's a short amount of time, you may be able to wear it, but if it's a whole day, return it. After all, your clothes are going to be right against your skin for the whole day.
 Clothes are great, but so are accessories! Wearing a bracelet, necklace, and a pair of earrings complete an outfit! Silver is a great color for bracelets, necklaces and earrings if you have very different colored outfits, as silver matches almost everything. But if you can, try to buy the same color of necklace, bracelet, and earrings as the color of your outfit. You can also get a coordinating color, such as an orange bracelet for a yellow outfit as it might match some of your other outfits.
 When buying shoes, make sure they're the right type for your outfit. Don't buy high-heels for an everyday outfit. Tennis shoes or flats are better for that. You can also buy season-themed shoes, such as flip-flops for summer or boots for winter.

After you've gotten your main type of shoe down, think of the color of your outfit. Try to get the same color of shoe as your outfit, or at least a coordinating color. Make sure the shoes are your size, though.







