 Buying a trendy piece that doesn’t fit right is a quick way to become a fashion victim. If you are in any way uncomfortable in your outfit, chances are it doesn’t fit properly. When in doubt, take your clothes to a tailor - they'll be able to fix your beloved items so they fit you well.


You should be able to fit two fingers in the collar of a dress shirt. If your shirt is supposed to be tucked in, it should be long enough that normal bending movements don’t cause it to come untucked. Shoulder seams should rest on the edge of your shoulder, and long sleeves should cover your wrist bones.Button down shirts should be large enough that there is no buckling between the buttons revealing your undershirt.
Pants should fit snug, but with enough room at the waist to comfortably fit two fingers. Skinny jeans should be a tighter fit, but not a constricting one.
 An easy trick to remember is to balance out the thicker parts of your body by accentuating and drawing attention to the thinner parts.


If you’re wider in the middle, avoid clothes that draw attention to your waist. Trade high-waisted pants for clothes that are blousy in the middle, such as empire waist shirts and shift dresses. Avoid loud prints and stick with monochromatic palettes.If you’re bigger on the bottom than on the top—swap your skinny jeans for some wide-legged pants, and accent your trim top half with fitted shirts and jackets.
If you have the curvy hourglass figure, wear things that accentuate your thin waist. Wrap dresses, high-waisted pants, and outfits that color block at the waist are your best bets.
To dress a “boyish” figure—do what you can to make your bust and hips look bigger. Accentuate your waist with belts, try some flared skirts and boot-cut jeans., You wouldn't want to fall victim to fashion by buying trends that contradict your lifestyle. If you're a person who spends most of their time outdoors, you might want to reconsider the trendy stiletto boots before you go sinking into the turf. Conversely, if you're a professional and devote most of your time to business meetings, the latest yoga pant fad may not be in your best interest.

