 The sentiment of gratitude actually contributes to your own and others’ happiness. Further, those who indicate their gratefulness to others wind up actually being more grateful for the contributions that others make to their lives, and enjoy stronger, more pleasant relationships with those around them. All told, gratitude, happiness, and positive relationships all tend to enhance each other.Incorporate gracious behavior into your daily life by saying “please” and “thank you” more frequently. This does more than simply indicate your basic gratitude, it also helps convey yourself pleasantly and respectfully.
 Whenever you make a mistake, particularly by doing something that hurts another person, you need to apologize for it. This is true whether your mistake was intentional or unintentional.Focus on conveying the fact that you’re truly sorry. Say something like, “I wanted to tell you that I’m sorry about ________.”


Don’t try to explain or shift blame away from yourself. This will make your apology sound disingenuous. If an explanation is necessary, it can be given later, in a separate conversation.
 Instinct usually warrants speaking first and then listening to another’s perspective. However, you will likely be perceived more pleasantly if you get in the practice of listening first, and speaking only once you fully understand another’s perspective. Not only will you learn more about situations and people by actively listening to them, the efficiency and clarity of your conversations will improve.You’re immediately more likable if you are able to convey that you are genuinely interested in another person. One of the best ways to do so is by listening quietly, while making eye contact and indicating you understand by nodding periodically.
After listening, you’ll also be able to frame your own perspective according to another’s vernacular, which make them more likely to hear what you’re saying, and increases the likelihood that the conversation is positive and productive.

