 If you know only the basic principles of deforestation, your speech will be boring.


As it is an informative speech, research properly and get your facts right. It is very embarrassing if you make a mistake in your speech and the audience realizes it.
Talk to people who know about the topic. People provide more realistic and practical versions of the topic compared to the internet. However, be careful of their opinions influencing your speech.
While researching, get the data right. You do not want to say that Bhutan has a biocapacity deficit when it actually has a biocapacity reserve.;
, It might be humiliating to get confused between the ecological footprint and the carbon footprint of a nation.


Make sure that you explain the terms, as you want people who know practically nothing about deforestation to understand you.
If you are not sure about a particular term when you are speaking, do not use it! It will save you the embarrassment of getting it wrong.
 Dive into the research, going beyond what most people know (that industry is bad for the environment). Speak about the causes in a precise and a specific way.


Talk about all the different causes. Do not say 'Trees are cut to make furniture and build houses,' which will make your speech look like it was borrowed from a six year old's textbook.
Know all the different causes, like civil strife, commercial crops and so on.
 You can tell that tall trees in groups attract rain clouds, and thus, forests encourage rainfall.


Make your speech professional, and not sloppy.
Talk about how trees are home to a number of species, and that destroying forests destroys their habitat, and that this will result in those species' extinction, which will throw the ecosystem off balance.
Also speak about the number of tribes living in forests. Forests are their home, and we are wiping out their homes.
 Reforestation is a solution, but you have to elaborate on how it can be done.


Use examples of countries. Explain how Canada introduced the net zero effect, which is literally picking up trees and planting them in another area. Many isolated trees were put together in this way.
Take examples from people such as Wangari Maathai who started the Green Belt Movement in Kenya and encouraged even uneducated people to plant trees and how Kenya's ecological footprint decreased after this.
 Divide your speech into parts, and create bullet points under each part.


Do not include too much content, as then, it will make the speech long and boring. You want your speech to be crisp, yet deliver the point properly.
This is the first draft, and when writing the final speech, you can elaborate on the points.
 Your introduction should pull the listener into your speech. If your introduction is weak, it will act as a successful sleep-inducer.


Do not say 'deforestation is a problem and we have to overcome it. I will explain the causes and the solutions.' This sounds like the intro to a Wikipedia article. Articles and speeches are not the same.
Instead, say ' We all know that deforestation is the decrease of forest cover, but how many of us know the actual bitter truth? Do we know that by destroying forests, we are ravaging our future?' This makes the speech sound more interesting.
 Do not elaborate excessively on each cause, but give a basic idea. Use examples of different countries for causes that are less known.


Never say 'Deforestation has many causes. They are...'! Speak in crisp sentences like, 'Trees were cut for many reasons, even when the human race was just beginning. But today, we call it deforestation as it is happening on a large scale. Trees are being cut to create space to house the ever increasing population and to feed that astronomical number of people. When there is a civil strife, trees are often the victims, like in Cambodia...'

, A statement like 'The world is ours and we have to save it. Trees are like our parents, and we have to save them..' comes across as too ideal, and does not sound practical.


Instead, outline the different benefits of reforestation, like creating employment in replanting trees, creating forest cover encourages rainfall, reduces carbon footprint, reduces global warming, increases biocapacity and so on. Also talk about the various challenges to reforestation.
 Make your conclusion precise and clear, and reassure the audience that all is not lost, and we can still save trees.


Refrain from the standard sentences like 'Let us join our hands and make a better world', which are cliche, and fail to give the proper effect.
 Make sure that all the facts are correct, and get the sources of information ready, and confirm that they are authentic. Especially if this speech is an assignment, the teacher may ask for the sources.


Also check your grammar and word choice. Bad grammar doesn't do much except irritate the audience. Instead of using phrases like 'really important', use 'crucial' or 'vital'. This word choice is better.
 If you stammer and stutter during the speech, it doesn't sound good, and makes your speech look like you put it together five minutes before the time by gathering info from dodgy websites.


Speak in front of the mirror to see your facial expressions, and the way you move around. Try not to fidget, but be relaxed when you are speaking on the stage.
 Do not murmur into the microphone; however, do not shout into it. Enunciate, and speak slowly. You want everyone to understand.


Make sure that you get all your facts and examples correct.
Beat the nerves. If you are feeling nervous, you are more prone to muttering. For a  detailed guide on getting rid of stage fright, see How to Overcome Stage Fright.
 Never read out what is there on the slides; it gives a bad impression.
 This way, you can remember your content more easily., Even if you do not feel confident, fake it to speak in a better way.


Move your hands about a bit. Use gestures and proper facial expressions and body language to engage the audience.
 Do not speak in a monotone. Give your examples like you are teaching someone.


Your tone plays and important role in your speech, so get that right, practicing as much as you need to. People will understand better, and it will give you more time to think about what you are saying.
Refrain from blaming the government, or offending anyone. It is okay to have opinions, but don't appear arrogant on stage.
Avoid abusive words and overly-dramatic tone and gestures.

