 Place them on a cutting board and use a knife to slice them into 1/2-inch strips. It's easiest to stack the tortillas and cut them all at once.;
, Pour in a pat of butter or a tablespoon of vegetable oil and heat it for a few minutes.
 Use tongs to flip them over and cook them on the other side until they turn a little brown and crispy. Let them drain on a plate lined with paper towels.


Some people skip this step, preferring to eat migas with tortillas that are soft instead of crunchy. If this is your preference, cut the tortillas into strips and skip to the next section.
If you wish you can fry the tortillas until they get quite crunchy, like tortilla chips. In fact, tortilla chips may be substituted for tortillas in this recipe if you have them on hand.
 Heat more oil in the skillet over medium heat. When the oil gets hot, toss in the diced onions and peppers. Let them cook for a few minutes, then use a spatula to stir them around. Continue cooking the vegetables until the onions turn translucent and the peppers get slightly soft.
 While the vegetables are cooking, crack the eggs into a large bowl. Use a whisk or a fork to stir them, breaking the yolks and mixing them together until you have a sunny orange liquid. Whisk in a few dashes of salt and pepper to taste.
 Try to distribute the egg mixture evenly across the bottom of the skillet. Let it cook for a minute so that the bottom sets a bit before finishing the migas.
 Place them over the uncooked egg, distributing them evenly across the skillet. Use a spatula to press them slightly down so that the egg mixture coats them all over.


If you want the tortilla strips to remain extra crispy, don't poke them down under the egg mixture. Let them sit on top instead, so the edges won't get soggy.
The eggs should be pretty well cooked at this point. Stir them a bit if there are still wet pools of egg in the pan.
 Spread the cheese evenly across the migas. Keep cooking the mixture until the cheese has totally melted. If the cheese seems to be melting too slowly, you can cover the skillet with a lid for about a minute to help it along.
 Use a spatula to scoop migas from the skillet onto plates. Serve with salsa, sour cream, refried beans, more tortillas, and any other toppings you desire.
