 No yoga practice is complete without setting an intention. By taking a few seconds to dedicate your practice to something, you may be more effective at doing sun salutations.


Lightly touch the bases of your palms, then the palms themselves, and finally your fingers to make prayer hands. You can leave a small space between your palms if you like to let energy flow.
If you don’t know what your intention is, consider something as simple as “letting go.”

, Start by standing in tadasana, or mountain pose, at the front of a yoga mat. This will allow you to most easily flow into Surya Namaskar B.Tadasana, or mountain pose, is when you stand at the front of a yoga mat with your feet hip width apart and your arms at your sides. Gaze forward, spread your toes, and make sure your balance is evenly distributed between both feet.Make sure to engage your abdominals and lightly pull your sacrum toward the ground, which is sometimes referred to as engaging your root lock or mula bandha.Inhale and exhale evenly through your nose. If you can, make a slight sound like the sea when you breathe. This is called ujayyi breathing and can help you flow through your downward dog more effectively., Inhale and raise your hands towards the ceiling in an upward salute, which is also called urdhva hastasana.Gently arch your back as you look up towards your hands.


For a variation on this position, you can hook your thumbs in front of your body and raise your attached arms so that they end up by your ears. Hooking your thumbs may also help you enter a light backbend while pulling your sacrum towards the floor.
Make sure to completely extend your elbows and reach up through your fingers towards the ceiling. Only tip your head back slightly, making sure not to compress your cervical spine.Do this without hunching your shoulders and make sure to keep your chest and heart area open.You can take a slight backbend in urdhva hastasana, which is easiest to do by simply pulling down your sacrum, or tailbone., Exhale and “plunge” into standing forward bend, which is also called uttanasana.It’s important to keep your back straight and hinge forward at your waist as you transition from upward salute (urdhva hastasana) to standing forward bend (uttanasana). It may help you to remember to keep your heart open.Plant your palms flat on the floor next to either foot. Your fingers should point forward and be fully spread apart so that your entire palm is pressing into the floor, which will make it easier to flow into the following asanas.
It’s important to keep your abs engaged and in contact with your thighs.If necessary, bend your knees to keep this contact.
If your palms don’t reach the floor, put them on blocks so that your entire hand is pressing into the floor.If you used the alternative pose with hooked thumbs, bring your attached arms over your head before placing your hands on the floor in uttanasana.
 Gently inhale and extend your spine into a standing half forward bend, which is also called ardha uttanasana. This position will make it easier for you to enter the following asanas.


Make sure to keep your spine straight as you extend halfway upward. You’ll also want to keep your palms firmly planted on the floor next to your feet.Make sure to keep your abs engaged while you’re in this position., Keeping your palms firmly on the floor, exhale and extend your right leg into a lunge position. This is a transition pose, or asana, and will help you more effectively and smoothly flow through the remaining asanas in Surya Namaskar B.It’s important to make sure that your palms are firmly planted on the ground in this pose so that you can easily get into the next asana.
Push through your right heel for stability., In the same exhale as your right-legged lunge, pick up your left leg towards your chest and extend it back. Hinging at your hips, end up with both legs in downward facing dog.Push your sitting bones towards the ceiling. You should end up in an inverted “V” position, which is downward facing dog, or adho mukha savasana in Sanskrit.This position should feel calming and allow you to rest as you get deeper into the vinyasa, or series.
Keep your palms pressing flat against the floor and your abs engaged.Roll your shoulders down your back and arms inward so the eyes of your elbows are facing one another.You can keep your gaze towards your navel, but make sure you’re head is hanging comfortably., From downward dog, inhale and hinge forward at your hips into plank pose, which is called kumbhakasana.Your shoulders should be over your hands and your heels pushing back in plank pose, which resembles a high push up position.Make sure to keep your abs engaged and spine long. Don’t pop your bum up.You shouldn’t need to adjust your body position when you hinge from adho mukhasavasana to plank pose. Your body is perfectly aligned to have you end up in the right position.
Your feet should be hip width apart and flexed., Take a breathe out and lower yourself into knees, chest and chin pose, or ashtanga namaskar. You’ll first lower your knees, then your chest, and then your chin to the ground.It’s easiest to get into this position by keeping the energy moving forward. To do this, slightly push off of your toes and place your chest between your hands with your hips raised.This may also ensure that you’re getting a good backbend out of this asana.
Keep your elbows tucked close to your sides, which may make it easier to slide your chest and chin forward.
 Take a breath in and push your chest forward through your hands into cobra pose, or jangasana. Pull your shoulders back and lift your chest and gaze slightly.Use the flex of your feet to push your chest forward into cobra. Your ribs should still be on the floor and your hands and elbows close to your sides.Once you’re in cobra, place the tops of your feet on the floor.This is a light backbend and drawing your shoulders down may help you more comfortably enter the asana.
 Breathe out and roll back over your toes so that your body ends up in an inverted “V” shape, which is downward facing dog or adho mukha savasana in Sanskrit. This position should feel calming and allow you to rest as you get deeper into the asana, or pose.Keep your palms pressing flat against the floor and your abs engaged.Roll your shoulders down your back and arms inward so the eyes of your elbows are facing one another.Your toes may not be flexible enough to allow you to roll over them. If this is the case, modify the pose by picking up your feet and placing the backs on the floor.
Your heels may or may not touch the floor, depending on how flexible your lower back, hamstrings, and calf muscles are. The more you practice, the easier it will be to get your heels to the floor.Keep lifting your sitting bones towards the ceiling.You can keep your gaze towards your navel, but make sure you’re head is hanging comfortably.Inhale and exhale steadily for 5 breaths and then prepare to end the sun salutation., You’re almost done with this round of sun salutations. Taking a breath in, lunge your right foot forward followed immediately by your left.
 In order to finish the sun salutation, you need to end up in tadasana.Hinging forward completely, exhale and fold completely forward into standing forward bend, or uttanasana. You’re almost done with your first round of surya namaskar C!

, You’re ready to come full circle like the sun. Inhale and rise up radiantly by bringing your prayer hands towards the ceiling in urdhva hastasana.Gently arch your back as you look up towards your hands.


Remember to keep your spine straight as you rise into urdhva hastasana.If you did the arm variation at the beginning with hooked fingers, make sure to do that as you end, too.
 Bring your prayer hands back to your sides as you exhale and return to tadasana. Take a minute or two to enjoy the heart-opening effects and energizing effects of surya namaskar.You can do as many more sun salutations as you like to help yourself warm up.

