 For instances where the radius of the curve is three inches or greater, you can cautiously bend the laminate without heating it, so start by measuring the radius of the curve.You can measure this by locating the spot on each side of the counter’s rounded edge where the curve begins and drawing straight lines perpendicular to those edges to the point where they intersect. Then measure the length of that intersection back to the edge.


You can think of the point of intersection as the point where you’d put the pin of a compass in order to trace the edge of the curve.The larger the radius of the curve, the gentler the bend. If the radius is three inches or more, then you can attempt to cold bend your laminate.;
, In order to stop any gaps, bubbles, or distorting of the laminate, you need to make sure that the vertical edge around which the laminate will bend is perfectly square with the top surface of the counter.Check this by ensuring that the horizontal surface edge and vertical edge come together perfectly with a T-square.If the edge is not perfectly square, then you can smooth down the vertical surface with a belt sander to finish preparing it for the laminate., You want to use a strip of laminate that is roughly 1/2” wider than the width of the edge to which you’re attaching it. This is just in case the laminate shifts a tiny bit as you bend it into place. It’s easier to use a router to trim the excess after the piece is in place than it is to place it perfectly., After applying your laminate glue to the strip, do NOT attach the laminate by starting at the curve and folding the sides back. You want to start with the end of the strip on one of the straight sides of the edge before the curve. Use a J-roller to roll this section down tight before bending over the curve.A J-roller is a roller with a rubber head that allows you to roll any bubbles out of the laminate without damaging the surface. You should have one handy for all laminate projects.
 Now that one end of the strip is firmly in place, begin slowly bending the rest of the strip around the curve. Keep your J-roller in your other hand, so you can firmly roll the strip as more and more of it comes in contact with the edge as you bend.Once the entire strip is in place, you want to continue making several more passes across the entire thing with your J-roller to ensure that you don’t have any bubbles or gaps., Read the instructions for the specific laminate glue you used, so you know how long it needs to set. Once it’s dry, trim the excess portion of the strip off with a router.

