 Regular exercise is extremely important to help you stay fit and healthy, which will impact your overall mood. For example, a workout at the gym or even a 30 minute walk can make you feel happier and more relaxed. People who exercise regularly often have a higher self-esteem. They feel better about their appearance, which can boost their confidence and lead to a healthy glow.Exercise will also stimulate your cardiovascular system, improving your endurance and giving you more energy to go about your daily chores. With more energy and new a found confidence you are sure to develop a healthy looking glow.
 The sun is an excellent source of vitamin D and can be good for your skin. However, too much sun exposure can dry out, burn, and damage your skin. You should avoid spending too much time in direct sunlight during the heat of the day, when UV rays are the highest. Sun burns, caused by overexposure to the sun, can even cause skin cancer in some people.If you have to be out in the sun you should always wear sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher (recommended) and cover your skin by wearing clothes or carrying an umbrella., Stress hormones can lead to the development of excess oil, leaving your skin unhealthy. It can also cause anxiety, which could impact your overall well being. Manage your stress by taking part in relaxing activities such as yoga, reading, meditation, and visiting the spa. If you can successfully manage your stress levels, you can help to achieve a healthy looking glow., Smoking cigarettes is bad for your skin and causes premature aging and wrinkles, particularly around the mouth. The act of smoking reduces blood circulation and decreases oxygen levels in your blood, which results in the development of wrinkles. Smoking also directly impacts the colour and texture of your skin, by decreasing the production of red blood cells. A lack of red blood cells can cause you to look paler and less vibrant. In order to achieve or maintain a healthy glow, do not smoke cigarettes., Have you ever been told to get your beauty rest? Well, it turns out that a lack of sleep can actually impact your overall appearance. In order to avoid these negative outcomes, adults should get a minimum of 7 to 8 hours of sleep each night.Sleep deprivation can have the following impact on your appearance:Accelerated aging: a lack of sleep causes reduced elasticity of the skin and the development of fine lines.
Hair loss: chronic sleep deprivation can result in increased cortisol levels and reduced collagen production, which can manifest as hair loss.
Acne: a lack of sleep can cause stress levels to rise, which may result in the development of acne.
Bags under the eyes: one of the worst culprits for the development of bags under the eyes is a lack of sleep.

