 If you are pink-happy, then choose a range of pinks. If you're into blues and greens, then err on the side of those hues.;
, It can be as simple as sticking plain felt panels to the box but for something more interesting, add layers and objects in different colors of felt. Some ideas include:

A beachside scene: Blue background with yellow sand, shell designs, a beach umbrella and a beach ball






A nature scene: Green grass, blue sky, a tree, some birds, a squirrel and a pond with ducks






A floral theme: Pink background with purple and orange flowers placed here and there






A car theme: A red background with cars in blue and yellow dotted here and there






And so forth!

, These are the background pieces of felt that cover the entirety of the box edges and lid. Measure the lid and side edges, then transfer this to paper. Cut out templates for the felt.
 If you're adding anything else, such as geometric shapes, animals, trees, beach balls, etc., draw these on the paper first, then cut out the templates.
 Use pins to keep the paper templates in place.
 Set aside to use shortly.


If you want the backing to have fancy edges, use pinking shears or decorative edged scissors.
 Set aside to use shortly.

If the designs have layers, pin them together for now, so as not to lose any of the pieces.
 Place glue on the box and a little on the felt, then press each piece in place, covering both the lid and the sides of the box.


Adjust as needed while the glue is still wet; straighten up any crooked edges.
Let dry before proceeding.
 Depending on your original design plan, place the design pieces wherever you wish them to be.


For example, you might have a flower in one corner of the lid and in a corner of each side panel.
Let dry.
 Although you could leave this part of the box bare, it is nice to dress it up too. Ribbon, braid, lace or yarn could be glued around the lid edge, in a complementary color.


Let dry before using.
 This step is optional but is ideal if you want it known to whom the box belongs or what it contains. Simply cut out a small geometric shape (square, rectangle, circle, etc.) in another color of felt. Write a person's or item's name on this using a fabric pen (use dots if it's hard to write on the felt), then glue in place on the lid or front side of the box.
 The felt treasure box is now ready for use.

