 Toxicology is a multidisciplinary science, so any real study of it will involve immersion in many different subjects. If you are interested in studying toxicology, evaluate your current expertise in related subjects and consider what areas you might need to strengthen your base of knowledge in. Consider hiring a tutor, joining a study group, or increasing your study time for these subjects in order to master them. Biology, mathematics, and chemistry are the biggest components of toxicology, but other subjects pertaining to this discipline include:Medicine
Veterinary medicine
Pharmacology
Environmental science;
, If you want to study toxicology, work on gaining experience that will serve you in the industry. At a high school level, participating in science fairs and clubs is a good way to acclimate to the toxicology milieu. Extracurricular science projects can help students hone their research skills, which are a valuable asset for both an educational and professional career related to toxicology., On an undergraduate level, joining a scientific professional society will allow you to participate in informative events and meetings. For instance, the Society of Toxicology, a global non-profit organization and the largest toxicology society in the world, accepts university students under the title of "Undergraduate Student Affiliates," allowing them to participate in the activities of the organization for free.Affiliates also have access to introductory toxicology lectures, advice and information about graduate programs, and the opportunity to meet personally with directors of academic toxicology programs and internship hosts.
 Before setting out to study toxicology, research the different career options that are open to you. For a comprehensive overview of toxicology-related careers, industries that employ toxicologists, and available training programs, consult the Society of Toxicology’s “Resource Guide to Careers in Toxicology,” available on their website. This guide also notes trends in the toxicology job market, and stresses the growing demand for well-trained toxicologists.