 While you may want to shop for basic food so you always have something on hand to make a small meal or a snack, reading recipes allows you to choose your meals and determine exactly what you need to get when you go to the store.For example, the USDA's ChooseMyPlate website plans seven-day and 21-day menus to ensure a variety of healthy meals over the course of the week.
Planning your meals in advance also can be helpful if you plan to make a lot of something all at once and then freeze it for later.
Go over recipes and try to find ones that use different food ingredients but similar herbs and spices, so you don't have to buy a lot of herbs and spices all at once.
 Write down everything you need from your recipes, as well as any additional items that you want to pick up. Once you're at the store, don't pick up or even look at items that aren't on your list.If you've planned your recipes in advance, you also can look for coupons and specials at grocery stores near you. Try downloading an app for your phone that will help you find the best prices for certain items, particularly if they're the more expensive items on your list.
Specify amounts, particularly for perishable items such as meats or fresh vegetables, so you don't get too much and end up wasting it.
Your local farmer's market may be a good place to buy produce, especially if you're looking for fruits or vegetables that are in season where you live.
 Dry goods such as beans and rice have a long shelf life. Provided you have room to store them, you can save money by getting mass quantities of these items so you'll always have them on hand.Cereals and other grains also can be bought in bulk and stored for long periods of time, provided you keep them unopened or in airtight containers.
Whole grains can be good for baking your own breads or making your own oatmeal, which can be cheaper and more healthy than buying packaged or instant varieties.
If your storage is at a premium, only buy as much as you can properly store. A five-pound bag of rice won't save you any money if you end up having to throw away four pounds of it.
 You may assume that everything is cheaper if you buy it in bulk, but that isn't necessarily true. The unit price of an item, typically listed next to the overall price on the grocery store shelf, will tell you what something actually costs.Food frequently is compared by the ounce. So, for example, you might have a regular-sized box of cereal that costs 12 cents per ounce. The larger, family size, on the other hand, costs 10 cents per ounce.
Buy the choice that offers you the lowest price per ounce – keeping in mind that this might not always be the lowest overall price.
Comparing unit prices also gives you a better idea of how much you're actually saving if you buy the "bargain" or "family" size of something. Frequently the difference is only a penny or two per ounce. If you're concerned the food might go bad before you get to it, you're probably better off getting the smaller size.
 Especially if you're making primarily stews and one-pot meals, there's no need to get a fancy cut of meat. Cheaper cuts taste no different and can save you a lot of money.For example, if you're buying chicken, consider buying thighs. They're cheaper than chicken breasts and provide about three ounces of chicken, which is the perfect individual portion.You also can buy meat in larger packages at a lower price. Freeze what you're not going to cook immediately so you can use it later.
 Grocery stores typically are arranged with the whole foods such as produce, meats, and dairy along the outer perimeter of the store. Start your shopping around the outside of the store, then work your way through the aisles.If you're trying to eat healthy, you probably have little use for junk food. And if you've planned ahead by building your list from ingredients you need to cook healthy meals, you won't have any junk food on your list. This means that in most cases you can avoid those center aisles altogether.
Try to avoid being tempted by sale signs and other promotions. If it isn't on your list, you don't have any need for it.
Don't go to the grocery store when you're hungry, or you may find yourself even more tempted by food packaged so that you can eat it right away, rather than whole foods that you have to cook.
When you've purchased everything on your list, it's time to check out. If you continue to wander around the store after you've gotten everything on your list, you'll be tempted to buy other items.
 Cooking for one often means you have leftovers – but it doesn't mean you have to eat the same meal two or three days in a row. Instead, use your leftovers in other recipes or with other sides so you don't get bored.For example, leftover meat and vegetables can be combined into a hearty vegetable soup or stew.
You can also can throw leftovers into a tortilla and add a little sauce and cheese and give them a second life as a burrito.
Try putting leftovers from two or three different meals together to make a new meal with different ingredients. Even if the sides don't seem like they'd go well together, you may be surprised. If your experiment doesn't work, you don't have to do it again.

