 There are many variations of pushups that can help you build your chest muscles, but for beginners, there's nothing wrong with basic, ordinary pushups.That said, when starting push ups, avoid lowering your chest too close to the ground. Lowering yourself too close to the floor can tear tissues in the shoulder. Gradually work your way to lowering yourself slightly closer to the floor over time.


Lie face down with your hands on the floor directly under their respective shoulders. Straighten your back so that your feet and your shoulders create a straight, rigid line.
One repetition consists of bending your arms down to a 90 degree angle and straightening them out again.
Raise and lower your body in a slow, steady motion. Do as many of these as you can!
If you are an absolute beginner, you may need to start out doing pushups with your knees on the floor, but your hips and back straight.;
, These are similar to basic pushups, but your body is elevated by a piece of furniture such as a bench, chair, or desk that you rest your hands against.Lie face down with you hands on the bench. Position your hands slightly wider than shoulder-width apart, and your feet about hip-width apart, with your toes on the floor. Keep your back and legs as straight as you can.
Then, slowly and steadily lower your body so that your chest is just a few inches from the bench.
Return to the starting position by straightening your arms, and repeat.
Incline pushups are an easy variation, making them great for beginners., Find a sturdy chair or bench that won't slide across the ground and is able to hold your weight. Then, get into the basic pushup position, but place your feet on the chair rather than on the ground. Straighten your back so that your feet and your body creates a horizontal line parallel with the floor.Place the chair up against the wall for extra stability.
One repetition consists of bending your arms down to a 90 degree angle and straightening them out again.
 To perform gorilla pushups, start as if you were doing basic pushups, with your body in the down position. Then, rapidly push up, launching yourself off the ground. Slap your chest or clap, then rapidly return your hands to the starting position.Gorilla pushups are are a more advanced pushup variation. Don't try these until you can comfortably do lots of basic pushups.
 Start in the basic pushup position, with your feet spread to shoulder width or wider. Lift one foot so that it is hovering off of the ground and then complete each repetition just as you would with a basic pushup.After doing a few repetitions, switch legs. For example, try to do five single-leg pushups with your left leg raised, then do another five with the right raised.
Keep your glutes tight while doing these.If you want to, you can exercise your legs at the same time by moving the knee of the raised leg toward your elbow as you push up, and switching legs with each repetition. Some people call these, "reptile" or "lizard" pushups.The wider apart your feet are, the harder the push up will be, because it will shift more of your weight to one arm.Single-leg pushups are among the most challenging variations.You will probably need to work up to these.
 If normal pushups and pushup variations begin to grow too easy, you can increase the weight and stress of the pushups to keep your workout rigorous. One easy way to do that is to perform any of the above pushup variations while wearing a backpack.You can steadily increase the weight as your muscles develop by placing heavier objects in the backpack.

