 A number of companies have developed safe and effective products that don’t require hours of scrubbing or wiping.


Use spray-on chandelier cleaning fluid. Instead of wiping each crystal by hand you can simply spray the solution on an unlit chandelier to remove dust and grime. Lay a tarp or sheet underneath the chandelier before spraying to catch solution drips.
Try a stain stick/pen for furniture “oops.” Small stain that won’t seem to come out with soap and water (or club soda)? Rub a stain stick pen into the fabric until the stain lifts. Blot with a clean, white cloth to remove any residual stain and re-apply if the first pass doesn’t do the job.
Use rust remover on ceramic sinks or the toilet. Instead of continuing to try the all purpose cleaner go right for the tough stuff and use rust remover to eradicate rust stains in the bathroom or kitchen. Don’t use any product that contains bleach as it will set the stain.
Try using water repellent to clean tough soap scum on shower doors. Products that are used to keep windshields clean and clear are ideal for washing shower doors and not only remove soap scum but keep them looking cleaner for a longer period of time.
 A regular cleaning rag may have not done the job but using another tool or method may be what you need.


Remove grease using a steaming hot rag. Use rubber gloves and caution when turning to this method as you could get burned without protecting your hands. Steam a clean rag in the microwave while spraying areas with all purpose cleaner. Let cleaner sit for up to five minutes for extra stubborn stains and then remove with steaming hot rag.
Switch to microfiber cloths or newspaper to clean windows. If you continue to see streaks after cleaning your windows with a regular cloth, turn to a microfiber cloth, which contain tiny fibers that scour the area well. If all else fails, wadded up, dry newspaper will remove streaks when used with a good window cleaning solution.
Use the leaf blower to clean the garage. Sweeping out dust and debris form the garage can be back breaking and time consuming. Instead, grab your safety glasses and your leaf blower to remove dust, dirt and cobwebs from the area.
Eradicate pet hair using duct tape. Sometimes vacuuming the area doesn’t work, however line a clean paint roller with duct tape and watch pet hair disappear. Once the tape is filled, re-load to make another pass over the area.
Use a putty knife to remove bathroom soap scum. The only way to remove stubborn, built up soap scum from ceramic tiles is to gently run a putty knife over the dry area. Take extra care not to scratch tile and wash area with warm water and a clean rag.

