 You may be able to fix some issues with your prosthesis on your own; however, if you encounter a problem that you don't know how to fix or are unsure of what to do, contact your prosthetist. Making an adjustment without knowing what you are doing can cause your prosthesis to break, wear out faster or may even cause you personal injury. Always ask your prosthetist for help when your prosthesis needs repair., Over the course of regular use, some parts of your prosthesis may come loose. Because of this, you'll want to regularly check your prosthesis for any parts that may be in need of tightening, adjustment or replacement. Keeping all parts of your prosthesis in their proper position will help ensure a comfortable fit, continued function and prolonged durability.Every day when you remove your prosthesis before going to bed, examine it for loose parts or damage.You will need the help of your prosthetist to make many adjustments to your prosthesis.
If you are unsure of how to make a minor adjustment at home, don't hesitate to ask your prosthetist for help.
 If your prosthesis isn't functioning correctly, you may notice that it makes an unusual noise. The exact noise it makes will depend on the type of prosthesis you have; however, any noise that is out of the ordinary should be looked into or discussed with your prosthetist.Any unusual clicking, grinding or popping noises should be investigated.
New clicks, scraping sounds or squeaks might indicate a problem with your prosthesis.
 Over time, your prosthesis will suffer from daily wear and tear. Because of this, you'll want to regularly check your prosthesis for any signs of cracking or breaking. If you notice any cracks forming or you see that your prosthesis is in danger of falling apart in some place, let your prosthetist know immediately. Even a small crack should be addressed with your prosthetist.
Always check your prosthesis for cracks or tears before wearing it for the day.
If you plan on traveling, make sure your prosthesis is in a suitable condition before leaving.

