 Meditation is a fantastic way to clear your mind and escape reality; it is traditionally used to make the mind calm and peaceful.Proper meditation enables you to take your mind into a calm space and put reality on hold.. The best part is that meditation can be done in the comfort of your own home (or even bed) and requires no prior training or monthly membership.


Choose a peaceful environment, preferably one without distractions. The temperature should be comfortable, it should be as quiet as possible, and you should be able to be alone for 30 minutes.
Find a comfortable position. Many people like to lay on the floor with their bodies relaxed, their feet pointed outwards, and their palms facing upwards. There is no “right” position in which to meditate, so find a position in which it is comfortable for you to lie still. You can also try the lotus position.
Close your eyes. This allows you to tune out anything that is going on around you. If necessary cover your eyes with a mask or a towel. If you are in a noisy place, it may help to wear earplugs. Think of nothing. Relax completely, let your mind go free.
Be aware of your breathing. Don’t necessarily try to control your breath, but simply breathe and be aware of it.Expect good meditation to take practice. At first, it is almost inevitable that your mind will wander. However, with practice, you will be able to completely clear your mind during your period of meditation. When your mind does wander, bring your focus back to your breath.Consider using downloadable meditation programs. Simply go to Google or YouTube and search for “meditation.”;
, Listening to music is a fantastic way to clear your mind and make a mental escape from reality. Music has been scientifically shown to affect many different areas of the brain, and it can actually help you achieve self-awareness and regulate your mood.It is also a commonly used tool to engage in escapism.


If you are unsure of what type or genre of music to listen to, you can try to listen to ambient music or binaural beats.For example, try Dr. Christopher Lloyd Clarke’s relaxation music or The Tranquil Harp: Improvisations for Relaxation, Meditation, Integration by Paul Baker.If you desire something different, try classical music, such as piano concertos, or listen to Gregorian chants.
For something more lively, try listening to drum and bass music that has no lyrics.
 In addition to having physical benefits, yoga has mental and psychological benefits as well. It is an activity in which the participant focuses on breath and body instead of on the worries and stressors associated with reality.Yoga is a great way to have some personal time, clear your mind, temporarily escape your reality, and get a workout in as well.If you’ve never practiced yoga before, do a Google search to find a studio around you. Attend a class for beginners, and try to incorporate yoga into your routine. Many yoga studios will allow you to attend a trial class for free.

Talk to the instructor of your first yoga class. He or she may be able to make some recommendations for types of yoga that will help you with your goal of mentally escaping reality.


To make your own ‘yoga studio’ all you need is a yoga mat, water bottle, and a room that gives you space to lay out your mat. Pick up the necessary accessories from a local store, and ] on your own in the comfort of your own home.
Keep in mind that you may not feel the sensation of escaping reality the first time you try yoga. It will take consistent practice to make yoga an activity that helps with your mental state.
 Chanting can be a powerful way to temporarily escape from reality. Performing chanting, or mantra meditation can allow you to mentally “remove” yourself from your mind, thereby mentally escaping reality.


Chanting inspires a “relaxation” response. This means that your heart rate, brain waves, and respiration will become slower.This physical response can actually make you feel like you are leaving reality behind.
Chanting the mantra “Om” is said to be extremely calming to the mind, actually inciting the release of relaxing hormones.This is because the “Om” sound sends vibrations through your lips and palate and into the back of your throat.
 Daydreaming constitutes the ultimate mental escape from reality, but many of us don’t have the time to allow ourselves to drift into a daydream world. Daydreaming not only helps you mentally escape reality, but also plays an important role in allowing us to recognize our own potential, achieve a greater sense of identity and personal meaning, and enhance our self-control and creativity.Allow yourself to daydream when the external environment is undemanding.This can be while you’re running on a treadmill, sitting in a traffic jam, or ironing clothes.
Let your mind truly wander. This means that you shouldn’t try to control your daydreams- there is no “right” or “wrong” daydream to have.
Keep daydreaming. Studies show that we daydream less as we get older.However, this should not be so: daydreaming is the easiest way to mentally escape reality and requires nothing more than some time alone with your thoughts.

