 Stand over your pet and look down. Your dog should have a taper at the waist behind the ribs. Look at your dog from the side. There should be an "abdominal tuck" behind the ribs, meaning your dog's belly should not be as low as the bottom of their ribs, but tuck up somewhat. Feel your dog's side — you should be able to easily feel your dog's ribs, but not see them. These are signs of a dog within a healthy weight range. An overweight dog will have no discernible waist, a pendulous abdomen, and noticeable fat at the hips and neck, and may be lethargic.You can use a simple guide to check your dog's body condition (emaciated, thin, normal, overweight, obese), such as the one here: http://www.wsava.org/sites/default/files/Body%20condition%20score%20chart%20dogs.pdf
;
, A veterinarian will help you come up with a diet that is right for your pet. Rather than going it alone, schedule an appointment with your dog’s vet. Be sure to ask your vet what your dog’s optimal weight is. You should also ask for specifics about your dog’s diet, such as what dog food brands are a good choice and what types of snacks are appropriate.


Your vet can assess your dog's body condition and determine whether their weight is under ideal, ideal, or over ideal.
 Once your vet has verified your dog needs to slim down, you will need to make an assessment of exactly what your dog eats each day. Make a dietary journal for your dog and be sure to include meals, snacks, and treats. It is likely you will need to eliminate most snacks and treats and, in some cases, this is all you will need to do to help manage your dog’s weight., A key to weight loss and management is controlling the amount of food your dog consumes. Make sure you are giving your dog the correct serving size of food, which can be found on dog food labels or the dog food company’s website. If you are unsure, talk to your vet for further advice on portion control.You can also try reducing your dog’s portions by 10 – 15% for a period of six to eight weeks.
If you eyeball your dog's portions or just use a cup from your cupboard, try using an actual measuring cup to measure out the proper portion for your dog. You may be overfeeding your dog without realizing it.
 If controlling or reducing your dog’s portions doesn’t result in weight loss after six to eight weeks, consider feeding him a diet dog food. Talk to your vet about specific brands that are a good match for your senior dog’s age, weight, and breed.
 Your senior dog should be getting out on regular walks on most days of the week. You can also help your senior dog manage their weight with other types of exercise like swimming. Talk to your vet about an exercise schedule that is right for your dog.