 To make your lips look bigger using makeup you’ll need a lipliner or lip crayon; a lipstick or lip crayon that is the same color as the lipliner, but a shade lighter; a lip gloss; a highlighting balm or powder; and a lip exfoliator (a toothbrush will do).


For a more natural look, use two nude shades of lipliner and lipstick; for a more dramatic look, use vibrant reds or pinks.
Dramatic colors will immediately make your lips look fuller and more prominent.
Some makeup manufacturers sell double-sided lip crayons in complementary shades of the same color. These are great options.
You may find that matte lipsticks and crayons are easier to work with, particularly when going for a naturally bigger lip.
 Using a soft-bristled toothbrush, spend approximately 20 seconds gently massaging the dead skin off your lips. This will cause your lips to swell up a bit; it may also cause them to feel dry.









You can also exfoliate your lips with a damp washcloth or sugar.
Some dermatologists advise against exfoliating one’s lips, as this can cause them to become dry and chapped over time.Exfoliating your lips is fine to do once in a while if your lips are flakey and you need to wear lipstick (for example, if you’re going somewhere formal); just avoid it whenever you can!

, Any balm will do: just be sure to avoid waxes or anything too heavy, which will not moisturize your lips, but only seal in existing moisture.









Be sure that you’ve saturated your lips with the balm, and that you let it sit for a couple of minutes before applying the liner.
 Lining your lips is a great way to make your lips look larger. To keep it looking natural, line the outer edges, or just outside of the outer edges, of your lips.









Don’t go too far outside the natural lines of your lips otherwise you may look like a clown!

, Use the darker pencil to fill in the corners of your lips, and the lighter shade of lipstick/crayon to fill in the middle part of your upper and lower lips.









Some people recommend filling in your entire lips with a lip pencil to create an even base. Experiment with different ways of lining your lips to see what you like best!

, You don’t want an unattractive border around your lips. Blend everything together so that it looks more natural. You can do this with your finger, a cotton swab, or a lip brush.
 You can use a clear gloss or a gloss in the same color range of the color you’ve put on your lips.
 Place a small amount of highlighting cream, balm, or powder on your finger and dab it lightly on to the middle of your upper and lower lips.









A shimmery eyeshadow will also work as a highlighter.
After dabbing the highlighter on to your lips, rub your finger lightly over the dabs so that they’re nicely blended.
