 Visit the library, subscribe to newspapers, and watch the news. You may have learned about past events in history, but brush up on world history by visiting your library and checking out history books about different cultures. To understand where the world is today, you need to see how past events have influenced the present. It is just as, if not more, important to stay updated on events happening all throughout the world..


Some things to learn about are: Global policies (international treaties), programs, wars (past and present), tragedies, positive happenings, politics, and entertainment news from all over the word. Information can be found in your local library, on the internet, and on television. It is possible to find international news in your language.
 It is positive and necessary to respect the values of a global community, but it is also important to learn about them. Some values to learn about are human rights, poverty reduction, prevention of conflict between countries, and sustainable economic growth. These values can be learned by visiting your local library, watching the news, and searching specifically for the values country by country on an online search.Consider cultures that seem far removed from your own culture. If you are familiar with Western culture, consider learning about countries like South Korea, India, and China. If you are familiar with Eastern culture, consider learning about France, Canada, and Norway. You can also learn about countries like Brazil and Argentina.
Other values like religion, entertainment, and manners can be learned in the same way, but you also can learn about them by talking to members of other cultures.
 You will learn about values and events from reading, but you will learn about parts of the world you wouldn’t have thought about by reading. You can learn about your own and other cultures by reading books, both fiction and nonfiction. Reading will allow you to get a glimpse into someone’s mind that is not possible in any other way.You can look on websites like Goodreads, TasteKid, and Shelfari for reading recommendations.
 There are many benefits that come from learning a new language. It is the best way to get to know another culture, become more open-minded, and bridge cultural gaps. Learning another language can seem daunting, but it is possible with time and dedication. You can learn another language on your own, in a class, and with the help of a willing friend.Check out a language textbook from the library. A book may not help you become fluent in a language, but it is a good introduction to the basics and grammar.
Look for classes in your community. Sometimes colleges will allow enrollment, but there are programs that offer language classes in the community. There are also classes offered online.
Once you have some basics down, try communicating with people who are fluent in the language you have chosen to learn. You can ask people in your community, or try communicating with people online, as long as it is done safely. Make sure the other person is willing and happy to help.
 Unless you consciously buy locally, there is a large chance that many things you own and buy come from other places in the world. Globalization has made trade, importing, and exporting easier and more common than ever. It seems positive because it has made some products cheap, but it is negative because the conditions those products are being made aren’t always positive. Take a look at what you buy, see where they were made, and learn about the conditions they were made in. Some things you can search for are: What are the conditions for the employees at the factory where my shoes were made?
Are the employees at this factory paid a living wage?
Is the factory that made my olive oil ecologically responsible?
Does the factory that made my t-shirt support gay rights?

, Being a global citizen goes beyond engaging with and understanding people. Learning about the environment we live in, and the ongoing climate change crisis is important, too. There are still people that refute climate change, but the evidence for it is prominent. You can do an online search to learn about climate change, watch documentaries, and read news that is focused specifically on the environment.To learn about what you can do to be more environmentally friendly, do an online search for The Environmental Protection Agency. Their website offers a list of things you can do in your daily life to limit greenhouse gas emissions.

