 Go to Facebook and click on your name in the upper right corner. Doing so should redirect you to your personal profile page.;
, Look for the "Update Info" button in the lower right corner of your cover photo. Click on the button to be redirected to your "About" page.By default, the first section to open should be the "Work and Education" portion of your information. If you aren't automatically redirected to this section, click on "Work and Education" in the left side panel to navigate to that area.
 Under the "Work" heading, the words "Add a workplace" should be visible. Click on the link to open the workplace editor.
 If necessary, click on the text box beside the "Company" heading. Begin typing the name of your workplace.


As you type, Facebook should generate a list of possible matches. Keep typing until the correct match appears or until you finish typing the name of the company (whichever comes first).
 Navigate through the pop-up list of possible workplace matches until you find the business fan page attached to the correct company. Click on that option to select it.


After you choose the correct option, the name of the company should appear in the “Company” text box. Your cursor should also jump out of that text box and down to the next.
Note that you can also add a workplace that doesn't have its own Facebook page. Simply type the name of the workplace without selecting one of Facebook's suggested matches, then proceed as usual.
 Fill out the rest of the form with accurate information regarding your job at the chosen workplace. Hit the "Save Changes" button when finished to save your workplace entry.


Enter your formal job title in the "Position" box. If you don't have a formal title, create an informal title that accurately describes the nature of your job.
Type the name of city in which you work or worked at this job. Note that you will also need to specify the correct state when verifying the city.
If desired, you can include a brief description of the job itself in the "Description" box.
Enter the time period. If you currently work the job, check the box beside the "I currently work here" option. Click on the "Add year" link to add start dates and end dates to the job entry.
Lastly, you also have the option of changing the privacy settings for your work information. You can leave the information as “Public,” thereby allowing everyone to view it, or set it so that only friends, friends of friends, or certain groups of people can see it.
 After saving your workplace information, return to your Timeline. Your work should now appear on the left side panel of your profile's main page.


If you've added multiple work listings, only the most recent or prominent will show up on your Timeline. All entries should be visible on the “Work and Education” section of your “About” page, though.

