 If you're interviewing for a career in a professional environment, such as business, finance, or anything in a traditional office, it's important to look professional so your employers can see you fitting in with the people in their company. If you show up dressed too casually for the part, you will stick out like a sore thumb and will look like you're sloppy or don't know how to follow directions. Here are some tips:


For men, professional attire includes a dark-colored suit, long-sleeved shirt, formal shoes, and a briefcase.
For women, professional attire includes a suit, a suit with skirt and pantyhose, and conservative shoes.
Remember to know how the people at the company dress--and then kick it up a notch. It's better to look overdressed than under-dressed.
If you're really unsure about how to dress, ask the person scheduling the interview.
 Business casual is defined as being in between professional and casual dress, and it's important to know which jobs require business casual dress. Jobs that include working in a site that requires special equipment or that is dirty tend to accept business casual dress. They jobs include work in a laboratory, construction site, or lawn care. Here are some tips for dressing for a business casual environment:


For men, cotton or khaki pants and cotton long-sleeved shirts or sweaters are appropriate.
For women, corduroy or khaki pants or skirts, sweaters, and cardigans are appropriate.
If you're unsure about whether to dress business casual or professional, err on the side of caution and dress professionally.
 Some work environments, such as those at a startup, have more casual dress. You can check the environment by looking at the type of company, or even checking the company's website. If you wear a full suit to an interview at a casual company, you will look stodgy and too stuffy to fit in. Here are some tips:


For men, a clean and simple pair of khakis and a nice button-down short sleeved shirt will work.
For women, a nice top and simple skirt will do.
Even if the company dress is casual, you can opt for business casual so you don't look like you're too relaxed for the interview.

