 Select 'Markets' from the navigation bar at the top of the page (assumes you are logged in and have selected a character). Your market menus and view will appear with the Bulk market selected for display by default.;
, You can exchange your items for resources, goods, or currency at any level by fulfilling one of the existing orders - provided you have whatever they're asking for.


Click the 'Filter' button, select 'Only Affordable Offers' from the dialog.
Click 'Submit' and the Markets will refresh showing only offers you can fulfill.

Select a green shopping cart icon on an offer to bring up the purchase form and complete the exchange. Yes, this 'selling' is equivalent to 'buying'; as offers can be placed for resources, goods, or currency it is a good way to exchange what you have for currency (or other items).
 Once a character reaches level 10, they are able to place orders on the Bulk Market. Select the green 'Sell' button and select 'Sell in Bulk' from the dialog that appears.



Select Offer Type and Asking Type. The first step of placing a bulk offer is to specify what kind of thing you'd like to offer and what type of thing you'd like to receive in exchange. Your options for things to offer are Raw Resources, Processed Goods, Crafted Items, and Currency; you may ask for these types as well except for Crafted Items which may only be offered (not asked for). The most common sale is likely to be offering Raw Resources and asking for Currency. Make your selection and click 'Submit'.

Select Specific Offered and Asked for Items. The second step of placing a bulk offer is to specify the things you'd like to offer and receive. The 'Bulk offer' selection shows items you own as well as the amount you own to help you choose. Select something to offer and something to ask for in exchange and click 'Submit'.

Specify Amounts. The third step of placing a bulk offer is to specify the amount of things you'd like to offer and receive with *each* bulk trade. The last step is to specify the total number of these exchanges you'd like to make available. So if you want to sell a total of 20 flax, but in lots of 5 for 4 Bronze Litra each, on this step you would specify 'Offer per lot' 5 and 'Ask per lot' 4 and then click 'Submit'.

Specify Offers Total and Limit. The last step of placing a bulk offer is to specify the total number of lots you would like to make available and to set whether you would like the offer to only be made in your settlement or if you'd like it to be offered globally. Make your selection and click 'Submit' to place the offer on the market.

Note: Your level determines the number of offers you may have on the market at once.
 At level 20 you are able to make offers on your Local Market. Select 'Trade Locally' from the sell menu (where you selected 'Sell in Bulk' previously).



Select Offer and Asking Type. Just like with Bulk Offers, the first step to placing a Local Offer is to select the offer and asking types.

Select Specific Offered and Asked For Items. Just like with Bulk Offers, the second step to placing a Local Offer is to specify the items you'd like to offer and receive in exchange.

Specify Offer Amounts. The third step in placing a Local Offer is to specify the amount of the offered item you'd like to sell and the amount of the receiving item you would like to receive *for each item sold*. So below, I am placing an offer to sell 10 Flax for 25 Bronze Litra *each*. Remember, these are for individual sale, not bulk sale. Fill in your amounts and click 'Submit' to place the offer on the market.
 At level 20 you are able to make offers on the World Market. Select 'Sell in World Market' from the sell menu.



Select Offer Type. The World Market only accepts prices set in currency, so the first step of placing a World Market Offer only requires you to set the Offer type.

Select Specific Offered Items and Currency. The second step of placing a World Market Offer is to select the specific items you'd like to sell as well as the currency you'd like to receive in return.

Specify Offer Amount and Price. Just like when placing a Local Offer, the third step of placing a World Market Offer is to specify the number of items you'd like to sell and the amount of currency you'd like to receive for *each* item. Specify your offer amount and price, and click 'Submit' to place your offer on the market.
