 One of the easiest ways to see the number of likes on each of your photos decline over time is to post the same sort of content over and over again. On the other hand, consistently posting gorgeous, interesting content that stands out from the other contributions users see every day is a great way to start getting noticed.Try to do something new with each photo — if your followers don't know what will come next, they'll be more likely to stick around and keep liking your photos!


In the rest of the steps in this section, we'll explore some posting strategies that can help you gain a reputation as a quality Instagram poster. However, it's important to remember that there's no "right" way to use Instagram — the most popular users of all are often people who use Instagram in new, exciting ways that others haven't thought of before.;
, No matter what the subject of your picture is, people on Instagram tend to have positive reactions to content that contains bright colors and interesting contrasts — in other words, pictures that are pretty! There are chances to capture beauty with your phone's camera almost everywhere, so be on the lookout for eye-catching subjects in the world around you. Below are just a few ideas for visually-appealing photos that often do well on Instagram (there are many, many more.)


Exotic locales (a vacation or trip is a great opportunity to take some high-scoring Instagram shots)
Wilderness shots
Beaches
Sunsets
Interesting reflections
Cityscapes
Close-ups of colorful things (like flowers, paintings, etc.)
Well-crafted objects or possessions (like cars, musical instruments, etc.)
Delicious-looking food

, Humor works on almost everyone — a truly hilarious Instagram post can become a magnet for likes (or even a viral sensation) if it has enough visibility. If users can consistently find something new on your Instagram profile that makes them laugh, you should quickly start racking up likes. Below are just a few ideas for things you may want to post to get you started:


Prank videos (an old online staple)
Pictures of funny/garish costumes or outfits
Pictures of amusing/embarrassing social media interactions
Silly visual puns
Parodies of Instagram culture (i.e., intentionally vain selfies, pretentiously "artsy" shots, etc.)

, Another way to get likes out of your audience is to tug at its heartstrings. Pictures that feature cute, loveable, or nostalgic content can sometimes be immensely popular, so try adding some of the following ideas to your normal rotation:


Family photos
Pictures of cute animals
Pictures of babies
Inspirational photos
Precious moments with an S.O. (be careful not to come across as sappy or attention-seeking)
Old/new comparison photos (i.e., a picture of you and your friends at age fourteen split with a picture of the same people ten years later)

, It isn't all about what you shoot — it's also about how you shoot it! If you can, try to give each Instagram shot the same amount of time and focus that you'd give a piece of professional photography. For some shots, like pictures of objects in motion or live events, this may be impossible, but for stationary subjects, there's no reason not to take your time and arrange an interesting shot. Below are just a few very basic tips you may want to consider when taking pictures.


Keep the main subject in focus. Other objects in the frame can sometimes be left out of focus for an interesting contrast — it's up to you.
Make sure your subject is well-lit, but not harshly lit. Bright light from fluorescent lights or the sun can give the subject an unpleasant sheen. In addition, it can be difficult to capture partially-lit objects in dark environments (though if you can, the effect can be quite powerful.)
Play around with closeups and wide-angle shots. Does your subject look most impressive from a few feet away or from a few inches away?
Try varying the position of the main subject in the frame. Does it look best in the center of the shot or at the edge of the frame?

, Instagram is famous for its filters. While many photos look great without filters, adding a filter is often an easy way to give your photos a more dramatic, interesting feel without having to re-take your shot. Best of all, there are dozens of filters available for free with Instagram — simply select one that you think will improve the feel of your photo the best before you post it.Note, however, that using the same filters over and over again can give your post history an unappealing "samey" feel, so try to vary them over time.
Don’t just choose a filter and post. Take your time, think about the kind of effect you want to achieve, and experiment. Specific filters will suit some images better than others.
 Downloadable third-party photo collage apps do exactly what their name implies — allow you to post exciting collages to Instagram. Many photo collage apps are completely free and allow you to choose from a large variety of frames. If you haven't already, try downloading and using one of these apps to add some spice to your Instagram profile — you may end up loving it!


One general tip for posting high-quality collages is to pick photos for the collage that are all thematically connected in some way. For instance, you might want to use a collage to show off a handful of pictures you took while baking a cake, with one picture showing the ingredients, one showing you mixing them, one showing you putting the batter into the oven, and so on.
 Sometimes Instagram's default filters and editing options just don’t cut it. Third-party apps can give you more options and make your photos stand out, so if you're a frequent Instagram user, they can be a good use of your device's storage space.


Some of the most popular editing apps available include Photo Editor by Aviary, Afterlight, Bokehful, and Overgram.

