 Following a meal plan each week can make healthy eating a lot easier. Spend some of your free time writing up your meal plan and corresponding grocery list for each week.


Take into consideration how much time you have each week or each weeknight to prepare foods. This may change what you choose to put on your meal plan or purchase at the grocery store.
Plan for super busy nights. For example, you're planning on going to the gym right after work or have a long meeting that will keep you later at the office. Try to schedule prepare quick meals ahead of time or meals with little to no cooking for nights that are extra busy.
 A well-stocked kitchen is essential to healthy and quick meals. The less time you spend traveling back and forth to the grocery store or looking for ingredients, the better.


Make a full shopping list and go grocery shopping before you are hungry. Studies have shown that you'll stick to your list and leave tempting indulgent foods at the store instead of in your cart.Always keep fruits and vegetables on hand. Frozen, fresh, or canned items are all appropriate. Also consider pre-washed or pre-prepared items like bagged lettuce or bagged broccoli florets to minimize preparation time.
Pantry staples can also help make for a quick meal. Keep items on hand like: canned beans, whole grains (brown rice, quinoa, or 100% whole wheat pasta), dressings/sauces, and nuts or nut butters. Also consider purchasing pre-cooked grains like brown rice or quinoa.
Quick protein foods include frozen items (like fish or chicken); fresh, pre-cooked proteins (like grilled chicken strips or or deli meat); and canned tuna or chicken. These are great to have on hand at all times.
 Remember that even the best planning does not eliminate surprises! You might not always have time to cook or buy food.


A well-stocked kitchen can help you quickly prepare a healthy meal in a flash: frozen veggies, pre-cooked chicken breast strips, and pre-cooked brown rice or homemade tuna salad on a whole wheat wrap and a small side salad.
Keep quick items like granola, nuts, apples, or protein bars in your bag or purse. If you need a quick snack when you get caught in traffic or held up at work, you have a healthy option to tide you over to your next meal.
Stock up your office with healthy snacks, such as nuts, whole-grain crackers, and shelf-stable fruit (like apples or oranges). If you have a fridge keep yogurts, cottage cheese or a few low-calorie frozen meals on hand.

