 Any time you're going to freeze produce, it's best to do so when the produce is at the height of its season. Asparagus season peaks in early to mid-spring. That's when you'll find the most flavorful, crunchy asparagus that will freeze well and still taste good when it thaws.


Look for green, fresh-looking asparagus. Pick it up. If it's floppy, it's no longer fresh. The spears should be firm and crunchy.
Choose thick spears, rather than a thin-speared variety. Thick spears hold up better in the freezer.
A farmer's market is a great place to shop for fresh asparagus that's good to freeze. Avoid supermarket asparagus that was flown in from other countries.;
, Run each spear under cold water to wash away dirt, grit and other impurities. Make sure no traces of grime remain on the asparagus before proceeding.
 Asparagus tends to get tough and woody at the bottom end. It's necessary to trim off the bottom third or so of each spear. Use a knife to trim the spear. You can also break each spear by hand by feeling for the weak spot near the bottom third of the asparagus and snapping it in two. Repeat with each spear.
 If you already know that you'll be using asparagus pieces in soups and casseroles, it's fine to chop the spears into one or two-inch pieces. You may also freeze the spears whole if you prefer.Try to make all the pieces uniform in size so they blanch and freeze evenly.
If you're leaving the spears whole, sort them into piles according to size. Blanch like-sized spears together.
 Choose a pot that can easily hold the asparagus pieces or spears you're blanching. Fill it 2/3 full with water. Bring the water to a rolling boil.
 While the water is coming to a boil, fill a large bowl with ice cubes and water. You'll need to plunge the asparagus into the ice bath to stop it from overcooking after you finish the blanching.
 Place the asparagus pieces or spears into the boiling water. Set a timer for three minutes and let the asparagus cook. When the time is up, remove the asparagus from the boiling water immediately.You can add up to a pound of asparagus at a time to the water. If you have more than a pound, blanch it in batches.
If you have several piles of asparagus cut to different sizes, blanch each pile separately.
If your asparagus is exceptionally thick or thin, adjust the cooking time accordingly. Thin asparagus (thinner than a pencil) should be blanched for about two minutes, while thick asparagus (thicker than a marker) should be blanched for four.
 Place the blanched asparagus in the ice bath immediately after removing it from the boiling pot of water. Let it sit in the ice bath for three minutes, or the exact same amount of time it spent getting cooked.
 Transfer the asparagus to a dry towel and pat the pieces dry. If you don't dry the asparagus thoroughly, the asparagus will get frosty in the freezer. Work quickly so that you can freeze the asparagus as soon as possible and so you can avoid mushy asparagus., Arrange the pieces in one even layer so that no pieces overlap. Cover the baking sheet with a piece of plastic wrap.


Skip this step if you don't mind if the asparagus sticks together. Just place the asparagus into a freezer-safe container and freeze.
 Place the covered baking sheet in the freezer to "flash freeze" for one hour. This helps the pieces freeze individually, rather than freezing into a solid mass in the freezer storage container.
 Use bags or plastic bins that are safe for long-term storage. Label the containers with the date so you'll know how long the asparagus is safe to eat.Pack the asparagus tightly to remove as much air as possible from the storage container. This preserves the asparagus' taste and texture as much as possible.
Vacuum storage is a good option for freezing asparagus. It removes all the air from the packaging.
 After a year, the asparagus will begin to deteriorate in taste and texture. When you're ready to use the asparagus, begin cooking it frozen rather than thawing it first., Frozen asparagus does not need to be thawed before use. You can use it the same way you'd use fresh asparagus. For an easy side dish, just steam the asparagus with a bit of butter and lemon. Try frozen asparagus in these other popular dishes:


Ham and asparagus quiche. Simply add chopped, frozen asparagus in place of fresh asparagus.

Vegetable soup. Frozen asparagus reconstitutes easily when added to a pot of hot soup.

Chicken asparagus casserole. This is the perfect way to use a container of frozen asparagus.

