 You will need a large piece of cardboard. This can be found on a cardboard box, or you can buy sheets of cardboard at home improvement stores. You will also need:


Pencil
Ruler
Scissors
White, or light colored printer paper
Clear plastic sheets
Duct tape
Liquid glue or glue sticks
Masking tape (optional)
Sharpie/marker (optional)

, First purchase a large piece of cardboard from an arts and crafts store. You can also cut out one of the panels from a cardboard box using a knife or a pair of scissors. After you have a large piece of cardboard, you can then cut it down to the appropriate size for each individual whiteboard.Mark on the cardboard, using a pencil and ruler, a rectangular shape. You can use the standard size of a piece of notebook paper which is 8.5 X 11 inches. However, depending on how many boards you wish to create, and your own personal preference, you will want to maximize your use of the cardboard. This might mean you make slightly smaller boards so that you don't have to buy so many large sheets of cardboard, and have so much wasted cardboard left over.
After the rectangular shape is marked out with a pencil, go ahead and cut it out using either a knife or a pair of scissors. Don't worry about the edges being rough, as they will be covered up later.
 First purchase standard printer paper (8.5 X 11 inches). White is the best color to choose as the writings on the whiteboard will show more clearly. However, you can also choose lighter shades of primary colors, such as a light green, blue, red, etc. Next, lay one piece of paper over the rectangular shaped cardboard.If the piece of paper and cardboard are the same size, all you have to do is to glue them together.
If the piece of paper is slightly larger, lay the cardboard overtop of the piece of paper. Make sure that each exposed side of paper is equidistant in size. Trace around the piece of cardboard with a light pencil mark onto the piece of paper. Cut out the rectangle using a pair of scissors or a rotary blade.
 Glue the piece of paper onto the piece of cardboard so that each side is flush with one another. You can use either liquid glue or a glue stick. If you use liquid glue, make sure that it is spread evenly over the cardboard before you press the paper and cardboard together.Smooth over any bubbles or wrinkles in the paper with your hands.
After the glue has been applied, press the two tightly together with your hands. Hold for about a minute until the glue begins to dry.
If the paper is still slightly loose on the edges, you can either apply some extra glue, or wait until you secure the final product with duct tape later on.
 You can purchase what are commonly termed "transparencies" online. These are clear plastic sheets that used to be used on projectors in many classrooms. However, if you can't find these, you do have some other options. One is to go to your local arts and crafts store. They should have either precut plastic sheets, or large sheets on the bar that they will cut for you.You can also use the clear plastic in front and back of binders. You can cut the piece of plastic off the front and back with a pair of scissors or a rotary blade.
If the piece of plastic is the same size as the cardboard/paper, you can move onto the next step. If the plastic is slightly larger, place the cardboard/paper overtop of the plastic. Use a magic marker and trace around the cardboard/paper.
Cut out the rectangular shape with a pair of scissors or rotary blade. Take either an eraser, or a tissue with some windex, and wipe off the magic marker.
 Take the piece of plastic and place it overtop of the paper side of the cardboard/paper combination. Turn the entire board so that it is facing landscape style. Next, take duct tape and place the exposed sticky end of the duct tape at the bottom left hand corner. Note: you only want half the duct tape on the top of your board, the other half will be folded back.Gradually unwind your duct tape, pressing down the duct tape against the board as you go along. Remember, only half of the duct tape should be shown on top of the board. Once you get to the corner, rip the piece of duct tape or cut it with scissors.
Then, take the duct tape that is loose and fold it backwards against the back of the whiteboard. You can flip the board over entirely if this is easier for you. Smooth out the duct tape and press against it with your hands to ensure it sticks.
Repeat the same step but with the other three sides of your white board. It is fine if the duct tape slightly overlaps on the corners.
 Do so until you have enough boards for your entire classroom. Make sure that each student has at least one classroom safe magic marker, and a small eraser. Do not use the tissue/Windex combination as this could be unsafe for small children.


You do have some options when it comes to decorating them. You can add a small piece of masking tape to the bottom of the board. This way you can write your student's name on the board with either a pencil, pen or marker.
You can also go over the edge (duct tape) with a Sharpie and add designs such as vines, trees, flowers, sports balls, etc.

