 Sometimes suspicions are just that. However, making accusations or spreading gossip can seriously damage a person’s reputation (even if the information is proven untrue).


Unless you have witnessed several of the above symptoms, you may want to keep your suspicions to yourself.
There are many reasons why someone’s eyes could be red, or why they have been keeping to themselves.
Even if you are 100% sure of an individual’s drugs use, gossiping is not a productive way to handle your concerns.
 If you believe an employee or co-worker is using drugs or alcohol, you must take notice of their behavior and document all signs. Anytime you notice one or more of the above symptoms, note the date, a few details, and any consequences (such as a lost client or hospital visit). Aim to keep your notations as objective as possible.You may write, “11/1 – late for work,” or “11/6 – poor presentational skills, shabby appearance.”

, The first active step you should take is to simply talk to the person. Make sure this comes from a place of empathy. Whether you are a co-worker or an authority, approaching this person with threats of punishment will not work. Be ready for them to become defensive, or even try to manipulate the situation.


Ask them to come to a private space where you can talk, possibly even outside of work.
You could say, “I think something is going on with you, and I hope we can talk about it.”
You could say, “I’m worried about you. I think you have a problem with drugs/alcohol, and I’d like to help you, if I can.”
If they deny it, you may want to offer some “proof” from your documentation.
For instance, you might say, “In September, you were late for work 12 times and in October, it was 8 times. In October, you visited the doctor twice. Also, you seem shaky all the time and you look like you’ve lost weight. If it isn’t drugs/alcohol, can you share what is going on?”

, If you feel certain that your co-worker has a problem, it may be time to discuss this with your boss. You will want to collect and organize your log of signs and symptoms to present as much information as you can.


Ideally, you will have already tried to speak to the person directly.
Make an appointment to speak to your boss privately.
You may say, “I believe Tabatha has a drug and alcohol problem. I have been noticing symptoms for some time now, and I believe she needs help.”

, Another option is to speak to someone in your company’s Human Relations department. An HR representative should be able to outline a strategy that aligns with your company’s policies. Once again, you should bring along any data you have compiled.


You can say, "I think a co-worker has an alcohol addiction. I was hoping I could speak to you about the right way to proceed."

