 Tap the App Store icon on your iPad to launch it.;
, Type in “Palu” on the search field at the top and tap the “Search” button.
 Locate the correct app and tap on it; the app is developed by MetaMoji Corporation.


Tap the “Free” button beside the app, then tap on “Install” to begin downloading and installing Palu.
 Locate the app on your iPad; there is an app icon with the letter “P” scribbled on it. Tap on it.
 The app will load on the current month and display the whole month’s calendar. This is the default view of the app. The month and year are clearly displayed on the rightmost side of the header.
 If you want to view and write on another month, swipe left or right on the screen. Each swipe will move the month to the next or the previous month, depending on the direction of your swipe.
 You can’t write directly on the calendar’s month view. You can only write on the specific date boxes. Tap on a date you want to mark or write on., The selected date will be expanded to full screen with a blank canvas that you can write and draw on. There’s a left panel with writing and drawing tools available.
 Select among a pencil, a pen, and a marker as a writing tool. Tap on the selected tool’s button to equip it.
 After selecting the writing tool, select the color of the writing tool. You can choose among gray, white, red, blue, green, and yellow. Tap on the color to equip it.
 You can now write and draw on the blank canvas to the right. You can change the writing tools and the colors anytime.
 If you make a mistake, you can delete what you wrote using the eraser tool. Tap the eraser icon on the left panel, and use it as you would any of the writing tools to erase your mistake.
 You can accessorize your entries by adding a photo. Tap on the camera icon on the toolbar to select a photo from your camera or photo library. The selected photo will be imported and made as the date’s background photo.
 Tap on the paint roller icon on the toolbar to bring out the built-in clip arts. Tap the ones you’d like to use for your entries. They will appear on your canvas.
 When you’re done with the currently selected date, tap the “Done” button on the left panel. The entry will be saved, and it will appear as an image thumbnail on the date on the calendar.