 If you haven't shown much of an interest in girls or other boys before, but are suddenly interested in, or even fascinated by them, then you may be going through one major emotional change of puberty. If you're finding yourself feeling more attracted or even aroused by girls or other boys who were previously uninteresting to you, then this is a sign of your developing body.


Every boy is different. You might have been crushing on girls for years before you hit puberty, or you may be in the throes of puberty without feeling much interest in the opposite gender. This will come to you.
Of course, if you're gay or bisexual, then your feelings of attraction and arousal may be directed toward other boys or men.
 Were you previously pretty even-keeled, or would some people even have described you as "chill"? Well, all of that can go out the window when you hit puberty. Your raging hormones may make it more difficult for you to control your emotions, and you can go from feeling completely happy, indifferent, or intensely angry to having a completely different emotion just a few minutes later.


If you find yourself suddenly feeling incredibly elated out of the blue, you may be experiencing a positive mood swing.
If you were feeling fine and suddenly snap at someone or even feel like you're boiling with rage, then you may be experiencing a negative mood swing.
 Before, you might have thought that everything was "fine," "okay," or, at most, "pretty cool." But now, every great experience you have, whether it's hanging out with friends or eating an amazing slice of pizza, may feel like the greatest thing that ever happened to you. On the other hand, any sad experience, however minor, may make you feel intensely upset, or even "totally depressed."


This new intensity of feeling is another sign that your body is adjusting to new levels of hormones.
 Anxiety is that jittery feeling that can bubble up in your chest, stomach, hands, and almost any part of your body when you're nervous or worried about something. You may find yourself feeling anxious about things that didn't matter to you so much before, whether it's how you do on your latest Algebra test, how you'll perform in that night's baseball game, or what the girls in your class will think of your new haircut.


Anxiety can feel uncomfortable, but it's a sign that you really care about something. Everything may take on a new and more intense meaning when you're going through puberty.
 While you might have loved hanging out at home all weekend or going out to eat with your parents previously, you may feel yourself withdrawing from your home environment. During puberty, you may want to feel more control over your life and actions because you're feeling like you have less control over your body. It's only natural that you'd want to spend less time with your parents, most likely a controlling force in your life. Here are some signs that you may be withdrawing from your parents:


If you used to leave your door open and let your parents walk in any time, but now you have the urge to shut the door or even lock it.
If you generally feel a need for more privacy when you didn't care if your parents were nearby before.
If you're spending much more time hanging out with your friends or just out of the house.
If you spend more time talking to your friends online than you spend talking to your parents.
If you feel like you have less and less to say to your parents, aren't eager to tell them about your day, and don't want to hang out too long at the dinner table.
 This is a bit more vague, but it's an important step to finding out if you're having emotional changes from puberty. What's unfamiliar is different for everyone. Maybe you're feeling more anxious than normal, maybe you're feeling more giddy than normal, or maybe you're finding that you have more complicated feelings about your friends, parents, and members of the opposite gender.
 If you never used to care much about your looks, but are now thinking more and more about your hair, your clothes, and the appearance of your hair and body, then you're growing more self-conscious and becoming more aware of how you may be viewed by the opposite gender. This is perfectly natural and is a sign of your developing mind.

