 Do not let your desire or wishful thinking cloud your knowledge of fact and fiction.If your family cannot afford the cost of a new car, asking to have it bought for you might be a waste of your time.


Look for signs indicating money is tight. Have your parents been talking about expenses more frequently? Do you rarely go out to eat? Have your favorite brands been replaced with knock-offs? These can all be signs that your parents don't have money to spare for a car.;
, Not only will your car cost money to purchase, it will also cost money for you to upkeep. Go online and search for car insurance quotes. You can also make inquiries at a local dealership about the frequency and average cost of oil changes. Pay attention to local gas stations, track the average cost of gas, and then estimate that cost by multiplying the average cost per gallon by the amount of gallons you expect to use in a week. This will impress your parents with your preparation and research.


Divide your total expenses by week, month, and year. This will assist you in making an effective plan.
 Now that you've figured out your financial situation and have done enough research to know how much your car will cost, you can start planning.How can you contribute to car payments, insurance, and upkeep? Some ideas that might persuade your parents:


Working a part time job.
Doing chores in exchange for an allowance.
Making a car maintenance schedule.
 This gesture might be required even if your family is financially well-off. Making regular payments and affording the weekly cost of gas are responsibilities that will ultimately fall on you in the future.


Your parents want you to be prepared to handle these tasks on your own. You can show that you're ready to take responsibility by working for your car., Driving children between points A and B can be time consuming, but having your own car would help with that! You will no longer need your parents to drive you to extracurricular activities like band practice or film club. You can also volunteer to run errands like:


Picking up groceries.
Retrieving dry cleaning.
Taking a sibling to and from after school activities.
 There are many techniques that you could use, and a quick Internet search will put a more extensive list at your fingertips, but studies have shown that acknowledging your parents freedom of choice in the matter could drastically improve your chances.Comparisons, like metaphors and analogies, will also give you an edge.

"You and dad have the final say. I know that I'm going to need your help, and if you don't think now's the right time, I'll keep working on my end until it's possible."
"Remember how you told me about how you used to drive to your first job in that broken down car? I keep thinking of that, and how I could start my own job if I had a car of my own."
"We live in a rural area, and not having a car is like living on an island without a boat! I want to get out there and experience the world, and I think the only reasonable option is a car."

, People are more likely to consider something valid if there is already the belief that it is important.

Educational and professional opportunities you can achieve with a car will be appealing topics to your parents for this reason. An example might look like:

"Mom, dad, I know how important my education is to you. But I know it's hard for you both to work and take me to my study group on Tuesday and Thursday. A car is a big expense, but I'm willing to work for it, and I think it'll help with college next year, too."

, There's nothing wrong with aiming for your favorite make and model, but be aware that you might need to moderate your tastes for your first car.Cars that are too fast or have poor safety features might strike your parents as reckless choices for your first vehicle.


Choose a range of vehicles spanning from trendy to sensible, from expensive to affordable, and ask your parents what they think.

