 Bananas are great for arthritis because they help fight the underlying causes. Bananas contain high levels of potassium, which is necessary for the proper functioning of your cells. It also contains vitamin C, vitamin B6, and folate, which help to improve your immune system.


Try eating them as a snack or with your meals., Turmeric is a spice that can be added to food to help with arthritis pain. It contains curcumin, which is a chemical that reduces joint pain and swelling through the blockage of inflammatory cytokines and enzymes.


There are many recipes that you can add turmeric to, including everything from main entrees to desserts., In recent studies, ginger has been shown to have similar anti-inflammatory capabilities to ibuprofen and, as an extract, has been shown to work almost as well as steroids. Put ginger in more recipes, from chicken recipes to desserts.


You can also use ginger to make a tea, and drink it to help with pain., Try to eat fish, especially salmon, mackerel, or herring. Three ounces of these fish have your recommended daily amount of vitamin D.


You can also eat the fish raw, because it has even more vitamin D then cooked fish.
Also try to incorporate more vitamin D-rich dairy, such as milk, cheese, and yogurt, into your diet everyday., Probiotics, also known as "good" bacteria, can help with pain. In recent studies, foods such as yogurt that have these bacteria in it significantly reduced the pain associated with arthritis. It can also help increase mobility as well.


Try eating at least one serving of yogurt with probiotics per day to help., You body uses sulfur in detoxification, but it can be depleted when you use NSAIDs and other pain fighting medications. To replenish your body's supply, you should eat foods with rich is sulfur that have a certain kind of bite, such as onions and garlic.


You can also eat other sulfur-rich vegetables such as broccoli, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, and cabbage., Magnesium relaxes your muscles and nerve endings and eases pain. It also helps your bones to mineralize. Try to eat more magnesium-rich foods, such as dark leafy greens, nuts, and beans.


You can also take a supplement, but the natural type from food is processed better by your body., Sweet potatoes are great for those with arthritis. They are rich is beta carotene, vitamin A and C, minerals, anthocyanin, and soluble fiber. All of these ingredients help with pain, inflammation, and joint health.


You can eat them steamed, boiled, or baked to incorporate them more into your daily food intake., There is an antioxidant in green tea known as epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) that blocks the production of molecules that cause joint damage. This will help lower the pain in your joints because your joints will be less damaged.


Researches suggest that you drink 2-3 cups a day to get the full benefit of the antioxidant.