 Before getting light therapy, your doctor will need to determine what sort of light treatment you are eligible for. Only your doctor will be able to decide what sort of light is best for your skin.There are three primary versions of light therapy treatment for acne: red light, blue light, or a combination.
Blue light is adequate for treating small areas of rough or raised skin.
Red light penetrates farther into the skin than blue light and is the preferred option when treating deep-skin targets like the sebaceous gland.
To get the best of both worlds, doctors will often utilize both red and blue light.
You will probably require multiple visits to the doctor to get your acne treated properly.Light therapy is an acceptable form of treatment for individuals with any type of acne, including severe acne.But if you have only mild or moderate acne with occasional flare-ups, try over-the-counter or prescription treatment options first to save money and time.;
, Before getting light therapy, you’ll need to have your skin primed with a photosensitizer, a medication that will make your skin more sensitive to light. This enhances the efficacy of the light therapy for treating acne. Your doctor will choose which photosensitizer you need based on your situation.There are two main photosensitizers: methyl aminolevulinate (MAL) and aminolevulinic acid (ALA).
MAL may more effectively prepare deep-tissue structures like sebaceous glands and their sebum (skin oil). MAL may have a higher tendency to cause hyperpigmentation, the harmless darkening of certain patches of the skin.
ALA might have a shorter incubation time, meaning that the time spent between application of the photosensitizer and the time you begin the actual light therapy treatment is shorter than the time you’d need to do so with MAL.
You might have to wait up to three hours for the photosensitizer to be fully absorbed. Don’t let your doctor cut your incubation time short, or the efficacy of the light therapy could decline. If your incubation time is less than 180 minutes, ask your doctor why.
In some rare cases, your doctor will recommend that you not use a photosensitizer, but blue, red, or mixed red-and-blue light alone will not treat cysts, nodules, blackheads, or whiteheads., Once you’ve had the photosensitizer fully absorbed into your skin, you’re ready to begin the light therapy treatment proper. Fortunately, it’s much easier and quicker than waiting around for the photosensitizer to work its magic. Your doctor or a trained light therapy technician will come in and shine the light on affected skin for about 15-20 minutes. All you have to do is lie back and enjoy the ride.When light is shone on the skin, it kills acne bacteria and shrinks oil glands, thereby preventing acne.

