 Remember that holiday parties and social functions are meant to be times to get together with loved ones. Get in the spirit of the holiday season by celebrating your personal relationships, and recognize that you're not just there for the food.;
, Splurging once in a while is not generally a major problem, as long as you get back to your diet the next day. Don't let one or two holiday events be the excuse for falling off the wagon till New Year's.
 There's no better way to ensure that there will be diet-friendly, healthy choices on the menu than by throwing the party yourself. If someone else is hosting the party, offer to bring food to the party so that you can be sure that there are food options that fit into your diet program. At least there will be one dish on the buffet that you can enjoy without worrying about the calorie count.
 Have a light, healthy snack shortly before leaving for the party. Choose protein-rich foods, such as low-fat yogurt or cottage cheese, as the protein will stick with you and help you feel full longer. Alternatively, eat a small green salad as the fiber will also fill you up; another good choice is to boil a sweet corn cob. By taking the edge off your hunger, you can approach the buffet table with control and be less likely to make impulsive choices at the party.


Never skip a meal before the party. You'll arrive ravenous and vulnerable to overeating.
If you cannot eat something before arriving at the party, ask the host or hostess for a large glass of water as soon as you arrive.
 If you look carefully, you'll find there are often acceptable healthy choices available to you. Concentrate on the cocktail shrimp, smoked salmon, and fresh fruit, salads or vegetable platters. Go easy on the accompanying sauces and dips. Raw mixed nuts, particularly almonds, are good sources of protein, but be wary of candied nuts or extremely salty nut mixes.


Fill your (small) plate once only. By controlling the amount you eat at festive parties and not grazing through all the snacks, you'll avoid weight gain.
Never eat food you don't love. You'll need to say "no" sometimes but that's good for you too––being manipulated into making food choices is no longer an option for you.
Try new foods and skip the same old food you could easily have at home. Give your taste buds a treat while avoiding overeating anything that is standard fare.
 It takes our body about 20 minutes to realize that we are full. Also, the more slowly you eat, the less food you'll eat as opposed to eating fast in the same amount of time. As you eat, appreciate the food and acknowledge how it tastes––mindful eating is a way to slow down the process of gulping down food.


Wait your turn. Never be in a rush to reach the food table. Chat with guests and slowly make your way toward the food.
 Consider sparkling mineral water or non-alcoholic drinks, such as a "Virgin Mary." If you decide to drink alcohol, choose white or red wine, rather than champagne or hard liquor. Intersperse all alcoholic drinks with water, and you can even water down the alcohol with sparkling water. Bear in mind that alcohol can take away your willpower to resist overeating.


Steer clear of soda, too. It's very high in sugar.
Fill your glass with ice, taking away the space for too much alcohol.
If you have control over the party, don't tie celebrating to drinking and eating. Stick to non-alcoholic drinks and try to include some activity to keep everyone active, such as Christmas games, a trip to a local indoor sports center or, if you're in a warmer climate, a game of football or cricket outdoors.
 Mingle, dance and do what you can to stay active (and as far away from the buffet table as possible). Keep your metabolism up by staying active and including lots of healthy exercise during the holiday season.


Simply by taking a 30 minute walk each day, you can help keep the weight off. Find those 30 minutes somewhere during the day, even if it means borrowing Fido from the neighbors, and give your body the exercise it deserves.
 Don't eat a lot of calorie-laden food for days after a special event just because the food needs to be eaten up. Portion all leftovers in small amounts and ensure that everyone is sharing it, so that you're not tempted to finish off the remaining half of a cheesecake by yourself.


Never use the excuse "it'll go to waste if I don't eat it." That is why you have a freezer, friends and family over for "leftover surprise meals" and a compost bin. Bundle up leftovers for freezing––ham, turkey, pudding and other items can all be frozen without damage.
 It's the holiday season, so general deprivation is not the way to go. Simply shift rewards from food to activities, like going to the cinema, going ice-skating, visiting friends or buying yourself a new CD. By moving the focus off food and onto doing fun things, you'll continue to enjoy the spirit of the season and stick with your diet.
