 Equip your car's tires with chains or get snow tires and make sure to inflate them completely.The tread on your tires should be at least a 6/32-inch deep tread. Summer tires don't typically have the tread that's required to keep your vehicle from skidding during snowy conditions, whereas snow tires come with a special rubber compound that grips to the road in the snow.If you are getting snow tires, make sure to that all four of your wheels are the same model.
Snow chains should only be used in emergency situations and when there is a full layer of snow or ice on the ground. Chains could damage your tires or the body of your vehicle.Read Install-Snow-Chains-on-Tires to learn how to attach chains to your tires.
 To be fully aware of your surroundings while you drive, you need to have access to all the mirrors and windows in your car. Blind spots could cause an accident when merging or switching lanes. Lastly, ensure that you remove all snow from both your brake lights and headlights so that other cars can see you.


Make sure the car's exhaust pipe is clear of snow because it could create a buildup of carbon monoxide which could be fatal., Snow on the windshield while you drive could reduce your visibility. Windshield wiper fluid will allow you to remove any ice that may be stuck on your windshield or frost that accumulates while you drive. Defrosters will also help you remove any initial snow and ice on your windows.There are windshield wiper blades that are designed for the snow and icy conditions. , Make sure that your car is ready to handle a trip in the snow and that you have the right equipment to deal with it. Bring things like blankets, a cell phone, scrapers, and shovels in case your car gets stuck in the snow. The more prepared you are, the less likely you'll have to wait for a tow truck or a plow to get you out of a bad situation.


Other things to bring include flares, jumper cables, sand to melt the snow, dry food, a first aid kit, and emergency tire sealant., The best way to avoid getting into an accident when it's snowy out is not to go out at all.Determine if driving is necessary. If there is an official winter warning in your area, then try to stay home. Limit your driving in the snow to emergency situations.


Call your employer and tell them that you can't drive in the conditions because it's a threat to your safety, instead of trying to drive into work.
If you commute and get stuck in the snow at work, see if you can stay at a local hotel or motel instead of driving back home.

