 There are several different varieties of bok choy, but all feature dark green, ruffled leaves and hearty white stalks. For your slaw, you’ll want to use the entire head. Cut the cabbage into bite-sized sections to make it more manageable in the finished slaw. Place the prepped bok choy into a large mixing bowl as you go.Green bok choy, such as baby or Shanghai bok choy, are typically more tender and therefore better suited for uncooked dishes.Bok choy grows in the ground, so it tends to be dirty. Wash the heads thoroughly to rinse away any dirt or sediment before cutting them.;
, Run the carrots through a grater or mandoline to reduce them to a consistent size. This recipe calls for ½ cup, or about two whole large carrots. Add the carrots directly to the bok choy in the mixing bowl.To produce a uniform appearance and consistency, the carrots should be roughly matchstick-size.
 Slice the pepper in half vertically, then work from one edge, making ¼ inch slices. If needed, cut these slices into one inch pieces to keep the slaw ingredients a uniform size. A hint of red pepper will lend an earthy, slightly bitter note to the mild cabbage and carrot mixture. These will go into the mixing bowl as well.Remove the stem and seeds from the red pepper prior to slicing.
You can also try preparing the red pepper using a fine dicer.
 Scallions are a type of tangy, aromatic onion and can be used to introduce a savory element to the slaw. Use a delicate stroke of your knife to slice the scallions as paper-thin as possible. You only need a handful to round out the flavors provided by the other vegetables.Use the green part of the scallions, and trim and discard the white, bulbous ends.
 Grind up one quarter raw ginger root or mince a few sprigs of cilantro. Cut the herbs very fine—this will both unlock more of their natural essence and cause them to distribute more evenly throughout the slaw. Fresh herbs are used to create added dimension that will highlight the flavor of the bok choy and make the finished dish more complex.Use a moderate amount of herbs so as not to overpower the main vegetable ingredients.
 Start with ¼ cup soy sauce, then add ¼ cup coarse grain brown mustard, ⅓ cup sugar, and 2 tablespoons rice vinegar. Stir the ingredients together lightly.If the dressing comes out too salty, stir in a few ounces of cold water to dilute it.
For a brighter, more pungent twist, finish with a squeeze of fresh lime juice, a splash of ponzu or a couple drops of cilantro oil.
 As you begin pouring in the sesame oil, use a wire whisk to beat the dressing vigorously. This will create what is called an emulsion, which will allow the oil to blend with the vinegar and other liquid ingredients. Emulsified vinaigrettes won’t separate before they’re used to dress a slaw or salad, which can save you some frustration.If you’re at your wits end trying to get the ingredients to blend properly, a blender can be a big help., Drizzle the dressing a little at a time, covering as much of the bok choy, carrots, red pepper and scallions as you can. Use all of the dressing for a spicier, more flavorful slaw, or only use a portion to preserve the tender crunch of the raw veggies.Sample the dressing before adding it to the slaw to make sure it’s just right.
You may have to whisk the dressing again to reintegrate the oil and vinegar if you don’t dress the slaw right away.
 Use a pair of salad tongs or simply mix by hand. Continue tossing until the vegetables are thoroughly coated. Let the slaw sit for 20-30 minutes before dishing it out, or refrigerate it overnight and serve it chilled.Resting the slaw before serving will give the flavors more of a chance to mingle.
Don’t allow the slaw to sit out at room temperature for longer than about half an hour. The longer it sits, the more likely it is to become soggy and limp., Because of its versatility as an ingredient, bok choy will be at home in any number of adventurous recipes. It makes a perfect mate for a horseradish and bleu cheese-crusted fillet, an artisan sandwich loaded with aged meats and cheeses or a light dim sum lunch. For a quick and easy dinner, put the slaw together in advance and bring it out when it comes time to serve dinner.
Play around with new ways to serve bok choy slaw with or alongside your favorite recipes.
 Pair a lightly chilled slaw with piri piri chicken, chipotle-marinated pork chops or traditional Pad Thai full of hot chilis and take a few bites between blazing mouthfuls. The cold temperature and refreshing crispness will act as a balm when your tongue and lips are on fire.


Try adding one or two tablespoons of mayonnaise to the slaw dressing. Mayo will give the slaw a creamier consistency and help extinguish the burn of persistent spices., If you’re a spicy food lover, you can kick your bok choy slaw up a notch by working ⅓ cup of sriracha or sambal into the dressing. Turn a fiery slaw into a bed for grilled chicken or sweet glazed salmon. Garnish with fresno pepper rings or red pepper flakes and have a glass of water handy!Use an extra teaspoon of sugar to cut the saltiness of the extra spice.
Spicy slaws are best served at room temperature.
