 Playing games together can be a relaxing way to hang out while keeping things moving. Play cards, board games, or games that don't require any supplies. Go for board games you both enjoy, or try out a new one neither of you knows. Figuring out the rules of a new game together is part of the fun.


If you're playing a competitive game, come up with flirty penalties and prizes. The winner should win something thrilling.
Freak each other out with occult practices. Play with a Ouija board, or look up an ancient spell and try to cast it.Play getting-to-know-you games. Even if you've been dating forever, there is always more to learn about a partner. Try two truths and a lie—you each take a turn saying two true things and one made-up thing, then try to guess one another's lie.
Answer questions and fall in love again. Take turns answering questions designed by psychologist Arthur Aron to get you both to open up.Put a spell on her. Take turns tracing short messages on each other's skin. Try to guess what is being spelled.Play interactive video games, like Guitar Hero, Just Dance, and Wii Resort., If you don't already cook together, figuring out how to do so can be fun and rewarding. If you cook together all the time, take a novel approach to it. Make up a new recipe collaboratively based on random ingredients you have at home, or challenge one another to make something delicious based on ingredients the other partner picks out. Have a competition for who can make the best meal with the ingredients on hand, and blindfold each other for the taste test (even though you'll recognize your own dish, it'll be cute).Try to recreate dishes you enjoyed together at a restaurant.
If you bicker when you try to cook together, plan an elaborate meal collaboratively but split up the cooking. One of you can make the main and a salad, while the other can provide dessert, drinks, and a side.
 Hunt down your favorite childhood cartoons online. Try to remember the weirdest favorites you had. Take turns picking a favorite cartoon to watch. You can be nostalgic while you have fun.


Expand this. Listen to music you thought was awesome when you were 7. Watch a music video that scandalized you when you were 9.
Eat a childhood favorite food that you don't eat anymore while you watch.
Try to figure out what overlap you had as kids. If you have an age difference, grew up in different places or in very different households, it may take some hunting before you find a commonality. The challenge will make it fun.
 If you live together, think of something you'd both like to change about your home. Maybe it needs a fresh coat of paint, or some new shelves. Maybe your photos need framing, or maybe you've been meaning to start a garden or plant a window box. Chores that might be boring when done separately can be fun together. Put on music you both like and beautify your life.


If you live separately, you can still enjoy helping one another improve areas you both share.
Sharing a cooking project that you can split up can be fun. Try canning fruits from your u-pick and splitting up the results. Pickle a bunch of pickles and can those.
Learn how to brew beer together, and name your beer something silly. Go through the whole process together, even if it can only be stashed at one of your house's. Design labels and print them. When it's ready, do your first tasting together as a date, and your second as a small party with your best mutual friends.

