 The height difference is not something to just put up with, it's another quality to appreciate in your amazing partner.Even if you are comfortable being shorter than your girl, she may still feel awkward or worry that you are self-conscious about it. Once she knows you like her for her awesome personality, let her know that you think her height is just as cool as her wicked sense of humor, her ability to quote your favorite movies, her incredible math skills, and all the other things that make her special.Don't try to get her to slouch so she appears shorter or ask her to wear only flats.
Compliment her height and her long legs. Remind her that her stature only adds to her appeal.
 Most women will say they prefer a taller man because it makes them feel more feminine, since she's probably heard most of her life that to be bigger than a man in any way is a turn-off.If a tall woman has any insecurities about her height, it usually boils down to feeling like she's intimidating or "mannish."Make her feel feminine by putting your hand on the small of her back or around her waist. Put your arm around her when you're sitting next to each other. Don't discourage her from wearing heels if she wants to.She may appreciate it if you behave with a certain classic masculinity. Be assertive (but not rude or controlling). Make the first move and kiss her first.You can still be the big spoon while cuddling, you may just need to adjust how you would normally lie next to her. Or why not take a turn as the little spoon?, Certainly you are both aware that you're shorter than she is, but if she's going out with you, it means she doesn't care about that. She sees something in you that is more important that your physical appearance. The fact that she's not about to let the opinions of others stop her from dating you should make you feel confident in your relationship.
 You should only do this if you and your girlfriend have discussed the height difference and you both still feel uncomfortable with it. If you start trying to be sneaky and wear shoes that make you look taller just so you feel better, she's going to notice and think you're insecure.Wear boots or sneakers with a thicker sole. You can also get lifts to put inside your shoe, which makes you appear taller without having to wear a heeled shoe.
Wear tailored clothes with vertical stripes. Loose, baggy clothes can make you appear smaller or shorter in stature, and vertical stripes will make your body appear longer.Style your hair in a pompadour or spike it up with gel. The key is to keep it short on the sides but leave lots of volume up top.Stand up straight! Not only does good posture just look better, but you may find you're not that much shorter than your girlfriend after all. Keep your shoulders back and your head high. You'll even look more confident.