 It is true that germinating seeds is typically straight-forward, but clematis are particularly high maintenance and require loads of attention and care in order to propagate from seed. Amazingly, it takes between 12-36 months for clematis seeds to germinate. Hybrid seeds take much longer than cultivars, meaning that you’ll likely be waiting nearly three years for your hybrid seeds to sprout. Keep this in mind going into your clematis project, and you’ll likely have quite a bit of time to wait before finally planting your clematis.


You’ll need to give your seeds attention on an almost daily basis in order for them to sprout eventually.
You’ll have a better chance of your clematis sprouting if you plant multiple seeds at once.;
, In addition to their long germination period, clematis seeds also require strict growing conditions. It is vital that all of your materials are sterilized and prepared for the sole purpose of planting your clematis. You’ll need seed trays, horticultural disinfectant, sterilized seedling planting mix, clean glass or a plastic bag, and water for moistening the soil. Use your disinfectant to clean your seed trays and glass, otherwise you run the risk of infecting your fragile seeds with disease.
 If you’re not purchasing your seeds from the store, you’ll have to identify and collect viable seeds from an existing clematis. To do so, wait until the seed heads (the fluffy/furry part of the flower) turns brown and the seeds are exposed, as this means that the seeds have fully ripened and dried out. Gently remove them from the seed head, and store them in a dry, cool area.


Don’t store seeds in a plastic bag, as moisture can build up inside and cause the seeds to rot. Instead, put them in a paper bag or compartment.
Keep in mind that the seeds from a hybrid clematis will not form flowers that look like the parents.
 After you’ve sterilized your seed trays, fill them with the sterilized seedling potting mix. This typically has very little soil and is mainly a mixture of peat moss, perlite, and vermiculite, making it easy for the seeds to sprout. Fill the seed trays about ¾ of the way full with the mixture, and thoroughly wet it with water.
 Place each of your seeds individually in each seed tray, on top of the potting mixture. When all your seeds have been placed, cover them up with about ⅛-inch of potting mixture or sand. Water the seeds heavily so the soil is damp but not soaking, and then place your glass over the seeds. The glass will help keep the humidity and temperature high, which is preferable for germinating clematis seeds.


Instead of glass, you can also cover the soil with plastic wrap or a plastic bag. This will also effectively raise the humidity and temperature.
 The seeds will do best when placed in a shady location with a temperature between 60–70 °F (16–21 °C). When winter comes around, you should allow the seeds to go through a natural freeze/frost cycle, which will trigger them to sprout. Place them in a shaded area outdoors during the winter to promote this cycle., As the months progress, you’ll need to take careful care of your seeds so that they germinate, rather than drying out or rotting. Make sure that the potting mixture you planted them in is always moist, and remove the glass or plastic bag for a few hours each day to prevent too much moisture from building up and causing the seeds to rot.
 As aforementioned, the specific amount of time it will take for your seeds to sprout will vary greatly on the type of clematis you’ve planted. There are two sets of leaves you should be paying attention for on your seedling: the first set, and the true set. The first set, also called the ‘seed leaves’, is the first pair of leaves that grow from the seed. Once you see the first set of leaves, remove the plastic or glass covering from the soil. The second set of leaves are called the ‘true leaves’, and are the signal that your seeds are ready to be planted outdoors.
 When the true leaves appear, you’ll need to transplant your seedlings. You can choose to relocate them to a larger pot, or to plant them outdoors. Either way, carefully move them to their new location, being sure not to damage their delicate roots. If you choose to move them outdoors, you’ll need to harden them off by placing them in their pots outside for a few hours every day. Doing this for 1-2 weeks will help to prepare the clematis for the environmental conditions outdoors.