 Out of loneliness, it can be tempting to overlook the fact that your new romance is a non-believer. However, keep in mind God's word on this issue, "Do not be yoked together with unbelievers. For what do righteousness and wickedness have in common? Or what fellowship can light have with darkness" (2 Corinthians 6:14, NIV)?;
, Don't just search for someone who claims to be a Christian, search for someone who shows it. Some examples to look for include someone who regularly spends time with God, who attends church regularly and serves the local body of Christ with their gifts.
 In our sex saturated culture, this is getting tougher and tougher to find, but it is a clear mandate in Scripture to strive towards. "It is God’s will that you should be sanctified: that you should avoid sexual immorality; that each of you should learn to control your own body in a way that is holy and honorable, not in passionate lust like the pagans, who do not know God;" (1 Thessalonians 4:3-5, NIV).
 Unresolved sexual difficulties can create significant problems in love and marriage.
Search for someone who strives towards sexual purity by the media consumption they choose for viewing and listening, not seeking tantalizing or anger based entertainment.
Search for someone who has received healing and/or completed counseling successfully for any past substance abuse and currently has not been addicted to any substances for several years. Similar to past sexual trauma, unhealed substance abuse problems can create significant problems in marriage.
Search for someone who has received healing and/or completed counseling successfully for any past relational trauma, either from partners or parents. Unhealed relational wounds is bound to show in their dynamic with you and create much strain.
 Our early attachments are very powerful and we tend to replicate those attachments with our partner in adulthood. Therefore, the more loving the attachment growing up, the more loving their attachment usually is in marriage.
 Search for someone who has that skill including being patient with others, both about day to day thoughts and feelings and during conflict. Effective communication skills are an essential component of successful relationships so finding someone with those abilities is important. Be careful of someone who seems moody or private--as one, possibly, may be covering some problems.
 Find a partner who is able to own their shortcomings without defensiveness. We all have weaknesses and some people admit them and some people don't. Finding someone who admits their weaknesses and sees their part in the problem leads to closer relationships and reconciliation during conflict.
 Having these types of friends will not only tell you about the type of person you are dating but also demonstrate an ability to maintain relationships long-term.
 Realize you must fill many hours together, and need to enjoy similar times and means of fun and of seriousness, such as shared responsibilities, house/yard work, hobbies, music, movies, reading and contemplation. Usually, the more couples have in common for the "off hours", the longer they stick together.

