 The catchier the better. Most TV shows are based on some sort of play on words, and having a good turn of phrase can ensure that your show is immediately recognized. Mad Men, for example, is about Ad Agencies and the men that work there, most whose lives are spiraling out of control. Community is about a community college, but also a group of close-knit. The importance of a great title can not be underestimated.
 The logline is a one or two sentence description of your show designed to sell producers on the idea. It typically tells the main agenda of the show and/or main character. If your concept can’t easily translate to a logline it might not be very marketable, but this is rare. It should tell people what they're watching and what clever hook or premise there is in the show.



Back to the Future: A high school student, is sent to the past on accident, where his presence causes his parents to never meet -- or make him!Jaws: A police chief battles a killer shark despite being afraid of the sea. Meanwhile, the greedy town board refuses to admit there is a problem at the beach at all, complicating matters.

Ratatouille: A French rat teams up with a terrible chef to prove that anyone can cook, though jealous critics and pest-control will do anything to prove that it is a sham., This is a brief but comprehensive overview of the show. There are a lot of potential elements that you can put into this synopsis, but the shorter the sweeter. Try to distill your show into an engaging, brief write-up, the kind of thing that would make you want to watch the show if it was on. Some things to include are:


The setting.
The general plot of the series.
The arc of most episodes (what is generally happening in every episode?)

, On a separate sheet, list each character with a 1-2 sentence overview of who they are. Keep it brief and specific. What makes these characters tick, and what makes them special? Unless it is important to the plot, never include physical details or casting choices., This is a brief 1-2 paragraph outline of several episodes. You want to give someone a chance to see how the show will play out, what each episode will look like, and an idea of the budget and characters in action. If you're writing a drama, you might have 4-500 words each, and try and keep 30-minute shows closer to 2-300 words.


If you're pitching a documentary-style reality series, having any short video on the subject or people involved can help producers see the potential of the project. You can also outline potential plot lines in the people's lives.
 The final document should be 3-10 pages, with all of the parts in order. Add a title page with the show's potential logo, your name, and your contact information. In order, you should have:


Title
Logline
Synopsis
Characters
Episode arcs.If you are creating a reality television show, ensure that you are creating an executable format. In the case of reality competition shows, ensure that every aspect of gameplay is outlined. It is important to write what we are specifically watching unfold in brief, yet powerful points.
 At the end of the day, the treatment will not be on TV. Having a script to go with it means you can give someone the first episode, right off the bat, if they like the idea. That said, many ideas are sold solo, then a script is commissioned later. This is more common if you are already established in Hollywood, however.


Read scripts from shows similar to yours to get an idea for the writing and plotting.
If you are writing a scripted TV show, such as a drama, learn how to write scripts. Script-writing classes can also be taken at local community colleges.
Specialized script-writing software can make quick work of a script. Movie Magic Screen Writer, Celtx, Writer Duets, and Final Draft are popular picks.
 This will protect your intellectual property and give you time-stamped proof of creation. You may also wish to register your project online with The Creator's Vault or file for copyright protection, though this is often overkill.


Registering with the WGA will cost just $20 ($10 at the WGA site if you are already a WGA member), and is considered the industry standard.
The registered material is kept on file for five years, at which time you may renew. Terms may vary per service and site.