 Nothing is more annoying that sinking in the tub only to realize that you have forgotten your towel. Whatever you plan on using in the tub, gather it before you get into the water. Things to consider having:


Scented bath oil
Body lotion
Face mask
Hair products (Shampoo/conditioner)
Soap
Body scrub
Bath salts
Waterproof bath pillow or rolled hand towel
Candles
Music
Bathrobe
Bath sheets/towels;
, Candles are great for relaxing as they create a softer, more ambient light. You can use your favorite scented candles to add an extra relaxing aroma.


Pick a scent that relaxes you. Suggestions include vanilla, lavender, verbena, or whatever you prefer.Place candles safely. Avoid placing them near anything flammable such as draperies, towels, or paper products.
If you are placing candles around the tub, be careful not to accidentally burn yourself on them. Also, be careful not to knock them into the water.
Avoid wax drips by using candles in holders or self-contained in jars.
 Music has many neurological effects and can be very relaxing.It can help you to relax and reduce stress. Play your favorite music while taking a bath.


There are waterproof speakers you can purchase that stick to the side of the tub or shower.
Avoid bringing electronics into the bath with you. Water can damage your electronics.
To play music, try setting your smartphone or tablet on the sink (or another dry area) to play music through its speaker.
 Place them near the tub so you do not have to search for them when getting out. For extra comfort, warm up your towels in a dryer before your bath.


Another effective way to keep your towels warm is to hang them above a heat vent in your bathroom. Be careful not to place them directly over a heat source as it may cause a fire hazard., If you do not plan on getting your hair or face wet, you can use a face mask or exfoliant on your skin for extra pampering. Place this on your face before you get into the tub to let it set and relax you.


There are many DIY face mask recipes out there. For example, an avocado (1 large avocado) and honey (2 tablespoons) mask is very easy and contains many healthy vitamins and minerals for your face., If you live with others, you may find it difficult to get time to yourself. Make sure you tell the others in your household that you plan on taking a relaxing bath and you wish for some time alone. This will help mitigate intrusion and help you relax without worrying about interruptions.


Consider locking the door for extra privacy.
 A grungy tub does not make for a relaxing bath. Start with a clean tub for best results.


A quick way to clean a tub without a harsh chemical smell is to use baking soda. This cuts through soap scum without harsh smells. You can make a simple baking soda paste with 1 cup baking soda and add water for the desired consistency.
Add the paste to the tub and let it dry. Wipe out the baking soda with a warm sponge, making sure to scrub any stubborn residue.
 You will want a water temperature warm enough to relax you but not hot enough to damage your skin or burn you. Try to get a temperature between 95-101 degrees Fahrenheit.Make sure the drain is closed and fill the tub.
 While the water is running, add desired infusions such as bubble bath or oils. The running water will disperse the bubbles and scents more easily.


If you wait until the tub is full and the water is off, the oil may just sink to the bottom of the tub.
Choose a scent that you like that makes you feel good. Good scents may be something like honey, almond, lavender, sea salt, vanilla., You can use bath bombs or epsom salt to help with relaxation.Epsom salt baths include many benefits including pain relief, stress relief, and skin care.
Bath bombs come in many scents! They are also quite easy to make and can provide an interesting fizz to a normal bath.
 Once the tub is full of warm, scented water, slowly get into the tub and lower yourself into the water. Be careful as areas may be slick.


If you want to rest your head against the tub, you can use a waterproof bath pillow or hand towel (rolled length-wise). Place the pillow or towel behind your neck and relax.
 This will help your mind relax more efficiently.You can try to meditate by breathing in through your mouth and out through pursed lips. This will help you relax.If desired dip your head underwater to get your hair and face wet.


Be careful not to get too relaxed and fall asleep. This can cause you to drown.
 You do not want to be interrupted or distracted with the outside world. Try to leave electronics like smartphones out of the bathroom or away from reach. This is time for solitude.


You may choose to use your smartphone to listen to music. Try to avoid using it for internet browsing or for checking your e-mail.
 When you are sufficiently relaxed or the water has gone cold, grab a towel and get out of the bath. Wrap yourself up and dry yourself off.


Put lotion on your body to moisturize your skin. This will trap the moisture into your skin.
Wash off your facemask, if applicable.

