 from the freezer door. These will be in the hinge plate (hinge side of fridge).;
, Set the hinge plate aside, and re install the two torx screws, in the holes on top the fridge.
 Using your small flat screwdriver, gently work your way around the plug (prying the plug up), and place it in the hole where you removed the hinge plate.
 Set the door aside.
 Remove these two screws. This may cause the fridge door to drop, so you may want a friend to hold the door in the closed position while you remove this bracket.
 You may have to tilt the door as you remove it from the pivot pin.
 Remove the bracket, and put the screws back in the holes on the frame. Keep the bracket in the exact position as it was while mounted, and set it aside.
 Flip the center bracket (that you took off) upside down, and attach it with the screws you just removed.
 And remove the small torx screw from the pivot pin bracket. Put the pivot pin bracket, and the pivot pin back on the opposite side of the door. You may have to tilt the plate to get the pivot pin plate out.
 Gently pry the plug out, and set it aside. In about the same location on the handle you will see either a name plate (brand of fridge) or another plastic plug or plate. Gently pry this plug out (using small flat screwdriver), and remove the screw under it. On the top of the fridge door, remove the two Phillip screws that hold the handle on. Remove the handle and replace the screws. Set the handle aside, and remove the large plastic plug that was next to the handle, and replace on the opposite side. Remove the two screws in the same location of the old hinge side, and remount the handle, and plastic plugs.
 Remount the fridge door. Caution: There may be three screws in this area, be sure to remove the two that are in line with each other. You may need to tilt the fridge door slightly, and slide the top pivot pin in as you bring the door down.
 Remove the handle and set aside.
 Re-attach the freezer door handle on the new side.
 Put the freezer door on center pivot pin and close the door. Re-mount the top hinge bracket. You may need to lift or adjust the door slightly to get the screws to line up.

