 You might find it easier to take deep, slow breaths if you are lying down or sitting in a comfortable chair. Try laying on your back on a blanket, sofa, or on a bed. Let your arms lay loosely at your sides. You can keep your legs straight or bend your knees slightly.You can also use pillows to support your head and knees. Just try to make yourself as comfortable as possible.;
, It is best to breathe in through your nose when doing deep breathing, or even just when you are breathing regularly. The process of breathing through your nose allows your body to filter out viruses and bacteria.To breathe through your nose, keep your mouth closed. Your automatic nervous system will continue breathing, and the breath will come through your nostrils.
Nasal breathing allows the body to warm and humidify any cold, dry air so that it's easier to absorb., To tell whether or not you are breathing into your diaphragm, put one hand on your upper chest, the other hand on your belly, just below your rib cage. Breathe in slowly through your nose until you feel your belly start to rise. Try to make sure that your chest remains still, and that it is not moving upward. When your belly is as full of air as you can comfortably make it, start to tighten your stomach muscles. This will force air slowly from your diaphragm and out of your lungs.The diaphragm is the large, dome-shaped muscle at the base of the lungs. When you allow your diaphragm to expand and contract to control your breathing, you'll breathe more easily and efficiently.
Breathing from the diaphragm can slow your heartbeat and lower or stabilize blood pressure.You may get tired rather quickly from this exercise, but you will soon find that the strengthened diaphragm muscle allows for increased oxygen intake and energy.
 When you exhale, part your lips slightly and push the air out of your mouth using your diaphragm to force the air up and out. You should feel your diaphragm fall as you do this. Pause for a moment after exhaling your breath and then take in another breath when you feel ready.


Try doing deep breathing for five to 20 minutes every day.