 Dye your hair blonde. Gwen has soft and straight hair. In The Amazing Spider-Man 2, she has curly hair, so you can curl your hair, if it suits you. Wear a plain black headband, or if your hair is long, tie it into a mid-high ponytail. Use a red ribbon to make a bow around the base of the ponytail.;
, Try to replicate Gwen's sassy and cute style .Draw a fine black line with eyeliner pencil on your upper lids to keep your eyes beautiful and strong. Then use a plethora of colors on your lids—blues, browns, frosty whites, and grays—but keep the shadow very soft and pretty. Don't do anything to glamorize yourself. Just use a little foundation and soft peachy blushes. Add a moisturizing lip balm in the same color as your lips, just to keep them looking moist and soft.
 Gwen looks amazing in above-knee skirts, not too short, but long enough to be professional while still showing off her legs. Gwen works at Oscorp, so she can’t wear anything too flashy, so she usually wears dark colors or tartan plaids.
 They are your new best friend. In order to intern in a high-end science lab, Gwen needs clothes that are comfortable and look decent with a white lab coat. She likes wearing sweaters–a lot of sweaters— sometimes with Oxford shirts underneath, sometimes without. An example- wearing a sleeveless v-neck sweater over a white t-shirt; completely cute while being functional enough to run away from animal hybrid super villains.
 Acquire boots. And then, maybe some more boots. Gwen’s signature boots hit right below the knee, which visually elongates the legs. You’ll want to have one black pair and one that’s a light tan or khaki color. A nice pair of rain boots is also a good idea, since leather and suede boots tend not to be very wet-friendly. Gwen wears knee high cable knit socks that barely stick out to complete the “I’m wearing boots. Don’t mess with me,” look. Avoid boots with too much of a heel–that tends to make it difficult to chase around after your swinging-from-rooftops mutant-spider boyfriend.
 Add ankle boots or moccasins with a denim skirt. At one point in the movie, Gwen wears a classy polka-dot dress with a navy blue cardigan. A smart move on her part; if it got warm she could just lose the cardigan and still look put together.
 You can, of course, wear pants. When Gwen has to deliver some sad news to Peter, it’s raining out so she wears skinny jeans with a tunic sweater to stay warmer. However, in keeping with her cool professionalism, skip the ripped and slashed jeans and opt for cords or slim jeans in neutral colors. Besides basic denim, try out colors like wine, navy or olive green.
 Outerwear is pretty important, as New York City can be chilly, especially on rainy days. A good choice would be to bundle up in a classic pea coat, or trench coat, or a nice big sweater that is warm enough to serve as a coat. Add a cable hat or cute patterned scarf as necessary.
, Gwen is smart and intelligent and is a gifted scholar in the field of biochemistry. If you don't like this subject, go for another. Gwen is one of the few people to know Spider-Man's true identity.That means people can trust her. Be truthful and responsible. Gwen is known as the "beauty queen" in high school with her looks, so don't overdo it, but don't be afraid to add something different once in a while!

