


Once you've identified a charity, entity, or cause to support, choose a name for the event that is descriptive and easy to remember. Be sure to contact the organization you will be conducting the event for to see if they have any specific guidelines that you need to adhere to.;
, If the location is a popular one, you may need to have either a few back up dates or back up locations in mind.


For a run or walk, select a course and carefully measure distances. Have both a short and a long version to accommodate participants of varying degrees of fitness. Be attentive to obstacles, challenges, or safety hazards that may exist along the course and plan accordingly.
 Research similar events to determine estimated costs of various activities that could be included in your event.


Determine how your event will be financed and how much it will cost. Be sure to include administrative costs such as advertising, banners for the start and finish lines, numbers for participants, refreshments, trash cans, portable bathroom facilities, and awards.
Calculate how much money you will have to raise and identify potential fundraising options, including estimates of how much you expect to raise from each funding source. If you plan to solicit large contributions in the form of corporate sponsorships, start discussions with the appropriate corporate representatives as early as possible as these negotiations often take time.
 Find out what type of medical and/or liability insurance you will need and make sure that you have sufficient insurance coverage prior to the event.


You may need to contact the local police and fire department, public works, the parks and recreation department, and private property owners.



Use flyers, posters, signs, brochures, word of mouth and press releases to spread the word. Take advantage of social networking by creating buzz for your marathon networking websites. You may even want to set up a blog or website to publicize your event and to share up-to-date information with supporters.



These include refreshments (particularly bottled water for a run or walk), cups, numbers for your participants, trash cans/bags and t-shirts. Don't forget awards for your winners and you may also want to provide a small gift of some sort to thank your volunteers.
 Make sure that there are no unexpected changes, safety hazards, obstacles, or anything else that might negatively impact the race.
 Assign volunteers to each item and make sure each of them knows what they will be responsible for during the event.
,, Be sure to leave it as close to the condition you found it as possible.
 Use the same social networking venues and a local press release or news article to publicly thank participants, sponsors and volunteers as well.
