 Depending on where you decided to install The Sims 3, this could be from your desktop, your Start menu (or dock on a Mac), or a similar location.;
, This will start The Sims 3.
 You can also create a new game from this menu.
 This should be on the left side of your screen, toward the bottom of the Sims 3 interface. Clicking this places your game world in "Live Mode", which is the only mode that supports cheating.


Consider saving your game before enabling the cheat mode. If you don't, your game file may become corrupted, meaning you might be unable to play it.



When typing cheats into the cheat console, pay very close attention to your spelling.
 Tap ↵ Enter to complete this process. This will enable "testing" mode, which is the mode game developers use to find glitches with the game., This should be out in front of their house. With the testing cheats enabled, you'll access Sim cheats by holding ⇧ Shift and clicking the mailbox to prompt a selection of cheats. You're now ready to increase your Sim's motives!You can increase the motives of all user-controlled Sims by altering the motives of one Sim. Cheats don't apply to non-playable characters.
 You can do this by holding down ⇧ Shift and clicking the ground away from your Sim; if they teleport to your cursor's location, the cheat worked.
 This should be toward the bottom of the screen in the status bar.
 This will fill the motive bar all the way up. While temporary, this is a quick fix to heal a Sim.


Be careful not to drag the motive bar to the left, since this will kill your Sim.
 This should be right outside of your Sim's house. Doing so will prompt a list of cheats to aid your Sim:


"Make Friends for Me" makes random Sims in the game world become your friend.
"Make Me Know Everyone" improves your Sim's relationship with everyone in the game world.
"Make Needs Static" freezes your motives at their current values.
"Make All Happy" increases all of your motives to their maximum values.
 This will keep your Sim from running out of energy, starving, needing to use the bathroom, and so on. Now your Sim's motives won't run out!You can also click "Make All Happy" to boost your motives to full capacity. They will begin to deteriorate like normal after a short time.

