 The most important thing for you to do at first is to understand your role from multiple perspectives.


This will allow you to develop a plan for what you intend to do over the course of your tenure with the company.
Your plan should not be limited to your job description, but should include a vision of how your work relates to other people within the organization.
For example, certain reports that you will create at the end of the month may be used by a team in another department.
Therefore, it's imperative that your vision accounts for the impact of your work throughout the entire company.;
, Take time to learn about the business's history and understand what the business stands for.You should know the details of the products and services that the company exists to deliver.
Learning about the business will give you a chance to understand how your role fits into the bigger picture.
 Don’t just show up at work and sit in your cubicle all day long without talking to anyone.Though it’s important to do your work, you should also branch out and talk to your colleagues.
After you establish yourself as a reliable and hard-working employee, take some time to go out and interact with your coworkers in a non-professional setting.
Try inviting them out to lunch, or for drinks after work.
Getting to know them on a personal level will make sure they know who you are.
 Meeting and building relationships with the movers and shakers within the business is a great way to gain connections and business insight.Get to know the the people who run the show and have decision-making authority, to gain insight regarding how the business is run and decisions are made.
 Although building relationships with your superiors is a great way to make connections, you should also spend time learning about what they expect from you.This can include the expectations listed in your job description, as well as expectations that are more informal, such as networking and offering your help.
If you can help your bosses achieve their goals, this will be a huge plus for you.
 You should start accomplishing your goals and making connections as soon as possible to get the greatest benefit from your position.


You have the first few days on the job to create a good impression and understand everything you need to be successful in the time ahead.

