 As a locksmith, you may install and repair locks for both buildings, automobiles, and safes. You may also need to make duplicate keys and offer forms of related assistance.


Many locksmiths work in a shop during normal business hours, but you should also expect to visit customers on-site when installing locks or assisting someone locked out of a vehicle or building.
Trainees usually start at minimum wage, but your earnings will typically grow quickly as you gain experience and demonstrate productive skill. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the median annual wage for locksmiths as of May 2012 was $37,560. Employment is expected to grow at 7 percent between 2012 and 2022, which is considered slower than average.Many locksmiths work an "on call" schedule, so you should be prepared to answer emergency calls outside of normal business hours. Some of the most successful locksmiths can spend around 80 hours per week on locksmithing duties, and self-employed locksmiths should expect to spend another 40 hours per week on marketing and administrative tasks.;
, Locksmiths rely on a wide range of skills, and improving these skills will allow you to have a more successful career.


You need good eye-hand coordination and spatial reasoning skills. If you're still in high school, consider taking courses in advanced mathematics, mechanical drawing, basic electronics, physics, metalwork, and carpentry. If you've already graduated, try honing these skills at a community college or on your own.
You'll also need to demonstrate adequate customer service skills. If you plan to eventually start your own locksmithing business, marketing capabilities will also be crucial.
 Before you begin any formal locksmith training, you should obtain your high school diploma or GED. In many states, you'll need at least this much education before you can qualify to perform professional locksmith work.


Locksmithing isn't simple work. Getting a basic education will provide you with the foundational knowledge you'll need to understand the more advanced mechanical principles used on the job.
 While you don't need a specialized degree to become a locksmith, most locksmiths complete some type of formal training. This training can last between three months and four years.Check into certificate or diploma programs at nearby community colleges, vocational schools, or state locksmith associations.
The courses included in formal training programs cover most locksmithing basics, including information about the structure of the lock mechanism and essential security features. You'll also learn how to pick locks, repair locks, and make keys.
 If you don't complete classroom training, your other option is to learn the necessary skills through an apprenticeship program. Completing both formal training and an apprenticeship can further improve your odds of being hired.

Most apprenticeships are unpaid, but they'll provide you with hands-on training in all aspects of a locksmith business, including both technical and administrative duties.
When choosing an apprenticeship, make sure that your mentor possesses a state-issued license or professional certificate, even if neither one is required by state law. Either option testifies to that locksmith's skill and credibility.
 Some states require you to obtain a state-issued license before you can legally practice as an independent locksmith.


The purpose of a state-issued license is to maintain professional standards and protect consumers. The exact requirements can vary by state, but typically, you'll need to submit a written application, pass a background check, and file your fingerprints with state and federal databases.
 If your state doesn't require you to obtain a state-issued license, you should check into some type of voluntary professional certification.Since certification is optional, you can work on obtaining it after you've already landed a job. If you're having trouble finding work, though, obtaining your certification first may help you stand out among other applicants.
The Associated Locksmiths of America (ALOA) offers several levels of professional certification, including: Registered Locksmith (RL), Certified Registered Locksmith (CRL), Certified Professional Locksmith (CPL), and Certified Master Locksmith (CML). Each level has its own exam, and you'll need to pass the exam with a minimum score of 70 percent.
Similarly, the Safe and Vault Technicians Association (SAVTA) offers exams for two levels of certification: Certified Professional SafeTech and Certified Master SafeTech.
 During the early stages of your career, you should try to get hired by an existing firm. In fact, some states require aspiring locksmiths to work for an established firm for at least one year before they can become professionally licensed.


Check with locksmith companies, security equipment manufacturers, DIY/hardware stores, shoe repairers, and large department stores. Any company that at least provides key-cutting services can give you the entry-level experience you need.
Most local locksmith companies are small, but there are large national companies that may operate franchises in your area. Larger companies usually provide 24-hour mobile/emergency services, so be prepared to work extensive hours if you land a job with one of those.
 You'll likely learn much more about the field from your peers, coworkers, and employers than you learned during your formal training and certification.


In this particular field, you should never assume that you've already learned all there is to know, even if you've been working in this career for decades. New laws and technologies continually change the industry, and as these changes occur, the way you do business as a locksmith might need to change, too. Others who have more experience with these changes and with other unfamiliar aspects of the industry can provide you with the practical hands-on knowledge you'll need when dealing with it all.
 Continued education isn't strictly necessary, but the industry will change as technology advances, and keeping up with those changes can help your long-term career.


Stay informed on the latest news concerning the newest laws and technologies in the field.
Continually check for opportunities offered by lock manufacturers, locksmith associations like the ALOA, and technical schools.
Continued education can help any locksmith, but it can be especially important if you wish to focus on certain specialties, obtain a higher form of certification, or start your own self-employed business.
 Joining a professional organization at the national or state level can provide you with access to a wider range of benefits.


Professional organizations allow you to network with other locksmith professional more easily and effectively. Some organizations also provide perks like legislative representation, insurance, and advanced education/certification.
At the national level, you could consider joining the ALOA. You can find out more about membership with this organization by calling 1-800-532-2562 or by visiting them online at: http://www.aloa.org/membership/aloa-membership.html

SAVTA is another national locksmith organization you could join. Visit them online at: http://www.savta.org/membership.php


, Since this field can be highly competitive, it may help to specialize in an area of expertise rather than relying on general skills. You'll need to complete some form of formal training regardless of which expertise you pursue.


For example, you could become an automotive locksmith or home security locksmith. If you study to become a forensic locksmith, you'll learn how to identify the cause of security breaches. If you become a security consultant, you'll learn how to help clients improve the effectiveness of their locks and other security devices.
 You can continue working with an established firm for the duration of your career, but many professionals choose to open their own self-employed locksmith business.


Before you take this step, do your research. This sector can be a competitive one, and if your area is already flooded with sources offering locksmith services, your business may not thrive.
Running your own business will require skills beyond basic locksmithing. You'll need to know how to run a business, manage finances, and advertise your services. Consider obtaining additional education and training to help you learn these skills.

