 The Like box allows users to officially "like" or become fans of your Facebook page. It's similar to the Like button, but it only works with Facebook pages.In other words, you can add this plugin to your website, but you cannot use it to promote an external webpage. Only use this feature if you wish to promote your Facebook business or fan page.
When a user hits the Like button within the Like Box, he or she will automatically become fans of your Facebook page and will be able to view its stream of recent content from your website.
 Instead of making you figure out the complex coding yourself, Facebook has a special page that allows you to easily set up the Like Box plugin for your website.


Access the Like Box configuration page here: https://developers.facebook.com/docs/plugins/like-box-for-pages


, In the box labeled "Facebook Page URL," type in the URL of the Facebook page you want to promote using this plugin.


Note that this must be the URL to a specific Facebook page. The plugin will not work if you use the URL of an external website.
 In addition to the URL, you can also specify the width, height, and color scheme of the Like Box plugin. If you don't make any changes, Facebook will simply use the default options when creating your code.


There are also four optional check boxes you can select: Show Friends' Faces, Show Posts, Show Header, Show Border.

"Show Friends' Faces" will show the profile pictures of friends who already like the page.
"Show Posts" will allow you to show posts from your Facebook page's timeline inside the Like Box.
"Show Header" will display the "Find Us on Facebook" header on the Like Box.
"Show Border" will create a border around the box.
 Once you've customized the settings to your liking, click the "Get Code" button beneath the configuration form.


Hitting the button should cause a pop-up window to appear with two sections of customized code in it.
 Select the top JavaScript SDK code in the first box. Copy it to your clipboard and paste it into the HTML framework of your website.


For best results, paste the code directly after the opening <body> tag of your website.
Note that this is a basic code that creates the software framework needed for the actual Like Box plugin to work.
 Return to the code configuration page on Facebook and select the customized code in the second box. Copy and paste it to your website HTML, as well.


This is the code that has been specifically customized to your needs. You should paste it into your webpage HTML wherever you want the Like Box to appear.
 Once you finish adding both pieces of code to your website, save your changes and check the webpage itself. The Like Box should show up.


If the Like Box doesn't show up or doesn't work, you will need to troubleshoot the issue by reading the details provided on the original Like Box configuration page.

