 A tasty Mediterranean spin on breakfast is a Greek-inspired omelet. Full of vegetables and protein, this is a great low-carb meal to start your day off.Heat a small sauté pan over medium high heat. Add in 1 teaspoon of olive oil to coat the pan.
While the pan heats, scramble two eggs in a small bowl. Add a pinch of salt and pepper to taste.
Pour the eggs into the sauté pan. Swirl the eggs in the pan gently so the entire bottom of the pan is coated in egg. Allow the eggs to cook slightly before adding in the toppings.
Sprinkle on 2 tablespoons of feta cheese, 1 teaspoon of chopped fresh oregano, 2 tablespoons of diced tomatoes and four to five sliced black olives to one side of the omelet.
Gently tip the empty side of the omelet over on top of the side with the toppings. Press down slightly with a spatula. Allow the omelet to cook a few minutes more or until the inside is done and the filling is warmed through. Serve immediately.
 You might think that smoothies wouldn't fit into a low-carb breakfast menu; however, this smoothie is not only low in carbohydrates, but high in protein and nutrients.In a blender, add in 1 1/4 cups unsweetened vanilla almond milk, two ice cubes, 2 cups of spinach, 1/2 an avocado, 1 scoop of unflavored protein powder, 1 tablespoon of roasted flaxseeds and four to five drops of liquid stevia.
Blend smoothie contents until they are completely smooth and no chunks or small pieces remain.
Taste your smoothie and adjust for sweetness or texture. Add more stevia if needed or add more almond milk to thin it out. Serve immediately.
 Pancakes are another notoriously high-carb breakfast meal; however, swap out the flour and sugar for protein powder to enjoy these fluffy treats.Put the following ingredients into a blender: three egg whites, one scoop or about 1/4 cup of your favorite protein powder (do chocolate for chocolate pancakes or even banana protein for banana flavored pancakes), 2 tablespoons of water and 1 teaspoon of baking powder.
Blend the batter until everything is completely smooth and combined. The batter should be thick in consistency.
Heat a medium saute pan over medium high heat. Spray liberally with non-stick cooking spray.
Put about 1/4 – 1/2 cup of the pancake batter in the pan. Depending on the size of your pan, you may be able to do more than one pancake at a time.
Cook the pancakes for one to two minutes per side. Serve immediately with sugar-free syrup or a little pat of butter.
 Blend 2 cups of unsweetened milk, 2 raw pasteurized eggs or eggbeaters, add nutmeg, cinnamon and a no calorie sweetener like stevia. Mix. Enjoy!, If your traditional scrambled eggs are getting a little boring in the morning, try making your own mini frittatas. They're a great make ahead meal for busy mornings.Start by preheating your oven to 350 degrees F (or 175 degrees C). Spray a regular sized muffin tin with non-stick cooking spray and set aside.
In a large bowl, beat together the following frittata ingredients: six jumbo eggs, 1/4 teaspoon of both salt and pepper, 1 cup shredded cheese (use your favorite), 1 cup shredded zucchini and 1/2 cup of diced onion.
Carefully pour the frittata mixture into the muffin tins. They should fill the muffin tins evenly. Bake your mini frittatas for about 20 minutes or until they are cooked through.
Remove from muffin tins and allow to fully cool on a rack. Enjoy warm.
 Another non-traditional way to enjoy eggs in the morning is baking them along with avocados. This breakfast is high in protein and high in healthy fats.Start this recipe by preheating your oven to 425 degrees F (or 220 degrees C).
Slice two avocados in half and carefully remove the pit. Lightly salt and pepper the sides of each avocado half. Place each avocado half in a small ramekin or bowl to help keep them stable while they bake.
Carefully crack one egg into each avocado half. Place the small bowls on a sheet tray or baking sheet and place in the oven. Cook for about 15 minutes or until the egg is cooked through.
Allow baked avocado eggs to cool for about five minutes. Then serve warm.
 If you're short on time, consider making meals ahead of time or making a low-carb breakfast you can eat on the go. Ideas to try include:


A pre-made protein shake or protein bar.
Two hard boiled eggs and a cheese stick.
An individual plain Greek yogurt with nuts.
An individual cup of cottage cheese with nuts and low sugar fruit.

