 After 9/11 many American families have created special emergency kits to help them survive in the event of another tragedy. Regardless of the threat, an emergency supply kit can help you to stay alive during the early days following an outbreak or disaster. Items you should include:


Water. One gallon per person per day. If it’s possible, maintain at least a three day supply.
Non-perishable food. Choose food that is easy to open, easy to store that does not attract bugs (or zombies). Also, select items that provide enough calories and nutrition to sustain life for several hours such as energy bars, peanut butter and nuts. If you have a baby, maintain a week’s supply of formula or baby food. Since you probably won’t be able to run your dishwasher, keep a pack of plastic forks, spoons, paper plates, paper towels and plastic cups on hand.
Prescription and non prescription medication. Since you can’t anticipate when a disaster or zombie attack could possibly happen, always keep an extra month’s supply of prescription medicine on-hand. Non prescription medicine should include pain relievers, antihistamines and anti-diarrhea medication.
First aid kit. You don't want to be bleeding all over the place regardless if you are running from zombies or trying to survive a natural or man-made disaster. Pack bandages of all sizes, blister bandages and a few ACE bandages. Include antibacterial cream to avoid infection.
Toiletries. Most likely your electricity will be disconnected, so maintaining supplies that will keep you clean (and smelling fresh) will be vital to your survival. Include deodorant, waterless shampoo and antibacterial waterless hand soap. If you have a baby, don’t forget diapers and wipes.
Tools. Put yourself in the shoes of a Boy Scout and think about the tools you might need to survive in the wilderness. Pocket knives, duct tape, flashlights, bleach, batteries, candles, matches and a hammer are a good place to start.
Pet supplies. Don’t forget about the family pet. Same rules apply to Fido in terms of food, water and medication.
Generator and gas. In the event you lose electricity following a disaster, keep a few cans of gas in the garage and have your generator primed and ready to go at any minute. Test your generator every year to ensure it’s still in working order and have it flushed after each use.;
, Chances are you will be taken by surprise during a disaster of zombie-like proportions and in order to stay one step ahead, gather the troops and have a “what if” discussion. Review the family’s daily schedule and identify a “go to” safe spot in the event of a disaster like a zombie attack. Determine how you could come together as a family once the area has been deemed safe or cleared. Could you walk home if necessary or will you require car, bus or train transportation? If you typically ride public transportation and there is no way you can walk home, identify a peer who has a car and find out if you could get a ride, should disaster strike. You should also consider what to do if you can’t locate a member of your family. Who will be elected to go on the search and when? Ultimately your best bet would be to communicate by cell phone, however you can’t depend on the network to be up and running--that’s why a solid emergency plan is imperative.
 During emergency situations, "good" people can do terrible things. In addition to having to worry about the usual dangers lurking outside, anarchist looters may try to move in and take what’s rightfully yours. Think about what it will take to secure your home and personal property from harm’s way.


Examine all locks on windows and doors. Do you have any doors or windows that don’t close properly or are broken? Have all entryways to your home evaluated by a professional to ensure that no one could forcefully enter your home?
Lock cars and secure recreational toys such as motorcycles, boats and jet skis.
Bring in outdoor items that could be used as weapons or could become air born. Looters (or angry zombies) could use items such as large potted plants and lawn furniture to smash windows. Also, during a hurricane or tornado, those items could become flying "missiles" and create endless amounts of damage.
 Every disaster situation is different and hopefully government agencies are communicating with the public every step of the way. However, during the early days following an outbreak or disaster the public is often on their own. Examine your unique situation and consider the safest way to conduct yourself until help arrives.


Look for dangerous patterns within the community. If you know that you will be in the most danger at night, don’t go outside at that time. Be hyper-aware of your surroundings and never let your guard down while in public or outside.
Make your trips into the community brief. In addition to being worried about being eaten during a zombie attack, most disasters will wreak havoc on structures--power lines may be down and on the ground and building materials may line the street. You could actually survive the disaster but then be electrocuted because you didn’t see the downed power line on the sidewalk.
Practice safe behavior. If you could become infected with a deadly disease or be attacked on the street, don’t spend your day hanging out in the town’s square. Use your common sense and make every effort to avoid trouble.
 From national to local government agencies; many have planned for a variety of disaster scenarios and should have a hardwired plan ready for implementation. Stay informed by trying to contact your local officials first and then state and national groups if you don’t get answers immediately.
 You don’t have to be suspicious of the little old lady down the street, but it’s good to know which neighbors will have your back. Keep a list of emergency friends and family members near your emergency kit. You may want to have a discussion or an agreement with neighbors before disaster strikes to know how you can help each other.

