 If you are at work or getting out of class around lunch time, ask the person if they want to eat lunch together. If you both packed your lunch, you could sit and eat together. Otherwise, ask the person if they want to go out for lunch together. This works because you both need to eat and it’s a low-pressure way to hang out.It doesn’t have to be an immediate meal. Ask someone to grab dinner when you get off work or meet up in a few hours when you finish what you’re doing.
If you leave a party late at night, ask if they want to grab some late night food at a nearby diner.
 If you’re with the person at work, a club meeting, or class, ask them if they want to do something when the engagement is over. Ask them while you’re in the meeting if they want to hang out afterward, or ask them right when it is over if they want to go do something.They may have things going on back to back, but a lot of times people will be free when a scheduled event has ended. Take advantage of this gap in their schedule.
Say, “I’ve got a couple of hours to kill when the class is over, do you want to go walk around the quad?” This is a simple way to hang out and it’s a low-pressure ask since it’s spur of the moment.
When you’re heading out the door after work or an organization meeting, say, “I’m going over to Poor Richard’s to grab a drink. Do you want to come hang out?” Getting a drink after work is common, so this type of question will seem normal to them.
 Anytime you’re about to do something and you see someone you want to hang out with, ask them to join you. Since you are going to do it no matter what they say, it’s not a big deal if they turn you down. If it’s a person you see every day, you have unlimited options of what to invite them to.This works when you are on your way out of the dorm to see a movie, leaving your apartment complex to go for a hike, or leaving the office to play ultimate frisbee.
Get in the habit of inviting people to come along with you wherever you are going. After a while, they will get used to you asking and eventually they will say yes and join you.

