 Creating a smoky eye using glitter shadow is a great way to create a sultry, dramatic look. There is a wide array of glittery eye-shadows from which you can choose. One of the most important things to consider is which color of shadow you want. For example, if you are trying to create a more subtle look, try a shadow that closely matches your natural skin tone. This method will make your eyes appear to sparkle.If you want to highlight your eye color, glitter eye-shadow can help you do that. To make brown eyes pop, use a cream shade. To make green eyes glow, try a shadow with a reddish tint.
Any of these color palettes can be used to create a smoky eye. Gray is also great for smoky eyes, and works on all skin tones.
Glitter eye makeup comes in many different forms. You can buy eyeshadow pencils, powders, or gels.
If this is your first time using glitter, try purchasing an eyeshadow palette. This will let you experiment with multiple shades.;
, Once you have chosen the right glitter shadow, it is time to achieve the look you want. Take a couple of minutes to make sure that you have everything you need. To start with, you'll need the shadow and a tool to help you apply it.You can apply eye shadow using your finger, a sponge, a brush, or a Q-tip. Many people prefer using a silicone brush as it is sturdier and can better handle the weight of a glitter shadow.
Have tissues nearby to help you clean up any stray glitter.
Make sure that you have a gentle eye-makeup remover handy in case you need to remove the shadow and start over.
 A primer is a base that you apply before putting on your actual makeup. It will typically be a clear liquid, but is sometimes in powder or gel form. Using your finger, apply a small amount of shadow primer to each of your eyelids. This will create a smooth palette for your shadow and make it last longer.You can purchase eyeshadow primer at any drugstore or department store. Remember, a little goes a long way.
 Once your eyes and your tools are ready, it is time to put the glitter shadow on your eyes. Try using several different shades to create a dramatic effect. Begin by applying a charcoal gray shadow. Use a medium brush to cover your lid with shadow. Then, use a slightly darker shade to color the inner and outer corner of your eyes. This will help highlight them.
 Different shades are what create the smoky look. Next, you want to apply the darkest of your shadows. Using a brush, apply a thin line of dark shadow across the crease of your eyelid. This will help create the smoky effect.


Remember, it is easier to add more shadow than to take it away. Start with less than you think you might need. You can always apply more.
Blend the colors. Blending the complimentary colors will help create a softer, yet still dramatic, look. For this step, you can use either your finger or a brush. Lightly smudge each of the colors together so that they are no longer sharply defined., To create a true smoky eye, you need to focus on your lower lid, too. Use a gunmetal shade for this step. Use a small, firm brush and press shadow along your lower lid line.To keep the look from being too severe, use a light silver shadow to lighten the overall effect. Place a small amount in the inner corner of each of your eyes.

