 Before you start training your Boxer puppy—or, even better, before you get the puppy—read up on what kind of training is ideal for your breed. Check online, local libraries and local organizations. You can also ask your vet for advice. Remember, the more knowledgeable you are, the better you know how to react under different circumstances.


Make sure as well that you have what you need to effectively train your dog. If you're planning to clicker train, get a clicker. If you're planning to crate train, get the right-sized crate. Also be sure to pick up an appropriate collar and leash for general training. A leash should be no more than five to six feet in length. The best leashes for training are leather. Always check your equipment to make sure it is in good order and not liable to snap or break.
 Training works best when you dedicate a couple of short sessions (10 to 15 minutes) twice a day to it. Try to train at times when the dog is not tired, but also not bursting with pent-up energy.Consider expending your Boxer's energy before training sessions by allowing him 20 to 30 minutes of high intensity physical activity. This will enable him to better focus on training.A good time to choose to train a dog is just before a meal, so the dog will be very keen to work to earn those tasty treats.
Try to train the dog in a place where there are few distractions, so that your Boxer puppy can focus his attention on you. This means avoiding places with other animals or people. Always begin training in your home or yard and build up to environments with more distractions (e.g., other dogs and more people).
 Your commands need to be simple, short, clear and consistent. "No", "Drop", "Wait", "Stop," and "Fetch" are strong, simple, and direct. Don't lecture your dog; they're not human so they don't process language in the same way. Phrases like "I've told you not to do that" or "Please stop chewing on the table" will not work as they are too complicated.Experts believe that a given dog registers the first part of the word as the most important, so longer commands such as "Sit Fido if you want a treat" are liable to confuse him. Just say the word "Sit" instead. In other words, for commands, choose words that are short and avoid long sentences

, In general, shouting at any dog is ineffective. This is especially true for Boxers who are a hyper breed by nature. Use a firm but pleasant and upbeat voice when instructing your dog; don't yell or lose control. Dogs are very intuitive and will be able to sense your frustration and may react in kind. Tone of voice matters, especially since, again, dogs don't process language in the same way that humans do. So how you say something may mean as much if not more than what you say.Boxers are playful by nature, and a light, breezy tone will not suffice; he will think you are just playing with him if you are not firm enough.
 Try using hand gestures at the same time as you issue verbal commands. For example, raise your hand at the same time as saying "Sit". Dog behaviorists believe that dogs look for multiple clues as to what we want them to do, which includes the command word, tone of voice, and body language., Admonishing a Boxer puppy too long after the incident is ineffective. If you need to admonish or correct your dog, it needs to be done during or within a few seconds of the act. Dogs will have forgotten the event within seconds of its occurrence, so it's key to address the behavior immediately in order to facilitate the retraining process.


Boxers are notoriously stubborn and steadfast, so you may have to correct your puppy numerous times.Boxers typically need 25 to 40 repetitions of a command before they can understand it., Always be consistent in your commands and desires of the dog. This helps your dog to understand what is expected. Don't forget to enforce training when you are out and about, so that your dog doesn't just thinking that "Sit" and "Stay" are things he has to do in the yard or house. By enforcing commands in public places it helps your Boxers to understand he must obey under all circumstances.Consistency is key to making good behaviors routine and normal and thus turns your dog into a well-trained and behaved pet! Leave no room for doubt about what is acceptable behavior for your Boxer puppy. If he is not allowed on the furniture, be consistent. Boxers won't understand the concept of "sometimes"; they are either permitted to lie on the couch or they are not.
If you live with other people, make sure that everyone in the house is on board with the training program. and that everyone uses the same commands. Using different words for the same action will confuse the dog, disrupt the training already done, and ultimately delay progress.

