 However, if it does produce symptoms, pain along the neck and spine is one of the most common. This pain is the result of the spinal discs dehydrating and creating friction between the vertebral bones and/or pressure on the nerves. The pain in your back or neck pain may also radiate to your limbs.


Your pain may also get worse when you are sneezing, coughing, or laughing.
Pain is most commonly felt at nighttime.
Neck pain may flare up and then temporarily get better. This intermittent pain might be brought on by aggravation to or intense use of the neck or back. The pain might get worse over time and/or become chronic.
Instead of pain, you might also experience tingling or numbness in your limbs. This is due to the pressure on the nerve roots and symptoms are specific to the area that is being compressed.
If your nerves are being affected, you may also have a burning sensation, pins and needles, or a prickling sensation.;
, You might feel stiff in the morning, especially, then gain more mobility as the day wears on. Your stiffness might make it impossible to bend over or turn your head in certain positions.


You’ll likely have trouble moving your head from side to side.
The stiffness associated with spondylosis occurs due to the slow deterioration of a joint’s cartilage.
Stiffness means that it is difficult for you to move the joint; it seems to ‘stick.’
Neck stiffness associated with spondylosis usually gets worse over time. It usually occurs after a night's rest.
Headache may also occur, usually starting at the back of the neck and radiating to the top of the forehead.
 You might have trouble catching things, lifting your arms or hands, or squeezing something tightly in your hand. This lack of coordination might also result in a lack of balance.Be careful of falling when you have spondylosis. Move slowly and cautiously.
 If you notice any significant changes in your bathroom habits, then this may indicate that there is a problem. Change in bowel or bladder habits, such as being unable to go to the bathroom when you have the sensation or losing control unexpectedly, are warning signs that a part of the spinal cord may be compressed. This is considered an urgent reason for evaluation or re-evaluation.