 It is very important not to underestimate this part; while not everyone will want a piece of traditional wedding cake, almost everyone will want a cupcake!


Do you want enough for guests to have one (or more) cupcakes at the wedding and one to take home?
Do you want a mini cake at the very top of the cupcake wedding cake? Some people like this as an added design feature for the bride and groom to keep after the wedding.;
, From a simple buttercream frosting to edible petals to inexpensive cupcake caps, you have lots of options. Do you want intricate designs on some of the cupcakes only, or on all? Do you want to mix and match designs? Think about the various possibilities. Some decorative designs to consider include:


Unique toppers that are just for the bride and groom.
A beloved symbol representing the bride and groom, such as doves, swans, or flowers.
Hearts and initials.
Floral designs.
Real flowers atop the frosting. (Be sure to use non-toxic flowers.)
Garden wedding designs.
Butterflies.
A fondant bow.
A fun photo of the bride and groom attached with a toothpick.
 There are lots of stands currently available, or you can simply choose to arrange the cupcake display as works best for you.


If using a stand, decide whether you want to buy or rent. If the cost is reasonable, consider purchasing it as you can use the stand again and again for tea parties, etc. Stands come in ceramic, plastic, acrylic, metal, etc.
Consider a round tier.
Consider a square tier.
Consider an "in the round" - a combination of using both stands and a round covered table for a larger wedding party.
 It is important to work out who will be responsible for preparing the cupcakes. Even if you are doing this yourself, only the cupcake itself can be frozen ahead; the decorations must be done very close to the wedding time -- is that something you are prepared to do at the last minute?


Consider whether it might be less stressful to have a family member(s) or friend(s) do it for you. You can sit down with the people responsible for preparing the cupcake wedding cake and talk them through the decorating, even show them what you want and provide photos of a test run. (Make a little photo instruction book that they can keep and follow.)
If you are going to do the baking, cupcakes freeze well (before decoration) and can be made a month out.
 Choose a cupcake recipe that you love and prepare it in advance of the wedding. Freeze if necessary. Some ideas for suitable wedding cupcakes include:


Plain cupcakes
Chocolate cupcakes
Lavender cupcakes
Smore cupcakes
Vegan cupcakes
Green tea cupcakes
Red velvet cupcakes
Apricot cupcakes
Ginger cupcakes
Black forest cupcakes
Pink lemonade cupcakes
Mixture of flavors.
 Cupcake frosting can be made in almost any flavor imaginable: vanilla, chocolate, banana, etc. Match the flavor with the cupcake.


Keeping in mind temperature and suitability for holding shape and decorative elements, decide on the type of frosting you would like to use:

Buttercream
Royal icing
Simple frosting
Fudge frosting
Whipped cream


Choose a color that matches with the theme of your wedding.
 More good news - cupcakes are much easier to transport than a wedding cake.


New, clean plastic sweater boxes/tubs are great for transporting, and they can usually hold about 40 cupcakes. These cost about US$5.
Decide whether or not you want the cupcakes wrapped in paper, as shown in this image. This can protect the cupcakes while still appearing pretty but it does change the appearance considerably.
 Once the cupcakes arrive, have someone arrange them in the correct order if you are not doing this yourself.


Provide clear instructions. This is where your precise instructions are very important, down to the last ribbon and floral piece! Use a photo book taken when you rehearsed the design to help those doing the decorating to get it right.
Consider well in advance whether you want flowers, lace, ribbon, figurines, signs, photos, etc., to form part of the overall wedding cake set up.
Don't forget to include some silver slides or tongs to help people take the cupcakes without touching the stand or bumping their hands against other cupcakes.
 If you have made enough cupcakes to allow guests to take one home, provide a carry container.


3" x 3" x 3" (7.5 cm x 7.5 cm x 7.5 cm) gift boxes make your beautiful wedding cupcakes into a take home treat.

