 If it's raining before you go out, put an anti-frizz cream or anti-humidity styling product in your hair. Set your style with hairspray.


Try to pull your hair out of your face if you can. When it's wet, it will look limp and stringy if it's down.
If you have long hair, consider wearing it up in a bun. Search online for some cute but sleek styles. Or, you could tightly braid it, however this is only good if you have extra long hair.;
, If you think you might get your face wet, here are a few changes to make to your normal makeup routine.


Wear waterproof mascara to avoid dripping raccoon eyes.
Use a lip stain to keep color on your lips even if they get wet.
Don't put a lot of color on your eyelids - it could look weird if your face gets wet and the makeup runs off. Instead, opt for colors that are close to your natural skin tone.
If you have waterproof eyeliner, wear it. If not, don't wear any eyeliner at all.
You can skip the blush if you want to - being out in the weather will probably make your cheeks flush anyway.
 If it rains a lot where you live, you probably have some of these items on-hand already. If not, you can try to make do with what you have or pick them up after you leave the house. Here are the essentials:


Wear a good trench coat in a classic color. A quality trench should cover you adequately without making you look like you're wearing a shapeless bag. Choose one in a color that complements your skin tone, and in a length that hits at mid-thigh or mid-calf. If it has a hood, that's even better.
Put rubber boots, or Wellingtons, on your feet. A cute pair of Wellies can instantly brighten a rainy-day outfit. Find them in a cute (but mature) print that goes with your trench coat, or buy them in a solid color such as black. You can wear pants over your boots, or tuck them in.


If the weather is cold, wear a scarf. Like your boots, a scarf can liven up your outfit. Pick a bold print that you like, or go with a quieter color. Either way, it should look good next to your hair and skin tone.
If you don't have a coat and are planning on getting wet, avoid clothing that's white or too sheer. These items will end up being see-through when they get wet, and it doesn't make for a classy or mature look.
Have a pair of sunglasses handy. It might be really bright outside when the rain stops, or you might want to cover up runny eye makeup.
 If it's not too windy outside, grab an umbrella as you go out the door. You can buy one in an eye-catching print, a simple solid color, or clear plastic.
 No matter what you're wearing, you'll stand out in the rain if you can manage to smile and be happy in your dismal surroundings. Embrace the day, and don't worry too much about getting wet - your smile will make up for any shortcomings in your outfit.

