 Use an eyebrow brush or a clean mascara wand to sweep your eyebrow hairs to the sides, from the inner edge to the outer edge. This will help you determine the natural shape of your eyebrows, so you'll be able to identify places where you'd like more thickness and places that need to be trimmed back., Take an eyebrow pencil or another straight object and line it up from the edge of your nostril to the inside corner of your eye. The place where the pencil passes over your brow is typically where the brow line should start. If your brow starts to the inside of this line, you may want to grow in the hair or fill it in. Repeat on the other side.









If your brow starts to the outside of the line (toward the center of your nose), you have the choice to either pluck the hair outside the line or leave it in place for a fuller style.
 Now take the pencil and line it up from the edge of your nostril to the outside corner of your eye. The place where the pencil passes over your brow is typically where the brow line should end. If your brow doesn't extend all the way to the line, you may want to grow out the hair or fill it in. Repeat on the other side.









If your brow extends past the line (toward your temple), you have the choice to either pluck the hair outside the line or leave it in place for a fuller style.
 Hold the pencil to your face and line it up from the corner of your nostril right past the pupil of your eye. The end of the pencil should pass over the place where your natural eyebrow arch is located. You'll want to fill in your brow around this area to create a thicker appearance. Repeat on the other side.









Many people pluck the hair on the underside of the arch to create a more defined look. The choice is yours, but if you're aiming for a thicker look, you may not want to pluck anything but stray hairs in the area.
 You have the choice to use an eyebrow pencil, powder or cream to fill in the gaps where your eyebrow hair is sparse. Choose a filler that's the exact same color as your eyebrows, so the final look will be as natural as possible. If you don't have a special brow filler, choose a matching eyeliner pencil or eyeshadow.Powders will create a softer, natural look, while pencils create a defined look.
If you have fair hair and want a bolder brow, choose a filler that's a shade or two darker than your eyebrows.
 Use tip of the pencil (or a liner brush dipped in powder) to faintly and carefully outline the shape of your eyebrows. Connect the three points you identified: the inner brow, the arch, and the outer brow. Make sure the line stays close to your natural brow so you don't end up with a "drawn-in" look.









This may take a bit of practice, so don't be afraid to wipe off the outline and start over.
Remember to use a light hand; even just a bit of color will make your brows look thicker.
 Use the pencil, powder or gel to go back and fill in the areas with sparse hair that fall inside the outlines you made. Take a step back to ensure that your brows look natural and evenly filled, and that both sides are the same shape and size.
 Use a clear eyebrow gel to hold the powder or pencil marks in place so they don't wipe off during the day. Use an eyebrow brush to brush the gel through your eyebrows, then let it completely dry. The gel helps to distribute the color evenly and creates a beautiful final appearance.
 Many people are afraid to stop, since the grow-out period for brows can be a little uncomfortable during that awkward in between stage. Eyebrows can take up to six weeks to grow in, so you'll have to practice patience to get the thicker brows you want. Do what it takes to wait it out, since removing those hairs will never help you reach your goal.


You may be tempted to pluck a hair here or there in order to keep things looking neat, but it's advisable to grow out all of your eyebrow hair to see what you've got to work with before you resume plucking or waxing.
 When your hair starts growing back in, it may have the appearance of stubble. If you're worried about how it looks, try the following trick to mask the baby hairs as they're growing in:









Apply a layer of wet foundation or concealer over the hair that's growing in.
Apply powdered foundation in the same color. The powder will stick to the moist surface and provide a double-layered masking effect.
 Thinning or patchy brows can be the result of overplucking. You can encourage your brows to grow back in by using a soft toothbrush or washcloth to gently exfoliate the area. Wet the brush or cloth and move it over your brows in a circular motion to stimulate circulation and improve growth.
