 How can you make a fashion book without a book? Buy a notebook or a three-ring binder. If you want a simple color or pattern, go for it. If you want something complicated and extravagant, go for it! You can buy a plain black notebook and make your own title page. Review the clothing in your wardrobe.;
, Create complete outfits using the clothing and accessories you own. Remember to include shoes, jewelry and bags. Some items may be used multiple times. Be creative and try paring different items up. You may be surprised by some of the outfits you are able to put together.
 You can cut out clothes that you like and stick them on the cover, or draw your own designs on it. You could just put something simple on the cover, such as, "My Fashion Book".
 You can take photographs of yourself wearing the outfits, have a friend take photos for you, take pictures of individual clothing items or style outfits onto a mannequin and take photos. Print the photos. If taking pictures of individual items, create complete outfits using the individual photos.
 You'll need lots of magazines for this project. You'll specifically want to have style and fashion magazines, such as 'InStyle' or 'Elle'. You could also use gossip magazines such as 'Seventeen' or 'M' and use the outfits that the celebrities are wearing.
 Organize by theme and appropriate location (casual weekend, work clothing, party, wear at home or workout), as well as by season. For outfits that fit more than one category, consider making a duplicate copy of the photo and placing one in each section.
 Cut out pictures from the magazines. Cut out the clothes, accessories, and shoes that you like. Cut out things that celebrities are wearing (if you like them). Once you've cut out everything you want, move on to the next step.
 Divide the book up using tabs, page markers or dividers and label them to make it easy to find outfits for specific themes or seasons.
 A glue stick is the best thing to use for this step, but white glue works too. Glue the outfits onto the pages of your Fashion Book. You can combine pants, shirts, and hats from different people and make them into one outfit, or simply display each article of clothing on its own. It's best to only have 5-8 articles of clothing per page, and have them spaced out, rather than filling the whole page with outfits and making it look cramped and busy. However, this is your fashion book, so feel free to do whatever you want.Add notes to the book to include important details about outfits. If you want to remember that you wore a specific cocktail dress to an event, write it down. If you want to wear specific socks with a pair of trousers and they're not shown in the photo, write it down. Notes can be added on sticky notes, labels or by inserting them into their own sleeves.
 It's kind of boring to only see pictures of clothes in your fashion book, so why not personalize it? Color the pages of your fashion book. Draw designs like butterflies, spirals, flowers, etc. on the pages and around the designs. Draw frames around the outfits if you'd like.Find inspiration and go with the flow!

