 Doing something new -- even something that could lift you out of your humble beginnings into a life of success -- can be scary. Don’t be afraid to do something that makes you uncomfortable. If you think you have a chance to be a great actor or actress, move to Hollywood. If you have an innovative computer design that could make you the next Steve Jobs, move to Silicon Valley.


Of course, your risks don’t have to be so dramatic. Sometimes just walking into the bank and applying for a loan can take you outside of your comfort zone.
Whatever you do, be brave, passionate, and bold. Dream big to become a self-made person.
 Take a hard look inside yourself and be honest about your personal strengths and weaknesses. Identify what you want in life.You can identify your strengths by thinking about things you do well. To identify your weaknesses, think about things you do not know how to do or do not do well, or your personal flaws. Sometimes it’s best to ask a close friend or family member to help you reflect on your strengths and weaknesses, since they might be more objective than you are.
Work to enhance your strengths and minimize your weaknesses. For instance, if you struggle with anger and a short temper, learn to slow down when you’re angry. Try deep breathing, yoga, and regular exercise to reduce your stress, since stress can amplify feelings of anger.
Believe in yourself. When you are realize you have the power to alter your destiny, you will begin making positive changes to realize your full potential., Being self-reliant doesn’t mean you shun friends or family, or turn down help when it is offered. It simply means that you can carry on when things get hard, even without help from others. For example:


Teach yourself how to cook, clean, iron, and perform the basic tasks necessary for day-to-day living.Learn to read a map. Don’t depend on your GPS to take you everywhere.
Grow your own food. Raising fruits and vegetables takes time, but you’ll save money and trips to the grocery store. If you’re in the city and cannot cultivate a large garden, explore options for urban gardening or try to at least grow a few small potted berry plants in your apartment.
 Devise a daily or weekly schedule with everything you needs and want to do and stick to it. Set an alarm clock for your bedtime and wake up time. Ensure you get about eight hours of sleep each night. Don’t forget to factor in downtime where you can relax and decompress.
 Perseverance means the ability to overcome obstacles when pursuing a goal. To develop perseverance, don’t quit on your goals, even when things get hard. A good activity that can help you develop perseverance is distance running. You will face many challenges when distance running: fatigue, thirst, hunger, and even pain. However, even though you might slow your pace, do not stop. It is this willingness to push on through challenges that will help you become a self-made person.


Pushing yourself to the limit with any kind of physical exercise can help you learn to persevere.The military is a great place to develop perseverance. Military training requires you to overcome not only physical challenges but mental challenges, too. Both will develop your perseverance.
You could also start a business to develop perseverance. Continue to develop and grow your business even if others encourage you to sell it and believe it will fail.
Since everyone is faced with their own challenges in life, the specific circumstances under which you develop perseverance don’t really matter. What counts is setting specific, realistic goals and committing yourself to meeting them -- no matter what., While having determination and perseverance means you have a willingness to stay the course, staying motivated means you have the power to stay the course. Whatever your goal, remind yourself of how important it is to see it through. For instance, if you’re struggling to save money, think about how much more secure you’ll feel when you have adequate savings. Staying motivated requires focusing on a better future, and with extra motivation it will be easier for you to stop buying unnecessary things that you want, but don’t need.In addition to staying motivated by thinking about future success, allow yourself occasional rewards for your hard work. For instance, if you have a business plan divided into various stages, celebrate with friends or family after accomplishing each step. This will give you the opportunity to celebrate your success, and inspire you to pursue even greater success at the next stage.
Think back on prior accomplishments to stay motivated.

