 Use your spoon to scoop 3 tablespoons of cocoa powder into your bowl. Make sure the bowl is safe to microwave.Choose a high quality cocoa powder and be sure that you're not using bars of chocolate or hot cocoa mix. These contain additional ingredients that could make your lip balm spoil or go bad.;
, Take the same spoon you used for the cocoa powder and measure out 5 tablespoons of petroleum jelly. Add the petroleum jelly to the cocoa powder in your bowl.Use your finger or another spoon to scoop out all of the petroleum jelly from the measuring spoon since it may stick to the sides.
You could substitute coconut oil, shea butter, or mango butter for the petroleum jelly.
 Use a spoon to stir together the cocoa and petroleum jelly until they're completely combined. Don't worry if the mixture looks lumpy and dry in spots when you start stirring. It will smooth out if you keep mixing., Place the mixture in the microwave and heat it for 30 seconds. You should use low heat so that the petroleum jelly melts slowly. Your cocoa lip balm is now ready to be poured into a container.If you don't want to microwave the mixture, you could melt it in a double boiler over low heat.
If your petroleum jelly doesn't melt after 30 seconds, continue microwaving it for 10 seconds at a time until it does melt.
 Fill a small pan with an inch of water and heat it over medium. Set a small glass jar in the pan, but make sure that you don't get any water inside the jar. The jar should be able to hold at pint-size (8 ounces) or smaller.You could use a mason or jelly jar.
 While the water is heating, place your ingredients inside the jar in the pan. The medium heat will slowly melt your ingredients. Put these inside your jar to create enough balm to fill about 18 tubes with lip balm:2 tablespoons cocoa butter
2 tablespoons coconut oil
1 tablespoon beeswax

, Once the cocoa butter, coconut oil, and beeswax have melted, stir them till they're completely combined. Turn off the heat, but leave the jar in the hot water.You want the mixture in the jar to cool while it's still in the pan. This will safely bring it to room temperature before you try handling it.
 On its own, your lip balm won't have an overly strong cocoa flavor. To bring out the cocoa flavor, you can add 20 drops of cocoa essential oil. If you're having a hard time finding cocoa essential oil or you'd like to add a different flavor, you can swap out a different essential oil. For example, try using 20 drops of peppermint essential oil.You can usually find essential oils at health stores, natural food stores, and online.
 You can find small circular lip balm containers from some beauty supply stores or craft stores. These come with tight-fitting lids. You could also use small mask jars or travel-size cosmetic bottles.


If you want to make miniature lip balm containers, try filling upturned metal beer bottle lids with lip balm. Just remember that these don't come with lids so you'll need to use them quickly or cover them with plastic wrap.
 Choose a standard candy bar wrapper and remove the chocolate. Take the wrapper and open it up so that it's completely unfolded. Cut off the sides and back of the wrapper so you're only left with the front of the wrapper.You can eat the chocolate and discard the back and sides of the wrapper.
 Take your lip balm container and place it on the back of the wrapper. Use a marking pen to trace around the sides of the lip balm container.If you want to make more than decorated one lip balm container, trace as many patterns as you can fit on the wrapper.
 Take the lip balm container off of the wrapper. Using scissors, cut the wrapper along the pattern that you traced. Try to cut as smoothly and evenly as possible.Be careful when using sharp scissors. Take care not to cut yourself.
 Use a glue stick and rub glue on the back of the wrapper design that you just cut out. Take the lid of your container and apply wrapper design so that the glue sticks to the lid.Rub your fingers over the lid to remove any air bubbles.
 Use spoon and fill the container with your prepared cocoa lip balm if you used petroleum jelly. Or, use a glass dropper to fill the containers if you used coconut oil. You can fill the containers right to the top. Let a lip balm made with coconut oil set for a few hours. Cover your cocoa lip balms with your decorated lids and they're ready to use!You could also scoop the prepared cocoa lip balm into a plastic sandwich bag, cut a small corner off, and squeeze the balm into your lip balm container.
Be aware that the cocoa lip balm made with petroleum jelly will be very soft and won't harden much like purchased lip balms. If you used coconut oil instead of petroleum jelly, it will harden up more, especially if you refrigerate it.

