 Think of something they can display in their new dorm room, or put together a photo album of your memories together. Attach a message saying that you wish them good luck at college or university.


For example, if your friend likes lacrosse, give them a lacrosse stick, and write your message on the handle.
Give your friend a t-shirt or poster with their new university’s logo on it.
Frame a picture of you two together.;
, Find pictures, mementos, and images that remind you of your friend. These could include tickets from concerts you attended together, photographs of fun times, or even your favorite quotes. Paste these into an empty book or photo album so that you can always cherish the time you spent together.
 A few weeks before your friend is going to leave, you should try to plan an event to send them off. Invite their other friends, and ask everyone to bring food. This will show your friend how much everyone loves them, and it will let them know that you want the best for them in the next stage of their life., Saying goodbye can leave you with mixed emotions. It is good to talk your feelings out with another person. Perhaps you have another friend who will listen, or you can speak to your parents or school counselor. Talking about it will help you process your emotions.You can also talk to your best friend about it. Tell them how much you will miss them, but also inform them that you are happy and excited for them. For example, you can say, “I’m going to miss you so much. I’m really sad that you’re leaving, but I think you will love college. I can’t wait to hear about all of your adventures.”

, It’s fine to be sad when an important person in your life moves on to a different place. Acknowledge your feelings. You can write down your emotions in a journal to help you come to terms with your situation. Do not isolate yourself.If people ask how you are doing, be honest. Tell them, “I’m sad right now because my friend is leaving.” They may be able to offer you guidance and support.
 Even though you can be sad, you should also make sure that you are dealing with that sadness in a healthy way. Whenever you start feeling too upset, try relaxing yourself with healthy techniques. Some good ways to comfort yourself include:


Visualize a happy place. Maybe you see yourself meeting up with your friend at the same university in a year or two.
Listen to cheerful or calm music.
Become more active. Dance, take a walk, or do some stretches.