 If memorization hinders you from appreciating this subject, then stop doing it. If you memorized something, it doesn’t follow that you have fully grasped the concept. Mere memorization is different from truly understanding it. The latter works best because if we talk about terms and formulas, there is quite a lot in Math!;
, In grade school, this is the first step in problem-solving. “What is needed?” The objective is to answer this question.
 Look at all the given information and values. Analyze the relationships among all the values and variables given. (It might help to write down any equations that might be relevant, especially equations that connect the values you've been given.)

, After knowing the expected output and having given the necessary values, decide on which steps to take. This is where Tip No. 1 applies. If you're already familiar with the processes because you've understood them, then this step should be easier.
 Think of any activity in which you could apply the problem. It could be as simple as needing to buy something worth $20, but you've only got $15. Apparently, you would need another $5 to complete it.
 Talk to a classmate or to your friends, and ask for their opinion on what you've got so far. This will also develop a healthy and productive conversation in which all of you can benefit. One good thing about Math problem-solving is that there’s a lot of ways to express your opinion on the subject matter. You can choose a variety of ways to set out possible solutions.
 Analyze whether or not you have a logical solution to the problem. Ask yourself, “Did this answer the question I was given?” If your answer is "yes," then you have solved the problem. Otherwise, go back and try again.
 A good text will not give you an example that is almost exactly the same; you will have to make some connections that are not obvious. Another source of inspiration can often be problems that are in the vicinity of the problem that you're working on, assuming that it comes from an exercise section in a book. (If it does not come from anywhere in your Math book, look around in other Math books, to see whether you can discover whether it happens to come from somewhere else, and look for examples and companion problems in that book. It might feel like cheating, but think of it as research.)

, If you failed at solving a question, don't stop there. Try practising more. Quitting is never an option.

