 Learn more about your local school district’s commitment to closing the achievement gap by attending school board meetings. Consider finding out what is happening at your school or your child’s school by connecting with parent-teacher organizations or speaking to school administration.Attend a school board meeting and address your concerns about the achievement gap at the district level. You could say, “I’m concerned about the recent low standardized test scores from our students of color. What is the board doing to address the needs of this population?”
Communicate your concerns to the principal of your child’s school and ask what the principal thinks are some steps they could take at the school level to help close the gap.
Consider joining a committee of interest, or even running for the school board, to make a greater impact on local policy.
 Donate your time to organizations who work for educational change. These opportunities can be in or out of school environments. Some opportunities you may wish to consider include:


Volunteering in a classroom (this may require you to be the parent/guardian of a student currently in the classroom; check with your school district).
Offering to come speak to a school/classroom about your work or skill set. For example, if you were a nurse, you could offer to speak to a class about first aid.
Volunteering in afterschool programs.
Becoming a mentor for a child in your community who requires extra support.
Tutoring at a community center or library.
Working with adult literacy, ESL, or parenting programs. Teaching adults skills can benefit their children as well.
 Find professional development trainings that address achievement gap issues, such as student poverty or cultural sensitivity training. Consider approaching your school’s administration to suggest trainings that may benefit your school or district.If you are a teacher, consider taking additional classes on student achievement for graduate or postgraduate coursework.
 Look for ways you could make positive changes to close the gap by understanding the concerns at the local level. Collaborate with other teachers, school administration, parents, and community members to address some of the concern. Some problems you may wish to address include:


Class size
Rigor of curriculum
School safety
Insensitivity to cultural concernsLack of bilingual staff