 If you do not feel comfortable conducting patent searches on your own, or if there are no local PTRCs in your area, you may need to consider hiring a professional to help you. The USPTO recommends you use a registered agent or attorney if you are not experienced conducting these searches.Registered agents and attorneys have licenses to practice before the USPTO. These individuals are the most qualified and experienced at helping you with all of your patent needs.


To find qualified attorneys or agents, use the Patent Practitioner Search function offered by the USPTO. You will be able to search for individuals by their name, where they are located, and whether they are taking new clients.Find a local candidate and contact them for help.
Before you hire someone you found using the Patent Practitioner Search function, search that person's status with your state bar as well. An individual may be listed in the USPTO database but may not be in good standing with their state's licensing board. To conduct an attorney search, go to your state's bar website and conduct an attorney search. Type in the person's name and analyze the results. Look to make sure the individual is still licensed to practice law in your state and make sure they do not have a history of discipline.
 If you do not think you need an attorney to help you with your patent search, there are companies out there that will offer patent search services for a fee. A lot of these research companies are even hired by law firms to conduct patent searches on their behalf. Therefore, they can be a great option so long as you find a reputable and trustworthy company.


Go online and conduct a general search for "patent search companies." Analyze your results and contact each company you are interested in.
 Some online companies are not reputable and are only looking to take advantage of you. Be wary if a company is guaranteeing results. For example, if a company promises to find every single patent or application that is similar to yours, be concerned. It would simply cost too much and take too much time to find everything that is out there.


Find a company with a proven track record and trustworthy background. They should be able to conduct a search in a timely manner and find a majority of concerns out there.
 Fees for attorney searches and company searches will often be between $500 and $1,500. The fee will depend on the complexity of the search and how quickly you want the results. The more complex an issue is, and the faster you want the search completed, the more it will cost.Be wary of incredibly low fees. Often, these companies are just trying to make a quick sale and will conduct little or no research on your behalf. For example, if you see that a company is offering a $50 search, you may want to avoid them.

