 Eating high quality protein is important to your nutrition in general, and vital to keeping albumin levels up. As a rule of thumb, make sure you have at least one high-protein serving in every meal. Lean beef, pork, and lamb are all good options, as are fish, chicken, turkey, and eggs.In a 3 ounce (85 gram) single-serving portion, lean beef burger contains 21 grams of protein, chicken contains 14-28 grams, cooked salmon, trout, or mackerel contains 15-21 grams, and pork chop contains 15-21 grams.
If you prefer not to eat meat, getting enough protein can be especially challenging. For advice about choosing the protein sources that will be best for you, talk to a dietitian.
Be sure to eat dialysis friendly proteins if you are on dialysis. These include lean beef, lean turkey, chicken, pork chops, eggs, fish, meat substitutes, tofu, and protein powders.;
, While you may need to focus on eating more protein, you still need to eat fruits, vegetables, and starches like bread, pasta, and rice. For example, add grated hard boiled eggs or tuna to sauces for pasta or rice dishes, or include shredded chicken or diced meat in soups and stews., Breakfast is an especially important meal, in part because it kick starts your metabolism for the day. You are also more likely to have a strong appetite when you first wake up. One good option is an omelet made with egg whites with cheese.While one egg contains about 6 grams of protein, egg whites are an even healthier source of protein. In fact, egg whites are 100% albumin. Two egg whites contain 7.2 grams of protein.
 It’s very important to avoid skipping meals. Strive to eat small frequent meals to maintain your energy levels. However, if you do miss a meal by accident, make sure to eat a larger portion of protein at your next meal.Eating smaller meals may also be helpful if you have a hard time eating regular sized portions.
A great between-meal or bedtime snack is cottage cheese. Try it with some fruit, such as apple sauce. (Cottage cheese is healthier than many other dairy products, as it is lower in potassium and phosphorus, which may pose a risk to those on dialysis with low albumin.)

, Smoothies are a quick, easy, and delicious way to get some extra protein. It’s best to use a liquid that is not high in phosphorus, so avoid cow’s milk. Almond milk or rice milk work well. Greek yogurt, pasteurized egg products or protein powder add the protein. Blend together with whatever fruit you favor.Ask a dietitian about what type of protein addition or supplement will be best for you. Both powdered and liquid forms are available.
Note that a cup of Greek yogurt contains over 20 grams of protein. Smoothies made with Greek yogurt are especially good with granola blended in as well.

