 Choose a plain, inexpensive lampshade. A lighter color lampshade will permit more light through, giving your photos a backlit appearance. Remove the shade from the lamp, if it hasn’t been already, and then:


Use a paintbrush to thickly layer a clear adhesive, like shellac or decoupage, onto the surface of the lampshade. Take your photos and stick them onto the adhesive in whatever arrangement you desire.
Take your paintbrush and apply another layer of adhesive to the surface of your pictures. This outer layer will protect your pictures from damage and will seal them between adhesive layers.
Allow the adhesive to dry. The time this takes may change depending on the kind of adhesive you’ve used. Follow your adhesive’s directions for best results., Vintage pictures attached to the frame with clothespins will give the impression of an old-time darkroom since pictures were often hung up on a line by clothespins in darkrooms. Suitable, widely spaced wire mesh can be bought at most hardware stores for use as a wireframe.


Choose a wire mesh that is somewhat thick. Wire mesh that is too thin will be flimsy, and may not support your family photos well.
After you’ve bought your wire mesh, hang it on a wall with wall hangers, small nails, or even adhesive hooks. Then clip your family pictures to the wireframe with clothespins.
You may want to buy extra wire mesh so you don’t run out. You can always trim the mesh down to size with a pair of wire snips., Ornate vintage frames can really add a sense of dignity to a picture. However, your pictures may not be large enough to fit overlarge frames without the composition becoming unbalanced. To maintain balance, hang pictures in simple frames inside of overlarge frames already hung on the wall.


In some cases, your ornate frames may be many different colors. Use a suitable spray paint to create a uniform color scheme in your frames so the color scheme pulls all your pictures on display together.
Overlarge vintage frames can often be found inexpensively in secondhand stores. These may have pictures in them already, but the pictures can removed, and your framed family photos hung inside of the larger frame once it’s attached to the wall., The refrigerator usually takes a prominent spot in the kitchen, which makes it a solid choice for a photo display. Additionally, if you have young children, guests might want to see your child’s accomplishments, like a good test grade or art, on display there. When looking at these accomplishments, if you have photo fridge magnets, they’ll see your family photos, too.


There may be companies that print and assemble magnets with your photos on them. However, if you have difficulty finding this service online, or if you want to save money, print your photos on paper with adhesive backing. Then attach the photo to a magnet bought from a hardware store or general retailer., The most common kind of picture frame shelf is called the gallery ledge. A gallery ledge is essentially a sill built into a wall or several walls in your home. Pictures can be placed on this sill, and displayed clearly for everyone to enjoy.


In many cases, you can buy the parts for a gallery ledge shelf at a local hardware store, or you could buy a pre-made one from a home furnishing store or general retailer, like Ikea, Target, or Walmart.
There are other varieties of picture frame shelf you might use to display your pictures. For example, you might make a hanging shelf or use one of these ideas to design your own wall shelf display.
You can create a greater sense of cohesion between your pictures and the frame shelf by painting your shelf or frames so they match.