 The place most franchise licensees will start looking for financing is with the franchisor company itself. Many offer loans through their own finance companies or third party financiers they have business relationships with. This will often cover a significant portion of your startup costs.Franchisors may also have agreements already set up with companies that can lease you some of the equipment you need to get the franchise up and running.
Each franchise has it's own package in terms of what it will offer new franchise licensees. Check into what your company offers.This information may be available online or in other documents provided with your franchise application, or you may need to request it.;
, Franchisors will require you to demonstrate that you have some collateral that will allow them to recoup their money, should your franchise fail. Many also require that you put up a down-payment of money that you have NOT borrowed from other sources.McDonalds, for example, typically requires new franchise licensees to pay 25% of the costs of a franchise out of pocket, in cash.This ensures that franchises only go to people who have the necessary resources to make payments.
 Complete the necessary forms to apply for financing from the franchisor. Again, these will vary based on the company. Information about how to apply for financing may be included in the Franchise Disclosure Statement,or you may need to request it from the company.


The Franchise Disclosure Statement is a document you will receive from the company if your franchise application is approved. It spells out in minute detail the specifics of the franchise agreement. It is mandated by the Federal Trade Commission that all franchisors provide this document to licensees.Like any other loan application, you will be expected to provide information about your assets, financial history, and net worth.
 Another option consider for financing your new franchise is a standard small business loan from a bank. Especially if you have a good credit rating and are opening a franchise with a positive reputation, banks may be willing to offer you some starting capital.Typically bank loans of this sort will require you to put up some kind of collateral, such as your home or any stocks or bonds you might own. They will also often want you to pay for as much as 20% of the cost of starting the franchise from your own money, to be certain you are capable of covering major business costs.
These loans usually require you to have already established a relationship with a banker.
 If your bank won't provide you with a loan, you may be able to secure a loan through the US Small Business Administration. These loans are disbursed by banks and credit unions, but are guaranteed against default by the federal government.SBA loan 7(a) is available to franchise licensees opening any business on the SBA's franchise registry.You can borrow between a couple hundred thousand and a few million dollars through the SBA. These loans typically have a five-year maturity period, so they work well for startup costs, but not longer-term expenses.
The International Franchise Association provides a directory on their website of vendors that administer SBA loans. The process of applying for an SBA loan, however, is a highly complicated one. Thus, it is usually recommended that applicants secure assistance from an accountant. If you don't have an accountant, your franchisor may be able to suggest someone., A recent development in the world of franchise financing is the online loan portal. These are websites that match franchise licensees with private creditors.Two of the biggest online loan portals are Boefly and Franchise America Finance.
Some franchisors have have relationships with these companies. Ask your franchisor if they subscribe to any of these website., Another option for financing is look for a business partner to share the cost (and profits) of your new franchise. Many franchise licensees also turn to friends or family to borrow money or ask them to invest in the business.Several small loans from friends or family members, to whom you promise to pay some mutually agreeable interest rate or equity in the business, can go far to cover the costs of starting a new franchise.

Equity means that your investors will be entitled to a share of the profits from the business and have a certain measure of control over its operations (depending on your agreement with them).
However, equity does not have to be repaid (unlike a loan).


You can also advertise in the local press seeking an investor or business partner. However, advertising for investors can be tricky, due to securities laws regulating the solicitation of public investors. Hire a financial lawyer to make sure you are staying on the right side of the law.
Be sure to draw up a formal agreement about the terms of the investment (i.e. how much they are investing, what interest rate you will pay, and over what period you will pay back the loan). This is especially important if you have investors who you don't know well.
Obtaining investment in this way will require accepting investments under the Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) Regulation D and the creation of official offering documents that detail the investment in a specific format.
If you are using Regulation D, be sure to hire a financial attorney to guide you through the process. Otherwise, you open yourself up to financial and criminal penalties resulting from violations of SEC regulations.
 Most franchise licensees end up covering at least a portion of the startup costs from their own resources. An obvious place to start is with your own cash savings.


Don't go overboard on this. A good rule of thumb is not to invest more than 75 percent of your cash reserves. That way, if an unexpected expense comes up, you have some money to cover it., Many people starting a new business will borrow money based on the value of their home to get the business started. Money borrowed on the value of your home is tax-free. There are two ways to do this:You can get a line of credit based on the value of your home. This is known as a home equity line of credit (HELOC) and is best for when you are unsure of how much money you will need, as the line of credit structure allows you to borrow as needed.
You can take out a second mortgage on the house. This will provide you with a set amount of money that must be repaid as a regular mortgage would.
Be warned that with either of these options, if you find yourself unable to make payments on the money borrowed, you could lose your home.
 Another common approach to self-financing is to use funds in your retirement account.IRAs and 401(k) plans can be withdrawn from to finance all or part of a franchise business. However, there may be significant fees and taxes involved, depending on the plan type.


If you withdraw these funds as cash, you'll lose a significant chunk in taxes. There may be ways to avoid doing so, but you should seek professional legal and tax help when attempting them due to the complexity and possible negative consequences.
Taking funds out a traditional IRA or 401(k) before the age of 59.5 will result in a 10 percent penalty being assess on the withdrawal. This is in addition to the income taxes assessed on the withdrawal.
So, if you withdraw $100,000 and you are in the 25 percent marginal tax bracket, you would pay a total of 35 percent ($35,000) on your withdrawal, leaving you with only $65,000 for your business.
Withdrawals from a Roth IRA, however, are tax and penalty-free, provided they consist of contributions that have been in the account longer than five years.Be warned, however, that if your new business fails, your retirement funds will be wiped out.
 Refinancing is taking on a new loan which pays off any old loans you already have.Most commonly, this is done to reduce interest payments, but could also be an opportunity to borrow additional funds and consolidate that loan with existing ones. You should consider refinancing if:


You can get a loan at a better interest rate.
You want to consolidate multiple loans into a single payment.
You want to change from and adjustable to fixed rate of interest, or vice versa.
You need more capital to update equipment, make improvements, or open an additional location.
 It is a good idea to frequently look for loans that will offer more favorable terms than the one(s) you already have. This can significantly reduce your interest payments and free up capital for other uses.Once you've been in business for a while, you may become a more attractive customer to banks and other financiers. This is because over time, you demonstrate your ability to successfully run your franchise. This makes you a less risky investment. That, in turn, can lead to offers with better rates.
Check with your bank, and re-examine the option of an SBA loan, as this is often the least costly option for people who can get one., Refinancing isn't free. There are usually fees, such as closing costs, involved in refinancing any loan.There may be other penalties as well, based on the details of your old loan.
The question to ask is whether the savings outweigh the fees, time, and effort that go into refinancing. You may find that you can refinance and save a thousand dollars over the life of the loan. You'll need to decide if that's worth the time and effort. Your answer might be very different if you could save ten thousand dollars.
 Before applying for a new loan, update your business plan to reflect the current state of your business and your goals for the future. Your new business plan should include:Strengths and weaknesses of your business.
Major milestones or accomplishments.
Expertise you have developed in running the franchise.
Goals for the next two to five years.
Two years of tax returns.
The payment schedule of your current loan.
 Fill out an application for the new loan. When you receive the funds, pay off the old loan.


Typically, the bank will handle the payoff for you. They will pay off your old loan, and billing will come from the new loan company from then on.You may be able to refinance with a lender you already have loans from. This can save time and effort and sometimes mean less fees.