 A high-fiber diet may help reduce your chances of diverticulitis. Try to eat 25 to 35 grams (0.88 to 1.2 oz) of fiber a day. Fiber, naturally found in many foods, can help to make passing stool easier. Fiber adds bulk to your stool; when your stool lacks bulk, your colon is forced to exert more effort to push the stool out.When your colon exerts this pressure, sacs are more likely to form. Foods that are rich in fiber include prunes, apples, pears, black beans, kidney beans, potatoes, squash, spinach, whole-grains, grain cereal, brown rice, and oatmeal.


These foods will help you prevent constipation and increase the frequency of your bowel movements, which will help keep your colon clear and lower the risk of inflammation and backup.Insoluble fiber in the form of cellulose has been associated with a decreased incidence of diverticulitis. Foods high in this insoluble fiber are celery, apples, raisins, prunes, raspberries, and strawberries.However, there have been recent studies that argue that high fiber diets do not necessarily prevent asymptomatic diverticulitis. More studies need to be done to know the exact relationship between high fiber diets and this condition.;
, While the amount of water you drink depends on your size and how much exercise you get, you should strive to hydrate yourself every day. Water can help to flush out the intestines. When you don’t get enough water, you may become constipated, which can lead to the development of diverticulitis.


While this can vary from individual to individual, men should generally try to get roughly three liters (which equals 13 cups) or water each day. Women should generally drink 2.2 liters (0.6 US gal), which equals nine cups., Exercise encourages normal bowel movements, which help prevent diverticulitis and diverticular bleeding. Any type of exercise that keeps you moving will help, such as walking, jogging, dancing, aerobics, and cycling. Aim to exercise five times a week for at least 30 minutes at a time.


Exercising can also help you lose weight, which will prevent you from becoming obese, a main risk factor for diverticulitis.If you suffer from chronic constipation, even just an increase of physical exercise for at least 10 minutes daily will be helpful. This can include cardio exercises like running and biking, and resistance training like lifting weights or rock climbing.
 Diets high in fat — and specifically red meat — may predispose people for developing diverticular disease.To help decrease the chances of diverticulitis, you should limit the amount of red meat and other fatty animal proteins you consume in your diet. There is no exact amount you should can still consume every week, but try to avoid red meat more than once a week. Instead, eat alternate proteins such as chicken, fish, tofu, soy products, beans, and almonds.


Red meat is associated with a 1.5 times increase in diverticulitis in people studied., Smokers are at higher risk for diverticulitis and will also cause the disease to progress more rapidly.If you smoke, speak with your doctor about quitting — from going cold turkey to using the patch or gum or following a specific cessation program, there are many ways to quit smoking for good, and your doctor will be happy to support you.
 It was found that a high BMI and waist-to-hip ratio increases risk of diverticulitis. It may be that carrying excess fat in the abdomen in particular puts one at risk for diverticulitis, as having a large waist circumference also puts a person at higher risk.Talk to your doctor or calculate your BMI. If your BMI is between 25 to 29.9 you are considered overweight, and if it is above 30, you are considered obese.Speak with your doctor about making a plan to lose weight. This should include adjusting your diet and adding exercise.
 If you do happen to become constipated, do not try to strain to pass your stool, as this could cause feces to get trapped in any existing pouches you may have, which could result in diverticulitis.Instead, if you are constipated, set up an appointment with your doctor or go to your local pharmacy to get stool softeners or some other form of treatment that will allow you to pass stool without straining.
 Certain drugs can increase your risk of diverticulitis. Regular use of aspirin or Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) can increase your risk of diverticulitis and diverticular bleeding, as can use of corticosteroids, and opiate analgesics.If you use any of these drugs regularly, speak with your doctor about ceasing use of and possibly alternate medications you might try.

