 If you can’t create a budget or feel overwhelmed, then meet with a credit counselor. The counselor can help you come up with a repayment plan (called a “debt management program”). You can find a counselor in the following places:


Stop into a local credit union or university and ask. Often, they operate non-profit credit counseling services.Your housing authority, military base, or branch of the U.S. Cooperative Extension Service might also offer services as well.
Look for credit counselors at the U.S. Trustee’s website: https://www.justice.gov/ust/list-credit-counseling-agencies-approved-pursuant-11-usc-111. These counselors have been approved to counsel people considering bankruptcy.
 At the session, you and the counselor should discuss your debt and consider your available options, including enrolling in a debt management program.Ask the counselor any questions you have and don’t feel pressured into immediately enrolling immediately.


Discuss what to do if most of your debt is “secured.” Secured debts tied to some asset. For example, a car loan is secured by the car itself. If you default, your lender can seize the asset.
Debt management plans work only with unsecured debts, like credit cards, personal loans, and medical debt. However, your credit counselor might have ideas about how to manage your secured debts.
 You will probably have to pay to enroll in the program and also a monthly fee.Get a quote in writing. In 2014, the average cost was $24 a month.


Perform proper research before enrolling in a debt management plan. Check with a local consumer protection agency to check whether anyone has filed complaints against the company., Your counselor will contact your creditors and try to get late fees and penalties waived. They may also get the interest rate reduced, which will make getting out of debt easier.The plan can last a long time, e.g., for several years.


Generally, you will write one check to your credit counselor who turns around and pays your creditors.
Using a debt management plan shouldn’t negatively affect your credit score. However, it will show up on your credit report., As part of debt management, your creditors will close your accounts.As a result, it will be hard for you to obtain new credit while you are paying off your debt.


Even if you are able to get a loan while in a debt management program, your creditors might withdraw any concessions they have made (such as waiving late fees or reducing your APR).
Get a list of your obligations in writing and stick to them.

