 First, turn the oven up to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius). While that heats up, take a 9” x 5” (23 x 13 cm) loaf pan and line the inside with a sheet of aluminum foil. Then mist the foil with a nonstick cooking spray.You’re going to be making a seitan loaf, which will then be wrapped in the foil. So don’t worry about tucking or folding the edges of the foil over to the rim to secure it. Just make sure the bottom of the pan is totally covered.
 Place your wheat gluten in a large mixing bowl. Add your smoked paprika, onion powder, garlic powder, and 1 teaspoon of your smoked salt. Stir until they are evenly mixed., In a second mixing bowl, pour in your vegetable broth, vegetable oil, tamari, and ketchup. Then add 2 tablespoons of your liquid smoke and ¼ cup of maple syrup. Whisk until they’re combined evenly., Pour your wet ingredients into the dry ones. Stir until thoroughly mixed. Then knead the dough for a few minutes, or until its consistency turns both uniform and smooth. If needed, transfer to a cutting board or similar surface to sculpt it into a loaf that will fit in your pan.It doesn’t need to be exact, but an ideal size for your loaf is 7 inches long, 4 wide, and 2 high (18 x 10 x 5 cm).
 First, place your loaf in the pan. Then, in a mixing bowl, combine your ground black pepper with your remaining teaspoon of smoked salt, tablespoon of maple syrup, and 1.5 teaspoon of liquid smoke. Whisk until combined. Then pour the glaze over your dough and brush it over the top of your loaf, if needed, to cover it evenly., Fold the loose ends of the aluminum foil over your loaf. Seal it tightly. Make sure there aren’t any gaps where the liquid can escape. Prevent the glaze and juices from leaking, smoking, and burning., Place the pan in the oven. Bake for 40 minutes. Then take the pan out and set it on a safe surface. Let it sit and cool until it is safe to touch., Once it’s cooled off, transfer the loaf to a cutting board. Slice it up into strips roughly ⅛-inch thick (0.3 cm). Coat the bottom of a large skillet with olive oil and turn the heat to medium. Once the oil heats up, place the strips in the skillet and saute each side for about 2 minutes, or until each turns crisp. Then enjoy.