 Staying organized usually requires more than one type of planning list, such as a monthly calendar, a weekly calendar, and a daily to-do list., One of the benefits of crafting your planner is that you can use any type of paper. Use what you have on hand, print planning templates, or make a trip to the craft store to choose prints that inspire you.


Notebook paper offers a quick solution because you probably already have some in your backpack.
Blank computer paper allows you an unstructured space to plan, which may work really well for people who are creative.
Using templates makes it easier to get started and stay organized. Since you’ll be printing your own templates, you can choose what best suits your needs. Templates may take more work than notebook paper, but they will make it easier to get started with your planning since the calendar and planning spaces are already created for you.
Try printed papers for a fun approach to creating your planner. Visit your local craft store for tons of design options. If you use printed paper, keep in mind how you will be using the planner when you pick your designs. For example, don’t choose all dark colors if you want to write directly onto the paper because you won’t be able to see what you wrote.
 You can organize your paper to match how you will use it, which could be by type of planning sheet or by month.


Organizing into monthly, weekly, and daily sections will allow you to keep similar planning sheets together. This is a standard format for many planners and will allow you to keep weeks together when the month changes midweek. It also allows you to be flexible with how you use your to-do list sheets.
If you want to organize by month, take one monthly calendar and pair it with five weekly planning sheets and enough to-do list sheets to accommodate your planning needs.
 Once you’ve organized your paper, it’s time to put it into sections as it will appear in your final product.


You can mark your sections by placing a sheet of colored paper between them.
Another option is to mark the sections with tape. Take a strip of tape and fold it over on itself so that just the edges of the tape touch the paper between two sections, leaving the fold of the tape sticking out of the stack.
 When you craft your own planner, you get to be creative with the cover.


If you like to work on the computer, design your cover using your favorite app and then print it out.
If you want to skip decorating your cover or want something that looks store-bought, use a piece of scrapbook paper from the craft store as your cover. For example, you could buy a piece of zebra print paper and print your planner title on the front.
If you’re an artist, draw or paint your cover.
If you don’t like to draw or craft, you could try decorating your planner with stickers that represent something you love, such as your hobby or favorite bands.
 Common section names will include monthly calendars, weekly planners, and to-do lists.
 Now that sections are clearly marked, it’s time to bind your paper. The simplest option is to staple the paper together.


For a cleaner look, cut a two-inch wide slip of paper and fold it so that it will fit over your staples. Glue the paper in place to make your homemade planner look like a composition book.
You can also make a notebook using a hole punch and ribbon.
 Using your course syllabi or assignment sheets, copy all of your assignments into your new planner.


Use the different colored inks for each class for best results.Enter assignments for the whole grading period at once, which will prevent you from overlooking due dates.
Divide your larger assignments over several days so that you have time to complete the assignment. For example, if you have a science project due at the end of the month, you need to start working on it in advance. Write your project work days onto your calendar as well.