 If you haven't doodled on pages in years, it is a good idea to get some practice. Before setting any pen to a scrapbook page, be sure you have practiced the design, until you become an expert.;
, Gel pens work well for doodling, because they give a vivid look and they roll easily onto the page. You can buy a set of colored gel pens at most stationary and scrapbooking stores.


Be sure to purchase a white opaque gel pen. You can use white gel pens on dark decorative papers and tags to create contrast.
 Erase any mistakes. Draw over your pencil lines with pens.
 If you are not comfortable with drawing free form shapes yet, it is a good idea to start with words and captions. This will add a more personal touch than typing and stickers.


Think of a sentence to put underneath photos. Describe what's going on in your words. Use a gel pen to write the short sentence underneath the photo after it is affixed to the page.
Add words to a nearly completed scrapbook page. When all the elements are in place, add the place name, names of people in the photo, or cute phrases that remind you of the experience. Write them at different angles on the decorative paper so it looks as if you are putting a confetti of words onto a page.
Add to a decorative paper by placing words on it. For example, if your paper is full of circles or squiggly lines, write the same word inside each squiggly line or circle. If your title is "A Day at the Beach," you may want to write "Sun" in each circle or "Fun in the Sun" on each squiggly line.
 Then, combine all the elements in more complicated designs. You may want to put these combinations at the corners of your page.
 You can add simple layers by doing some doodling on a page before you paste your elements. Practice on scrap paper a few times and then doodle right onto the page.
 This is an easy way to add borders and contrast without drawing ornately.


Cut a piece of colored paper with a paper punch. Draw a line just inside the edge of the paper. Follow the contours of the cut out to make a border.
Draw swirls around the edges of square or circular shapes. This works great on photo mats because you can draw a border on your paper and it appears to be a frame for the photo.
Place small dots around the edges of your paper. This staccato drawing will add definition to colors, words, photos or shapes.
Draw small lines, like stitches, around a border. The white pen on dark paper will give the illusion of sewing. It will create a look of homemade, hand sewn work.
 If you are not confident in your doodling skills, you can draw inspiration from the world around you and add another layer of traced scrapbook doodles to your scrapbook page.


Buy several sheets of clear acetate transparencies. This is the material that is used for overhead projectors. You will use this as a tracing medium and glue it directly onto your page.
Find swirls and designs that you like. You can use anything from a sheet of paper to a piece of fabric or advertisement.
Wash your hands before working with clear acetate. It will help to avoid smudges. Place a sheet of acetate over your design. Trace a part of the design with a colored permanent marker. A portion of a design, such as 1 small swirl, will look more like a doodle than if you trace an entire design.
Allow the marker to dry for a half an hour. The slippery surface means that it will be wet for a while longer than paper. Cut around the design loosely. The acetate is clear so you can leave plenty of space that your viewer will not be able to see.
Glue the transparency onto your scrapbook before you put on your final embellishments or photos. You can draw a design with a glue stick that is right underneath your scribbles, so that it will not show. Do not put a layer over the entire sheet of acetate or it will show through. Stick it to the page and allow it to dry.
 Many advanced scrapbookers now use doodling as the main way to decorate a page. Learning to do this can take time, but it is an excellent way to bring a fun and personal tone to your work.


Use scrap paper to mock up a doodle on a scrapbook page. If possible, make it close to the same size, so that you can experiment with photos, titles and tags.
Draw large doodles, such as swirls or lines to your page. Make lines large so that you can journal in portions of your layout.
Plan out what colors you want to use and where you want your elements to go. Place a picture to the side or directly over the center of your doodle. If you create a swirl pattern, you can place a cut out picture in the center for added depth.
Add additional doodles around the borders and in the corners. Add shapes, such as stars or hearts, depending upon what works well with your theme.
Once your practice layout is finished, draw it directly onto the page and color it in. If you do not want to draw on paper, draw it onto a transparency and overlay the transparency.

