 Obviously (or not) this step relates mostly to girls who want to be sillies. Sure, bright makeup can look garish but done just right, it is perfect for an evening event spent pursuing the sillies. Get out the glittery stuff, the sparkly hair gel and the brightest lipstick you can lay your hands on. Should it match? Well, probably but you're aiming for silly, not perfection!;
, It'll look like the new nesting call for the local bird life but it will be a zany do that can propel you out into the street accompanied by a daft grin and a crazy walk.
 It should be eclectic, mismatched and comfortable. Girls, try stripy tights. Guys get enormously tacky ties.
 This is the fun part. Check out funny jokes and sayings online and memorize them. Let them out and surprise people. Always be friendly, cheerful and funny though; don't be rude or tactless.
 Obviously, this necessitates group silly. Being silly alone is never as much fun as being silly with friends. Some fun dares include:


Daring each other to walk with a tomato balanced on your head in the snow
Daring each other to use a microphone in a crowded place and announce an engagement, birthday, divorce or even karaoke;
Make balloon animals and give them away for free to children
Do impromptu street performance
Fill up parking meters that are running low on time
Greet strangers with a big smile and something uplifting to say

,


Eat messy! Go and order the messiest food you can find. Dig in and laugh at each other making a mess. Spill your drink everywhere for added effect. Make sure you pay for it and offer to help clean up if you make total fools of yourselves.
And if this isn't your thing, eat sweet! Pig out on all those childhood favorites you haven't dared touch for ages - Smarties, candy rolls, chocolate coins etc.
 Again, this is the clowning around effect. Do it in front of an audience, such as the bored queue at the bus-stop or in a mall. Don't scream or screech - keep it really funny and call yourself funny names and promise yourself never to trip again, only to get up and trip over again. Watch laugh gags on YouTube or other similar online video sites, to get the idea of slapstick humor first.

Rent DVDs of comedies or look for funnies online. Tell each other crazy, hilarious stories. Play games that result in silly outcomes, like Chinese whispers or incremental storytelling where each person adds the next line to a story.

