 The buyer’s real estate agent is paid for by the seller and so, in a sense, will be free. She will find houses for you, will tell you if the house is overpriced, and will help negotiate a lower price for you.


It is easy for buyers now to work without a real estate agent, but there is some safety in having a professional review a property on your behalf. Also, because you don’t pay your agent as a buyer, it isn’t clear that you will save money by not using an agent.
 Now that most houses are advertised online, it is easy to find a house on your own. You might even be able to cast a wider net than your real estate agent would. While technically you won’t save any money looking for a house on your own, you might be able to negotiate the price of the home down.


You do not pay your agent but the price of your agent is built in the house. So, if you have opted not to use an agent, you should negotiate for a lower selling price. Normally the buyer’s agent would ask the sellers agent for a 3% commission on the sale. You should try to negotiate with the seller’s agent to lower their commission and then with the seller to lower the price.
Often a buyer’s real estate agent will not look at houses being sold by owner. If you are conducting the search on your own, you might have better access to these properties.
 Look up the local MLS online for a comprehensive list of local properties. All properties that are listed by a real estate agent should be listed on the MLS. Alternatively, visit for sale by owner, for a list of properties in your area that are being sold independently. Real estate agents used to have exclusive access to the MLS listings, making them a nearly indispensable part of the process. Now, however, these listings are publicly available at www.MLS.com.
 One of the principle advantages of having a real estate agent is that she can tell you if a property is overpriced. However, there are other ways to do that. These include, hiring an appraiser, getting a CMA, and doing online research.


Websites like Yahoo Real Estate, Zillow, Find Comps Now, eppraisal, and Real Estate ABC will give you a free estimate of a property’s value. This is not a perfect system, but it will give you a sense as to whether the asking price is close enough to actual value to merit contracting out an appraiser.
Ask a real estate agent for a competitive market analysis. For approximately $75, she will give you an estimate of how much a property is really worth. Be sure to specify that you do not plan to contract with them as your agent in the sale.
For $400 you can have an appraiser estimate the value of the property. This will the most detailed and comprehensive analysis. Though this might seem pricey, at some point your bank will require that you have an appraiser look at the house before granting the loan. Consult with the bank to determine if it requires that a specific appraiser conduct the valuation.