 If you get bored and distracted easily when you are studying on your own, try working with a study group. You are all studying the same materials, so you all have a common goal. Look for people in your class that also might benefit from a group study session.


You want to make sure the people you choose are people you can get along with. You want the study session to be productive, not full of drama.
Although you can socialize a little bit when you first meet up, make sure you don't waste a lot of time just talking. Try to get straight to studying as soon as you can., One of the benefits of studying in a group is that they can help you understand concepts you aren't sure about. If you have a question, ask one of your group members to help you understand. The whole group will benefit from the discussion. If you were alone and confused, you would be more likely to get bored because you couldn't engage with the material. Now, you can engage with the material and with each other in order to better understand the information.This can help those who fill uncomfortable asking questions in class. If you are too shy or embarrassed to ask your professor when you are in class, you can ask one of your group mates instead. This way, you avoid any uncomfortable situations and can get the help you need., A great way to learn tough material is to teach it to others. In your study group, assign each other sections of the information to reteach to the study group. This way, not only will you benefit from teaching it to others, you will also get to learn from your group mates and get a different take on the material. Plus, with so many people talking about different topics, it will be really hard to get bored while you study., Once you have studied in a group for a while, you can start quizzing each other on the information you have been learning. You can make flash cards or try a round robin approach, where each group member asks a question to the group and, once it gets answered fully, the next person gets to ask the question. This will help you stay engaged in the information because it isn't just you quizzing yourself.In situations like this, the others are there to help you see different angles and to help you come up with ways to remember the information., When you have a ton of people, you can create multi-player games to help you all learn the information. If you love a sport, make it into a study game. Find a board game you all like and turn it into a study session. Before you know it, you will all have the information memorized and you will not have to worry about boredom.


Play a basketball game like Horse. Every time any of you miss a question, you lose a letter. To gain a letter back, you have to get the question right without looking at the answers. This will get a little competition going and help you all learn the material.
Take a board game like Trivial Pursuit and turn it into a study game. Assign a subject or facet of your subject to each color. For example, if you are studying history, you can break your questions down into categories based on centuries, decades, or large concepts you need to remember. Each time you land of a specific color, you have to answer a question about that topic.

