 You will need to cut along the back wall, the firewall, and along the floor on each side of the cab. Make note of where you will do this before you start cutting.
 This will help you later when you have to weld these areas back together. You should only weld bare metal, and it is easier to grind the paint off now than after you make your cuts., Use a plasma cutter or a reciprocating saw (sawzall) to cut out a section that is one inch less than you would like to drop the cab (i.e. if you want to drop the cab 3" then you would cut out a 2" section). This leaves 1/2" tabs on the top and bottom of the cut. You will now be able to roll the those tabs so that when you weld them together it will be more stable than welding flat sheet metal together.
 Cut out a section the same size as the section you cut from the back wall. You will use the extra 1/2" on the top and bottom of this cut the same way.
 Your floor should be completely separated from the rest of the cab at this point. The only thing left preventing the cab from dropping is your frame horns.
 The frame horns should be the last support holding the cab in place. Once they are removed you can lower the cab to the desired height.
 The tabs you rolled on back wall should be welded together so that they provide structure and stability for your vehicle.
 As with the back wall, you will need to weld the tabs you created on the firewall back together. Your cab should now be secured in it's new lower position.
 There will be gaps created around the door openings after you drop the cab. Measure these gaps, and any others created during the body drop, and cut out a patch plate that is the same dimensions.
 Be sure to spread seam sealer on any weld you make (after it cools). This helps to protect the weld from rusting.
 A ten or twelve gauge sheet metal should work well for boxing in your frame horns.
 You will want to prevent your cab from rusting, so it is necessary to prime all bare metal.
 It will be necessary to repaint your cab after cutting, welding, and patching.
 Reattach any parts that were removed to do the body drop like fuel lines, brake lines, etc.
 Reinstall the seats, dash, carpet, etc.

