 A solid personality never goes unnoticed! Concentrate on yourself first, dress better, and create a look that suits you best. For example, if you have pretty eyes, use an eyeshadow/eyeliner/mascara to highlight your eyes. Wear proper fitted clothes, use make up that enhances your features, accessories that compliment your attire. The look you carry speaks even before you actually speak. Make sure your skin looks nice and fresh. Also it is important to have a good haircut & hairstyle that suits your face. Once you look good, people will start noticing you and by people, that special guy too.;
, Every person is blessed with some talent or skills. Participate in competitions and events that highlight your talent. For example, if you like to sketch or paint or take pictures, take part in art festivals. Once you bring out what's stored inside you people will start noticing and thereby appreciating you. You'll draw attention towards yourself and that will not just help you in getting spotted but it will also make you look appealing.
 There are more chances of not just getting noticed but also getting acquainted when you have common friends. Find out who his friends are (that does not mean stalking him!) and try to reach his friend circle somehow so that whenever there is a party or any event, he can come across you. This will create more opportunities for you to be seen by him. There's also a chance that someone introduces the two of you and then you can proceed getting to know each other.
 Whether you are in college or you work with him or he's your neighbour or you take just take a class together, you can cross ways and ask a random question like 'do you know where Prof. XYZ is taking the Arts class today?' or 'which way is the conference room?' or 'is there a shopping arcade nearby where I could get good carpets?' or 'what time is it?' etc. etc.. Just make sure that you don’t look or sound as if you had planned for this. Make sure you look your best on that day, make eye contact when you talk to him, look pleasant and seem like you had to ask it to someone and he just seemed to be around…that’s it! Move ahead once he answers (don’t keep smiling looking at his face) and if he recognises you from somewhere and starts talking to you about something, rather anything... Voila! You have his attention now!!

, Well, accidentally for him but planned for you!! Try to notice the places he visits, his likes and dislikes and try to be there. For example, if there is a new movie and you know that he's going to go to watch it on Thursday with his friends, you go for the same show with your friends and try to bump into each other. Now he hopefully remembers you from your last meet so he may begin a conversation. Make sure you don’t give out too much information about yourself and rather point out the likes you two have in common (indirectly). This will create interest and if all works out well, he will himself want to be friends with you then!

