 Teas come in many different varieties and have different chemical makeups; chamomile tea is the type that’s commonly used as a natural hair-lightening product.
 Steep four bags of chamomile tea in 1 cup of hot water for at least 15-20 minutes. The stronger the tea, the better your results will be when you apply it to your hair.


Let the tea cool down to room temperature.
 Depending on how long or short your hair is, you might need more or less yogurt to make enough mask to thoroughly coat your hair.


The mixture should come together into a paste that will stick to your hair.
If it’s too runny with excessive tea, add more yogurt.
 Just as in the previous methods, decide which sections of your hair you want to highlight and section them off with clips.


Pull the un-highlighted hair into a braid or ponytail to separate it from the treated hair.
 Using your hands, work the mixture into the hair that you wish to highlight. Work section by section, making sure to keep treated hair separate from untreated hair.
 Make sure the clips you’re using to keep your treated hair separate are securely in place, reinforce them with bobby pins and hair ties if necessary. Cover the treated hair with plastic wrap, a shower or swimming cap, or a towel.
 The longer you let the mixture sit in your hair, the more distinct the effects will be. Note that the darker your hair, the longer you’ll have to leave the mask in to achieve a noticeable highlight. If you have darker hair — red, or dirty blonde, for example — leave the mask in for two hours rather than one.
 Take a shower, shampoo and condition as regular until the mask has been completely rinsed from your hair. Reapply shampoo and conditioner as necessary to ensure all the yogurt and tea is washed away.
 This is a temporary method of highlighting your hair that will fade within the space of about a week. For sustained results, apply this mask every week, preferably on the same schedule — every Saturday, for example.


This method works best on lighter hair colors. Blond and light brown and red hair will lighten slightly, giving the effect of natural highlights. Darker hair tones will not respond to this method.

