 Include information about the couple's registries and, if it's a theme party, make sure to provide proper gift-giving instructions. Give your contact information for those that have questions.


You may want to include an ending time. Some people will be more won't to come if they know their entire day won't be taken up by watching an old acquaintance open gift after gift after gift.
 After all, what's a theme without decorations? If you're throwing a beach-themed shower, pick up some tiki torches, palm trees, and grass skirts. Balloons, crepe paper streamers, banners, table centerpieces, plates -- the list of available items goes on and on.


Abandoning the feel of the shower entirely is also a legitimate option. If you know the bride would be totally turned off by an hour of opening presents and drowning in crepe paper, dedicate the afternoon to a wine tasting or a spa treatment. As long as friends are relaxing and having a good time, success will be had.
 Bridal showers have been known to produce quite a few tears as well as laughter, both of which make for some hungry tummies. Keep the time of your party in mind when creating your menu; a morning shower would be perfect for a brunch.


Some food ideas for your shower: finger sandwiches, cookies, cold salads, veggies and dip, chili, crackers and cheese, etc.

If guests have offered to bring desserts and other treats, call to confirm what they plan to bring -- adjust your recipe plans accordingly.
 Silly games are essential to any good, traditional shower. The naughtier, the better! Try one of these:



Stuff It: Before the party, sit down with the groom and ask him a list of questions, preferably ones the bride may not know. Then, at the party, pass the questions around the room, having each guest ask the bride one. If she gets it wrong, she must stuff a piece of bubble gum in her mouth. Her answers will become so messy, you'll have the whole room laughing.

If the mother of the bride or groom is present, take caution (depending on her personality).



Stud Muffin: Before the party, obtain a picture of the groom. Buy balloons. Also gather photos of sexy, hunky men. Roll the pictures up tight and tie with a ribbon or rubber band. Stuff one into each balloon and blow up. At the party, each woman has to grab a balloon and pop it. Whoever gets the real hunk—the groom—wins a prize!

Don't go into overkill. The gals (and maybe guys?) will be totally content eating, drinking, and being merry.
 Speaking of bridal shower games, you may want to reward your loyal jesters with a gift. Make up little gift bags and place small trinkets inside. Shop the dollar stores if you have to: photo albums, picture frames, fancy pens, coffee mugs, dish towel sets, candles, and nail polish will all do the trick.


It’s the hostess’s job to send all the party-goers home with a little favor. Make sure your favor is small but meaningful and tie it in with the theme of your party as best you can.

