 Cities such as Chicago have seen a decrease in crime by installing public surveillance cameras.Cameras can prevent crime by warning potential criminals that they will be caught. The footage can also help police solve a crime once it has been committed. If your city doesn’t yet have cameras, you can advocate for their installation.


Talk to your city council or board of supervisors. Suggest that they install public surveillance cameras.
Also talk with your fellow citizens. You can write a letter to the editor of your local paper discussing the benefits of community surveillance systems.;
, Government officials must always consider privacy issues when installing cameras.For example, government officials should consider the following:


Don't direct the cameras to peer into peoples’ private places, such as their homes or back yards.
Properly train staff on the legal use of the surveillance cameras. Ideally, create written policies for staff.
Punish any employee who misuses the surveillance footage.
 More and more people use surveillance systems as part of home security. Just like public surveillance cameras, you can use the cameras as a deterrent and as a method of identifying anyone who breaks into your home. You should install cameras in the following places:


Front door. Almost a third of burglars enter homes through the front door, so you should install a camera pointed in that direction. Install the camera on the second floor, out of reach of the burglar.Back door and any other entry door. Another 20% of criminals enter through a back or side door.
Off-street windows. These are windows not visible to the street.
Backyard. If your backyard fence has a gate, then make sure the camera has the gate in view.
Basement stairs. People can sneak into a home through a basement window, so install one on the basement stairs. Your camera should have night vision.
 To be an effective deterrent, a camera must be visible to a burglar. However, a burglar can easily destroy a visible camera. Accordingly, you should mix real cameras that remain hidden with visible fake cameras that act as deterrents.