 Paul says, "Do not be deceived: God cannot be mocked. A man reaps what he sows. Whoever sows to please their flesh, from the flesh will reap destruction." (Galatians 6:7-8). Pleasing oneself in any sin leads to death and destruction: We have death of a marriage, death of our health, death of your own finances or of national/world economies, death of opportunity/freedom, death of friendship and relationships in all our lives,...


Some area of your life will die or suffer due to any sin that members of a family, "tribe" or nation commit. It has a wave or a ripple effect touching all. God lets us learn the hard way about the consequences of sins, just as parents may let their kids learn the hard way, because often times, we do not learn to desire real change unless it is the hard way.;
, People often ask the question, "Why do bad things happen to good people?" But, first one needs to answer this: "Is anyone really 'good'?" If someone were completely good, then one might reap only good things. But, the fact is that there are no perfectly "good" people alive. God is the only being that is perfectly good.
", as Jesus said. Because God is a just God and He hates sin -- we all, as human beings, deserve punishment for our sins, death and Hell. One way to look at it, is to wonder,


"How can good things ever happen to bad people?", such as we actually are. The fact that good things ever happen to us should make us unbelievably grateful to God for His grace. Instead of focusing on the bad things in your life, focus on the good, on the blessings.
 In some cases, if bad things happen, people in the family may have caused it, even back to great-grandparents, where the curse of sinful behavior has not been broken. It often has its influence to the second or third generation. None can live in sin and not expect to reap the consequences of sin, such as health issues from food, drug or alcohol abuse or diseases from sexual immorality, etc. naturally passed down as consequences.
 Paul says, "The god of (the people of this adulterous) age has blinded the minds of unbelievers, so that they cannot see the light of the Gospel that displays the glory of Christ, who is the image of God." (2 Corinthians 4:4). The "god of this age" refers to Satan being followed by the masses who do not honor or obey God, but instead many blame God for widespread need, envy and pride.


When man was created, God gave mankind stewardship and dominion over the earth, to care for it and rule over it. But, when Adam and Eve disobeyed God's law and chose to obey pride and lust, they and too many of their descendants gave their choice of allegiance, power and dominion to Satan's way, by default. Now instead of man ruling Earth, man's longstanding enemy, Satan in his evil way rules it, as chosen by our self-centered choices. This is another main reason why there is so much evil and pain in the world. Satan is evil, and so his followers choose evil and spread it over all the world.
 Often times when bad things happen, people get mad at God. But, we all need to realize that a lot of the pain that we suffer is caused by Satan -- because he expects us to disbelieve and blame God.


Satan wants to kill you and destroy you. Jesus said, "The thief comes only to steal, kill and destroy." It could be said that he is jealous of human beings, because the Bible says he once had been the apple of God's eye, but now we humans are. Satan knows his fate, of someday being chained in Hell forever, and so he is angry about it. Therefore, he seems to take his anger out on man by interfering with God's plan for redemption of lost human beings.
 But woe to the earth and the sea, because the devil has gone down to you! He is filled with fury, because he knows that his time is short." (Revelation 12:12). Satan was banished from Heaven before man was created, because he tried to overthrow God. He was thrown down to Earth where he's most active in the spirit dimension.
Only God knows why he cast Satan here, to Earth, and not somewhere else, but there are many such things we will never understand fully in this lifetime. Paul said, "For now we see only a reflection as in a mirror; then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part; then I shall know fully, even as I am fully known." (1 Corinthians 13:12). We may not understand in this life why God has done what He has, but in Heaven we will understand it all. Everything will make sense when we get to Heaven.
 Every human being alive is born with an evil sin nature, which was passed down from Adam and Eve.


Paul said, "Just as through the disobedience of the one man the many were made sinners, so also through the obedience of the one man the many will be made righteous." (Romans 5:19). Even with Christ making those who believe in Him righteous, all human beings still struggle with the flesh, which is our innate sin nature. God sees Christians as righteous, because they are covered by Jesus' blood, but they won't be completely righteous until Heaven.
Paul says, "I have the desire to do what is good, but I cannot carry it out. For I do not do the good I want to do, but the evil I do not want to do—this I keep on doing. Now if I do what I do not want to do, it is no longer I who do it, but it is sin living in me that does it." (Romans 7). Also he says, "For the flesh desires what is contrary to the Spirit, and the Spirit what is contrary to the flesh. They are in conflict with each other, so that you are not to do what you want to." (Galatians 5:17). Every human being alive struggles with the flesh, our sin nature that we were born with -- since, through Adam, all humans were made sinners.
Now, there is so much evil in the world, partly because of the sins that we ourselves commit against one another. Every time we lie, cheat, gossip, vent anger, etc. we add more evil to the world.
 God could force all human beings to be holy and good, but He does not. God gives all human beings a free will.


The reason why God gives humans a free will is because He wants us to have a choice of whether we want to follow Him or not. Just like we would not want someone to be obligated or forced to love us, neither does God. God does not want us to be robots and to follow Him with no ability to choose; so, He gave Adam and Eve the choice to follow Him or not, and He gives every human being alive that choice. When we don't choose to follow or obey God, we choose to follow the ways of sin instead, and so make the world more evil.
Paul says, "If by the Spirit you put to death the misdeed of the body, you will live." And not only will you live, if you do this, but everyone around you will live better too. Our decision to follow God's laws or not greatly affects everyone around us. For example, if someone goes against God's command to not commit adultery and does commit adultery, he or she ruins that marriage and scars the spouse and children for life, as well. So another big reason that there is evil in the world is because, of our own free will, people cause unbelievable amounts of evil to those around us all the time. But, it need not be so.

