 Since you will be either taping them to a window or hanging them you want to design the snowflake on very strong paper that can withstand the rigors of the holidays and possibly be used again in the future.


Find a very sharp pair of scissors to cut out the snowflakes. The right pair of scissors is the key to creating a professional looking snowflake. Make sure you select only the sharpest pair; sharpen any dull blades before embarking upon this project.
Consider using a variety of scissors in order to cut out the intricate shapes. Find a pair of scissors with a smaller blade so you can make small cuts and round the edges for a more intricate project.
 While you will most likely cut through the pencil marks you will need to erase any pencil that remains.
 A number of websites offer a variety of Star Wars snowflake templates that you can use. Many have multiple designs featuring a bevy of characters.
 A heavier bond paper will allow you to create a hearty template that you can easily trace and re-use. Be sure your printer can handle the paper bond and won’t jam or damage the printer. (You may want to consult the manual to determine how heavy you can go.)

, Why stick with boring white when you can jazz up your snowflake? If you like Jedi white, you could use white or silver glitter to make your snowflake shine.
 Be very deliberate when cutting out the shape; going slowly with the scissors and being sure you round out every corner in order to create a clean template.
 Lightly trace the template over the cardstock. Avoid pressing your pencil down hard on the cardstock in case you make an error and need to erase.


Consider taping the template down over the cardstock to keep it firmly in place. If the template keeps slipping while you are trying to trace, use small pieces of clear tape on the far edges of the template to hold it in place.
 Once you have the snowflake fully traced, carefully cut it out.


Use different sized scissors for some of the intricate edges. Stop cutting when you get to areas that require a more intricate touch and grab the smaller pair of scissors.
Erase any remaining pencil marks on the snowflake. Once it's cut out, examine the snowflake for remaining pencil marks. Use a clean eraser to remove the marks.
 Let your creativity and imagination run wild by customizing and designing your snowflake with your own unique touch.


Cover the snowflake surface with glue from the glue stick before affixing decorative items. Use broad strokes over the snowflake, covering every inch of it with a thin sheet of glue.
Add glitter by liberally sprinkling it directly from the container onto the snowflake over a paper plate. As the residual glitter falls from the snowflake it will hit the paper plate and can be reused for the next snowflake or project.
