 Combine one part Pearl Ex pigment with two parts clear embossing powder, mixing them together in a small bowl with a plastic spoon until evenly blended.The exact amount of embossing powder you need will vary depending on how dramatic you want the effect to be and how thin the paper is. More absorbent paper requires a greater amount of embossing powder.
For use with an average sized stamp and heavy cardstock, 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) Pearl Ex pigment and 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) clear embossing powder should be sufficient.;
, Load a stamp with clear embossing liquid and press the stamp firmly onto a heavy sheet of paper.


cardstock and other heavy-weight papers work better than light papers do.
Make sure that the surface you want to emboss faces up as you stamp it.
Alternatively, you could spread the clear embossing fluid on a stamp pad instead of applying it directly to the stamp itself. Load the stamp with the treated ink of the pad before stamping it onto the paper.
After stamping the image, thoroughly clean away all of the embossing fluid from the stamp. If the embossing fluid is left on the stamp, it can harden and ruin the rubber.
 Gently sprinkle the enhanced embossing powder over the stamped design. Make sure that the entire design has been covered by the powder.


Lift the paper and carefully tip it upside-down so that the majority of excess powder will fall off. Gently tap the back of the paper to encourage the excess powder to drop.
 Pass a heat gun over the entire design. Continue heating the area until the lines of the design lift above the surface of the paper.


Hold the heat gun 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 cm) away from the surface of the paper and move it around continuously as you apply the heat.
Using too much concentrated heat can result in scorch marks, so you need to work carefully during this step.
 Use tissue paper, tracing paper, coffee filters, or another patch of soft paper to wipe away any excess Pearl Ex powder. Once the excess has been removed, the project is complete.


Allow the area to cool and set for one to two minutes before brushing away any excess powder.
If soft paper is not available, you could brush away the excess with a soft-bristled paintbrush.

