 There really isn't a specific hairstyle you need to do. Just do a hairstyle that is relaxed and cool. Possibly even backcomb a little bit, but don't go mad with it. There's a fine line between indie and scene! You can find a specific actress, singer, or model who you like, and take a picture to your hairdresser. If you don't get it right the first time, just scrunch it before you go to bed and get that just-woke-up look!;
, Neutral eyeshadow is always best; colours such as tan, brown, grey, black, peachy pink, and white are rad. Apply a light tinted moisturizer pink blush, and finish with (maybe) black mascara and black liner. Don't over apply, remember that less is more. Makeup is to highlight your natural features, not to take away from them.
 Try them in black, grey and dark wash blue. Occasionally, you can wear colored skinny jeans. Yellow and purple are great. If you're more into the vintage feel, a light wash (but not too loose!) is great with moccasins and a vintage top.
 Patterned and solid colors are perfectly fine, as are band tees (now that you've got the indie jams, it's time to show it!) Clever sayings can also be indie. Remember to check out Goodwill (not just girls' section!) for some cool tees :)

, Black, grey, off-white/white and brown are great, but you aren't limited to those colors. Try wearing them with your favorite, solid-colored camisoles. Either wear them completely unbuttoned, up to the middle, or with the just middle button done. Regular jumpers are also great, but don't get the mainstream ones- find some funky patterns at a Goodwill or online.
 Converse (preferably High-tops), Vans slip-ons, Authentics, Eras and Sk8-His, and any types of Keds look awesome. Occasionally, wear some funky flats. Note: most of these shoes are coming into the mainstream now. Some shoes to consider are Sanuks, desert boots, Vans Chukkas, Nike Dunks (or any vintage Nike's really), or funky boots. Combat boots are great, as long as they look authentic! You can't really go wrong with shoes, just don't get the black/neon/patterned/hello kitty Converse, you'll look like a poser. But wear whatever you want because it's your style :)

, Braided head wraps, beret style floppy knitted hats, interesting jewelry such as long/short metal necklaces (have you ever thought of DIY?), leather bracelets (faux-leather for the vegans), black rubber bracelets, over sized metal rings with stones set in them, over-sized sunglasses, and large faux-leather totes easily complete any indie wardrobe. As for earrings, any vintage-y, metal hang-downs or pretty studs (pearls are great!) are perfectly acceptable. Feathers and other tribal accessories are great, and quite hip. Nicely patterned head bands look great on short/medium hair- get creative!

, Be yourself, no matter what others may think of you. Just remember to always treat others the way you want to be treated. Don't start arguments or fights and be caring to everyone, even your enemies.
