 In addition to these free options, there are many options for online advertising that works well for those with a small advertising budget. One great option is Google Adwords, or similar search-engine advertising, that presents your ads to people searching for terms related to your business.These services allow for geographical targeting as well. So, if someone in your city searches for "wine bargains" on Google, your wine shop ad could be the first thing they see.
Search engine ads are often "pay per click," which means you don't pay anything unless someone clicks on the ad. You can often drive a lot of traffic toward your business's web page for as little as 10 to 20 dollars a day., Advertising on Facebook or LinkedIn has similar advantages to search engine advertising in that it is targeted and relatively cheap. A few dollars a day can drive people toward your website or social media profile.Facebook and LinkedIn allow you to target ads based on the interests that people list or the groups they belong to, so you can be fairly certain the people seeing your ad will be interested in the type of service you provide.
To make these ads effective, target them carefully, thinking about interests, gender, location, and so on. Give the ads a catchy headline and an interesting image. Monitor the performance of the ads and switch them up often.On Facebook, you can select "Advertising on Facebook" from the dropdown menu near your privacy settings. This will take you to a page to get you started on the details. LinkedIn has a similar advertising information page., Another inexpensive option for online ads is Reddit. This is another popular website for accessing online content that lets you tailor how much you want to invest each day for advertising.With Reddit ads, advertisers "bid" a certain amount each day and their ad is seen by a number Reddit users proportional to the amount each advertiser chipped in. So, if you bid 10 dollars tomorrow, and there are a total of 1000 dollars worth of bids, your ad will be seen by one percent of Reddit users that day.
A compelling image can drive traffic to your business's website for as little as three cents a click, in some cases.
Reddit's website includes a page on how to get started with creating an ad and participating in bidding.