 Most people buy a casual setting, for every day usage, and a formal setting for special occasions.


Buy more than 1 or 2 settings if you entertain a lot, or like a lot of variety. For example, you can have a different porcelain dinnerware setting for every season.;
, Most experts recommend between 8 and 12 place settings.


Choose 12 settings if you have a large family or you frequently entertain. This will ensure everyone has matching dinnerware.
 Some people prefer simple white dinnerware. You can select different colors and detailed patterns as well.


Compare modern and traditional patterns. Some sets come with a pattern around the border, and others have a design covering the entire plate.
 Formal porcelain dinnerware consists of dinner plates, salad plates, soup bowls, cups and saucers.


Expand your formal dinnerware collection by including bread plates, dessert plates, platters and serving bowls.
Choose simple pieces for casual dinnerware, including dinner plates, salad plates, bowls and mugs or glasses. Some casual sets come with the plates only.
 Stores such as Macy's, Dillard's, Sears and J.C. Penny carry major brands such as Oneida, Noritake, Pfaltzgraff and Mikasa.
, You can find porcelain dinnerware on sites like Amazon, Overstock and eBay.


Consider buying used dinnerware, especially if you are on a budget. Check craigslist, eBay and your local thrift and consignment shops.
 Most porcelain dinnerware can be used in the microwave and the dishwasher, but ask a sales associate before you buy.


Check the instructions from the manufacturer. Some brands recommend that their fine china be washed and dried by hand. Instructions may be printed on the bottom of the dinnerware as well.
Ask about how to store dinnerware. Some manufacturers recommend padding between each plate to minimize the risk of scratches.
 Find out if you will be able to return the dinnerware you buy if you decide you do not like it, or you find it to be damaged.
 A professional can help you select the right pieces for your registry and make recommendations.

