 One key element of bonding is finding common interests and common ground with another person. Think about a passion or hobby you and your mother both enjoy doing or participating in. This could be a craft like knitting, building, or sewing, or an activity like playing sports or watching live theater. The idea is to find common interests that you can then build on to create lasting memories together and shared experiences.
 Using the common interest as a starting point, plan a day where you do the shared passion or hobby with your mother. This could be day where you do a sewing project together, you cook together, or you go and watch a favorite sport together. Turn the common interest into something you and your mother can actively bond over, and make a day of it so you both have a fun memory to look back on.
 Try to get to know your mother better by asking her more about her experiences when she was your age. Chances are your mother will be willing to reminisce about her past experiences and memories when she was younger. Having a discussion with your mother about her past experiences will also give you the opportunity to relate to your mother and find common ground.As your mother shares more about her childhood and youth, you may hear some crazy family stories or moments in your mother’s life that may surprise you. Make a project out your mother’s memories and record her stories on paper or document them with a video camera. This will then give you the chance to process her stories and show her you appreciate her past experiences. It can also bring you and her closer together and allow you to get to know your mother better.
You can also use your mother’s stories as a way to find common ground, where you relate her experiences at your age with your current experiences. You may be surprised to find that you have very similar experiences as your mother and perhaps inherited her intuition and ability to deal with conflict.
 Create a physical reminder of your relationship with your mom by making a scrapbook of the memories and experiences you share. Your scrapbook could feature your latest vacation together or a milestone event you attended together, like a wedding or birthday. You could also include baby pictures and stories from childhood that involve your mom. Work on the scrapbook together as a way to find common ground and do an activity that involves positive memories and experiences that involve both of you.
 Sit down and write about you relationship with your mother, at least one hour a day. Think about all of the times where she supported you, rooted for you, and tried to protect you. Note any common interests and hobbies you both have or the way her values and morals have been passed on to you. Create a chronicle of your relationship with your mother, with an emphasis on bonding experiences or moments in your life thus far, and then give your mom a copy of this chronicle or story as a surprise gift. You could title the chronicle: "My mom and I" or "Our story".

