 It's important that you do this on damp hair, rather than wet hair. You can do this technique after a shower, once your hair has air dried about halfway. If you don’t want or need to take a shower, you can simply dampen your hair with a spray bottle. The curls will hold best if done on damp hair., Before you start twisting it, it’s best to get rid of any tangles. Damp or wet hair is very fragile, so comb gently with a wide-tooth comb in order to prevent breakage.If you like having a particular part, use your comb to create it now. You will twist your hair around the part.
 By adding a product before you begin your twists, you’ll give your curls extra hold. You can use any product that you like, such as a curling mousse, a holding spray, or a texturizing sea salt spray. Anything that adds texture or hold to your hair will work great for this hairstyle. Run your hands through your hair to ensure the product is distributed evenly., Because your hair is naturally pretty dry, washing it regularly can strip it off its precious natural oils.If you do want to work with damp hair, know that your curls will be much tighter than if you began with dry hair. For looser curls, you'll want to create your twists by using a moisturizer or oil on dry hair., The number of sections you’ll need to create depends on two things: how much hair you have, and how tight or loose you want your curls. The more hair that you use in each twist, the looser the curls will be. In other words, a thick twist using two big chunks of hair will create looser curls then a skinny twist with two small pieces of hair.


If you have thin hair and you want loose curls, you may only need to twist two sections. If you have very thick hair and want tight curls, you’ll need much more.
When it comes to this hairstyle, this is the step that you’ll want to experiment with a bit. It will take a little bit of practice to determine which kinds of twists create your favorite kinds of curls.
 Separate a section into two pieces, and then began to twist them around each other, away from your face. The more tightly you twist, the tighter your curl, and vice versa. Twist as far as you can down the hair, and secure the end with a small rubber band. Pull your twist up and pin to the top of your head, so that it stays tightly twisted and secure.For afro-textured hair, remember to coat each section in a moisturizer or oil as you work through your hair. It is also helpful to coat your hands in this as well.If you want to avoid the little indentation left in your hair by hair ties, you can first put a small cotton swab or piece of paper towel around your hair, and tie the hair tie over it.
Repeat this step until all of your hair is twisted.
 If you worked with damp hair, it’s important to let your hair dry completely before taking out your twists.If you created your twists on dry hair with product, just make sure to let them sit at least five hours before untwisting them.


You don’t have to do your twists before bed. You can create your twists whenever you have enough time to let them dry.
Protect your twists against breakage and frizz by sleeping on a silk pillowcase, or covering your head with a silk headscarf., Before you remove your hair ties, gently press each twist with your fingertips to ensure they are completely dry. If they are, you can begin untwisting them. Take out your hair tie and use your fingers to gently unravel the twist. Do not brush your hair, as it will create extreme frizziness.


For afro-textured hair, make sure to apply moisturizer or oil to your hands before unraveling your twists. This will help to minimize frizz., Once you’ve undone all of your twists, run your fingers through your hair. This will help blend the sections back together, and work out any knots. Sometimes you’ll have a few wild pieces of hair, so use your hands to tame everything and mold your hair into the style you like.


Flip your head upside down and shake your hair to soften all of your curls up easily., You want to make sure your curls don’t deflate as the day progresses, so apply some holding spray to make them last. You can leave your curls down, or throw them up in a ponytail or a half up style. Your new curls will add volume to whichever style you choose.

