 Instead of ignoring the issue until you explode and get mad, talk about the issue as soon as possible. Be open and honest about your feelings, but kind and caring towards your partner. You may be able to work through the problem if you talk about it. Perhaps your partner has a problem with some of your behavior or is uncomfortable about certain things. Knowing this can help you come to a solution.Try initiating the conversation by saying something like, “I feel like we are spending a little too much time together and I think I need more space. Can we discuss this?”
Try to focus on the future and be specific about what you would like to see change. For example, you might say something like, “I think it would be good for us to have one evening apart every week. You can spend time alone with your friends and I will spend some time with my friends.”

, Listening to your significant other’s feelings and taking them seriously will help open the pathway to fixing the problem. Showing that you care enough to talk about the issue, work through it, and take their criticism seriously may help lessen their neediness.

Ask your partner an open-ended question about what he or she thinks about what you just shared.For example, try saying something like, “What do you think about this?”
Make sure that you remove all distractions before you start talking so you can give your significant other your full attention. Put away your phone, turn off the TV, shut down your computer, and choose a quiet time and place to talk.
While your significant other is talking, face them and make eye contact. You can also show that you are listening by nodding and using neutral statements, such as “yes,” “I see,” and “go on.”, Your partner may not know that you want more space or that you think they are too needy. Sit down with your significant other and talk to them. Let them know that you love being with them and spending time with them, but you would like a little more space.


Explain that you want to do things for yourself, like work out, enjoy a hobby, or relax. Tell them that you may need half an hour to decompress after work alone, or you may want to have a night out with your friends. It is good to be specific about what your needs are so that your significant other will know what to expect.
Try to explain your needs to your significant other by saying something like, “I understand that you love spending time with me, but I am a different person with different needs. I need more time to myself to get certain things done.”
Avoid waiting until you are angry and frustrated to deal with this. That can lead to fights and words that you may not mean.
 One way to help reduce the neediness of your significant other is to work on building trust between the two of you. Trust in a relationship is one of the most important things, especially if your partner has insecurities that causes them to be overly attached or emotional.Being reliable, doing what you say you’re going to do, and being open and honest are cornerstones of building trust in a relationship. Help your partner know you care by being someone they can count on.
Don’t lie to your partner, even if you are trying to spare their feelings. If you lie and your partner finds out, it may make them more insecure and make the more needy.
Be there for your partner. Your significant other may be needy due to past relationships, mental health issues, or other reasons. Don’t leave your partner or ignore their needs. Establishing boundaries and space for the two of you doesn’t mean you should abandon your partner. Make sure they know you care.
 One way to help deal with your needy significant other is to establish goals for your relationship together. Talk to one another about what you want and need from the relationship. Be specific about the goals and make sure they have clear and concrete markers.Goals can be about anything. Talk about where you want to be in one, two, five, or even twenty years.
For example, your goals might be to take a vacation together to an exotic location combined with spending one night a week doing an activity alone or with other people.
 Many times, when you are in a needy, clingy relationship, things will trigger an emotional, needy response. As you start to deal with your needy partner, be honest and discuss what the problem is. This will help open up the path for compromise and rebuilding the relationship.For example, if your partner gets upset if you don’t answer texts, try explaining why you do this sometimes. For example, you might say something like, “I can’t always check my phone at work. I get busy and I can’t respond to your texts right away, so it is better to text me after work or wait for me to text you.”
Being able to acknowledge and address the issues can bring awareness so you both can work together to eliminate the behaviors.
 You may come to a point where ending the relationship is the only way you can set healthy boundaries. Ending the relationship may be a last resort if you want to try to save your relationship. You may choose to end the relationship if it is no longer healthy for you.


For example, you may want to end the relationship if your significant other refuses to get help or acknowledge the problem.
You may decide to end the relationship if your partner has become controlling.
Another reason you may want to end the relationship is because your significant other has gotten physically, emotionally, or verbally abusive.

