 Subway offers five staple selections of bread (as well as some limited-time only choices). In order to create your own Subway sandwich making station, you’ll need to purchase some great. The five main breads offer at Subway include:


9-grain wheat
9-grain honey oat
Italian
Italian herbs and cheese
Flatbread;
, Cheese is arguably one of the best parts of any sandwich. Don’t skimp on your selection while making your subs. Of course, if you come across a cheese you want to have more than the ones offered at Subway, get it! Subway’s selection varies from store to store, but depending on where you are, you might come across:


American
Monterey cheddar.
Feta
Mozzarella
Natural Cheddar
Natural Pepper Jack
Natural Provolone
Natural Swiss.
 Of course, the main staple of a sub (apart from the vegetarians varieties) is the meat. There are a lot of different kinds of cold cuts (and some hot ones) to choose from. Aside from the hot selections that include meatballs, steak, chicken teriyaki, and buffalo chicken, the cold cuts you should lay out for your own subs include:


Turkey
Black Forest ham
Salami
Roast beef
Bologna
Pepperoni
Tuna salad
Bacon

, Of course, no sandwich would be as interesting if it didn’t have some delicious toppings. Fresh vegetables are a must so head to your local farmers market to get your supplies for your sandwiches. Items you should look for include:


Cucumbers
Lettuce
Tomatoes
Red onions
Green Bell Peppers
Spinach
Banana Peppers
Jalapenos
Olives
Pickles

, To complete your awesome Subway sandwich, you’ll need some really great sauces. Stick to just one, or try a combination of many--the choice is up to you. Don’t forget salt and pepper along with the sauce of your choice. Among the sauce selections are:


Oil
Vinegar
Regular or light mayonnaise
Mustard
Honey mustard
Sweet Onion
Ranch
Chipotle Southwest

, This will accommodate the length of the bread and will keep any dropped topping from getting on the table (so you can just stick them back on the sub). Lay your bread down on the paper and slice it in half lengthwise so that it opens up like a mouth (to gobble up all of those tasty ingredients).
 Once you have opened up your bread, flatten it down so that it stays open. Place your slices of meat on the half of the bread that has the top. The amount of meat you put on is up to you (since you’re making it at home and there’s no limit to how much you can put on!). Spread the meat out so that it covers the top.
 At Subway, their cheese is cut into triangles. If you are going for really authentic, then cut your cheese into triangles. Whether you do this or not, lay the cheese out over the meat slices.


If you did cut them into triangles, tessellate the cheese. This means to alternate the slices so that they don’t overlap.
 If you like your cheese melted, turn on your oven and place your sandwich on a baking sheet. Stick it in the broiler or toaster oven for a couple of minutes (until the cheese melts and the bread starts to toast). If you prefer your sandwiches less toasty, skip this step.
 Make sure they are spread out. Again, since you are making your sandwich at home, there is no particular order you have to put your veggies on your sandwich in (plus everyone wants different things on their sub). In general, you might consider starting lettuce on first and then working your way through the larger vegetables and on to the olives/pickles/smaller things you might want.
 Again, the amount of sauce you put on your sandwich depends on your personal preference. Don’t hopelessly drown your sandwich though or your might end up with some really soggy bread. Put your sauce on top of the meat and cheese side and close that baby on up. It’s time to eat.


You might want to consider cutting your sandwich in half to make it more manageable.
 Choose the sort of bread you want (Italian or Italian herb and cheese are popular choices for this sandwich) and then layer slices of spicy pepperoni, Genoa salami, and Black Forest ham. Make it with cheese, or choose to skip the formaggio (cheese in Italian) and go straight for the veggies. Top it all off with some oil and vinegar., This sandwich is packed with delicious meats and gooey cheese. Try out the 9-grain wheat and lay down some slices of ham, turkey, and bacon. Next, layer some slices of your favorite cheese on top and pop the whole thing into the oven for a couple of minutes. When the the sandwich comes out all melted and toasty, throw on some veggies and your favorite sauce for the final, delicious touches., Whip up some fantastic meatballs and pour some marinara on top. Next, add your favorite cheese (mozzarella is always a good way to go) and stick it in the oven until the cheese melts. Delicious!