 Being awkward around your peers and perfect strangers is difficult enough, but being awkward around someone you actually like can begin to feel impossible. Still, there are a few things you can do to have more social grace around your crush, and it starts with playing it cool and not acting like a puppy who is ready to hump the leg of anyone who comes by. Here are some ways to play it cool without looking too eager:


Smile and say hello, but don't go in for a hug unless you're at "hug" status with the person. If you're not sure, wait for the person to initiate the hug.
If you see the person coming down the hall, approach him or her if you're nearby, but don't run to the other end of the building just to say hi or you'll look like a stalker.
Don't nod too vigorously at everything the person says, thinking that it will just help you show your interest. Making meaningful replies is more effective than nodding.
Avoid laughing at every little thing the person says -- especially if he or she isn't even trying to be funny.
 To be less socially awkward, you have to be able to recognize the difference between a "creepy comment" and a "nice comment." Don't tell a girl, "You have such soft, fluffy hair. I just want to run my hands through it," unless you want her to slowly back away. Instead, say, "I like your haircut. It makes you look kind of like " The compliment should let the person see that you're paying attention without feeling like you're putting too much pressure on.


"You have a great smile" or "You have a great laugh" are usually safe bets.
Complimenting a girl's dress or jewelry can make her feel special.
Complimenting an aspect of the person's personality can work too; telling a guy he has a great sense of humor will make him feel good.
Use your compliments sparingly. If you compliment the person every two seconds, he or she may get annoyed or even overwhelmed.
 One socially awkward move is the "close talk," which is standing so close to a person that you're practically already trying to kiss him or her. You may be doing this just because you want to show interest, but standing inches away from a person and leaning in so far that the person keeps moving back will not endear you to your love interest.


Maintain a respectable distance and use your arms to gesture occasionally to make your conversation more dynamic.
Make eye contact but look away every once in a while so you don't come off as too intense.
Don't reach out to touch a girl's hair unless you're invited to. It's important to respect her personal space for her to remain comfortable with you.
 Remember that the person you like may return your feelings and could be feeling a little awkward too. You should work on putting the person at ease by being friendly, laughing at something the person said if you know it was meant to be funny, and giving the person the reaction she wants from her statements. If she says something funny, laugh; if she's being serious, get the big grin off your face. Make the person feel like you're on the same level and that you won't be pulling any tricks.


If you're entertaining you love interest as a guest, make her feel more comfortable by offer her a drink, snacks, or a seat.
Poking fun at yourself a bit will make the person feel more relaxed.
If the person accidentally spills or drops something, just say, "That happens to me all the time."

, Since social awkwardness does have a lot to do with timing, you should not only know when you should enter a conversation, but you should also know when you should leave it. If you're talking to a person you like, you should get out of the conversation before you both run out of things to say, when you're still having an easy flow of conversation, so the person will want to keep talking to you next time.


And if the person makes it clear that you're not wanted by checking her watch or phone or looking around for her friends, then politely say goodbye.
If you're not wanted, just say, "It's been fun talking to you" instead of, "Well, I know when I'm not wanted," which will only make things worse.
And if you've had a good conversation, just say, "I look forward to catching up again soon" and leave with your head high.

