 It can be hard to think in the morning hours, particularly when you are rushed or without your daily fix of caffeine. Knowing what to expect ahead of time can help you navigate these stresses and stay on time. A routine can be very helpful.
 Set the alarm so that you have enough time to fully prepare for the day. Your wake up time should allow you to complete your routine without feeling rushed or panicked. At the same time, you shouldn't wake up so early that you will be fatigued.


Avoid pressing the snooze button. The temptation to sleep just five more minutes can be irresistible. Resist it! It will make you late. Worse still, it often leads to multiple snoozing.
Set two alarms if you are a compulsive, multiple snoozer. Put one out of reach, maybe even across the room!, Between showering, dressing, eating, and putting on makeup, you won't have the luxury of extra time. Consider tracking yourself during these activities to see how long you spend on each one.Keep grooming at a reasonable minimum. Doing your makeup and hair and dressing is a time killer, and your ambitions to be punctual may well die in front of the bathroom mirror. This doesn't mean neglect your yourself. Just resist the urge to be perfect.
There may be occasions when you should look your absolute best. On those days, plan to spend the extra time. Otherwise aim for efficiency., Mornings ought to be about luxury, about watching the news, reading the paper, checking your texts, or nursing a cup of tea or coffee. Most of us can only afford a small indulgence, unfortunately. Resist the urge. It will cost you precious time.


Limit your morning television carefully. The local traffic and weather should be enough until you can catch the 5 o'clock broadcast.
If you like to read the paper or the news online, leave it as a treat for the afternoon or between classes. It, like television, will wait for your homecoming.
 Many times a student has chased the school bus down the block at least once. Don't be that person. Be outside and at your stop on time. Missing your bus or carpool can set you back by a good twenty minutes or more, depending on where you live.
 It may be that your lateness comes from living in a full house - from daily confusion, chaos, and bottlenecks for space. Talk to your parents and siblings honestly and try to come up with a system.Take turns in the bathroom. The bathroom is prime real estate in the morning for washing, dressing, and tooth brushing. Establish time limits for its use, negotiate slots, or organize it better.If you have siblings, help your parents. Your mom and dad may have the best intentions but struggle to get your younger brother, or your teenage sister, up and moving. Be considerate. Try to make their job easier and lend a hand.
 Let the ticking of the clock be your constant reminder. Keep clocks in every room if you can, so that it always possible to see the hour. Waterproof clocks can even be installed in the shower.

