 Eyeshadow is an effective way of attracting attention to your eyes and giving them a look of greater volume. Eyeshadows are good to apply first, as they give the other makeup (like mascara and eyeliner) a coloured foundation.The colour and tone of eyeshadow you choose should be determined by the colour of your eyes. What works for one colour might not work for another.



Brown eyes are very versatile, and can make just about any colour work. Purple is a great shade for brown eyes.

Blue eyes look best with earthier tones like brown or muted grey.

Green eyes favour moderate and warm colours. A mild purple or golden brown work very well.
The colour of your eyeshadow need not match up with your natural eye colour, but if you do, it will make your natural eye colour pop out.
 Nude eyeliner is a safe but effective way to brighten the look of your eyes.In turn, this will make you look more awake. Because nude eyeliner is barely perceivable, it's incredibly versatile and fits just about any situation. If you're looking for a more significant change to the size of your eyes however, you can try a white liner.


Adding some dark shadow underneath your eye, and then applying the nude or white liner in your lower waterline creates the appearance of bigger eyes.
 A smouldering cat eye look is a common and effective way of increasing eye size. Using liquid eyeliner, draw the line outwards from the outer end of your eye, ending it with a pointed tip.Because a cat's eye look is so common and relatively simple, there are lots of different ways you could go about it.


Don't forget to create a base first. Use the lightest coloured eyeshadow that matches your skin tone. This will emphasize the effect of the eyeliner, particularly if you're using a dark-coloured eyeliner like brown or black., They open up your eyes and give them a greater frame than you would muster with natural lashes. Apply some glue to the back line of the lashes, and place it snugly behind your natural lashes. Though it may not target the eyes directly, false eyelashes give the look of opening up your eyes.
 Draw white eyeliner around your eyes and gently smudge it until you have the look of a graceful cloud around your eyes. Make sure the liner is evenly spread, fading out by the point it reaches your eyebrows.


A white shimmer is typically reserved for more glamorous occasions, but if you're daring you might try working it into a casual look.
Getting a good shimmer may take a few times if you're not used to it. If it's not something you've tried before, the interesting new looks you get from it will be worth the challenge.
Other tinted highlighters can also be used in the inner corners of the eyes to make them pop and appear larger.

