 Conformation means the physical appearance of the dog. Rottweilers have an overall stocky look, with a wide chest, long back, and thick legs. Typically they range from 2 to 2 1⁄2 feet (0.6 to 0.8 m) tall at the shoulder, though it is not uncommon for them to be even taller. Rottweilers are powerful, muscular dogs, and the overall shape of the animal should invoke a feeling of strength and agility.They have large, heavy paws with high knuckles, and are never flat-footed.
Their legs are straight, not bowed outwards, and typically stand such that their shoulders are even with or slightly higher than their hindquarters.
Their necks are thick, nearly the same diameter around as their heads.
The tail is usually docked, (cut short,) but not always, so the presence of a long tail cannot automatically disqualify a Rottweiler from being a pure-bred Rottweiler.;
, Their heads are very boxy, being about the same height as width, and only slightly longer from nose to the back of the head. Rottweilers can have a slight wrinkling effect around the eyes, but this should not be too pronounced.The ears of a Rottweiler will always fold down with a triangular shape, not unlike a Labrador Retriever, and will never stand upright like a German Shepherd Dog or hang like a Basset Hound.
 It is also important to note that, of the recognized breeds, Rottweilers are typically credited as having the second strongest bite pressure, behind only the pit bull, when measured in pounds per square inch. To this end, the jaws are robust and heavy, and the head wide in order to accommodate the large muscles needed to achieve this kind of strength.Rottweilers will never have underbites like English Bulldogs.
 Not every Rottweiler is a perfect specimen. Some may be stockier, longer, taller, leaner, or otherwise different than others of the same breed. Remember that while breed types are usually pretty all-inclusive, it is possible to have small variations, especially those that are environmental in nature, within the same breed.It is also important to consider that, like people, some Rottweilers are overweight, and will resemble more of a barrel shape than a tapered athlete. This does not mean the dog is not a Rottweiler, just that it has been spoiled with food.
 Rottweilers were initially bred for work as protectors and guardians. This means they can be quite dominant, and even aggressive on occasion. Rottweilers are intelligent and active dogs who enjoy playing and completing tasks.Rottweilers can be very gentle and loving dogs, but they require a lot of training and guidance from an early age.
Without proper training as a puppy, Rottweilers can become destructive pets who bark constantly and chew up your furniture or dig in the yard.

