 Draw a line on a piece of paper that is 5 inches long. You can also use the bottom edge of your paper as the bottom edge of the protractor to skip this step.


Make a mark in the exact center of your line at 2.5 inches from the ends of the line.
 Use a compass to connect the edges of your line in a half circle arc.


Set your compass to create a circle with a diameter of 5 inches.
Draw a half circle connecting the ends of your horizontal line or centered along the bottom edge of the paper.
 Using a paper square fold the square exactly in half lengthwise and along each diagonal.


A piece of origami paper makes a good square to use.
You can cut a perfect square by folding the top edge of a piece of printer paper to align with a side edge. Draw a line across the bottom where the paper crosses and cut off the bottom section of the paper.
Use the fully opened square to trace a 90º angle on your protractor. Place the bottom of the square along the bottom of the protractor. Align the edge of the square with the center of the line and trace along the edge of the square.
 The square folded in half creates a 45 degree angle. Place the folded triangle along the bottom edge of your protractor and mark a line on the curved arc where the triangle crosses the arc. label the line 45 degrees.


Fold a triangle with one edge from the upper left corner of the paper to the bottom center of the paper. This will create a 60º angle. Create the same fold from the right side to create a 120º angle. Mark these angles on your protractor. Make each fold on both sides of the triangle to create the complimentary angles for both sides of the protractor.
Fold a new triangle with the inner edge of the triangle extended from the upper left corner down to the center of the paper. The corner of the triangle will be slightly to the right of the center of the paper and an imaginary line extends from the corner of the paper to the bottom center of the paper. This will create a 75º and 105º angle.
Flip the folded paper over and place the edge of the paper on the 90 degree angle of your protractor. The edge of the triangle now marks a 15 and 165º angle

, Use scissors to carefully cut out the half circle of your protractor.


Cut a small "D" shape from the center of the protractor to see the lines of angles you would like to measure.
 Place the bottom edge of the protractor along one edge of the angle you are measuring. Align the other leg of the angle with curved arc of the protractor. Note where the ray crosses the arc of the protractor to determine the angle you are measuring.


Place the vertex of the angle where you marked the center of the bottom of the protractor.

