 This will help you become more of a fan of Peanuts and Snoopy, and it will make you WANT to express your love. One way to find these comics strips is the Internet. Some websites such as Go Comics (http://www.gocomics.com/peanuts?ref=comics),and the official Peanuts website (http://www.peanuts.com/), have the comic strips listed.


You can also search for specific strips you want to read, or search by a theme. Another way to find the strips is in your local library. You can either look in the archives of newspapers for the comic strip section, and read whichever strips you can find, but in some libraries they have books of the strips. These are collectors editions of the strips organized by the dates they were released. If you look on the website of your local library, you can reserve the book you want to read, and collect it when it is ready to be picked up. Sometimes you can find them just by browsing (they are normally kept in the kid's section), but the guaranteed way of getting the book you want is by reserving.;
, You can find these popular items on websites such as eBay (www.eBay.com), Gumtree (www.Gumtree.com), and other websites like these. At the Ekka, and your local show, they sometimes sell both Snoopy and Peanuts showbags. If you choose to purchase these, you can get a number of different merchandise at cheap or discounted prices.


Look at your local show or the Ekka website for more details. Also, at garage sales you can pick up second-hand items if you know what you're looking for. Most items at garage sales are cheap, and once they have been cleaned up a bit, they can look as good as new. When you go to these sales, be on the look-out for any Snoopy items and do not be afraid to go rummaging through the various boxes full of unwanted items.
If you want an item for a cheaper price than the one that is listed, you can bargain with the owner. But beware, don't bargain too much or the owner may get grumpy, and sell it to a different buyer.
 Searching for videos on YouTube will bring up several different, useful how-to style videos that will get your mii just the way you want it. Searching for "Charlie Brown Mii" or "Snoopy Mii" will yield many results. When you've found the mii and video you want, just get started!!

