 If you're going to call in an order, you need to find one that delivers to your neighborhood, or one that's close enough to get to in the time it takes to make the pizza, generally 20-45 minutes. Use Yelp or Google Maps to find nearby restaurants that serve the kind of pizza you like, and peruse their menus online.;
, Generally, you can look at most pizza restaurants menus online if you're curious about specific specialty pizzas, or you can ask after you call the restaurant to describe any specials or options that you might not be aware of. Before you call, decide on:


The size of your pizza, generally S (8-10 inch crust), M (10-12 inch crust), and L (+12 inches)
The number of pizzas you'd like to order
Your toppings
Any specialty instructions or diet restrictions
Any additional items you like, such as salad, soda, or wings

, Be prepared with your order, and be ready to answer any questions they'll ask. Ask the employee who answers to describe any specials and make sure you're aware of the price at the end of the call. Generally, the restaurant will need to know:


Your name
Your telephone number
Your address, along with any special instructions (especially if you live in an apartment building)
Your order

, Generally, you can either have the pizza delivered to hour house or you can go pick it up yourself. Most restaurants that deliver pizza include a small delivery fee, plus a customary tip for the delivery person.
 Before you hang up the phone, make sure you know how you're going to pay for the pizza, and how much it costs. Some places will take cards that you can use over the phone by supplying the restaurant with your card number and security PIN. Other places only accept cash. Make sure you've got enough to cover the cost of the pizza, plus a generous tip, and then sit back and wait for your pie.
 If you're getting the pizza delivered in the US, it's customary to leave a tip of around 15% for the delivery person, or at least $3. If the order is especially large, complicated, or if the weather is particularly nasty, add a dollar for each item you ordered.Try to have the tip calculated before you're standing in front of the delivery person awkwardly. If it works out to give them denominations that leave an appropriate tip in change, all the better: "Keep the change, sir."

