 If you are concerned about your bone health and think you may be at risk of developing stress fractures, it is helpful to know the symptoms of these fractures so you can deal with it right away if you develop one. These symptoms include:


Pain: It will intensify when you put your weight on the bone or do physical activity, and will decrease when you rest. The pain is often described as sharp and pulsating.
Tenderness in the area of injury: When a stress fracture occurs, the area around it becomes inflamed. The swelling and injury will make the area around the fracture very tender.
Bruising in the area: When you blood vessels break because of a force or blow, your skin will form a bruise. Blood leaks out of the blood vessels and results in red, black or purple skin mark.
Muscle spasms or numbness: When the muscle fibers in the injured area stretch or get torn, the muscle fibers contract at the same time and tight. This results in insufficient blood flow to the affected area. This leads to spasms and an odd feeling or numbness in the affected area.
 Some activities, conditions and lifestyle choices can put you at a higher risk of getting stress factors. If you are concerned about stress factors, or have had one in the past and would like to prevent it in the future, it is helpful to know the risks. They include:


Being an athlete. Sports like tennis or track that require the repetitive stress of your foot striking the ground causes trauma that can lead to stress fracture.Increased activity. An abrupt increase of activity in your life when you are moderately out of shape can lead to a stress fracture.
Having foot problems. People with foot problems can be more vulnerable because of an unequal distribution of force on your feet.
Osteoporosis. This condition makes your bones weak, which increases the chances of getting a stress fracture.
Eating disorders. If you do not get healthy amounts of calcium and vitamin D each day, your bones can become weak.
 If you are concerned you may have a stress fracture, go to the hospital or your doctor’s office. There are several different methods used to determine whether or not you have a stress fracture. You will also be asked to supply some information, like medical history.Your doctor may:


Ask for your medical history and carry out an extensive medical examination.
Do an x-ray of the area that is bothering you.
Get a CT scan done for smaller fractures.

