 With enough practice and vocal strength, you should be able to shatter a glass from a more comfortable distance. Most normal people, however, will have difficulty sustaining the volume necessary for breaking a glass. Being very close will focus your sound energy and give you the best chance possible of making it break.


To check just how loud you are singing, you might want to download a sound measuring app from the app store on your phone or buy a sound level meter from an online retailer. If you notice that, even at your loudest, you're nowhere close to the 100 - 110 decibel range, you might want to consider using a microphone., Begin singing the resonant tone at a normal speaking volume. Listen carefully to the sound of your voice. Does it sound sharp (above the resonant pitch) or flat (below the resonant pitch)? If so, make slight adjustments to your tone. When you are confident that you are singing the pitch perfectly, slowly increase your singing volume into you are singing as loudly as you can.


If you feel discomfort, pain, or notice a significant change in the quality of your voice, you may be straining your voice by singing too loudly or too long. To prevent permanent damage, you should stop immediately, drink some water. Hold off singing until your voice is back to normal.Vowel sounds will be less obstructed, enabling you to achieve higher volumes. In particular, the "ee" vowel sound has the highest volume rating. The vowel “ay” is also rated very highly for volume.
Sustain your note as long as possible while making slight adjustments. Even if you hit the resonant frequency dead-on, you’ll have to hold the pitch perfectly for a few seconds before the glass vibrates enough to shatter. More likely you’ll have to “slide” your voice slightly up and down and make slight adjustments to match the resonant pitch.
 Some glasses will have more microscopic imperfections than others. More imperfections in the glass means you’ll have a better chance of causing it to shatter. By rotating between several different glasses, it’s more likely that at least one will have the imperfections you need to break the glass.


You might also want to try glasses of various shape and size. Be sure you check the resonant frequency of each glass with a flick of your nail; each glass will have its own slightly different resonant frequency.
 Wear gloves when cleaning up to prevent yourself from getting cuts or scraped by a sharp edge. Then examine the area thoroughly to make sure you've picked up even the smallest fragments. A flashlight can help you spot small slivers.


You may want to avoid using a vacuum cleaner to suck up your glass fragments. Doing so can cause damage to your vacuum. Instead, sweep up as much as possible with a broom, and capture tiny slivers by pressing a piece of bread into the fragments.