 You don’t want any of them to feel slighted that you brushed by them without paying proper respects., If you have a friend or partner willing to tag along, you might have a better time at the holiday office partner than you otherwise would. Be sure to check with your boss before bringing a guest, though – some holidays office parties are intended for employees only., Arriving late and leaving early means you’ll spend less time at the holiday office party. If anyone asks why you arrived late, explain, “I was stuck in traffic.” If anyone asks why you’re leaving early, explain, “I need to let my pet out.”If alcohol is served at the holiday office party, arriving first could communicate that you’re too eager to start drinking. Even if alcohol is not available at the holiday office party, arriving first might create the impression that you’re not busy at work.
Leaving last indicates that you don’t know when to stop partying. Do not be the last to leave., If the holiday party introduces you to others in your department, or even others in neighboring departments, you should use the chance to talk to them.Not only is a great way to meet new friends, but you can also use the holiday party to forge alliances within your company. Entertain their ideas and impress them by offering your own.Later, when the party concludes, you can use these professional networks to exert influence in your company and enlist others to your cause.
If these people move on to other firms, they might remember you and encourage their new employers to offer you a job.
Follow up with the people you networked with. Add them on social media and stay in touch.
 Don’t use the holiday office party as an opportunity to corner your superior to talk about a raise or promotion. Those matters are best left to regular business hours., You can talk to them about work. How does your work differ from theirs? How is it similar? Alternately, you could talk to them about some unrelated topic like music or art.Always keep the conversation light. Talk about your family, but only in affectionate terms. Never disparage your boss or family in conversation during a holiday office party. Avoid conversation about politics, religion, and personal problems.
Your conversations should last around 5-10 minutes.That way, you won’t dominate the other person’s time, and they won’t dominate yours.
When your conversation partner is talking, nod silently to show interest and agreement with what they said.
Do not make an interjection like, “I know what you mean!” While well-intentioned, it might throw off their rhythm.
 They might feel snubbed if you don’t. Be sure to thank whoever organized the holiday office party before leaving.