 Your final decree should show one of three things: a child support worksheet, an agreed child support amount, or a statement where the court retained jurisdiction to establish child support at a later date.If you do not have a court-ordered agreement, you should either contact a private attorney or your state's child support enforcement office for instructions on how to proceed.
If your divorce or custody agreement did not address child support, it can still be established by your state's child support enforcement office. However, you will likely have waived any claim for back support.;
, To file for child support enforcement, you will need your divorce or custody documents, the birth certificates for the children, and may be asked to prove your residency in the state and county where you will file.


Proof of state residency can be proved through your driver's license or tax documents. Proof of county residency can be shown through utility bills, mortgage statements, or rent receipts.
 Depending on when your original child support order was filed, you are entitled to a periodic review. In order to re-calculate your child support, the child support attorney will need to know your income, your household expenses, and what you pay in child care or insurance for the children., Often the most difficult part of child support enforcement is locating the non-custodial parent. No enforcement action or contempt petition can proceed until your ex-partner is served with notice of the impending court action. Child support enforcement entities have resources to help find your ex, but you are often the best source of information.


Do your best to find your ex-partner's current address and place of employment. Good resources are mutual friends, family, and social media.
Some divorces call for an annual exchange of income tax information. If this is your situation, the best time to file for support enforcement is as soon as you receive this information.
 There are two primary ways to privately pursue enforcement of a support order. Each has its pros and cons and you need to consider costs that may be involved.


Private attorneys will either work by the hour or for a contingency fee if they plan to recover back support that is due you. This is the most expensive option and an attorney may only take your case if there is the possibility of a substantial reward. In your favor, a private attorney will likely be the most accessible and give your case more individual attention. A law firm may also have private investigators on staff to help locate your ex-partner.
There are commercial child support debt collection agencies that will pursue your claim in exchange for a cut of both the back unpaid support and on-going support. Expect to pay around 35 percent. One advantage a collection agency has is the staff to be relentless without regard for state lines. As they are not a lawyer, they are not stopped from contacting the non-custodial parent directly through letters, collection calls (including robo-calls), and other aggressive tactics. However, a private collection agency cannot adjust child support, file for contempt, or attach tax refunds or other cash payments., Since the 1970s, the federal government has been evolving as the primary agency for the collection of child support. The states receive funding from the central program to establish state-based enforcement programs. While there is some variance from state to state, the programs must meet federal standards to continue receiving funding.The primary complaint about state child support programs is lack of communication and a sense of being caught in "red tape." The truth is that no private organization has the reach and the authority to locate, prosecute, and collect back and current child support.
The state can issue arrest warrants, attach tax returns, levy bank accounts, suspend licenses, put liens on property, and deny or suspend passports.If you receive cash or other benefits from the state, you may be automatically enrolled in the state child support enforcement. The state has the right to collect reimbursement for your benefits from the non-custodial parent.The fees for state assistance are nominal, usually around 4-percent per payment.
The state agency will review and file child support modifications at no charge to you.
 One disadvantage to the state enforcement system is that they will not employ private investigators to locate your ex-partner. When you work with a private attorney or agency, investigative services may be available, or you can hire one on your own. The unfortunate truth is that no action can be taken against your ex-partner until his or her location is confirmed. A private investigator can cross state lines and talk to people that may not want to cooperate with a lawyer., Once you have chosen an enforcement method, it is crucial that you cooperate with the lawyer or agency. Do not miss office visits, scheduled phone calls, or court appearances. Promptly comply with any requests for documents or information.


If you move, get a new phone number, or change jobs, you must inform the enforcement agency.
If you receive any information about the location or employment of your ex-partner, report this to the agency immediately.
 According to the federal oversight agency, 70 percent of child support is collected via income withholding orders(IWO).If the non-custodial parent's employment is known, either an attorney or child support enforcement can file an IWO. The employer will withdraw a fixed percentage of the payor's wages and forward it to the state payment clearinghouse.
 If the payor skips out on a job with an IWO or refuses to make voluntary payments, either a private attorney or a CSE lawyer will file a contempt case in court. If CSE files the case for you, there is no charge. With a private attorney you may be subject to legal and filing fees.


Understand that service of process on the non-custodial parent is often the most difficult part of a child support enforcement case. This is the point where many custodial parents become frustrated and believe the system is against them or that nobody cares.

There is no way to bring someone into court without service. If the non-compliant parent flees the state, hops between jobs, or works under the table, he or she may be impossible to locate.
It is very difficult to enforce a court order from one state in another state. If your ex-partner flees the state, you can either hire an attorney in that state and start over or cooperate with CSE transferring the case to the program in the new state. This can take from 3 to 6 months


Once your ex-partner is served, the case will be scheduled for a court appearance. At this time, he or she can admit to being behind in child support or ask for a hearing. If the contempt is admitted, the judge will find the non-custodial parent in contempt and issue a purge order.At that time, the payor will be put on a monthly review cycle. If payments are made, the case is continued. If payments are not made, the CSE can ask the judge to impose a jail sentence.Common sentences are 30 to 180 days. There is often a purge bond, or amount the incarcerated parent can pay to be released from jail. If this happens, the monthly cycle recommences.
 Depending on the age of your children, child support cases can go on for decades. Over 70 percent of cases are resolved amicably with the non-custodial parent paying voluntarily or through an IWO.


If payments are missed or the IWO isn't enough to cover the ongoing child support, an arrears amount will begin to accrue. As the children turn 18 and age out of the child support order, the IWO or purge order amount will remain the same, but the extra will go toward the unpaid balance.
If your case is one of the difficult 20 percent, it is important that you continue to cooperate with either your private attorney, collection agency, or CSE in pursuit of the case. There is no magic solution, just dogged persistence.
 The modification procedure varies from state to state.However, all state laws allow for child support to be reviewed and modified when there is a material change in earnings of either party, the children grow into another age bracket, or on a schedule, usually every two to three years.


Most CSE agencies will schedule modifications automatically. With a private attorney you will have to discuss when to modify the child support order. A collection agency cannot assist you with modifications.
To qualify for a modification, you must complete financial affidavits and you may be asked to supply proof of income and expenses.Once the calculations are complete, the motion to modify must be served on the other party. As with the original petition, this can be a time-consuming and frustrating procedure. Your information can help speed this along.
If the modification is granted, all IWOs and purge orders will be adjusted to reflect the new child support amount.
 There are several situations that will terminate your child support enforcement case. If this happens, you may still be entitled to pursue a claim for unpaid back support.Your child graduates high school and reaches the age of 18. This is commonly called aging out. Child support will also terminate if the child is emancipated by the court.Your child is adopted by your new spouse or you surrender your rights to other adoptive parents.
Custody changes to the other parent. At that time, current support will terminate and back support is subject to negotiation.
The child or the non-custodial parent dies. You may still be eligible to collect back child support from the estate and your child may inherit from the estate.
The CSE closes your case. If you are non-cooperative or move to another state, the child support enforcement agency will usually terminate your case. This does not stop the obligation, the CSE will simply not be participating in the enforcement action.
The payor becomes disabled. Under certain circumstances, enforcement actions will be put in abeyance if the non-custodial parent becomes disabled. Social Security retirement and Social Security Disability Insurance is subject to IWO. However, Supplemental Security Income and Temporary Aid to Needy Families or other very low-income cash assistance is not eligible for an IWO or other levy. At this time, aggressive enforcement actions will usually be stopped.
You request the lawyer or agency close the case. As long as you are not receiving state assistance, you have to right to forgive unpaid child support or not pursue aggressive collection or current support.

