 Start flirting with the person by teasing, playfully touching, or just paying attention to him or her. Let the person know you're interested and give him or her a few not-so-subtle compliments. You're not trying to be coy here -- you're looking for a hook-up buddy.
 Once the person is interested, you can start kissing or doing something more. Tell the person how attracted you are to him or her but do not compliment that person's personality or say anything that makes it sound like you want to date.
 Every non-couple is different. Some friends with benefits know each other well enough to set some ground rules before they start hooking up. But that can feel a little awkward and unnatural, so you may want to wait until after that first kiss or hook-up session. Ideally, you should have the talk before sex, so you know that both people are on the same page and that no one gets really hurt. Here are the things you should talk about:


Make it clear that you are not dating -- you're just having fun. Both of you should be free to hook up with other people.
Make sure that you won't see each other too often. You should see each other just two or three times a week, preferably at night. If you see each other almost every day, then guess what? That's dating.
Decide that you'll end the relationship when one person gets too attached. Unless you both start falling for each other, make it clear that if someone gets attached, it's over.
 That's what having friends with benefits is for, isn't it? Have fun hooking up with your "friend," letting loose, and trying the things you were too afraid to try with your old boyfriend or girlfriend. This is your time to let loose and experiment, picking up the tricks you can use to wow future partners. Have fun trying new poses, having sex in kinky locations, and just throwing caution to the wind.
 As you ease in to your friends with benefits relationship, don't forget to check in with the person you're hooking up with. Make sure you're both into each other, but not too much. If you'll both be at a party, talk about how you'll act. If you're also hooking up with another person, don't be shady about it. You don't have to spill your heart out, but you should keep talking so you know what's working and what isn't.

