 When you are focusing on things that you love, you will have less time to focus on the desire to purge. It is especially important to keep yourself distracted after you have eaten a meal.Some other things that you can focus on include:


Reading a book or watching a movie.
Pursuing your favorite hobby. If you don’t have a hobby, find one that is tailored to your interests.

Do mental games like crosswords, sudoku, and puzzles.
Put your heart into learning something new, be it a skill or a subject like chemistry.
 Volunteering is a great way to focus on constructive things, rather than on your desire to purge. It is also an opportunity to see the lives of others and put your own in perspective. What you learn while volunteering might help you to analyze the reasons why you purge, and may help you overcome them. Places to volunteer include:


At a local women’s shelter.
At a food service, like a soup kitchen, that serves the homeless and poor. Seeing people grateful to eat food can be therapeutic.
At an orphanage.
At an animal shelter.
 When you exercise, chemicals like serotonin get released in your brain, lifting your mood and making you feel great about yourself. Exercising is also good because, when done in moderation rather than excessively, it can help you stop purging if you purge to lose weight. Exercising regularly keeps you fresh, energetic, and active. In turn, these things can make you feel more confident and happier.You should try to exercise for at least 30 minutes for four to five days out of the week. This can be accomplished through walking, running, swimming, biking, hiking, rock climbing—you name it.
Avoid exercising excessively. Some signs you may be exercising too much include if you engage in strenuous exercise daily or multiple times a day, or if you exercise upwards of 15 hours per week., Behaviors such as purging are usually a result of a pile up of feelings, emotions and mental energies that are seeking an outlet. Yoga and meditation can ensure the smooth release of these mental energies, feelings and emotions in such a manner that you can combat the negativity in your life and give them an outlet in a constructive manner. Yoga and meditation can help your mind to regain its composure and overcome the desire to think negatively and purge.Both practices can help you to see the beauty that lies within you.


When practicing yoga, you focus your entire being on your breath and the movement of your body. There are poses (which are called asanas) that can be tailored to those suffering from an eating disorder.These poses help you to sow the seeds of inner strength and explore your potential. One example of a pose is Goddess Pose, which is your legs bent, knees turned out, and arms up., You purge for psychological reasons, not because your body needs to do so. These psychological reasons can include anxiety, guilt, stress, and depression.When you have a pet to look after and care for, these feelings are often relieved because you are putting your energy towards loving and caring for another being. Pets are capable of altering our emotions and behaviors—the unconditional love of a pet is a powerful thing. Pets can also serve as a great distraction from the negative thoughts that lead to purging.If you can’t get a pet, you could consider volunteering at a humane society where you can play with the animals that also want love and affection.

