 Some beauty salons and plastic surgeons offer treatments for cellulite that use lasers and other mechanical devices.There are downsides to these methods. They are often expensive, they need to be repeated regularly, they have to be done by a trained professional and can be painful.
One example: Cellulaze is a procedure approved by the FDA for cellulite. A small laser is inserted under the skin to break down the cellulite’s structure. Research carefully any such interventions and check into the licensing and ratings of the salon performing the functions, as well as the credentials and training of the person administering it.
Laser toning and cold-laser massage are also techniques that are said to reduce the appearance of cellulite. The tri-active laser was approved by the FDA and claims to temporarily reduce cellulite’s appearance. Fillers are sometimes used to treat cellulite dimples.
 Many products advertise that they can help improve cellulite. Not all are that successful, but you could give them a try.


You might find temporary help from ingredients that dilate blood and lymph vessels. Black pepper, green tea, ginger, cinnamon, cayenne pepper, and ginkgo fall into this category, and some anti-cellulite creams contain them.
Ointments containing forskolin (which comes from the herb coleus forskohlii) were found in one study to help women lose excess skin from their thighs.
Skin firming cream can help build up collagen and diminish wrinkles. Some cellulite creams contain retinol, coenzyme Q10, and vitamin C. Major brands like Lancome, L’Oreal, and Nivea offer gels and lotions that are said to firm up the skin.
 Not only do massages feel great, but they are also known to reduce the look of unsightly cellulite dimples.


Use a body brush with boar or just stiff bristles in a circular motion while you take a shower. Or use a hand-held massagers. Apply the massage head to the areas with cellulite.
Add a skin firming serum, body lotion or anti-cellulite gel before you apply the massaging motions. Cellulite is caused by fat deposits that push through the skin’s connective tissue, usually in the buttocks and thighs.Massaging the skin stimulates the lymphatic system that lies right underneath the skin’s surface. This circulates toxins and causes the body to release them more quickly. Add a few drops of olive and juniper oil to the skin before massaging it.