 Carefully measure the space with a tape measure, then measure it once more for the sake of accuracy. Add one inch to all sides, just in case chipping or splitting occurs when you make your cuts. You will need to buy 5% to 10% more material than what your measurements dictate to account for waste and mistakes.The standard measurement for laminate stock sheets is 48 inches (1.22 meters) by 96 inches (3.66 meters).Purchase the number of laminate sheets you’ll need for the job at any hardware store.;
, Bring your purchased laminate sheets inside your home about 72 hours before you plan to begin the job. Open the boxes and allow the laminate time to acclimate to the humidity level before you start making cuts.


If you don’t allow the sheets a chance to acclimate, you could end up with laminate that pulls apart or buckles after you’ve installed it., There are many efficient cutting tools used for laminate, but no matter which one you choose, the blade needs to be extremely sharp and thin. In general, the thinner the blade, the less likely it will be to cause splits or chips in the laminate. Your options for cutting tools are table saws, circular saws, jigsaws, miter saws, and hand saws.Table saws, circular saws and jigsaws are usually the favored options.


If you choose a jigsaw as your tool, be sure to get special laminate cutting blades to go with it. These blades are quite cheap – they will be efficient to use for one job, but you’ll need to throw them out after that.If you plan to be cutting a lot of laminate flooring, consider purchasing or renting a laminate floor cutter at a hardware store. These are easy to use, create no noise and generate no toxic laminate dust., Aside from cutting tools, you will also need a dust mask, safety glasses, a tape measure and a non-permanent fine-tipped marker for this job. Do not skip the protective glasses and dust mask. The dust generated from cutting laminate is known to cause cancer and other health issues, so you definitely need to avoid breathing it in or getting it into your eyes.If you will be cutting a lot of irregular or curved shapes, consider investing in a forge profile gauge. This tool will make it very easy for you to accurately mark curved lines onto the laminate before you start making the cuts.

