 Showering without any feminine hygiene products may be scary or seem gross if you’re not used to it, but there’s nothing wrong with it. Equally, it's okay to take a shower wearing a tampon or menstrual cup. The menstrual fluid will just go down the drain, and even if the bleeding seems shocking at first (the water will make it look like there’s more than there really is), it should clear up after the initial rush. Consider showering this way to give your body a blessed break from wearing tampons that can cause TSS (toxic shock syndrome) through bacterial infection or bulky pads. Dispose of the tampon or pad before stepping into the shower (you may even want to stand inside the shower while doing this if the trash can is within arm’s reach).



If you are showering during gym or in another public place, you will probably want to continue using a tampon or menstrual cup. If you prefer pads to insertable products, you will have to either make an exception while showering, allow yourself to bleed in the shower, or exempt yourself from the shower (talk to your gym teacher if necessary).;
, This will help clear residual blood, after which your bloodiness should be minimal.
 This is because the pH level of your vagina is regulated by the body to keep away vaginal infections; soaps upset the balance, making the vagina more susceptible to infection.Wash the surrounding skin, but not the inside of your vagina or labia, then wash your hands with soap to remove any residual odor.


If your skin is extra oily during your period, you may wish to use soaps formulated for oily skin. Likewise, wash your hair with a shampoo that targets oiliness if necessary. You may even wish to wash your hair more often than usual during your periods.
 That warm water will do wonders if you're feeling bloated, sticky, or moody, plus the soothing heat can help your cramps.
 This will keep messiness to a minimum. Make sure to have a paper towel because you don't want blood on your towel.
 How you do this will depend on what you’re using:



Pad: This is the hardest to gracefully reapply after a shower because it requires that you be dry and wearing underwear. To make sure you don’t bleed on your towel, it is best to wipe yourself with paper towels (toilet paper will go to pieces when it touches the water on your body), which you may even want to hold between your legs while you dry off the rest of your body. Have a pad ready in your underwear for when you get out of the shower and get it right on, so you don't have any accidents.







Tampon or menstrual cup: The easiest, least messy way to do this is to squat in the shower and insert the item. If you want to do so over a toilet, wipe yourself with paper towel (toilet paper dissolves when moistened) and hold it between your legs while drying off with a towel, then step over to the toilet.
 Be sure you don’t leave any spots or discoloration in there for the next person to find.

