 When you change your washing and hair care routines you will bring out your natural curl. The detergents found in shampoos dry out cuticles and produce frizzy hair, so many people with wavy, thick, or coarse hair have started cleansing their hair without shampoo. Avoid shampoos with sulfates which will dry out your strands and create more frizz.


Skip the shampoo altogether. Wash your hair with a no-poo, low-poo or a co-wash instead of using a shampoo. Use the co-wash method. Co-wash means cleansing your hair with conditioners that use oils instead of detergents to cleanse your hair.You can buy sulfate free and no-poo shampoos at stores like Target (L’Oreal Ever Creme Sulfate-Free Moisture System) as well as stores like Sephora (DevaCurl).
 Because wavy, coarse, and thick hair has a spiral shape, the natural oils produced by the scalp take longer to get to the tip than with normal hair and should, therefore, be washed less often.If you wash your hair every day, try cutting back to washing 2-3 times a week, and see if you notice that you have more curl and less frizzy hair.


Keep track of your washes on a calendar to make sure you are not over washing your hair.
Consider using a clarifying shampoo once a week to wash if you are noticing build up in your hair. Everyone's hair texture and oil level is a little bit different, so experiment and see what works for you. It might take a couple weeks before you figure out the best balance of shampoo and no poo washes.
 This will keep your coarse hair more flexible and manageable. Use a moisturizing conditioner and a leave-in conditioner. Use conditioners for wavy or curly hair, because these conditioners add extra moisture and shine. Evenly spread your conditioner in your hair if you have less than 3 inches (7.6 cm) of hair. Apply your conditioner to the midsection and ends of your hair if you have long hair.


If you are co-washing, only apply your conditioner to the midsection or tips of your hair. Avoid the roots of your hair with your conditioner, because it may lead to build up in your hair.
Look for a conditioner that does not contain silicone. Silicone over time will leave residue that will dull your waves and weigh them down., Make sure you use a thick cream that moisturizes instead of a mousse with alcohol. For women, TIGI, AG Cosmetics and Kerastase have great products that are both a styling cream and a leave in conditioner and some products that even protect against heat damage, too. For men, there are great styling creams that are advertised for you, for example, Malin and Goetz and Fellow Barber sell creams to make your hair less unruly and more manageable.








After you get out of the shower, blot your hair at the roots with a microfiber towel. Wait 15-20 minutes if you have shorter hair and 30-40 if you have longer hair. Once your damp hair is half dry, apply the cream to your hair and create your curls.
If you have short hair rub the cream in your palms and then evenly distribute through your hair. Do not squeeze your hair but gently rub your hands through your hair, twisting your hair in small chunks to give it wave.
If you have long hair, rub the cream in your palms, and create curls with your fingers by gently twisting your hair and lightly spreading the cream around the curls with your hands. Start at one side of your hair and methodically create the curls around your head. , Drying your hair without the diffuser will blow out your curls, so make sure you use the attachment. This will make your hair more wavy and less frizzy. The best diffusers are concave in the middle and not flat. The wide shape will help your curls dry in their more natural shape because the curls rest inside the round diffuser. 








Attach the diffuser to the barrel of your blow dryer. Most blow dryers come with a diffuser attachment that you can put on the barrel of your blow dryer.
Dry the roots of your hair first. At medium heat, start drying at the nape of your neck and put the diffuser directly at your roots. Gently hold the ends of your hair away to let them start to dry naturally. Go around your head, drying the roots until they are dry. Once your roots are dry, let your hair dry naturally. Apply a light hairspray to your curls after your hair has fully dried. Dove and Garnier have great light hold, anti-humidity, and shine enhancing hair sprays that will keep your curls in place.

