 First, lay out and straighten a king-sized sheet with its patterned side facing down. Then place your hoop on the sheet’s underside (the one that’s facing up), along its widest edge. Center the hoop along that edge with about three inches (7.6 cm) of fabric between the two., Fold those three inches of fabric over the hoop’s closest end, so that its patterned side is now facing up. Now cut off a strip of duct tape. Tape the sheet’s edge to where it meets the underside, inside the hoop, creating a loop around the hoop., Choose either corner of the same edge to start. Pull it over the hoop until it’s opposite from where you taped the middle. Feed about three inches of the corner under the hoop and line it up with the sheet’s other edge. Pinch the two together and use another strip of tape to create another loop. Then repeat with the other corner., At this point, it may be easier to set the hoop on two sawhorses (or something similar) so you can kneel or stand in the middle. Starting from either corner, continue pulling about three inches of fabric over the top of the hoop, taping its edge to the sheet’s underside, until you reach where you placed your first piece of tape. Repeat along the other side until you’ve created a continuous loop around the whole hoop., Think of your hoop as a compass, with a north, south, east, and west pole (with your tent’s open flaps being one of those poles). Use a small knife, scissors, or something similar to poke holes through the duct tape and sheet at each pole. Make each just large enough to thread your twine through. Make at least a total of five holes (with one through each flap of your tent’s opening) so that weight is distributed evenly when hung., Cut five equal lengths of twine, one for each hole. Exactly how long doesn’t really matter, as long as they’re long enough to reach the binder ring when centered over the hoop and hung from the ceiling. Tie one end of each length to the ring, then thread the other end through a hole and tie it around the hoop.Twine can unravel over time, but you can prevent these by wrapping each end with duct tape.
 Install a hook into your ceiling. Cut one more length of twine and tie one end to the hook. Again, exact length doesn’t matter, as long as it’s short enough to keep the tent’s bottom from bunching on the floor. Tie the length’s other end to the book ring, and your tent is ready for use!If you want to hang it outside, no need for a hook. Simply tie one end of your last piece of twine around a tree branch or similar object.

