 Much of romance in school is done in secret because you are often afraid to be embarrassed if you get rejected. One way to impress someone you are romantically interested in is to be honest with them and let them know you notice them. Tell them you are interested in getting to know them more. This can be a bold move, and may not always work out, but rather than trying to get someone’s attention indirectly, you can come right out with it.In many cases, your crush will be impressed that you had the confidence to tell them how you felt, and if they like you in return, you’ll save time and energy you would have used trying to get their attention. If they did not yet like you in return, this move might be enough to win their affection.
If you have a crush on someone that you don't actually know yet, it is probably best to introduce yourself first and wait to tell them about your crush. Give yourself a chance to talk to them a few times before revealing why you wanted to meet them.
 There are always classmates who you want to be friends with but you only ever see them in class. One way to make an impression and move toward friendship is to reveal something personal about yourself to the person. This is probably best done gradually because you don’t want them telling the whole school your deepest secret. Make a real effort to talk to the person once a day for a week or so and then tell them something beyond what they would know from class.You want to find a good balance between too surface level, such as what food you like, and the most personal thing you can think of, such as family problems you have never told someone. Tell them about a hobby you have outside of school that most people wouldn’t guess. Or tell them about a goal you want to achieve later in life.
A good way to try and make space for this conversation is to start sitting with the person at lunch or riding the bus together or simply walking between classes together whenever you can. This will give you a little extra time to talk to the person and get to know each other more.
Once you have gotten past the initial step of making a first impression, you can work to build a stronger friendship.
 Being smart in school can be tricky because people may perceive you as being arrogant or a know-it-all, which is rarely a likeable quality. One way that you can impress a classmate with your smarts is to stop correcting people openly during class, but instead ask them privately if they could use some help. There are always students who struggle in school, and if you are really good in a subject, they could probably benefit from your help. Bullying people in class who make mistakes makes an impression, but not in a good way.If you notice someone struggling in class, go to them afterwards and say, “I noticed you were having a hard time with the question you were asked. Would you ever want some help studying?” The person may still turn you down, but you will come across as more respectful than if you call him or her out during class.

