 If you are someone who likes the look of clean lines, white towels may be for you. White towels call to mind the look and feel of a hotel or spa bathroom, and they’ll go perfectly with any bathroom or preexisting décor.Light colored towels last longer and do not fade as obviously as darker colored towels do.
If your bathroom is already neutral, avoid white towels.;
, If your bathroom is currently neutral, colored towels are the easiest way to add visual interest. And because there are so many shades available, you don't have to tie yourself down to just one color.Create an ombre effect with your bathroom towels by buying different sized towels in various shades of the same color. Buy your largest towels in the darkest shade and lighten the shade as the size of your towels decrease.
If your bathroom is already brightly colored, gravitate towards more neutral towel colors.
 Patterned towels show a great deal of color interest and are a great way to tie the different shades of your bathroom together. Look for tones that already exist in your bathroom and try to find a towel that infuses those color tones into the towel’s pattern.If you have a tile floor, look to mirror the tile’s color in your patterned towels.
If you already have a heavily patterned shower curtain, steer away from using additional patterns in your towels.
 Layering patterns within your towels is a cool and easy way to make your towel display look more textured. Start off with a basic white bath towel with a colored accent, like stripes. Add an accent hand towel and top the whole thing off with a monogrammed washcloth.Monograms are an easy and classy way to lend some sophistication to a bathroom.
The more high quality your towels are, the more impressive your pattern mixing will look.
Mix polka dots with stripes for a preppy vibe.
Alternate chevron with stripes for a more modern look.
 Floral towels aren’t just for your grandmother’s bathroom; they’re also a great way to infuse your bathroom with a country-chic style. Set floral towels against solid towels to give your bathroom a vintage throwback feel.Do not mix floral patterns, as this will prove visually overwhelming.
Buy floral hand towels and set them against larger bathroom linens in a pale pink or ivory tone.

