 It’s hard to emphasize this too much. If you follow your religion just because someone else expect you to, you will always feel conflicted when you are around peers who disagree. Study the scriptures. Ask for help to understand gospel principles. Pay attention during church meetings and seminary. Learn what “being Mormon” is really about. If you don’t start building your own foundation, being a teen will be very rough. Make sure you have your own testimony and that yours is not just based on a parent's testimony. You need to know for yourself if the church is true. If you don't, then work on building up your own testimony through prayer and the study of the scriptures.;
, As you study the gospel, ask yourself if you really believe what you learn. It’s okay not to. If you, personally, really do believe in something, remember that thing. That belief is part of who you are, and you will want to protect it. If you don’t believe something, it’s best to realize that as you reflect in your room, not as you follow your friends on a Friday night. Remember that one of our core beliefs is personal revelation. You can learn anything you really want to know if you put in sincere time and work.
 Most of them have things they struggle with as well (though they might not admit it to everyone), and they would welcome the opportunity to support you if that is what you want. Find someone you trust to confide in. Older siblings can sometimes be a big help.
 You don’t need to broadcast your beliefs, but hiding them will make your life painful. Be quietly confident—you know yourself; you have nothing to prove. If your friends have a problem with the real you, find out early. It can be simple. If you’re invited to a drinking party, you can say “I don’t drink, and it’s not fun for me to be around a bunch of people who are drinking.” If your friends want to know more, be open and tell them whatever they want to know. If they reject you, then you have really insecure friends (secure people are okay with others not being like them). If the language in your group of friends is really bad, say “I think we swear too much.” (You can say “we” even if you don’t swear.) Many people don’t even hear themselves swear, and they’d be glad to know that it makes you uncomfortable.
 Your friends and peers have beliefs just like you do. They aren’t YOUR beliefs, but they are still genuine beliefs. Believing that premarital sex is okay is still a belief; it just isn’t a religious belief. Here’s the point: You hopefully respect the beliefs that your friends have. Expect your friends to do the same. If they give you a hard time, point out that you don’t give them a hard time. This also applies to friends who are members of the church. Final note: DON’T give your friends a hard time for their beliefs. If your friend thinks it’s okay to smoke, you can say you think it’s a really bad idea, but let them know that you will still be their friend.
 It might take a lot of work for you to find clothes that fit your style and cover you. Do your best. If you see someone with an outfit you like, ask them where they got it. Shop around. A lot of the stores that sport modest clothing are quite frumpy, but there are exceptions. Don’t give other girls in the church a hard time for how they look, please. If they look great, wonderful. If they lack style, why should you care? Be a friend. If a girl dresses immodestly, be her friend too.
 Sunday school might be boring. Your parents’ advice might be really out of touch. You might struggle to relate to your bishop. These are normal things. Adults aren’t geniuses, but they are trying to help. Work with them. If they do something that actually is helpful, let them know. Get to know different adults in your ward as much as you can because different people are good at different things. One person might have really good dating advice while another person can help you cope with depression or bullying. Your bishop or Young Men’s/Young Women’s leader might not know how to help, but they might know somebody who can help.
 Think long term.

