 Put your right hand on your hip, and hold your left arm out to the side, bent at the elbow and the wrist. Your left arm should look a little like the spout of a teapot.Keep your body loose and relaxed, especially the wrists.;
, As you shift your body to the right, push your right shoulder forward a little bit. At the same time, brush the air with your left hand.Shift your body back to the left on the second count. When you shift to the left, drop your left arm to your side., Count the beat using a "1, and, 2, and, 3, and, 4, and..." pattern. Dividing the beat like this will help you find your rhythm. It will be much easier to know what move lands on what count.On every odd beat you should be on your right, and on every even beat you should be on your left. Shift on the balls of your feet and move your hips to the beat.
Brush with your left hand on "1" and "5." When you aren't brushing with your left hand, keep your arm relaxed and at your side., The second eight counts of the dance are almost exactly the same as the first eight counts. The only difference is that the second time through, you'll end the sequence with a kick.The set up for the kick starts on "3" with your right hip out, and your left arm bent at the elbow and wrist. Instead of shifting back to the left, roll your upper body and plant your right foot behind you on "4."When you plant your right foot behind you, you're setting up for what's known as a "ball change." You're going to shift your weight by taking two small steps. As soon as you plant your right foot, quickly take a small step forward with your left foot. Transfer your weight to your left foot and kick out with your right on "6". As you kick out, throw your hands up in the air. Bring your right foot down, place your hands on your hips, and take a small step forward with your left foot. Keep a slight bend in your left knee., Keeping your hands on your hips, and your left leg slightly bent, shake your hips to the beat. Start the hip shake when Beyoncé starts to sing the line "Up in the club..."The rhythm for the hip shake is "1, 2, 3, and 4," with a pause between "1" and "2." Shake your hips on all three counts for "3, and 4.", Continuing from the hip shake, bend your left leg in on the count of "5," and back out on "6." When you bend your leg in, point your knee to the right of your body.On the count of "7" kick your left leg out in front of you, and then bring it back down on the count of "8.", As soon as you finish the kick, take a step with your right foot and twist your body to the right. Take another step with your left leg, and put your left arm up, as you did in the beginning of the dance.Dip your body. When Beyoncé sings "Dip," bend down at the waist. Keep your legs in the same position and dip down. On the next count, stand back up, leading with your head., When you come back up from the dip, turn around, and walk in a large circle until you are back where you started. Think of the walk as more of a strut. Keep your hands on your hips with your elbows pointed back.When you return the starting position, kick out with your left leg, and spin around to the back. Throw your hands in the air and shake your hips to the beat.
The choreography at this point in the dance is full of variations on the hip shake from earlier in the dance. Play around with various moves and postures until you find what works for you.
 The next big part of the "Single Ladies" dance is the iconic pump walk. To do the pump walk, face the left and put your left hand out in front of you. Your left hand should be in the same "teapot" pose as it was in the beginning of the dance.Take a few steps to beat and then turn around. Facing your right, put your arms in front of you and point them down towards the ground. As you step, thrust them back and forth to the beat., A lot of the moves in "Single Ladies" are a variation of the basic moves at the beginning of the song. The choreography for the song is based on a style of dancing known as "J-Sette.""Single Ladies" also incorporates a lot of movements found in other Hip Hop dances. Get familiar with these movements and add them to your routine.
Try not to be stiff when you're dancing. The more you can relax and move your arms and head, the better. Use your whole body when you dance.
 Even if you don't know the entire routine by heart, you can still look good while dancing. Listen for the beat and move in sync with the music., Beyoncé has attitude in almost every one of her dance routines. When you dance to "Single Ladies," keep your movements feminine and strong. Use your shoulders, your hips, and your arms in everything you do.Don't forget to use your face as well. You can give sexy looks when you come back from the dips, or when you're walking to the beat.
 A lot of these dance moves are complex and involve doing several things at once. You might find that you have the footwork down, but are struggling to get your shoulders in the right place. Take your time and break down each movement.If you get stuck on a move, start over. It may help to follow along with the video. You can find slowed down versions of the video online that may help you see exactly what Beyoncé is doing.

