 Fake bills tend to have a relative flatness and lack of detail. Because making real currency involves printing methods that are unknown and therefore extremely hard to replicate, counterfeiters are often forced to improvise.


Real U.S. bills are printed using techniques that regular offset printing and digital printing (the most popular tools for common counterfeiters) cannot replicate. Look for blurry areas, especially in fine details such as around the borders.
Look for colored fibers in the paper. All U.S. bills have tiny red and blue fibers embedded in the paper. Counterfeiters sometimes try to reproduce these by printing or drawing these fibers onto the paper. As a result, the blue and red fibers will appear to be printed on the paper instead of being part of the paper itself.
 The outside border of real money should be "clear and unbroken," according to Secret Service officials.On Federal Reserve and Treasury seals, the saw-tooth points of the borders should be sharp and well-defined on genuine bills. Seals on a counterfeit bill often have uneven, blunt, or broken saw-tooth points.
Look for bleeding ink. Because of the difference in printing methods between real and fake bills, the border ink can sometimes bleed on a fake.
 Look at the picture of the person on the bill. There are specific discrepancies that will tell you if the bill is fake.


Portraits in fake bills may appear dull, blurred, and flat, while in real currency, the portraits are sharp and contain very fine detailing.
On a real bill, the portrait tends to stand out from the background. On counterfeit bills, the portrait's coloring tends to blend too much with the bill.
Use a magnifying glass to closely observe the rim of the portrait. There should be the phrase "THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA" repeated along the sides of the portrait. This will look like a solid line to the naked eye. This feature is especially hard to replicate using office machine copiers or printers due to its size and detail.
 There should be two serial numbers located on the face of the bill on either side of the portrait. Look at the bill carefully and make sure that the serial numbers match.


Look at the color of the serial numbers on the bill and compare it to the color of the Treasury Seal. If they do not match, the bill is likely a fake.
Fake bills may have serial numbers that are not evenly spaced or that are not perfectly aligned in a row.
If you receive multiple suspicious bills, see if the serial numbers are the same on across all bills. Counterfeiters often neglect to change serial numbers on fake bills. If they are the same, then they are counterfeit notes.