 If you aren't home very often and are often busy with work, a cat might be a better option for you. Most cats don't depend on you that much for companionship and are fine with alone time. Plus, they use a litter box, which means you don't have to worry about them messing up the house when you aren't at home.


Dogs require more time. Dogs need 30 to 60 minutes of exercise daily. If not, they will learn bad habits such as excessive barking, destructive tendencies, hyperactivity, scratching, or biting. They also need to be taken out a few times a day.
This doesn't mean that you should get a cat if you are at home only to sleep. This would be cruel for your cat, who will need some interaction and care from you, such as fresh water daily and nail and fur care. They are just more low maintenance on a daily basis than dogs.;
, If you have a lot of free time and want to spend it with an animal, a dog is a better option. In fact, most dogs crave attention and don't like being left alone for too long. If you want a pet that you can go outside and run with, go swimming with, or just one that is more adventurous, get a dog.


If you prefer a more sedentary lifestyle, think about a small lap dog who is less prone to excessive exercise. This kind of lifestyle is also good for a cat.
If you travel from home a lot, you will need to arrange for pet care. If you leave your dog at home, she will need a pet watcher to come to your home at least twice a day to let her out and feed her. However, a cat can go for a day or two without being checked on as long as he has enough food and water available to him., Dogs and cats are not cheap. Both pets need basic things, such as food, water, and consistent veterinary care. Cats need litter, a litter box, scratching posts, and toys to remain happy, healthy pets. Dogs need more food, toys, and carriers for traveling. It is generally easier to take a cat with you or find a cat sitter, but often dogs have to be kenneled, which is an extra expense.Some cats, especially those with long or thick fur, will need regular grooming or a daily brushing. You may pay to have this done, or you may have to take time to do it yourself.The average cat costs $1035 the first year to own. For dogs, a small dog averages $1314 in the first year and a large dog averages $1843. This includes daily care as well as vaccinations and neuter or spaying. This doesn't take into account any emergency care.