 From the beginning, there need to be clear boundaries in an open relationship. The term can mean different things for different people. You and your partner should be on the same page regarding expectations.Decide what kind of outside relationships are appropriate. For some people, casual sexual encounters are okay but not romantic entanglements. For others, it's okay to date other people.
Think about anything you wouldn't want your partner to do with someone else. Maybe mutual friends are off limits. Maybe you wouldn't want your partner to engage in a certain sex act with someone else.
Have a long, serious discussion to establish boundaries that work for both of you before practicing openness.
 Do not jump from being strictly monogamous to an open relationship overnight. Being open is a big transition and you should take things slowly so you both have time to accept a new relationship.Even if you're allowed to see other people, do not do so before you're ready. You don't have to jump into anything simply because you can. Instead, wait until an opportunity that you feel comfortable with presents itself.
 Jealousy may occur in an open relationship. It's important to address it as it arises so you and your partner can both feel safe and valued in the relationship.If you are jealous, talk about it. Talk about why you're jealous and try to figure out where it comes from. If you're serious about a non-monogamous relationship, you should address the roots of jealousy so you best know how to handle it.
Begin the conversation in a non-confrontational way. Say something like, "Hey, I'm feeling a little jealous. Can we talk this over so our relationship stays strong?"

, It's important to stay honest throughout the relationship. An open relationship requires constant communication. You should let your partner know how you're feeling about how things are progressing and whether anything is making you feel uncomfortable or uneasy., Open relationships change over time. Periodically, have a talk with your partner about how you're feeling regarding the relationship and any changes you would like to make.Sometimes, you may think you are comfortable with something only to find you dislike it in practice. This is okay and should be discussed with your partner.
About once a month, try to have a sit down talk with your partner about your feelings on the open relationship.
Keep in mind that relationships change and grow. Your feelings may change over time, or as your relationship deepens.

