 Some couples already have a song they designate as "our song," but other couples may need to put in more effort to arrive at the best first dance song for them.


Think back to your first date, kiss, or first time you told each other "I love you." If there was a song playing, consider using it as your first dance song.
Write down the names of artists or bands you saw together in concert. You may be able to find an appropriate first dance song among their oeuvres.;
,


Ask your parents or grandparents what songs they danced to at their weddings. Playing the song for the first dance at your wedding can celebrate your family members' commitment as well as your own.
Choose a song that is a traditional wedding song in either the bride or groom's cultural or religious tradition.
 Suggestions for first dance songs are plentiful online and in wedding magazines and take into account different tastes--whether you're a hipster couple or more traditional.
, Some songs may have beautiful melodies or nice choruses, but when you examine the lyrics, you may find they are inappropriate for a wedding. Many love songs are about break-ups or unrequited love.
 For example, if you choose an "Old Hollywood Glamour" theme for your wedding, a jazz standard would be appropriate, but 1 of your indie rock favorites may not fit the mood.
 It is important to some couples to have songs that make their guests want to get out of their seats. If most of your guests are younger friends, a more modern choice may be a crowd pleaser, but if the majority of the guests are elderly relatives, you may get a better response to a swing dance or traditional choice.
 Most wedding planners suggest you search for songs that are about 3 minutes long, or that you edit the song you choose to fit that timeframe.


Choose a song whose duration matches your plans for the first dance. Some couples dance to the first dance song by themselves, while others also incorporate the father/daughter and mother/son dances into the first dance. If you need to choreograph multiple spots for cutting in, a longer song may better suit your needs.
 Whether you choose to waltz, foxtrot, rumba, or just slow dance, the pace of the dance type you choose will dictate the tempo of your first dance song.


Listen to the tempo of your favorite first dance songs.
Cross any songs of the list that will not work with your chosen dance style.
Practice dancing to the remaining songs. Make sure that you are comfortable performing your chosen dance to any top contenders.
 If you are taking a dance class with your partner in preparation for the wedding, your teacher may have many ideas for first dance songs. The teacher will also be able to provide a personal recommendation that matches your dance style as a couple.
 If you have hired a live band and will not be using recorded music, it's important to verify the band can perform your top choices.


Ask the band to play 2 to 5 of your favorite first dance songs.
Evaluate which songs the band plays best. If you thought you wanted to use an Aerosmith song for your first dance, your jazz band's rendition may make you change your mind.
 Make sure she will have adequate mobility before you choose a dance style and song that will require fancy footwork. A mermaid or sheath gown may restrict her movements and make a dance like the waltz impossible, and the weight of a princess style gown with a long, bustled train can make more energetic dances like swing difficult.

