 Not all olive oil is created equal. Usually, the bottom of a bottle of olive oil says where the oil is from. Labeling can sometimes be intentionally deceitful. The company may boast their olive oil is from Italy, but the oil may only have been packaged in Italy. While an oil boasting of being straight from Italy is not necessarily bad, make sure to check other aspects of the oil carefully. The company may be trying to make easy sales by impressing costumers based on the oil's origin., Olive oil does not have a lengthy shelf life, so look for the harvest date on the label. Ideally, you want to purchase an olive oil that has a more recent harvest date. Olive oil only lasts for two years, and that's assuming it's stored in perfect conditions. Even when stored properly, the flavor diminishes with time. The older the harvest date, the less taste the olive oil will have.If a bottle does not have a harvest date listed, put it back. Never purchase olive oil without knowing the harvest date.
 A seal of approval from at least some kind of olive oil organization should appear somewhere on the label. California-based olive oils, for example, should have a seal of approval from the California Olive Oil Council. This increases the chances the oil is quality. Olive oil that comes with a seal of approval also tends to be more upfront and honest about factors like harvest date.The seal of approval is usually found on the back of a bottle of olive oil.
 Free fatty acids (FFA) are often an indication of the quality of the fruit used in your olive oil. Low levels of FFAs do not necessarily mean olive oil is high quality, but high levels indicate a poor quality oil. Look for oils with free fatty acids less than 10 meq/kg.Free fatty acid levels should be listed on an oil's ingredients label. Avoid purchasing oils that do not list fatty acid levels.
 Polyphenol contributes to the amount of heart-healthy antioxidants in olive oil. In general, a higher polyphenol content indicates a healthier olive oil. A polyphenol content below 300 is considered low and one above 500 is considered high.One downside to a higher polyphenol content, however, is the taste. Some polyphenol contents are over 800, which can make olive oil a little more bitter.

