 Avoid borrowing one from a friend, because as a first-time rider you risk damaging someone else's property. A two stroke would not be great for your first bike, they are much harder to control as the power band can kick in and give too much power when you least expect it. You will fall off a 2 stroke quickly and could be deterred from learning.Fourstrokes are easy and fun to ride, and have great power. Make sure you get a bike that is the right size for you because you don't want something too big that you can't handle-your dealer or whoever you are buying from will help you with that. I would suggest a 100-250cc older,cheaper bike, its preferable to dropping an expensive brand new bike. It all depends on your height and weight.Just sit on some bikes in the store and you will feel what is most comfortable for you. Talk to your local dealer for more information but do not buy right away. Some dealers might lie or scam you for more than you're worth! Always do research first.


Speed: When you are riding down a nice straightaway and you feel like goosing it, try to start in a low gear. Work that gear to its full potential, and then shift up (if you have an automatic bike, don't worry about this). Once you get up to your speed, slant your back at a 45 degree angle, bend your arms at a 90 degree angle and stand up. When standing up your legs and arms act as additional suspension when going over bumps. This keeps you in better control and will conserve energy.
Turning: The trick to getting maximum speed and the best setup in a turn is control. When coming into a turn, pick a good line that isn't going to run you off the track. Stick with it and keep steady power. Keep your outside elbow up and your inside leg out. Have your leg sticking straight out in front of you by the fender. This will help you keep your balance, and you can dab your foot on the ground if you slide out. Once in the turn, look where you want to go. Also keep your butt on the outside of the seat and apply a little pressure to the outside foot peg, this helps put more weight on the outside of your bike, giving you more traction. Remember to finish your braking and shifting before you enter the corner so you can concentrate all of your attention on getting through it. Sometimes using the clutch while exiting a corner will give you a short burst of power.
Jumps: Hitting big jumps can be scary if you are not comfortable with your riding ability yet. Try little table tops at first; they are very easy and provide a steady landing almost everywhere. Lift up your handlebars and stand up a little. Once you get skilled with that, try a double. Take off the bottom of the face sitting down. By the time your front wheel is off the dirt you should be standing up. Once in the air, position yourself comfortably but sturdily for a landing. If your front end is straight up and down, don't panic! Hit the back brake and it should lower gradually. Before you hit the ground, give a little gas so your bike will flow smoothly.;
, There are 3 main ways of hitting them: going slow and steady, doubling or tripling them (this can be very useful in a very technical track because you can get into a new line every time), or just blazing through them (very fast and hard to master; your back wheel skims over the tip of the whoops giving you less control). Stand up over whoops and keep your weight just behind the center of balance towards the back of the bike. Practice keeping your knees and elbows bent before you go crazy on them. More than 60 percent of all crashes on a track happen on the whoops. Hold on tight and flow with them. Don't freak out and overcorrect if you get into a wobbly state. Just ride it out.

