


Fasting may be dangerous or risky for people with specific health conditions, such as women who are nursing or pregnant or people in advanced stages of cancer.
Some prescription medications may have dangerous effects on your body if you take them while fasting, because they alter your blood chemistry.;
,


Perform an enema by visiting a doctor or administer one on yourself at home. An enema will assist in dilating your bowels and stimulates a bowel movement.
Give yourself an internal bath, also known as an intestinal bath or colon cleanse. Methods include taking powdered or liquid colon cleanse supplements or visiting a colon therapist.
Drink a natural, laxative tea that contains senna. Senna is an herb that stimulates your bowel and encourages bowel movements.



The only fruits you can eat during the Spring Equinox fast are kiwis, lemons, grapefruits, limes, apples and oranges.
These fruits can be eaten in either their solid form or as a liquid, such as juice.



The vegetable products you are allowed to eat during the fast are garlic, beets, sprouts, asparagus, cauliflower, cabbage, broccoli, parsley, dandelion leaves and olive oil.
These vegetables can be prepared in any way, including baked, steamed, roasted, raw or blended to create juice.
,,


Prepare herbal laxative tea that contains the senna herb and drink it once in the morning and once at night.
The laxative tea will help your body expel colon waste and aid in the process of removing toxins from your blood stream, organs and tissues.
If you decide to fast for more than 3 days, you can drink the laxative tea in the morning and at night each day for the remainder of your fasting period.



Perform mild exercise such as walking to help relieve tension or back pain you may experience as a result of fasting.
Limit your exercise to stretching or deep breathing if fasting has made you feel weaker than usual.



Your body will release toxins through your pores during the fasting period, which may result in extra dirt that forms a gum-like consistency on your skin.



Add foods back into your diet after at least 3 days and no more than 10 days have passed.
Recommended foods to add immediately include whole grains such as rye, wheat, millet and barley.

