 Because puppies are growing, they need at least 17 hours of sleep per day. This means that your puppy will be napping a lot throughout the day. However, you can control when your puppy sleeps by developing a routine. Limit your puppy’s naps to the morning, middle of the day, and the afternoon. Make sure to reserve evenings for play time.Make sure your puppy is good and tired for bedtime by stimulating their mind and body with age-appropriate games and toys. For example, take your puppy outside so they can run around, sniff, dig in the yard, and exhaust their pent up energy.
You can also start teaching your puppy basic commands like "sit" and "come." These physical and mental activities in the evening will ensure that your puppy is ready for bedtime.;
, Do not feed your puppy right before bedtime. By feeding them right before bedtime, you are ensuring that they will wake up and need to poop during the night. Instead, feed your puppy at least three hours before bedtime.Three to four hours is enough time for your puppy to eat, digest, and use the restroom.
 Before putting your puppy to sleep, schedule a potty break. This will encourage your puppy to sleep peacefully through the night.If you have a very young puppy, however, you will need to take them out during the night as well. As a rule of thumb, a pup can hold their bladder for their age in months plus one hour (so a two-month-old pup can wait three hours). If you have a two-month-old puppy that begins crying three hours after bedtime, then they're trying to let you know they need to go potty.


It is important you approach the puppy in a way that will not encourage the crying behavior. Wait until there is a gap in the whining, as this rewards their silence, not the crying. When you take the puppy out, keep things as low-key as possible. Keep the lights dim, avoid speaking to the pup, and don't play with them. Take the pup to their toilet spot, a brief praise when they perform, and then straight back to bed. This teaches them that nighttime is for sleep, not for play.

