 This is the most basic staff move where you turn the staff in a large circle in front of your body.


Hold the staff in front of you with your hands face down and gripping the staff in the middle. You arms should be fully extended and the staff should be perpendicular with the ground.
Release your left hand from the staff.
With your right hand, turn the staff in a clockwise circle until you’ve reached 180 degrees. You should maintain your grip during this part of the turn and let your wrist move with the motion of the staff. At 180 degrees, your right hand should be palm up with the staff with the staff perpendicular to the ground.
In a fluid motion, release your full grip on the staff and allow it continue moving in a clockwise direction until it reaches 270 degrees. Maintain a loose grip on the staff with only your thumb and index finger, keeping your palm up. At this point the staff should be vertical with the ground.
Still in a fluid motion, reach down with your left hand, palm facing up, and grip the staff in the same thumb-index-finger grip. Let go with your right hand and let the staff’s momentum carry the staff to 360 degrees.
At 360 degrees, grip the staff fully with your left hand and spin it back to 540 degrees and the starting position.
At 540 degrees, place your right hand back on the staff in the starting position.
Once you’ve mastered the motion, reverse it, using the same technique but moving the staff in a counterclockwise direction. , This is the quintessential staff move where the staff moves in an 8 shape around your body.


Hold the staff in the center with your right hand facing palm down. Your arm should be so that the staff is perpendicular with the ground, with the top end of the staff facing forward.
Maintaining your grip, rotate the staff down across your body so that your right hand ends up on the left side of your body at your waist. The front of the staff should now be facing backwards.
Following the momentum of the staff, let the top end rotate upwards along the left side of your body. When the staff passes the vertical and becomes perpendicular with the ground again, your hand should be facing palm up.
When the staff becomes perpendicular, bring it down and back across your body to the right. The front of the staff should be facing backwards.
Follow the momentum of the staff and let the top rotate back through a vertical position and down to the starting point.
Using the same technique, practice the forward figure eight with your left hand.If the figure eight motion feels difficult, try performing the motion without holding the staff.
 More advanced moves will be difficult to learn from words alone. Seek out online videos or a local fire dancer to help you learn more difficult moves.
 You’ll need kevlar poi for this step. You’ll also need kerosene.


Pour the kerosene into a bowl or other container. One measuring cup of kerosene should be more than enough.
Slowly dip the kevlar wicks of your poi into the kerosene, one by one. Let the excess kerosene drip back into the bowl.
Once the kevlar is soaked but not dripping, carefully light the ends on fire with a match or lighter.
Spinning with your fire staff will feel strange at first since the flame creates additional resistance. 