 Before you write on your eggs with any method, make sure to hard-boil them. Start by putting the eggs in a large pot, with one layer of eggs. The eggs should not be on top of one another. Cover the eggs with ½ inch of water. Bring the water to a boil, and then turn the heat down to moderate high. Boil the eggs on low boil for around 10 minutes, uncovered.Remove the hot water and pour cold water over the eggs. Let the eggs set in the cold water for 15 minutes. Add cold water or ice to the water to keep it cold.;
, After hard-boiling the eggs, you are ready to start writing on them. If you plan on dyeing your eggs, you can write one them with a wax crayon. Use a white crayon to draw your design or write words onto the plain, undyed eggshell.Cheap crayons generally are the waxiest and work the best.
When you dip the egg into dye, the wax repels the dye, leaving undyed areas where you have written.
 One fun way you can decorate the egg is to write people's names on them with the wax crayon. Then, you can give the person the egg to dye, surprising them when they see their name appear through the dye.


This is a great way to surprise children. Don't tell them their name is on the egg before they dye it.
 To make the eggs themed, try writing seasonally specific words on them. You can write "Happy Easter," "Welcome Spring," or even silly phrases like "Egg-celent."


You can also draw fun Easter and spring pictures. Try decorating the egg with stripes or polka dots, or drawing bunnies, chickens, lambs, or flowers on the egg.
 Make a dye solution by mixing ¾ cup (or 180 mL) of warm water with 1 tablespoon (15 mL) of white vinegar and 10 to 20 drops of food coloring. Place the egg into the dye so the entire egg is covered. Let the egg soak in the dye for around five minutes.When you take the egg out of the dye, the dye will not be on the parts of the egg with the crayon.
If you want a lighter egg, take it out before then. The longer it’s in the dye, the more vibrant the color.
 If you don’t want to submerge your egg, you can use a paintbrush to dye it instead. Using the same dye dip, wet the tip of a paintbrush with the dye solution. Then, paint the entire egg. The parts with the crayon will remain white.This method yields a lighter color than submerging the egg.

