 Robots normally don’t move around a lot unless there is a reason for them to do so. If you aren’t actively doing something, try to stay very still in one position for long spans of time. When interacting with others, keep movements minimal.


Try to avoid making any instinctual movements. For instance, if you see a book falling off a desk, don’t try to prevent it or catch it. You also wouldn’t pick it up (unless someone asks you to).Whenever you get a moment to yourself, do some light stretching, since you may get muscle aches and cramps from not moving around as much as you normally would.
 Robots cannot move quickly or fluidly. When you’re moving around, walk slowly and mechanically, with jerky movements.Running or doing anything remotely athletic is completely out of the question if you want to truly act like a robot.


Keep your movements as consistent as possible.For example, keep your strides a uniform length while holding your arms stiffly at your sides.
 If you need to use your arm for something, just move your arm. Try to keep your other limbs still unless they are required.


Keep your body rigid and try not to curve anything.
For instance, a robot would not be able to slump into a chair, since robots only have one posture – upright.
 They are created to make these movements the same way, over and over again.


Robots have no problem with repetitive motion since they never get bored or tired.
Unlike with walking, which should be slow, robots can generally make their repetitive movements quite quickly (but still rigidly)., Smooth movements and graceful gestures generally aren't very robot-like. Incorporate a few smooth movements, such as swiveling, since that is a common robot movement.


Decide on which movements you'll make smoothly and make sure to be consistent with it.
Practice mechanical movements in front of a mirror so you can mimic it effectively in front of others – it may take a little practice to get it right.
 Robot dancing involves isolating body parts so that they can move independently in a robotic, mechanical way. To start, stand in place and move your hands almost like a mime would a few times, and then stop with them in mid-air, as if you've been frozen in place. Then bend at the torso to lean forward stiffly, then back, forward, then back again (keeping your hands in the frozen position), so that the effect is very mechanical-looking.This is the basic concept behind robot dancing. Experiment by isolating other body parts and making stiff, mechanical movements, adding different elements one after the other.
Wrist rolls are a big part of robot dancing. Incorporate those in between your hard isolation movements.
Add a robotic open-and-close element to your isolations and rolls by opening and closing your palms.

