 The fear of being rejected or embarrassing ourselves causes us to miss out on opportunities to be social. Unfortunately, people around us may get the wrong impression, assuming we don't want to be around them or don't like them. Sooner or later, the invites may stop coming.


Instead of saying "no" to invites to parties and social gatherings, start to say "yes". Of course, you won't be able to attend every single event you are invited to, but try your best to come if you can.
Saying "yes" gives the host the signal that you actually are interested in building a relationship with him or her.
What's more, the more practice you get in social situations, the more your confidence will grow. Even if you feel shy or weird initially, challenge yourself to go anyway.
 Visualization is a powerful tool utilized by top athletes and other successful people. Before entering a stressful situation — from a party where you don't know anyone to an important presentation to a big game — imagine yourself completely nailing it. Picture yourself walking into the party with confidence and greeting the first group of people you meet; imagine giving your presentation without mistakes and fielding questions with ease; picture yourself making that basket, touchdown, or goal.

Your brain cannot tell the difference between something that is real and something you imagine.So if you imagine yourself walking into the party and striking up a conversation with a stranger, that course of action becomes more and more familiar to your brain. By the time you get to the situation in real life, it will be as though you have already done it, and it may feel more familiar and easier to do., This tendency to pay so much attention to ourselves in every single situation only worsens our negative feelings. Rather than focusing on yourself, aim to focus on others. Become engaged in conversation, and strive to learn as much as you can about this person. They will appreciate the interest, and you will get a break from being overly conscious of yourself.
 These people can listen so intently that you feel you must be the most interesting person in the room. On the other hand, they can carry a conversation and maintain intrigue as well.


When you are in a social setting, pay attention to how the masters do it. Do they stand back and watch to check for social cues before entering a conversation? What body language are they exhibiting? What's the ratio of listening and speaking?
True enough, you don't want to change yourself to imitate another person. However, you can pick up helpful tactics for managing in social situations from the people who perform well in such circumstances.
 Rejection is an inevitable part of life. Even those who seem to sail through social events at some point have been rejected. Whether rejection relates to not being picked for a job opportunity, failing to impress a love interest, or not getting accepted for an organization, there are ways to overcome these painful feelings.

Be reasonable. If you know that your chances of getting a job, promotion, or some other endeavor are not good, you can still go for it. However, acknowledge that the odds are against you and you may end up facing rejection.
Shift the odds in your favor by applying for several jobs at once. If your chances of success are limited, you can make success more likely by putting more irons in the fire. Don't put all of your focus on one thing, instead have several backup plans. This will protect your confidence if you are rejected or denied.
Don't take rejection personally. If you ask someone on a date or apply for a job, a rejection does not necessarily mean there is something wrong with you. It is not personal. Consider that people have different preferences and you might not match their unique needs. Remember that one closed door moves you closer to an open door that suits your needs.

