 Go to https://www.youtube.com/, click the Guide button (three horizontal lines) in the upper left corner of the screen, and select My Channel.


This will direct you to your personal channel. If you have multiple channels, be sure you are using the correct one. If you need to switch accounts, click your profile picture in the circle from the top right of the page and select the right channel.;
, From the options beneath your channel name, click the option called Playlists. This will open up your page containing any and all playlists you have created. If you have never created a playlist, you will only see two playlists: Liked videos and Favorites.
 From the list of playlists on your playlists page, click the Favorites playlist. Of course, if you have never added a video to your playlist, this list will be blank.


Be sure you click the actual word, Favorites. Do not click the box above the word.
 From the Favorites playlist, click the Add Videos button from the right side of the webpage. This will open up a pop-up dialog box.



Search by video: From the three tabs on the top of the pop-up dialog box, click on the Video Search option. Then, enter in the title or subject of the video you are searching for. You do not need to necessarily know the exact name of the video to find it. You can select and add multiple or individual videos per search term by simply clicking on any of the listed videos. A blue box will highlight the video after you click it.

Add via URL: If you have the exact URL of the video, you can enter it in via the URL option from the three options on the top of the pop-up dialog box. Simply paste the URL into the input box. In order to get the URL of the video, copy the contents of the address bar from the webpage displaying your desired video. If you are confused, read our article about how to copy and paste URLs.

Add your video: If you want to add one of your own uploaded videos to your Favorites, click the Your YouTube Videos option from the three options on the top of the pop-up dialog box. You can select and add multiple or individual videos per search term by simply clicking on any of the listed videos. A blue box will highlight the video after you click it.
 After selecting the correct videos or after pasting in the URL of a video, press the blue Add Videos button from the bottom left of the pop-up dialog box. You should now have successfully updated your Favorite videos list.

