 Rikki has more of a pale complexion. Try sunbathing, self-tanning, applying bronzer, getting a spray tan at your salon, or use a tanning bed.;
, Emma also has quite thin hair. Using a hair straightener is recommended if you have curly or wavy hair. If growing long hair proves too hard, you can consider hair extensions. Emma's tresses are medium blonde so you may also dye it if you wish.
Wear clothes in shades of blue, white and yellow. Jean skirts and layered T-shirts are also a must.
Keep the jewelry minimal and do not overly accessorize.
As far as makeup, try some beige foundation and a little shimmer bronzer along the cheekbones, chin, temples, and bridge of the nose for Emma's glow. Highlighter should be applied underneath the eyes and brow bones. Sweep a little light-pink blush on the apples of the cheeks as well. Not much eye makeup is needed for this look, other than mascara and white eyeliner on your waterline to draw attention to the eyes.
 If you have straight hair, you can leave your hair in wet braids overnight, hairspray them and take them out in the morning to make them wavy. Cleo's hair is brown so try using an appropriate hair dye too.
This look is excessively girly so shades of pink, purple, magenta and peach are your colors. Go for short sweatshirts, collared shirts, elegant blouses and classic, feminine dresses.
A lot of accessories are required but make sure you don't overdo it. A scarf and a few bracelets are a safe option if you're unsure.
Apply a beige foundation and some illuminator to give you a sun-kissed complexion, like Cleo. Use some contour underneath the cheekbones for an illusion of depth, as Cleo has very pronounced cheekbones. Also contour along the sides of the nose for a slender nose. Apply white eyeliner on your waterline, and brown eyeliner along your lower lashline and in the outer corners of the eyes. A few coats of black mascara is also a must. Plump your lips some with some highlighter on the cupid's bow for an illusion of fuller lips and a nude lipstick.
Season 3: For Cleo's Season 3 look, she has long, straight, yet sometimes wavy hair. You can easily achieve her slightly wavy hair with some overnight heatless braids and scrunching your hair with any sea salt or texturizing spray. You'll also need layers that frame your face nicely, and have your hairdresser texturize and thin out your hair a bit if you want lots of layers like Cleo for dimension. Cleo also has a V-shaped cut that ends at a point in the back. Long layers are also key for this look, as Cleo's hair blends beautifully. Cleo also has a brunette hair and a few scattered blonde highlights. She parts her hair down the middle as well. If you don't want to grow out your hair, just opt for extensions.
Wear slightly girly apparel. Cleo isn't as girly in Season 3 as she was in the previous two seasons. Try some neutral colors mixed with a few feminine pieces.
Apply a beige foundation and some illuminator to give you a sun-kissed complexion, like Cleo. Use some contour underneath the cheekbones for an illusion of depth, as Cleo has very pronounced cheekbones. Also contour along the sides of the nose for a slender nose. Apply white eyeliner on your waterline, and brown eyeliner along your lower lashline and in the outer corners of the eyes. A few coats of black mascara is also a must. Plump your lips some with some highlighter on the cupid's bow for an illusion of fuller lips and a nude lipstick. Cleo's makeup look for all three seasons are the same.
 Dyeing it light blonde will also make the look more authentic. Making pigtails is a good option, as Rikki favors them.
Rikki's look is slightly punk so shades of red, black and tan should be primarily worn. Occasionally, you may also try blue or white. Skirts and dresses should be avoided at all costs.
Accessories must be limited to a watch or a woven bracelet. Think practical and grungy. For footwear, sneakers are your best bet.
 You can tell she has overgrown bangs when she wears her hair in a ponytail with a slight bump on top to add a little extra to the regular ponytail. Bring in a picture to your hairdresser to get the cut you're wanting. Bella's hair is golden blonde, with some brunette at the roots. Her hair is considered long. Bella also parts her hair down the middle. Her wavy hair is easy to achieve. After getting out of the shower, towel-dry your hair a bit so your hair isn't dripping wet. French braid hair in this way: Split your hair into two sections. Then split each section into two sections (split into two sections around the edge of your ear). French braid each of the four sections. Sleep on them. When you wake up, carefully undo the braids, flip your hair over, and use a sea salt or texturizing spray and scrunch for Bella's hair. You may choose to S-wave a few strands of hair that may have not turned out very well.
Bella wears colorful, cheery colors to match her personality. Colors such as white, green, blue, and yellow resemble Bella's color choices. She rarely wears girly colors such as pink, purple, or even red. Crop-tops, rompers, sundresses, strapless tops with detailing are great for Bella's look.
Bella doesn't accessorize much, except for a few bracelets.
Apply a beige foundation and some bronzer for a tan complexion. Bella has what is known as a "baby face," meaning she has very plump features. Full lips, pronounced cheekbones, big eyes, and beautiful features. Contour underneath your cheekbones, apply a rosy blush on the apples of your cheeks, and highlighter underneath the eyes. White eyeliner on your waterline to bring out your eyes, neutral eyeshadow, and mascara is a must. Her full lips are her best feature. Shape your lips with a pink nude lipliner; go slightly over the border edge of the lip for the illusion of fuller lips. Fill in the lips with the lipliner and pat on some nude lipstick. Apply some highlighter along the cupid's bow. Finish off the lips with clear lipgloss in the center of the bottom lips.

