 Realize that just because they have a web site, it does not mean they are a legitimate company.;
, If you cannot do this, it should be a red flag. PO boxes aren't real locations.
 If they are not, you should pass on them for you cannot make a legal contract with an illegal business. This is especially true if you don’t know who they are.
 If you go to a site and you see many different trademark characters all over it, it is a good sign that they are not legal.Animal shows and fire works are in most towns against codes.
 They may be selling things you should not be able to buy in your state or country. If you purchase them on the net, you should realize you can still be in trouble with the post office.
 Don’t be fooled by labels. If they have labels that say they are with a trustworthy group, check for yourself. Many put up stickers similar to putting a security sign in your yard when you have no security system in place.
 Do not give them your credit information until you check them out.
 That way, if you have a problem you have recourse and can get lots of personal references.
 Check everyone’s ID at the door.
 They may have a great web site, but send out someone you would not want in your home. Ask for the name of the person and do a search on the web for them. Remember that many names are common, so you need ages and locations. Also ask how long this person has been working for them.
 If you have a consumer problem, contact places like the FTC or your attorney general office. The FTC will put the company on a data system and all agencies will be alerted to them. Just remember to have your facts so you will not be in trouble for turning them in. It’s important to seek professional legal help for serious problems as these suggestions are not to be construed as legal advice.
 One that has names, address, date, phone number, and spells out what they will do, when they will do it, and the agreed amount of money. Remember hiring someone that is cheap is like buying a watch on the street, it’s cheap but it’s not insured and probably not legal, so when it stops keeping time, you are out of luck.

