 Most charters will be equipped with everything you need from licenses, rods and bait, to life jackets, meaning that you'll just need to show up ready to fish and with the necessary payment. When booking your tour, ask if there is anything required or recommended that you bring.


If you've never deep sea fished before, you need to charter a boat and go out with an experienced fishing guide. Even if you've deep sea fished many times, it's much easier to fish with a guide than to try to go it alone. Let a local show you where the fish are and have fun catching them yourself.
If you have a boat already, you need to make sure you provide all the necessary safety equipment and licensed necessary to fish. Deep-sea fishing rods and reels are generally larger and stronger than fresh water equipment, and can be rented at many seaside fishing outfitters, or from other fishermen. You'll also need a few spools of high-tensile line for fishing.;
, You will most likely get wet on the boat, so it's not a good idea to wear leather loafers and your most expensive pair of slacks. Wear clothes that can get wet or a bathing suit, and bring a clean towel to help dry yourself off. Sunglasses are also usually very valuable, since the light glinting off the water can be serious.


If you're going to be out until the sun goes down, or you're going out in cloudy weather, it's also a good idea to bring some layers. It can get chilly out at sea, depending on the season, so an old hooded sweatshirt can be an invaluable clothes item, as well as some sweatpants if necessary.
Leave cellphones, jewelry, or anything that you'd hate to lose or get wet back on shore. In the event that you get soaked, you don't want to have to lose anything valuable., Most boats will be at sea for several hours. Even on cloudy days the sun reflects off the ocean, making sunburns a serious possibility. Apply and reapply high-SPF waterproof sunscreen to help protect yourself from sun damage.
 The ocean can make the boat very rocky. If you begin to feel sick, stay on the deck, where there is fresh air and less rocking. If you are prone to motion sickness, take medicine before boarding.


If you already know you're prone to motion sickness, take half a Dramamine the night before and another one an hour before or so before you get on the boat. Keep your eyes on the horizon while you're out, because it's stationary and it will help you from getting motion sickness.
 Be sure to drink plenty of water, because the rays of the sun reflect off the water which can make the day even hotter making you lose liquids faster. Any motion sickness effects will be emphasized when you're dehydrated, and you'll feel a lot better if you drink plenty of water.


It's common to drink alcohol on certain fishing trips, but make sure you supplement any alcohol you're drinking with plenty of water. In bright sun, you can get dehydrated quickly and could wake up to a serious hangover the next day if you're not careful. Not to mention that alcohol will lower your hand-eye-coordination, making you a less safe fisherman. Moderate your drinking and have plenty of water.
 It's important to make fishing trips worth the while of the captain and the crew. It's expensive to run a fishing charter, which means you need to get a big enough group together to make the trip financially advantageous for the captain. They'll be more willing to work with someone who says, "There are 7 of us who'll pay to fish" than someone who's fishing solo.


Alternatively, if you want to go it alone, you need to be wiling to share a charter with strangers, in most cases. Even if you've got a party, it's likely that there will be other fishers on your boat. Expect to mingle.
 Deep-sea fishing charters are available in most vacation areas where deep-sea fishing is plentiful, and in most fishing-focused towns near the ocean. If you're on vacation, ask your concierges, look for pamphlets or research online to find a deep-sea fishing charter in the area.


It's also possible to walk around by the piers and look for booths that will take walk-ups. While this is more common for tours and sight-seeing boat trips, it's a good way of looking around for a good charter. Talk to people and you might be able to find a better deal.
 Chartered boats may fill up fast, so it's smart to book as soon as possible to ensure you have a spot. Depending on the area, you may need to book several days or several weeks ahead, so if you want to make sure that you get a spot on a boat, get in touch ahead of time.


When you charter your boat, it's important that you find out everything you'll need to know ahead of time. What do you need to bring? Where do you need to meet up? What time? How does payment work? Make sure that you get all the details out of the way up front.
 Always remember when you set foot on a boat that the captain is in charge. Just because you're paying to be out there doesn't mean that you're the boss. On a chartered boat, the crew should be knowledgeable, experienced in helping people, and expert fishermen. Ask for their help in what bait, rod and technique to use, and listen closely to all the instructions you're given.


The crew should also take care of all safety and legal regulations, on most good fishing charters. All of your questions about what fish you'll be catching, what size the fish need to be, and other considerations should be taken care of on a charter.
 Before going out to sea, contact the local wildlife commission for a listing of laws and regulations in your area. Commonly there will be regulations regarding where you can fish and when, required licenses and what kind and how much fish can be kept. Penalties may be enforced for any laws or regulations not followed.


In the United States, specific regulations, including species, season, and area restrictions can be found here.
 Deep-sea fishing can pose many dangers, and safety should be the first concern any time you're out on the water, whether you're an experienced fisherman or a novice. Always listen to the captain in charge and follow instructions closely. You need to have life jackets and other required safety equipment. Check the safety requirements with the local coast guard. The exact safety equipment and amount will depend on your area and boat size. In general, life jackets, flashlights, boat lights and paddles are required.


Watch the weather patterns. If storms are in the area, it may not be safe to go out. Ensure you will be able to navigate the waters and keep your radio on at all times to listen to Coast Guard warnings. You also need to be projecting a positioning signal at all times, should your boat capsize.Practice caution when handling fish. While deep-sea fishing, you may catch large, strong fish that will generally fight a lot as you reel them in. Be sure to steady yourself so you do not fall out of the boat. Always follow directions during the capture process.
 In general, captains should have a good sense of where fish will be easy to find at the time of year and in the location you're fishing. Let the captain take the lead and direct you to a prime fishing spot.


Generally, drop-offs, trenches, and reefs are usually good places to fish, depending on the region. Reefs in particular are usually swimming with all variety of aquatic life, meaning that large game fish will be nearby.
Tuna generally can be found near schools of dolphins, or floating under debris of any kind.
 You probably won't be using nightcrawlers like when you're back at the pond. While your bait will usually depend on the variety of fish you plan to catch, live and artificial bait are commonly used in fishing for big deep sea fish. Squid, shrimp, minnows and mackerels are commonly used bait in deep sea fishing, sometimes live and sometimes as "chum," oily cut-up bait used to attract predators. Like sharks!

, Your method will depend on the area you're fishing and the type of the fish you hope to catch, and the captain should help to guide you in the proper technique for the day. The methods can be varied and used together, as well, to give yourself the best chance of making a big catch for the day. Listen to instructions and prepare to do any of the following types of fishing.


Trolling is used to drag your line deep, along the ocean floor. This is good for shallower waters to attract grouper and smaller fish, using a weighted line to skim low along the bottom.
Chumming is used to attract larger fish. When chumming, you'll usually leave baited lines in the water, then throw chunks of bait into the area to attract numerous fish and attempt to create a frenzy.
Cast a line up current. When signs suggest there will be large fish in an area cast a line slightly up current, let it come back to the area and let the fish take the bait. Reel in and recast as necessary.
Keep your lines as straight as possible, as the boat turns. Try your hardest not to cross lines with anyone. If they get crossed and someone gets a fish on the hook, you both will start reeling your lines and cause a tangle, which will be very difficult to get loose without losing the fish.
 It's a good idea to always keep fresh bait on your line, when you're deep sea fishing. If you're not getting a bite, mix it up and try something new. Listen to the captain and crew for advice, and have some patience, but also try to nix bait that's not working.


Don't be afraid to use your instincts, especially if you're an experienced fisherman. If you really want to try fishing with shrimp, say so and go for it. It's your fishing trip. Listen to advice, but also do what you want at the end of the day.
 Some deep sea fishing trips are super productive and some involve a lot of shanty singing and an empty haul. It'll still be fun, but try to temper your enthusiasm for making a big catch with a healthy dose of reality. You might be in the right place with the right gar on a beautiful day and not catch anything. Don't get frustrated and try to enjoy the experience for what it is.
 Large game fish can be difficult to reel in, so it's important to listen to specific instructions and do as you're told. Assistants may help to set the lure and let you do the hard muscle work, or they may have other ways of working. Just listen closely and stay out of the way, if you can't help.


When keeping fish, make sure you are within your legal rights. Also be aware of conservation and not keeping any endangered fish. Put any fish you keep on ice to preserve freshness.

