 Benzoyl peroxide is the active ingredient in many of the most effective acne treatments you can buy in stores, or which are prescribed by doctors. If you have a benzoyl peroxide product in your bathroom, this should be your first choice to treat your acne.


Benzoyl peroxide is only likely to be found in face cleaning products, such as face scrubs and washes.
Check the ingredients on a face cleaning product you find in your bathroom to see if it contains benzoyl peroxide.
These products have an antibacterial and drying effect, and as such they may cause irritation to dry or sensitive skin..;
, Using a gentle, exfoliating face wash or scrub can help to cleanse and purify your skin. Find one that is designed to work for your skin type and apply as per instructions on the bottle. After washing your hands and wetting your face, gently message the exfoliating scrub into your face before rinsing it off with warm water.


Exfoliating can be quite harsh on your skin. Exfoliation should be done once a week at most.Doing it more often could irritate your skin and make your acne worse.
To ensure you do not damage your skin, talk to your dermatologist and allow them to exfoliate your skin. It may not be wise to do so on your own.
Moisturise after exfoliating to re-hydrate your skin.
 Tea tree oil is anti-inflammatory and antibacterial and has been shown to help reduce the effects of acne. One study found that use of 5% tea-tree oil gel was just as effective in treating acne as 5% benzoyl peroxide lotion in improving acne.Tea tree oil may take longer to work on acne than benzoyl peroxide.Apply a few drops of the oil to a cotton ball or swab, and gently rub it against your acne.
Don't take tea tree oil orally., Topical antibiotics can work effectively to tackle the amount of bacteria that builds up on the surface of your skin. Such treatments will typically be prescribed by your doctor or dermatologist. Get medical advice before you apply an antibiotic cream or gel to your face.Don't use a simple antibacterial hand soap that you have in the bathroom on your face. This type of soap contains chemicals that are not designed for your face and it can dry out and irritate your skin., These treatments are prescribed by your doctor. They work by unplugging your comedones so other topical medicines can enter the follicles and be more effective. You shouldn't try to replicate it by taking a lot of vitamin A orally — it does not have the same effect and can lead to other health problems including potential liver damage.