 If you are writing a short story with the intent of submitting it to a particular contest, you should always read the guidelines for the contest before you dive into the writing. Note if the contest has a specific theme, such as stories about loss or stories about cultural identity. You should try to submit a story that will fit the theme in some way, as this will increase your chances of winning the contest.You should also check if the contest is called a “literature contest”, as this means they are often interested in stories that use language in an interesting way with compelling characters. The judges of this type of contest may not be as interested in a plot driven story.
If the contest is labeled a “writing competition”, the judges may be looking for popular fiction, where there is a clear plot and a strong opening line.
 You can practice the craft of writing by doing writing exercises at least once a day. Writing exercises can be a good way to generate ideas and get your mind set for writing an award winning short story. You can do a free write to writing prompts found online or create your own writing prompts.


You can find the 10 Best Creative Writing Prompts on WritetoDone.com.
To do a freewrite to a writing prompt, set a timer for 10-15 minutes and use the writing prompt as a guide. Do not lift your pen from the paper for the entirety of the freewrite or read over what you have written until after the freewrite is over.
 To get a better sense of what others are writing, you should read published short stories that have won awards. You may look at short stories in a particular genre that are award winning, such as award winning science fiction stories or award winning fantasy stories. You may also look at award winning short stories written by writers from your country, such as the Best American Short Stories anthology.


You can also look at short stories that have won a specific award, such as the Pushcart Prize award or the Science Fiction short story of the year award.
Search for award winning short stories online or in print form at your local bookstore or library.
 To start your story, you should focus on a main character who is complex and unique. You may use the first person “I” to channel the perspective of your main character and play around with how the main character will sound and act in the story. Having a complex main character in your short story will often catch the eye of contest judges and allow your story to feel more developed and detailed.Try to give your main character specific qualities that will separate them from a crowd. For example, rather than have a main character who goes to high school in a small town, you may be more specific and create a main character that goes to a private all girls catholic school in Lincoln, Nebraska. This gives the reader a more detailed picture of your main character.
Because you are writing a short story and you want to keep it concise, you should try to avoid having more than three to four characters in the story. Your main character should dominate the narrative, with one to three supporting characters who also appear in the story.
 Your short story should have a central conflict or issue that your main character is trying to address or deal with. This conflict will help to propel the story forward and keep your reader (and the contest judges) engaged. The conflict should have an external element, such as an event that happens to the main character, and an internal element, such as how the main character processes the event.For example, you may have a main character who finds out her biological mother is alive and wants to see her. This is the external conflict or issue in the story. The internal conflict or issue will then be how the main character deals with meeting her biological mother.
 Though your short story does not need to be plot driven necessarily, it should nevertheless have a plot of some kind. The plot will help your story move forward and let things happen to your main character or the supporting characters. You may use a plot diagram to create the plot outline or the snowflake method.


Your plot diagram should include exposition, the inciting incident, the rising action, the climax, the falling action, and the resolution.
If you use the snowflake method, you should create a one sentence summary of your story, followed by a one paragraph summary, character synopses, and a spreadsheet of scenes.
 Your short story can catch the eye of the contest judges by having a narrative voice that is compelling and engaging. You may use your main character’s voice to narrate the story using first person “I”, or you may try the third person voice, where you use “He/she/they” to narrate the story. You can also try using the second person “you” to narrate the story, though this may be more difficult to do and some contest judges can be put off by the second person.No matter which narrative perspective you use in your story, make sure it is unique and compelling to read. This means using language and description in interesting ways. Make sure you use sensory detail when you describe something, where you tap into how something or someone smells, tastes, sounds, looks, or feels.
 Your short story should answer the four W’s: Who, What, Where, and When. The “who” means the main character and supporting characters in your story, as well as the antagonist in your story, if there is one. The “what” is the central conflict of the story that the main character must address. The “where” and the “when” are the setting of the story, such as where it takes place and when it takes place.Try starting with the “who” first, such as a character voice, or a “what”, such as the main conflict, in the first line of your story. Then, gradually shift into the “where” and “when” in the following paragraphs so your reader knows where they are and what time period they are in.
Put your reader in a setting within the first few paragraphs of the story. Use sensory detail to situate your reader so they are not confused or thrown off.
Avoid overly descriptive passages and aim for precision instead. You do not want to bore your reader with sentences about the weather or the color of the sky. Instead, focus on descriptions that show the reader just enough to keep them reading.
 The dialogue in your short story should always serve two purposes: to develop character and to move the action of the story forward. If the dialogue is not doing both things at once, it may need to be cut or revised so it is stronger.Avoid dialogue like “Hi, how are you?” or “How was your day?” This type of casual dialogue may be useful in real life, but in fiction it can come off as mundane and dry.
Instead, write dialogue that feels snappy and tight. Give your main character a certain way of talking or expressing themselves. Then, let the dialogue reflect their voice and mannerisms. Try to do this for all of your characters so the dialogue feels unique and specific in your story.
 There should be tension on every page that builds up to the climax of the story or the resolution of your main character’s conflict. Make sure your characters are always dealing with the main conflict of the story in some way. This will help your story feel gripping and exciting.


You may put obstacles in the way of your characters to make it more difficult for them to achieve their goal or to resolve their conflict. Doing this can add to the overall tension of the story.
For example, for your story about your character’s meeting with their biological mother, you may have an obstacle like your character’s relationship with her adopted parents. Or you may give the biological mother problems of her own that create obstacles for your main character.
 Award-winning short stories will be well-structured and polished. A big part of a well-structured story is a solid ending. The ending of your story should bring the story full circle and leave the reader with a distinct feeling or emotion. Though you do not need to resolve all the conflicts or issues, the ending should bring the story to some kind of close.You may have an ending that makes the story feel unified, where themes or elements of the story come together and overlap or bounce off of each other. You may also try to give your main character what they want or allow them to achieve some part or all of their goal.
Try to have an ending that leaves the reader with a certain feeling or emotion. Maybe you have a twist ending that leaves the reader unsettled or disturbed. Perhaps you have an ending that leaves the reader cautiously happy for the main character. Often, unsettling endings can be more effective than happy ones.
 Once you have completed a draft of your short story, you should polish it well before you submit it to any writing contests. Read it over to yourself and out loud. Listen to how the words sound on the page. You may also allow a friend or a writing group read over the story and get feedback from them so you can make it better.You should then revise the story using feedback from others and your own notes. Look for any awkward sentences or passages and adjust them. Make sure the narrative voice feels consistent and compelling throughout. Check that the reader is grounded in setting and time from the beginning to the end of the story.
You should also proofread the story for any spelling or grammar errors. Do not depend on the spellcheck function on your computer. Read the story backwards so you can check each word to make sure it is grammatically correct.
 You should also make sure the story falls within the required word count for any contests you are submitting it to. Submitting a 2,500 word story for a contest that only accepts entries that are 1,500 words will mean your story will likely never be read by the judges.You may need to revise and cut certain passages in your story to meet the required word count for a contest. Be assured that doing this will likely only make your short story stronger, as you should strive for precision and compression in your short stories.
 Make sure your short story has an eye-catching title, as this could make it more memorable to the judges. The title should fit the themes or ideas in your story and also say something about your story as a whole. Avoid titles that give too much away to the reader or titles that are long-winded and complex. Keep it simple, short, and engaging., You should double check that your story is formatted to the guidelines of the contest you are submitting to. If there is a specific font and line spacing noted in the guidelines, make sure you follow them. For example, the guidelines may ask for Times New Roman font in 12 pt, double spaced.Do not forget to include page numbers in your story. Place them at the bottom right corner so they are easy to spot but do not get in the way of your prose.
Many short story contests are judged blind so you should avoid placing your name or any other identifiers on the story itself. A title and page numbers are often the only formatting you need to have in your story if you are submitting it to contests.
 Once you have published and formatted your short story, it may be time to submit it to contests for review. Look for writing contests run through a university, a school, a literary magazine, or a government agency. Avoid writing contests that do not have clear guidelines or any contact information listed on their call for submissions. Try to submit your story to multiple contests at a time so it has a higher chance of winning an award.


You can find a list of reputable short story contests online through websites like Poets&Writers.com. You can also ask your writing teachers to refer you to any short story writing contests.
If you have any favorite magazines or literary publications, subscribe to their newsletter so you can get updates on any call for submissions for writing competitions they may have in the future.

