 Ask for at least 48 hours of time. This will give you the opportunity to take a clear-eyed look at the offer, evaluate it, and weigh your new employer against the current.


You can also assess the various aspects of the job that you had overlooked till now in the race of getting selected. This time will serve you well, as you can find whether the job is a right fit for your long term career.;
, Your number one consideration would be the direct income being offered during the job. The base salary and other compensations should play an important role in deciding whether you want to pursue the new job or not.


Use salary comparison sites to get an idea about the existing salary trends in your industry and judge the offer in that light. Does your CTC consists more of base salary or does it comprise of variables as the larger share?
Think about when will you receive your paycheck. What will be the timings of your salary review? These are some of the most important salary related questions that one must ask before considering the job offer.
 Determine the different types of insurances that the company is willing to offer and the coverage details. In addition, make sure to clarify the new employer on retirement benefits being offered, if any.


The list of benefits that come with a job can be endless and varies from organization to organization as well as within industries. For example, joining a high growth startup will surely land you with some stock options along with a monthly salary. On the other hand joining an established organization may or may not come with any stock options.
If there is any doubt regarding the benefits, it is probably better to ask the HR person about it rather than make your own assumptions.
 Know what the company thinks of you. Wouldn’t you be surprised to know that while you considered yourself a fit for a senior role, the company is now offering you the position of a junior executive? And by chance, if you do accept such a role, it would put you push back your career timeline by at least a year or so. Therefore, make sure to read the title of the position being offered, and if there is any discrepancy between your expectations and the company’s offer, state it in clear words.
 Think about travel demands. What if your new job requires you to travel often, and forces you to lead a lifestyle where you literally are living out of a suitcase? A family person would certainly avoid such a lifestyle and job.


Know the work hours. Is the new job is a regular 9 to 5 work hours or does it offers you the flexibility of choosing the time of your work? Such factors are significant for some, while others simply don’t care. Nevertheless, it's better being cautious than feel sorry later on.
 A major consideration before settling for any new job is the expenses that you will be incurring in making yourself physically and mentally available for that job.


Know the location of your workplace. If the new office takes longer commuting than it would add to your monthly expense. Similarly, if your new job requires you to relocate to another city or country, make sure either you get the costs covered in your final CTC or be ready to make a huge dent in your savings.
If you are a family person, moving to a new country could be especially tricky as you would have to calculate your own cost of living in a foreign location, and also manage the costs for your family residing in the home country.
 Every time you get a new job offer it helps to do a little introspection on how it would affect your career path because ultimately it’s a successful career that you want and not just another job that helps you pay your bills.


If the role being offered is natural progression to what you have done earlier, it makes sense to accept the offer letter. However, if the offer adds little value to your CV or is just a lateral move from your previous roles, then it is better to let it go.

