 This might sound silly at first, but couples can get confused over this question. Did the relationship begin the night you met, on your first date, or when you both decided to become exclusive? Asking this question shows that you are committed to the relationship.If you want to keep your gift a surprise, or are simply too embarrassed to ask, try to figure out which potential anniversary seems most significant to them. Which moment do they talk about most? If all else fails, choose the earliest potential day — it’s better to be early with your gift than to make it seem like you forgot!

, Especially this early in a relationship, who wants to be in the situation where one of you has a nice gift and big plans, while the other has … no idea what’s going on? Even if having a discussion eliminates the possibility of a surprise, it can reduce a lot of the stress and guesswork that may be occurring as you try to decide if you should get a gift (and what to get if so).There’s no rule that says you must celebrate a one month-anniversary, or that you must buy a gift. If you’d both honestly just like to let it pass without making a fuss, that’s fine. Or, if you decide gifts are okay, but want to keep clear limits — under $20; homemade only; etc. — that’s fine too.
For practical reasons, It may be important to let your girlfriend or boyfriend know that a gift is on its way, especially if you are buying tickets or if your gift is expensive. Also, you both might be planning something and the plans might conflict with each other.
 A one-month anniversary is an important milestone to celebrate, but it also still signifies the beginning of a relationship. Do not try to outdo the gift you are receiving, because it sets the bar at a place that may be tough to top. Something personal and creative always beats a gift that broke the bank.You may end up regretting it later if you jump immediately into the bigger gifts at the beginning of your relationship. If you buy your sweetheart a gold bracelet to celebrate one month together, what are you supposed to buy eleven months from now — the Hope Diamond (curse notwithstanding)?

, Of course you want to be optimistic and expect your relationship to continue for a long time. But stop and think before making any long-term shared investments — like getting a dog together or asking your partner to move in with you. Untangling yourselves from a shared circumstance like that can make even an otherwise pleasant breakup a messy affair.


If you want to share something as your gift, share an activity together.Take a cooking class. Learn to ballroom dance. If you do break up, one of you can always switch classes!

