 The automatic mental resistance to situations or people or internal state(thoughts and emotions), is the greatest reason for human suffering and pain. It's the conditioned mind that resists what is and inflicts torture and suffering on yourself. Plus human mind is human mind, its very nature is to relay mostly pointless, repetitive thoughts as per the conditioning.


You may have this delusion that resisting to thoughts, reactions, undesirable situations and emotions, can neutralize or dissolve them. Otherwise who would offer futile resistance to life. In fact, resistance that mind creates is more disturbing than the original cause it's trying to dissolve. Resistance not only re-energizes the reactions and patterns but also keeps the undesirable situation in place. Read Dissolve the Ego (According to Eckhart Tolle's Teachings) for more insight.
"Whenever you are unhappy, there is the unconscious belief that the unhappiness “buys” you what you want. If "you"- the mind- did not believe that unhappiness works, why would you create it?" A Course in Miracles.
“The greatest difficulty is the mental resistance to things that arise, and the underlying assumption is that they should not” (Eckhart Tolle).;
, Ego is humanity's current state of consciousness. A conceptualized lens through which we see the world. It's the identification with thoughts (voice in your head) and emotions. Ego was a necessary stage in the evolution of consciousness but now to advance into the next stage, we must dissolve the ego. Its cause as per the current state of humanity, there is a sense of urgency i.e 'evolve or die'.Its cause sanity and insanity are rising at the same time. It is highly recommended that you read Dissolve the Ego (According to Eckhart Tolle's Teachings) for more insight.
 Presence, the universal intelligence, can come into being only through enthusiasm, enjoyment and surrender. There are many 'negative', by conventional terms, things that happen in life and of course you cannot enjoy or be enthusiastic about them. It's precisely at these moments surrender needs to be practiced. So surrendering, or yielding internally to what is, is a simple but profound wisdom. Its because when you truly surrender to the present moment then a greater intelligence is in charge and only through surrender you have access to it.


Don't misinterpret 'surrender' as giving in. Surrender is purely an internal phenomenon.It means to offer no 'inner resistance' to the flow of life within you, without any judgments or reservations.
What's the flow of life within you? The thoughts and emotions that arise in response to anything at this moment. Allow them, let them be and let them go. This doesn't mean you can't take action. Surrender is perfectly compatible with action.In fact, surrendered action is infinitely more powerful as its in alignment with universal intelligence.
Surrender happens naturally when you truly see that your thoughts and emotions are automatic and resistance is futile. You just need to surrender to the tiny segment called the 'now' and not the situation. As past and future are no more than thoughts that arise in the now.
Use the suffering, at this moment, as an opportunity to surrender. Then you will see how this suffering transmutes into presence, like alchemy. We are not talking about presence in abstract terms. If you truly surrender, you will feel an aliveness, a transcendence within yourself. This aliveness is always present in us, but heavily disguisedby mental noise and emotions. Only through surrender you can transmute and transcend this resisting static.
If you can't surrender then bring surrender to your non-surrender. Accept that you cannot accept. "The moment you completely accept your non-peace, your non-peace transforms into peace. Anything you accept fully will take you into peace. This is the miracle of surrender" (Eckhart Tolle).

