 This is an important step that permeates all kinds of interactions you have with your grandparent.


Be an active listener when your grandparent is telling you stories about your family history or about her memories. Ask questions and make comments that prove that you are listening.
Respond appropriately to her requests or commands. If she asks you to do a task, then you should do it.
 Your grandparent grew up in a different time period, where societal norms and values were different. Be aware of what habits might irritate your grandparent.


Stay off of your cell phone or smartphone while spending time with her. Your attention should be focused on her.
Avoid arguing with or talking back to your grandparent.
Thank your grandparent when she does something for you or gives you a gift.
Be polite to your grandparent and to others when you are out in public.
Be helpful and do any tasks or chores without complaint.
 The fact is that your grandparent is getting older and will likely suffer some health issues. She is not going to be alive forever, sadly, and your grandparent needs to know that you value the time spent with her.


Let your grandparent know often that you love her.
Focus your attention on your grandparent when spending time with her.
 Your grandparent has spent many more years alive and has many more life experiences than you do. Even if you do not totally agree with her advice, your grandparent is almost certainly speaking from experience.


If you do take her advice, and it works for you, be sure to let your grandparent know and thank her for helping you.
 Grandparents truly want to feel included and to be invited to events. If you are having a dinner party, or if you are going on a family vacation, be sure to extend an invitation to your grandparent.


Although grandparents love and enjoy babysitting their grandchildren, for example, they feel more respected and included when they are invited to events.
 Things were very different when your grandparent grew up, so be understanding of that. Your grandparent likely has many set-in-stone beliefs, so avoid arguing with or scoffing at those beliefs.


Do not try to force new ideas or beliefs on your grandparent if she is not open to learning about them. This only sets the stage for an argument and causes tension.
Your grandparent might be curious about a topic or norm, but she may not want to learn everything there is to know about it. Respect the boundaries she sets for the conversation.
Calmly and carefully explain certain new societal norms, like the ways people interact or the mixture of cultures present in society.

