 Invest in a good vacuum that sucks up dirt from deep within the carpet fibers, especially if you have a shaggy carpet or you live with cats and dogs. Vacuuming regularly keeps your carpet looking and smelling fresh.


Vacuum several times a week. If you have pets, you may need to vacuum every day.
Don't rush the vacuuming process. Even high-powered vacuums need a moment to grab dust, dirt and fur from the base of the carpet fibers. Run the vacuum over the carpet more than once to ensure it is completely clean.;
, If your carpeting reaches your front door, kitchen, or other areas of your home that tend to get a lot of traffic, consider protecting those areas with throw rugs or plastic carpet protector mats. That way you won't be struggling to clean up clots of dirt and bits of grass with the vacuum cleaner every day.


Plastic carpet protector mats have the added bonus of allowing the carpet to be visible through the clear plastic. They are an inconspicuous way to protect your carpet from dirt.
Use carpet runners in hallways, which tend to get a lot of foot traffic.
 Letting spills soak into your carpet and dry makes it much harder to remove the residue. If you can get to a spill right after the accident, you'll save a lot of time later.


Use a clean cloth or paper towels to absorb the spill, then pour baking powder over the area and let it sit for 15 minutes. When the spill is completely dry, vacuum it up.
If wine or another colorful liquid is spilled, add a little club soda before sprinkling on the baking soda.
 Sometimes its impossible to get to a stain right away. If you're faced with an old wine or coffee stain, don't panic; many carpets are pre-treated with stain resistant chemicals, so stains aren't usually difficult to remove. Use a spray bottle full of vinegar to lightly spray the area, then wipe it with a cloth. For deeper stains, saturate the area with vinegar or carpet cleaner, sprinkle with baking soda, and vacuum the area once the baking soda has dried.


Don't attempt to scrub stains away from carpets. Scrubbing damages the fibers and makes the area look worse.
Don't douse the area with too much vinegar, water, or any other liquid. If it seeps too deeply into the carpet to dry, it could lead to mold growth.
Lighter carpets can be effectively cleaned by applying a mixture of lemon and salt. Do a spot treatment in a discreet area to make sure it doesn't stain your carpet a different color.

