 Your outfit should be formal, yet business-like. Unless otherwise indicated, a business suit will appear to stiff. A nice, professional-style dress or a silk blouse with a pencil skirt will do just fine. Be sure that whatever you wear touches or goes past your knees, as anything shorter may make you seem "floozy".;
, This is a surefire way to get the judge to remember you, and will also allow a little bit of your personality to shine through. Be yourself in choosing this one splash of life.
 There's no need for the heavy makeup you wore on stage -- judges will see right through this. Brush on a little eyeshadow and some light lipgloss to make your lips appealing, as these will be your most looked-at features.
 You may have to practice a pretty, convincing smile that makes you seem genuine.
 After being on stage, it will be hard to make make your hair seem too natural. If the interview round is the last one, it's okay to unpin your hair. Brush it out once and then pin your bangs away from your face.
 Also, avoid simple yes-or-no answers. Back up yes-or-no questions with a reason. For instance, if the judge says: "I see on your application that you are involved in a large number of service organizations. Do you feel service work is important?" You should reply something like this: "Yes, I feel service work is important because I feel it can change lives for the better and make our community and even greater place."

, If you consider yourself to be a funny person, answer your questions with a little bit of humor. If you're especially outgoing, allow this to be shown in your answers. What you say in your interviews should be a reflection on who YOU are.
 Of course, preparation is good, but it's nearly impossible to know EXACTLY what any judge is going to ask you. Write down a list of basic questions that you feel you may be asked, and practice them. Don't focus too much on what you say though. Focus on how you say it: in a clear, level tone, with proper enunciation and a bright smile.
 If you're too nervous, you'll end up giving shabby answers and speaking shakily. Also, there's a chance you'll sweat off your makeup! It can be hard to speak about yourself to someone you don't know, especially when you know they're giving you a score based on your answers! Focus on taking deep, slow breaths and talking in a level tone. Avoid tapping your feet, drumming your fingers, biting your lip, or doing anything else that expresses anxiety or compulsion, or this will be a dead giveaway.
 Nothing is more beautiful than a confident young woman who knows who she is. When your answers come straight from your heart (with a little bit of polish, of course) you'll seem real, genuine, and an overall shoo-in. This means saying the first answer that pops into your head (as long as it's not too rough!).

