 Only when your backpack is empty will you have an adequate sense of what your backpack can accommodate. Plus, if you’ve organized your pack in the same way for a long while, emptying it out completely can help you imagine new ways to organize it more efficiently., Pack items that are of a similar size and weight. Identify the items that are heaviest, and determine if the extra weight is really worth it.For instance, if you have a cooking pan you really like but it pushes you over the weight limit you’ve set for yourself, you might want to ditch it. If you decide it’s too heavy, try to find a similar item that weighs less.
There is no target weight toward which you should be aiming in your organizational efforts. Everyone can accommodate a different mass based on their hiking experience and their body type. Set your weight limit at whatever is right for you.
 When organizing an internal frame backpack, the area at the bottom should be reserved for light material, while the medium-weight stuff should be packed on top of it. The heaviest things should be packed in the middle of the forward-most area of the backpack (in other words, against the area that actually touches your back)., If you have an external frame backpack, place the lightest material in the bottom, the place medium-weight material on top of that. Slide the heaviest items in the top of the backpack, tucking them as tightly as possible against the forward-most area of the pack.The goal in both modes of organization is to center the weight on your hips so that you can more easily maintain balance.
 Items that you might use or need at any time – insect repellents, snacks, rain ponchos, and so on – should be placed in outer pockets. If you organize your backpack in such a way that these items are buried under a mound of other things you don’t need to access regularly, you’ll have to dig through your whole pack to get to them., If you have a pot in your backpack, place a shirt inside it. If you want to pack duct tape, slide it over your hiking poles. If you’re using a bear canister, cram it full of snacks and other scented items., Many hiking and camping backpacks have special compartments that have been designed for particular purposes. For instance, many backpacks have space for a water bladder (typically located directly behind and at the top of the pack). Other packs have slots specifically designed for sleeping bags. Consult your backpack owner’s guide to identify how the manufacturer intended the backpack to be used.