 One way of tempering eggs common in Italian cooking is to add raw egg directly to hot pasta to create a rich sauce. Most famously, this is the technique used for making spaghetti carbonara, the simple combination of noodles, egg, pancetta (or bacon), and lots and lots of black pepper.


Carbonara is typically made with spaghetti noodles, but also can be made with any noodle you like to eat. Technique-wise, it's sometimes easier to temper the eggs in the pan using longer noodles, which tangle together to create a larger surface and keep the eggs off the bottom of the pan, so they won't scramble. You can do it with any noodle, however.
 While your pasta cooks, beat about 2 eggs in a bowl and add enough shredded parmesan cheese to double the amount. This can be more than you'd think–around a half cup or so of shredded parmesan. You can use other kinds of cheese, but drier, flakier cheeses like parmesan usually integrate more easily into the egg and melt more quickly than some other kinds.


In a carbonara, you'll also add lots and lots of black pepper to the eggs before you add it to the pasta. The pepper is where the dish gets it's name–the pepper grains look like bits of "carbon."

, For most recipes, you'll fry up some kind of meat, onions, garlic, and spices in a skillet first, then remove the pan from the heat. Cook your pasta separately, then add it to the skillet with the other ingredients. Put the skillet on low heat, stirring the noodles in the meat and vegetables to heat it gently.


The goal is to warm the egg on the top side of the pasta before it works through to the bottom of the pan, where it will likely start to curdle. It takes temperature control and good stirring to make it work correctly.
 Pour the egg over the pasta noodles in the skillet over low heat, using a wooden spoon to stir the noodles around vigorously. Continue agitating the noodles, moving them around constantly. They should cook very quickly, and you want to avoid letting them curdle on the bottom of the skillet. Remove the skillet from the heat when you see steam and fork the noodles into a separate bowl.


Eggs cook much more quickly than most people think, so heating the noodles through gently and having them at the proper temperature when you had them should temper the eggs very quickly, coating the noodles in a rich and thick cheesy sauce. Season with chopped parsley and serve immediately.