 When you break away from your sleeping medication, the most important thing you can do for yourself is to set up a healthy, regular sleeping routine. Although you will still likely experience withdrawal symptoms from the medication in the first few weeks, practicing what is called "sleep hygiene" can help to counter-balance the withdrawal and to set you up for lasting success with your new sleep pattern.The first step in sleep hygiene is to set a wake-up time that is the same every day. Even on weekends, you should be getting up at the same time that you do on weekdays.
If you find that you are tired, the best strategy is to go to bed earlier rather than changing your wake-up time.
Therefore, if the alarm goes off, make sure you get up; if you remain fatigued throughout the day, you can go to bed earlier and eventually your body will adapt. Try making your bed time earlier in 15-minute increments.
An additional benefit to this strategy is that your body naturally becomes more tired at night. When you know that "sleeping in" past your alarm is not an option, you learn to listen to your body as it naturally gets tired in the evening and to use this as your signal of when it is time to go to sleep.
 This is one of the most counter-productive things you can do for your sleep, because the light from the screens (called "blue" light) changes the chemistry in your brain and causes you to be more awake and less likely to fall asleep.


Melatonin is the natural chemical produced in your brain that regulates the sleep-wake cycle. It is produced in larger quantities prior to falling asleep. The bright light from computer, television, or cellphone screens counters the effects of melatonin, as the brain's natural production of melatonin is related to the natural light or darkness of the surrounding environment (it is what causes us to feel sleepy when it is dark out).
It is advisable to diminish (or cut out altogether) screen time right before bed.
It is also advisable not to use these devices in the bedroom as psychologically you want your bedroom to be associated with sleep.
If you use your phone as your alarm to wake up, purchase an actual alarm clock so that you are not tempted to spend time on your phone when setting your alarm before bed.
 Also, resist the temptation to start anything that requires fired-up thinking processes, such as trying to solve a work problem at 11pm at night. Your best bet is to leave it until the morning.
 Unfinished chores can be completed the next day after a refreshing night's sleep. Your body breaks away from the natural cycle when its sleepy state is overcome by other distractions, and it can become very difficult to fall asleep again.
 Any light source from the outside creates a distraction and can easily awaken you. Block out these light sources if they create a distraction when you are trying to fall asleep. Heavy curtaining and blankets will do the trick.


The same is true for external noise; do your best to muffle it and consider closing the window to prevent external noises from filtering in. Interestingly, "white noise" (such as the sound of a fan or sound machine) can help you fall asleep, because the ambient noise helps mask other sounds, such as car alarms or people moving about the house., Aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate aerobic exercise five days a week and include one to three days of strength training., Caffeine is also a stimulant that makes sleeping difficult. If you are thirsty, warm milk or plain drinking water is the best option for getting a good night's sleep.


Avoid having caffeine after mid-day. Make all drinks caffeine-free from this point until you awaken the next morning.
Remember that chocolate contains caffeine and sugar, so try to avoid eating it too close to bedtime.
 A hot bath works wonders and is known to relax and soothe tired and aching muscles. A relaxed body is able to sleep better. Add soothing scents such as lavender, neroli, rose, frankincense or sandalwood essential oils to calm the mind.If you plan on washing your hair, allow sufficient time to for your hair to dry. If you have to wait half the night for your hair to dry, you'll add to your sleep deprivation.
Not everyone has or likes a bath. If you'd rather take a shower, don't hesitate; it still works by soothing you with warmth and the relaxing rhythm of the water falling over you. Choose lavender or similar scented shower gels that help to calm you.
 CBT can make a difference in how you view the utility of the pills and can help you to discover your own way of overcoming insomnia.