 Your girlfriend should be made to feel as if she's special. Always speak kindly to her, listen to what she says, and be respectful of her as an individual.


Your girlfriend should be more than an object of your lust. Even if you're intimate, keep a lid on it sometimes.
Greet her respectfully. When she enters a room, stand and kiss her hand. You could even nod or bow before her if you're feeling really royal.;
, Escort her holding hands while moving. Have a soft kiss on the back of her hand, if passion allows. Comfort her hugging from the back, gently.


Whenever need to touch, touch her softly. Be gentle and loving with your girlfriend.
, Never be rude, give yourself a challenge that you will not be angry or tough to her. Never call her names or insult her, especially during arguments. This will come back to haunt you in a large way and is a fairly common mistake. It may even result in the loss of a relationship.
 When you are out in public with her on your arm, present her as someone you are blessed to be with, because you are!

, Gifts can be big or small, casual or significant. If you like your girlfriend and want to treat her right, show her that you care with a small token. Flowers, jewelry, and other small gifts are always appreciated.


Never forget to do the little things like buying her favorite candy, flowers, or any other sweet gesture for no other reason than that you love her.
 Bringing a lunch and coffee while they are at work is also always welcome. If your schedule doesn't allow this, packing an appropriate lunch with a note of affection will bring a warm smile to her face.
 Spend a decent percentage of your money on her. She'll appreciate the attention, time, and money that you've put into this endeavor. More importantly, she'll be happy to be with you.
 Massages are amazing! Shoulder, back, foot rubs shows an effort to put her in a state of bliss. Even if you don't know what you're doing, so long as you don't hurt her, she will tell you what to change and will still appreciate the attempt.
 Every once in a while (maybe twice a year or more, depending on how spectacular you make it), plan a trip for the two of you. Make it a weekend getaway or thrill her with an adventure somewhere further away like another country you know she really wants to visit. Get the hotel, the plane tickets, and time from her boss so she can go.
 If your girlfriend needs to vent, be there to listen. Ask her how she feels and show her that you care by taking her opinions and ideas seriously.


Acknowledge that she has your full attention.
, This will show that you have a genuine interest in her and that you pay attention.
 Tell her that she alone possesses your heart (outside of any religious doctrines that you are affiliated with).

