 Perhaps you've been dating for a while and your partner has held back on swearing, but now that you're comfortable in the relationship he's suddenly started swearing. Or perhaps your partner has always sworn, and you've simply dealt with it as best you could. Whatever your situation might be, it's important to talk to your partner about his bad habit as early as possible. If you wait, you'll only grow resentful.


Some researchers refer to a partner's bad habits in a relationship as "social allergies" - the habits are a minor annoyance at first, but over time they can lead to annoyance, resentment, and even disgust.If your partner's language is a significant problem to you, or if you believe it may become more of a problem for you in the future, you owe it to have an honest and straightforward discussion with your partner.
As with any bad habit, the sooner you address it, the better it will be for you and your relationship.;
, Your partner may have learned to swear from his family, friends, or even coworkers. Many people are exposed to vulgar language socially, and those individuals probably do not see their swearing as anything offensive or hurtful. Your partner's swearing may upset you, but it's important to remember that he loves you and does not necessarily engage in this habit to hurt or upset you.


Let your partner know that you love him, and that you do not resent him for who he is. At the same time, though, you need to be upfront and communicate to him in no uncertain terms that his behavior upsets you.Don't discount your partner's feelings or lapse into judgmental behavior, as this may alienate your partner and create further tension.Use "I" statements to convey that your partner's behavior upsets you. "You" statements tend to communicate anger, accusation, or frustration, whereas "I" statements address the way you feel about the behavior.Instead of saying "Your language is awful and you're unpleasant to be around," say something less hurtful and less absolute, such as "I love you and I'm not trying to judge you, but your language is a problem for me."

, It's not enough to point out problematic behavior. You need to go a step further and let your partner know what you'd like him to do instead. Giving criticism without guidance or direction towards whatever you'd prefer as an alternative may make your partner get defensive or feel like he's being picked on.Have an honest, back-and-forth dialogue about what you'd like your partner to do instead, and ask for his honest feedback.
Agree to a progression. Work on curbing casual swearing first, as some language patterns (like swearing while in pain, for example) may be more difficult for your partner to break.After casual swearing has been eliminated, work on your partner's swearing when he's upset.
The last step, and potentially the most difficult, will be to eliminate reactive swearing (like swearing in response to an injury or shock).
 Don't be upset if your partner is willing to stop swearing in front of you but wants to keep swearing when he's with friends or family members. Remember that swearing may be a social "language" for your partner, and expecting him to change how he interacts with friends, coworkers, or relatives may be exceedingly difficult.


Talk to your partner about his limits, and convey your own expectations and concerns.
Dialogue is important through this entire process. If you and your partner are not equally communicating what you want and what you are willing to compromise on, it can quickly lead to arguments and feelings of resentment.
 Your partner's behavior isn't going to change overnight, and it would be unreasonable to expect such a radical transformation. However, you should have a frank conversation with your partner about how you will measure his relative success in the effort to stop swearing. Talk to your partner about your expectations and his to determine how you will mark his progress and the eventual accomplishment of the goal, and remember to make S.M.A.R.T. goals (specific, achievable, results-focused, and time-bound).Set incremental goals. Don't expect change to happen overnight, but don't give your partner a never-ending timeframe or he won't be motivated to make any progress.
Ask your partner what he thinks would be a reasonable timeframe, and try to focus on negotiations instead of demands.
 If your partner is willing to work on controlling his language in some form or another, try to meet him halfway. Find out what would make him happy or motivate him on a day-to-day basis, and try to help keep him on track by being his supporter rather than his critic.Ask your partner what he likes and what would help keep him motivated. He may have some kind of minor indulgence, like getting takeout from a favorite restaurant or going out with friends after work, which could help keep him motivated and on some kind of progress schedule.
 One way to reduce swearing is to provide your partner with alternative words to use. You can come up with words together, even making up nonsensical words that will help replace your partner's vulgar language.Even as you work to control your partner's swearing, his need for expressive words will not diminish. Coming up with euphemisms or nonsensical words can be a fun and humorous bonding exercise.
 A swear jar is a great way to create low-stakes "consequences" for swearing without actually punishing your partner. Every time your partner swears, ask him to put a dollar in the swear jar. Let the money build up while you help your partner try to achieve his goals, and at the end (only once he's met whatever goals you've set together) you can use that money for a fun night out together.A swear jar may seem like a "punishment," but it can actually act as a sort of motivation over time.
As more money accumulates, your partner will realize that that money won't be spent on a fun date night until he stops swearing, which may give him the push he needs.
 Your partner may need gentle reminders whenever he slips up and swears, but sometimes your words or a discontent expression on your face aren't enough. The best way to help your partner break his bad habit is to help him find ways to increase his own awareness of what he says, and work together to make him more aware of his words.Ask your partner to wear a rubber band around his wrist. Any time he slips up and swears, tap your wrist to remind him to snap the rubber band.
Use a dry erase board to tally up the swear words used each week. Any time he swears, ask him to write down the word he said. This can help your partner track his progress and see if his swearing is improving.
 Every bad habit has a trigger. Just as a smoker might have an extra cigarette after a stressful day at work, your partner may indulge in swearing when he's upset, scared, stressed out, or frustrated. One important way to help support your partner is to learn what tends to set off his swearing, and help him become aware of it too.Don't address swearing during a moment of anger or frustration, as this may cause your partner to get angry with you or to escalate his anger at the situation at hand.
Help your partner through moments of crisis, wait until he's calm, and then talk to him (gently) about how certain situations seem to set him off. He may not even be aware of it himself., Some people may think that getting angry or punishing a person will help curb that person's undesired behavior. But getting angry or punishing your partner will only make him frustrated, and it could cause him to feel hopeless and even resentful.


Instead of focusing on "punishment" (like withholding things your partner likes), focus on celebrating his accomplishments, no matter how small or minor they may seem to you.Remember that progress is slow and often marked by a series of minor victories and setbacks. Be patient and help your partner the best you can.
 Any time your partner avoids swearing in a heated moment or goes a duration of time without swearing, praise him and celebrate that accomplishment. It will make him feel good, and it may give him motivation to keep at it.


Don't just offer a big reward once the goal has been met. You should have a goal for the end in mind, but offer little goals along the way to help your partner feel your support., It bears repeating that no bad habit is going to change overnight. If your partner has grown up with vulgar language, breaking that habit may take months or even years. The best thing for both of you (and for your relationship) in the meantime is to remain patient with your partner.


Work to develop patience by changing your own mindset. Don't see your partner's slip ups as an indication of failure or a lack of effort on your part or his.Recognize that your partner is trying, and continue to offer him support. Celebrate his accomplishments, no matter how small.
Remember that change takes time and patience. Your partner needs your support during times of change and struggle more than ever.

