 If you are experiencing discomfort after eating products with gluten, see your doctor. She can test you for celiac disease or another related condition that may be exacerbating the condition and then suggest treatment to help you manage your symptoms. Remember that there is no cure for gluten intolerance, just ways to manage it.Your doctor may run tests such as blood tests, endoscopy, capsule endoscopy to assess whether or not you have celiac disease or even gluten intolerance.Your doctor may also test for other conditions related to celiac disease or gluten intolerance including: anxiety, depression, migraines, thyroid disease, intestinal cancer, osteoporosis, dermatitis herpetiformis, diabetes, neuropathy, arthritis.;
, Once your have undergone treatments, get your definitive diagnosis from the doctor. She will likely cover the best treatment plan for you at this juncture.


Your doctor will tell you if you have celiac disease or gluten intolerance. In either case, avoiding gluten is the best treatment.Your doctor may prescribe other medications or vitamin supplements to help relieve other symptoms of celiac disease and gluten intolerance., Many persons suffering from gluten intolerance have nutritional deficiencies, inflammation to the intestines, or even blistering of their skin. Taking nutritional supplements and medications may help control the peripheral symptoms of gluten intolerance and celiac disease.A gluten free diet is the key to controlling gluten intolerance.You may require supplements of calcium, folate, iron, vitamin B-12, vitamin D, vitamin K, and zinc.Your doctor may prescribe steroids to control inflammation in your intestines.If you have dermatitis herpetiformis, which is an itchy and blistering skin rash, your doctor may prescribe dapsone to relieve the rash., If you are having a difficult time following a gluten free diet, consider working with a dietician. She can help you learn to identify gluten, make better food choices, and help you develop a gluten free meal plan.


Health professionals who specialize in gluten intolerance can provide you with extensive information on gluten-free foods, sources of hidden gluten and finding alternatives when eating away from home.
If you cannot locate a dietician or health professional who specializes in gluten related conditions, the National Foundation for Celiac Awareness has a wide variety of resources you can use to locate professionals in your area, educate yourself or even join a support group of other people who suffer from gluten intolerance., Since gluten intolerance is triggered by foods containing gluten, get rid of products in your home that contain it. This may help reduce your symptoms and prevent you from accidentally eating foods that could cause further abdominal distress.Glutinous products that often contain gluten include:


Barley, including malt and malt vinegar
Rye
Triticale, which is a cross between wheat and rye
Wheat and wheat flours such as semolina, farina, durum, graham, kamut, and spelt., Because wheat and wheat flours are so prevalent in the diets of many people today, you’ll need to identify foods that have wheat flours and/ or gluten. This may require getting rid of some of your favorite foods, but it wil help treat your gluten intolerance.Some examples of common foods that contain gluten are:


Beer
Breads
Cakes and pies
Cereals
Communion wafers
Croutons
Fried foods
Gravies, sauces, and salad dressings and foods in them
Imitation meats and seafood
Pastas
Processed lunch meats
Soy sauce
Seasoned foods and snacks
SoupsIf you are not sure, do not keep the foods. The Celiac Disease Foundation offers a large list of foods containing gluten at https://celiac.org/live-gluten-free/glutenfreediet/sources-of-gluten/.
 Even if you suffer from gluten intolerance and have to remove many foods from your diet, you can restock your kitchen and enjoy alternative foods or gluten-free products. Not having foods or products containing gluten can help ensure that you don’t accidentally prepare something that will exacerbate your symptoms.If you live in a home with others who still eat gluten, consider keeping your food separate to be entirely sure that you don’t cross contaminate what you will eat.
You can eat the following naturally gluten-free foods without much concern: beans, seeds, nuts, fresh eggs, fresh meats, fish, poultry, fruits, vegetables, most dairy products.Most grocery stores and other large retailers now offer a wide variety of gluten-free foods that you may have otherwise had to cut out. Ask if there is an aisle of designated “gluten-free” products with which you can stock your kitchen.
 Many naturally gluten-free foods contain hidden amounts of gluten or are processed with glutinous foods. Reading food labels can help you avoid these foods and unpleasant symptoms.Some naturally gluten-free grains that you can include in your diet are: amaranth, arrowroot, buckwheat, corn and cornmeal, flax, gluten-free flours, millet, quinoa, rice, soy, tapioca, and teff.Common code words for gluten include: hydrolyzed vegetable protein, vegetable protein, glutamate, malt, malt flavoring, modified food starch, flour, cereal, soy sauce and vegetable gum.Avoid any processed food or product that does not specify that it is gluten-free, including spices.
It's especially important to check when eating at a restaurant, eating at a friend's house who does not share your dietary habits, or when trying new prepared foods.
 Preparing food yourself is one of the safest ways to ensure that you’re not consuming gluten. Planning your meals can help you avoid glutinous foods and may prevent abdominal discomfort as well as ensure that you are getting proper nutrients.Make a plan for each meal during the week. Pay special attention for any meals that you don’t eat at home, such as lunch or dinner. In these cases, pack a meal if possible. If not, you may want to scope out restaurants for gluten-free choices.For example, you could start off your week with a cheese and vegetable omelet with a side gluten-free toast with butter and fruit. For lunch you could have a salad with salmon and a dressing of olive oil and vinegar. At dinnertime, you could have a steak with broccoli and a loaded baked potato.
 It can be very difficult to eat in restaurants if you are avoiding gluten. Many use products containing hidden gluten and run the risk of exposing you to cross-contaminated foods. Asking about the menu and avoiding definitively glutinous foods may help prevent discomfort from accidentally consuming even a small amount of gluten.Many restaurants now have gluten-free sections on their menus. If this isn’t the case, you could ask a manager or the chef about potential gluten in the food.
The National Foundation for Celiac Awareness has a list of certified gluten-free kitchens at: http://www.celiaccentral.org/dining/.
Some foods to avoid in restaurants include: croutons, wontons, fried onions and crispy noodles on salads; soups with flour or barley; food marinated in soy or teriyaki sauce; food dusted in flour before sautéing; oil used to fry different types of breaded foods; mashed potato mixes; the breadbasket.Some good choices in restaurants include steamed vegetables, roasted meats, desserts with fruit or ice creams.
Always be prepared if a restaurant doesn’t have your first choice., Exposure to gluten from cross-contaminated foods and products is common. Avoiding cross-contamination as much as possible may help relieve and treat your symptoms.In restaurants, ask if the same surfaces are used to prepare glutinous and gluten-free foods. If you are especially sensitive to gluten, you may want to avoid the restaurant altogether.In your own home, cross-contamination is also possible. Try and use different cutting boards and other preparation surfaces to help prevent cross-contamination.You may also want to avoid using the same appliances, such as toasters, toaster ovens, or pans.