 To do so, you will need some skill at graphic design and an image-editing program that can make a high-quality ad. Try to keep it simple and stick with just one version to start out with. Many ezines will charge a fee to create your ad, so taking this route will save you money in the short term.


If you don’t feel comfortable making your own ad and can’t afford to pay the fee, consider approaching a technical college with an opportunity to let one of their classes work on your ad as a class project. They get the experience and you’ll get the product., Don't be afraid to purchase multiple ads with essentially the same message. Consumers often need to see an ad many times in order for it to make an impression.
 To achieve a successful marketing campaign, you need to get your customers to take a certain course of action. It is not enough for them to simply notice your ad and move on. Instead, you might state, “Click now! Find out how you can purchase quality woolen goods!”, Make a list of everyone that you know. Reach out to those people who know you the best. Ask them to spread the word about your work. Look at the list again for those people you know less well, but who might be interested. This is the start of your networking list.When people click through to your site, make sure that you capture their information. Ask them to sign up for regular email announcements and you will start to supplement your initial list.
 Money earned directly from your ezine ad is great, but when you consider the cost-benefit ratio of your ad, don’t forget less traceable points of revenue. For example, you could form strategic partnerships with other companies who found out about you via the ad. Or, you could build up enough support to eventually start your own ezine.
 One way to get cheap ezine advertising is to own and operate the ezine itself. Creating your own publication gives you control over the copy and tone of the work. You can also continue to expand your contact list and may even generate extra income by selling ads.


Make sure to create a quality ezine or you will damage your larger brand and business. Emphasize quality and reliability, publishing on time with few errors in fact and form. Asking for feedback can help you to improve as well.