 Generally, on a cat, the area of skin between the neck and the back are the loosest and most flexible patches of skin.Gently pinch the skin where it's loosest and hold it between your thumb and forefinger while distracting your cat with food. This is called "tenting" the skin, as it should somewhat resemble an erected pup tent (also known as a shelter-half)., Once you've got the loose skin firmly between your fingertips, you should see a narrow strip of skin between your thumb and index finger. Insert the needle into that strip of skin.The needle should be kept parallel to the skin along your cat's back at all times. Angling the needle could cause it to pierce through the skin and stab your finger.Do not hold your thumb over the plunger until you're certain that the needle is correctly inserted. Holding the plunger while inserting the needle could cause a premature injection, if the cat flinches or if you've incorrectly inserted the needle., Before you inject the medicine, it's important that you slightly pull back on the plunger. This is to ensure that you've hit an acceptable site for the injection.If blood enters the syringe when you pull back the plunger, it means you've hit a blood vessel. You'll need to remove the needle and try again in a different spot.If air bubbles enter the syringe, it means you've stuck the needle all the way through the pinched skin and have drawn in air from the room. You'll need to remove the needle and try again, perhaps in a different spot.If no blood or air bubbles enter the syringe, you've hit an acceptable location, and may proceed with the injection., Be sure that you inject all of the medicine in the syringe. Once the syringe is completely empty, carefully remove the needle, moving along the same path you used to insert the needle.Hold the syringe between your index and middle fingers, and use your thumb (on the same hand) to press down the plunger., Once you've completed the injection, you'll need to check the site of injection, looking for blood or for any medicine leaking out of the needle hole. If you detect either blood or medicine emerging from the site of injection, use a clean cotton ball or tissue to apply pressure to the site until the secretion stops. This should only take a minute or so, but may take longer if your cat is moving around too much., Do not dispose of a syringe in your household trash, as needles are considered biohazardous waste. Contact your vet's office to find out if they collect used needles for disposal. Never put an uncapped needle in the trash, as this could cause injury or infection to the refuse collector or anyone else who handles your garbage.

