 A cake that is warm or at room temperature will fall apart if you try to remove it from the pan. It must be entirely firm before you attempt do anything with it.
 Run a knife dipped in hot water along the edge of the cheesecake to loosen it from the sides of the pan. Re-dip the knife as necessary to prevent the knife from dragging at the cake. After loosening the cake, pop open the latch on the pan and lift away the sides.


Don't use cold water to loosen the cake, since it isn't as effective as hot water.
You can cover any cracks or gouges on the sides of the cake by using a knife dipped in hot water to smooth them over.
 Unlatch the pan and gently lift away the sides. A chilled cake will remain upright, rather than slumping to one side of the other. If you see any small cracks or spots that need correcting, run a knife under hot water and gently smooth out the rough parts.
 The spatula method requires someone else's help, since the cake might break if you try to support it using just two spatulas instead of three. Three spatulas should be enough to lift the cake and safely transfer it to a platter. Choose large, flat, thin spatulas that will easily slide under the cake.


You may also want to heat the bottom of the cake before attempting the transfer. This will make it easier for the cake to unstick from the bottom of the springform pan.
 Very carefully slide them between the crust and the springform pan bottom. Keep sliding as far as you can, and try to cover as much area under the cake as possible. Space the spatulas evenly around the cake so no one spot is unsupported.
 Hold two of the spatulas and have a friend grab the third. Count to three with your friend and gently lift the cake onto a platter you have waiting nearby. Do it quickly, but carefully, to achieve the best results.


Make sure you lift at the exact same moment, using the same speed, or else the cake will break.
Once you have the cake on the platter, gently slide the spatulas out from under the cake.

