 Measure the fabric to 225cm/88.5 inches long and 128cm/50.3 inches wide, then cut.;
, Make this 1.25cm/0.49 inches and do it twice. Sew in place.
 Sew in place. This forms the casing for the ropes.
 Pin in place at each end, then turn under and stitch to the first fabric piece. Use strong stitching and do two rows for added strength.


Do not sew across the rope casings on each long side.
 Drill an 8mm/0.31 of an inch hole at each end of the dowel, 3cm/1.1 inches in from the ends.
 Then thread the other dowel through the top end.
 Cut the rope to 9 meters/354 inches. Singe the ends to stop fraying (use a lighter, hot plate or candle flame).


Place the hammock on a flat surface such as a clear long table or the floor.
Patiently thread the rope through the first hole of one dowel. Then push the rope all the way down the casing and up through the exact opposite dowel hole at the other long end of the hammock.
Pull the rope over and leave about 1.6 meters/62 inches of it out. Then, thread the rest of the rope down through the other dowel hole on the same short side, then through the casing down to the other dowel hole at the beginning end.
The two loose ends of the rope (the other end is an unbroken arc) should measure about 1 meter/39 inches each. Adjust if needed.
 Pull the rope back on itself so that the weave opens. Push the singed rope end into the open weave at least 40-50 cm/15.7-19.5 inches. Press down on it, then tug tight. The rope will stay embedded and won't pull apart (test it by tugging).


If the rope you're using does do this, tie a firm knot instead.
 Cut the rope in half, then wind the ends around the dowel at the one third and two thirds points of the dowel. Then open the weave as above, feed in the other rope end and pull tight to seal.


You could also not create the loop. Instead tie large knots at the dowel entry point to prevent the rope from slipping through, then tie the loose ends around a large object such as a tree trunk or hang from hammock hangers attached to porch poles, etc.
 Hang the hammock on the hammock frame by looping it around the frame holes.

