 Consider starting an animal-themed club at your school or, if possible workplace. Or, you could even get a job that has to do with animals. This isn't a must, but it could help you meet others like you.;
, It's really a matter of choice, but it's hard to both truly love animals and pay for them to be killed. Becoming vegan/vegetarian is also a very good way to fight climate change and to get yourself healthier. Becoming a vegetarian can also help, or you could try to cut down on meat and dairy products. You could even try (should you be especially addicted to one thing) to cut out everything but, say cheese.
 You don't always have to be kind to people, but if you extend your loving of all creatures to people, your goodness will be outstanding.
 Perhaps you could take in a nice cat, dog, bird, or small animal from your local rescue! Be sure to always take an animal from a shelter. Many baby animals end up in shelters and are even put down because they have no room in the shelters to take any more in., These animals aren't meant to live in cages and suffer terribly by coming to you and many don't live nearly as long in captivity as they do in the wild.
 Make sure they have water available at all times and are fed well. Dogs should have at least one reasonable length walk a day, preferably with some time off the lead. If you work all day, think about asking a relative/friend/neighbor to walk your dog or consider getting a dog walker. If you have a cat, they should be let out at least once a day.
 Dress to avoid clothes that contain animal products such as leather, fur, or snake-skin. Most animal lovers buy T-shirts that they think are cute, but how about having your purchase spread the word of honoring the life of all animals. Your purchase could even benefit local or global animal relief efforts.
 Encourage those who have hurt animals in any way to realize the harm they have caused and to nudge them toward understanding better ways to honor the spirit of their animals. If you just let individuals abuse their pets, you are, basically, an accomplice to their cruelty.

