 Encouraging others to bring a special dish will help alleviate some of your Thanksgiving duties. Contact people on your guest list beforehand to determine who is cooking what. If two guests want to cook the same thing, ask one of them to bring something else. If a person claims that they can't cook, suggest that they bring the libations or purchase dessert from the store.


You can say something like, "This year we are going to have a potluck Thanksgiving where everyone brings their own dish and we all share. What would you want to bring?"
If two people want to bring the same thing you can say, "Brian is already making mashed potatoes. Can you think of something else to make?"

, Having many people attend Thanksgiving could add an extra level of complexity when trying to satisfy all of your guests. Invite people that are the most important to you to keep the guest list smaller. Think of close family and friends and eliminate those that may have their plans already, or that you feel impartial about.


A good sized guest list is 8-10 people, but if you want to keep it even simpler, you can reduce it to your immediate family.
 While designating tasks to other family and friends may not feel like a simple Thanksgiving, it will reduce the amount of work that you'll have to do. Create a list beforehand and talk to your guests about if they'd be interested in getting to your house earlier and helping prepare.


If you have younger children or nephews and nieces, you can have them do simple tasks like setting the table or stirring the gravy.
You can say something like, "I'm trying to make Thanksgiving easier this year. Do you think you could help out with the preparations?"

, Restricting the entirety of your guest list to dessert will enable you to invite and spend time with everyone that you want, without the added stress of having to prepare a Thanksgiving meal for a large number of people. Go through your guest list and invite your closest family and friends to the main meal, then invite the rest of the guests for dessert. Make sure to allocate enough time between dinner and dessert so that people don't start showing up in the middle of dinner.


You can ask someone by saying something like, "We are having a small Thanksgiving dinner, but I was wondering if you and your family wanted to come over for desert at 9 p.m."

