 Spot reduction, which means reducing fat in one specific area, is a weight loss myth. Toning certain areas, like the arms and stomach, can make them look trimmer and thinner, but to remove fat you have to focus on your entire body.


Losing weight and keeping it off involves a calorie controlled diet and 60 minutes of moderate exercise, such as brisk walking, a day. Fat from your belly is usually the first to go during a weight loss regimen, and regular high-intensity aerobic workouts tend to lead to slimmer waists.Circuit training workouts are another good exercise that combat belly fat by reducing fat throughout the body. Circuit workouts can be found online or you can enroll in a class at your gym. Workouts are divided into circuits that combine cardio exercises. Circuits are performed continually, with no breaks in between. A good circuit routine increases heart rate and strengthens a variety of muscles, shifting focus to the entire body and not just the stomach.;
, To tone your stomach, you should focus on your core muscles by doing exercises that target the abdomen. This won't help you lose fat, but it can make an already skinny stomach appear more toned and, therefore, flat. It can also increase the effectiveness of current workouts, resulting in you burning more calories during your normal routine.


The crunch is a classic core strengthening exercise. Lie on your back and place your feet against a wall so they're bent at a 90-degree angle. Cross your arms on your chest, lift your head and shoulders forward and take in three breaths before lying back down. Repeat.Planks are another popular core exercise. Get in the push-up position with your hands under your shoulders. Keep your legs straight out in behind you and your feet together. Instead of lowering down for a push-up, hold the pose as long as you can. Challenge yourself each time to hold the pose longer.Workout routines like Pilates and yoga focus primarily on core muscles. You can enroll in a class or find routines online. Many YouTube vloggers and exercise enthusiasts post easy-to-follow Pilates and yoga routines that can be done from home with no more than a mat and basic workout clothing.
 While spot reduction is impossible, some exercises focus on areas towards the abdomen. Side bends can increase blood flow to the abdomen which can increase oxygen levels and may help you gain muscle, toning your stomach. It also might help you strengthen your body overall, resulting in more efficient workouts and less soreness.Bend to one side while holding your opposite arm over your head and then bend to the other side, raising your other arm. Do this until you've done 10 stretches on either side of your body. Many people use weights during side bends, but this is bad for your muscles and can also result in a thicker waist due to excess muscle.When trying to narrow the waist, focus on exercises that cause your waist to twist and rotate, so that you are not adding bulk to your waist.
 Salt can have a negative effect on any weight loss routine, which can sabotage your ability to lose troublesome belly fat. Especially short term, this is a quick way to limit bloat and get a flatter stomach.


Bloating in the stomach often results from carrying excess water. Water retention in the body is related to a heavy intake of sodium.Decrease your sodium intake. Read food labels to see how much sodium is in the products you consume. Be careful, however, as labels can be deceitful. Sometimes, a bag of chips doesn't look too unhealthy until you realize the nutritional information is "per serving" and the bag comes with 2.5 servings. Be realistic about how much of a product you expect to eat and calculate how much sodium you'll consume.Avoid processed foods and do not add too much salt to table foods. Watch out for canned vegetables and soy sauces, which can be salt-heavy., Processed or refined grains, like those found in white rices and breads, contain empty calories that can manipulate hormone levels in the body and result in excess fat production. Swapping refined grains for whole grains when possible can result in a flatter stomach.


Whole grains are a group of foods that contain all the naturally-occurring nutrients of a food's entire grain seed in its original proportion. Processed grains are grains that have been cracked, rolled, crushed, cooked, or otherwise tampered with, resulting in less overall nutritional value. Whole wheats, like whole wheat bread and brown rice, are a type of whole grain. Other whole grains include barley, buckwheat, oats, and quinoa.Eating refined grains triggers a body process in which blood sugar levels rise and insulin spikes. When this occurs, the body is more ready to deposit fat and tends to do so in the abdomen.Whole grain, high fiber foods help regulate insulin levels in the body. This lowers overall blood glucose levels, which results in a reduction of fat deposition.Purchase whole wheat breads, brown rices, oatmeal, and whole wheat tortillas over refined varieties. Always read the food labels however. Oftentimes products labeled as "whole wheat" are secretly made with mostly refined wheat and only a small amount of whole wheat flour. Whole wheat flour should be the first item on a product's ingredient list if it's truly whole wheat. Breads made at a grocery store's bakery and not shipped from elsewhere are more likely to be truly whole wheat., Whole wheat is just the beginning. For a flat, trimmed stomach, the bulk of your calories should come from healthy foods.


Ditch sugary and processed foods. Potato chips, TV dinners, and fast foods should be purged from your diet.Beans and other legumes are high-quality carbohydrates packed with protein. Beans tend to help you feel fuller faster and help you burn fat after a workout. Try swapping out meats like chicken and beef for black, pinto, or kidney beans for a few meals each week.Berries, such as blueberries and strawberries, are low-calorie and a good source of essential vitamins that can keep your body healthy. Keep a bowl of berries in your fridge if you need a snack and go for that over pretzels or sweets.Nuts are filled with heart-healthy fat and are filling enough to reduce hunger cravings. Be careful, however. While healthy, nuts are high-calorie and it's easy to accidentally go overboard and end up gaining weight by overeating., Alcohol is a bad idea for anyone wanting to lose belly fat for a variety of reasons.


Heavy drinkers tend to have what's known as a "beer gut" or a "beer belly." This is because alcohol releases estrogen into the bloodstream, which makes you more likely to hold onto fat and more likely to gain weight.Alcohol also increases appetite while simultaneously lowering inhibitions and self-control. Binge drinking episodes often end in late night snacking or eating junk food. The calories from alcohol combine with the calories from excess eating while drinking, resulting in massive caloric intake in a single night.
 Drinking water throughout the day has an impact on weight loss. Staying hydrated can result in a slimmer waistline


Numerous studies have found a correlation between water and weight loss. While scientists are not sure why water has an effect on lowering body weight, it's suspected water helps fill up the stomach. This makes you feel full and less likely to overeat.Aim to drink two eight-ounce glasses of water 30 minutes before each meal and two more glasses throughout the day. Drinking before a meal fills up your stomach, resulting in your eating less during breakfast, lunch, and dinner., Stress contributes to weight gain in multiple ways. When we're stressed, we're less likely to eat right and exercise, for one, and certain hormones released when we're stressed can contribute to fat retention in the body. Finding ways to cope with stress can help ward off the unwanted weight gain associated with it.


Ask yourself why you're eating each time your prepare a meal. Are you eating because you're truly hungry or because something's on your mind? If it's the latter, find a more effective way to deal with the issue than eating.Keep typical comfort foods away from your home and office. If you have less access to the foods you consume when stressed, the temptation is easier to avoid.Find a distraction if you're tempted to eat when stressed. Puzzles, games, and reading can be an alternative to eating. You can even use light exercise, like a short walk, as a means to cope rather than going for food.Look into practicing relaxation skills like yoga, deep breathing, stretching, and meditation. Find an approach to stress that works for you and practice it when you start to feel anxiety coming on.