 There are bunk beds of many sizes, shapes, and styles, so it shouldn’t be too hard to find one that fits your room. You should place the bunk bed in a corner of the room, with walls against two sides. In addition, you should keep the bed away from any ceiling fans or hanging light fixtures. Following these tips will make the bunk bed safer., Crawling over a mess on the floor or around the bunk bed can make climbing to the top dangerous. You don’t want to trip over anything on your way up! Be sure to keep toys, furniture, books, clothes, etc. cleared away from the bunk bed., The typically approved method for getting to the top bunk is to use a ladder. Standard models of bunk beds will include a ladder or approved equivalent. Follow all instructions for installation and use. Know that using a ladder incorrectly, or a unapproved method for getting to the top bunk can cause injury or death.Make sure that the bunk bed ladder is bolted down according to the manufacturer’s instructions before you attempt to climb up., All approved bunk beds should have guardrails around the top bunk. The exact construction of these guardrails will vary depending on the manufacturer of your bunk bed. General guidelines suggest that the guardrails should be no less than five inches higher than the bunk’s mattress.If your guardrails have slats, make sure that any openings between them are not so wide that you could become trapped.
There should be an opening at the ladder or stairs that will vary between 22 and 25 inches wide, depending upon your (or your child’s) age.
 Place your feet one at a time on each successive rung of the ladder, and move upwards toward the top bunk. As you reach the top, put your hands on the bed. Once your feet reach the top of your ladder, you should end up in a crawling position. All you have to do then is crawl into bed.


To climb down the ladder, swing your feet onto the top rung. Make sure that you are facing the rungs. Then, move down the rungs of the ladder, moving one foot at a time.
Move slowly and be careful not to catch your foot on a rung as you go up or down., Some bunk beds can have stairs as a method for getting up to the top bunk. These will take up more floor space than a ladder, but can make climbing up and down easier. Use them as you would any other stairs until you reach the top stair, which should meet the top bunk. Then, all you have to do is crawl into bed.Stairs can offer more decorative options. For instance, drawers can be hidden in each stair for extra storage.
 You can make it easier to climb up your bunk bed’s ladder or stairs if you install a hand rail. These may be included with or offered as an option with some models. Once installed, the rail will give you something extra to hold onto as you climb up and down., Climbing up and down from a top bunk is one of the primary dangers associated with bunk beds. It can be especially hard to see what you are doing in the dark. Installing a nightlight near the bunk bed’s ladder, however, can make it much easier to see.Consider installing a night light that automatically turns on and off, so you won’t ever forget to turn it on.

