 Rinse the sweet potatoes under cool, running water. Use a vegetable brush to scrub away the dirt and debris.


Note that you should not peel the sweet potatoes during this step, even though you'll eventually remove the skins before mashing the spuds.
 Prick each sweet potato several times using the tines of a fork. Position these prick holes around the entire sweet potato; do not restrict them to one side.


The piercing step is necessary because it regulates the distribution of heat throughout each sweet potato. If heat and steam build up in the sweet potatoes while they cook, they could burst and create a huge mess in your microwave.
 Microwave the sweet potatoes on full power for 5 minutes. Turn each one, then continue microwaving in 5-minute intervals until they feel tender.


Depending on the size of the sweet potatoes, you may need to microwave the entire batch for about 5 minutes per spud; for four sweet potatoes, that could be a full 20 minutes. It's best to continue microwaving in 5-minute or less intervals, however, to prevent the sweet potatoes from overcooking.
When ready, you should easily be able to pierce through the side of the thickest sweet potato and into its center. The sweet potatoes should also be easy the squeeze between your fingers.
 Let the sweet potatoes cool for a couple of minutes. When the sweet potatoes are cool enough to handle, slice them in half lengthwise, then use a spoon the scrape out the flesh and transfer it into a large bowl., Gradually add the milk and butter, working in small increments, while simultaneously mashing the sweet potato flesh with a fork or potato masher. Continue until the mash reaches your desired consistency.


For chunky sweet potatoes, add minimal milk and butter, and mash the sweet potatoes using a potato masher or fork.For smooth and creamy sweet potatoes, add the full amount of milk and butter, and use an electric hand mixer or immersion blender to create the mash.
 Choose which flavor profile you'd like to try, then add the appropriate seasonings. Mash or stir until the seasoning mix into the sweet potatoes.


Keep things simple with standard salt and pepper. Use approximately 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) salt and 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) pepper, or adjust these amounts to taste.
Try something sweet by adding a little maple syrup. Pair this flavor with cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg.
Add paprika, garlic powder, salt, and pepper to the mash if you'd like to accent the savory side of sweet potatoes.
Mix in some chilli sauce with a little cinnamon and nutmeg to create something with a spicy kick.
 The sweet potato mash should now be ready to enjoy.

