 Foods that have been processed and combined with white flour and sugar are completely stripped of their healthy fiber content. Eating foods without fiber is hard on digestive system and can lead to constipation. These foods are common culprits:White bread
Snack foods
Fast foods
Fried foods
Dairy
Candy

, Alcoholic beverages like wine, beer, whisky and others have a dehydrating effect Being dehydrated can make it much more difficult to pass stools. If you tend to get constipated often, you might want to consider cutting back on alcohol. Stick with just a glass per evening, or eliminate it entirely. When you do decide to drink, make sure you have a glass of water for every glass of alcohol.
 Caffeine can sometimes help with mild constipation, since it's a diuretic, but it can make prolonged constipation worse, since it’s dehydrating. If you have a three cup a day habit, you might want to cut back for awhile to see if it helps you avoid constipation. Try drinking just one cup per day, or switch to a low-caffeine tea.
 When you're on the go, you might put off going to the bathroom, but this isn't good for your digestive system. Waiting too long to go to the bathroom is a common reason for constipation, so any time you get the urge, heed it.


It can help to have a schedule. For example, you might want to plan to go to the bathroom and have a bowel movement every morning. Once you start this type of routine, your body will respond by staying more regular.
 Running, yoga, and other physical activities improve digestion.If you’re feeling constipated, try going for a brisk jog or walk to get things moving again. Exercising three or four times a week will help you stay regular and prevent constipation.
 For some people, sitting on a toilet isn't the best possible position to help them easily have a bowel movement. Many have found that a squatting position makes the process go more smoothly. The easiest way to try this position is to prop up your feet on a stool while you're sitting, so that your knees are raised.

You can get a small stool to prop up your feet.

