 When you have an eating disorder, you may start to isolate yourself from others. Joining a support group and going to meetings on a regular basis will help you get out of your comfort zone and be less isolated from others. An eating disorder support group is full of people who understand what you are going through, so you will feel less alone in your recovery.


Your isolation may be caused by shame about your disorder, guilt about what you do as part of your disorder, or protectiveness of the habits associated with your disorder. Work past these issues in order to help with your recovery., Going to a support group will help you learn to listen to others. This will help you move beyond your own disorder and learn to connect to others. You will also learn how to better communicate with those around you because you will connect with them during every session. You can also learn from other's experiences, which will help you in your own recovery.Make sure that you listen closely to what people have to share when you attend support group meetings.
 Many people with eating disorders suffer from social anxiety disorders as well. Going to a support group will help you socialize more with others, but in a safe, supportive environment. This will help you face your socialization fears in a way that is less scary than out in the world. These situations will also help you become more confident in your self-worth as a person as you start connecting more to others.Try to hang around for a while after every meeting. Introduce yourself to people you have not met before and catch up with people you have already met. Ask how other people are doing and be honest about anything that is bothering you.
If you also have social anxiety, then being around people can be a challenge. You may need to work with your therapist to develop ways of handling your anxiety and feeling more comfortable around people.
 When you are learning to socialize again, it may be hard to open yourself up to others. Working with a support group to help with your eating disorder will allow you to start opening up to others again. You can learn to share your feelings with others and let people into your life again.When you share with your support group, be honest about how you are feeling. That will give your support group members a chance to help you in any way that they can. For example, if you have been struggling with weighing yourself multiple times each day, then support group members who have also struggled with the same thing may be able to offer helpful advice.
 Joining a support group is only one part of a successful treatment plan for eating disorders. You will also likely be working with a therapist in solo sessions to help you work through the issues that led to your disorder. You may also be receiving medical care that will help you move past your disorder, such as medicine or other medical treatments.It is important that you continue all forms of treatment in order to get better.

