






;
,









Docking a pie crust is when you put little holes all over it to keep steam that forms underneath your pie crust when it cooks from expanding your pie crust.
You can use a fork or a pastry docker to prick the pie crust all over.










Leave enough overhang that you can easily remove the covering without burning yourself on the pie pan.
This step is necessary for all types of blind-baked pie crusts.










Weights are needed at the beginning of baking to keep the pie crust from puffing up.
You can buy a special string of pie weights at a store with a good selection of baking tools.
Many cooks use dried beans or rice that they save as pie weights. This is a less expensive option than buying special pie weights and works just as well, although the dried beans or rice can be more difficult to deal with when they are hot.
Fill the pie crust up to the top with the weights.
You do not need to use weights when blind baking a crumb crust.










This step is not necessary for crumb crusts.










For a crust that must be entirely baked before the filling is added, bake 20 minutes with the weights in place.
For a crust in which the filling will be baked, bake the pie crust for 15 minutes with the weights in place.










All types of blind baked crusts should be uncovered at this point.










A crust that needs to be fully baked before the filling is added should be placed back in the oven uncovered for an additional 15 minutes.
A crust that will be baked more with the filling in place does not require more baking at this time before the filling is added.










If you are filling your blind baked pie crust with a filling that does not require cooking, allow it to cool and then fill it.
If you are filling your pie crust with a filling that requires further baking, fill it and return it to the oven.
Blind-baked pie crusts can also be wrapped well and frozen at this time.










Bake your pie crust until the filling is done at the temperature suggested by the filling recipe.
