 When tarnish develops on silver, a simple salt and aluminum bath may not suffice to remove it. Specially formulated silver jewelry polishes are your safest option for polishing silver jewelry, especially if you are dealing with an antique or a piece that has intricate designs etched into it.








Even special polishes can remove a layer of silver, so get a professional cleaning if you're dealing with a delicate piece.
Instead of buying silver polish from the drugstore, consider getting it from a jewelry store or a store with a high-quality jewelry department.
 Moisten a soft silver-polishing cloth or the sponge included with the silver polish and take a little bit of polish onto the cloth. Rub the polish into the silver jewelry gently. Use only a straight-line, back-and-forth motion. Avoid scrubbing or rubbing in circles, since this can leave scratches or patterns in the surface of the jewelry. Just let the polish do the job.
 Rinse it under cool running water. Be sure to clean off all of the polish residue so it won't continue working on the surface of the jewelry. Dry it completely using a soft cloth.
 They will usually work to remove tough tarnish, but may cause damage such as pock marks or scratches. Try them at your own risk.









Try toothpaste. Select a plain white toothpaste without the special whitening options. Take a soft, dampened cloth or a damp sponge and put some toothpaste on it. Gently rub over the silver jewelry in straight, back-and-forth motions. Be very gentle, and if you notice scratching at any point, stop and rinse the toothpaste off. As the cloth or sponge becomes dark with tarnish, add more toothpaste to a clean part of the dampened cloth/sponge and continue gently polishing. Rinse thoroughly with warm water and dry with a soft towel.













Baking soda may remove stubborn tarnish, but don't use it unless you don't mind the risk of damaging the silver. Make a paste of baking soda and warm water, gently rub it into the surface of the jewelry, and rinse when the tarnish is removed.
 Commercial silver "dips" can dissolve stains without rubbing the silver jewelry, although they may take off a layer of silver. For this reason, they should only be used as a last resort. Contrary to what the word "dip" implies, professionals rarely actually soak silver in these products, at least not for long. Dips are generally harsh, potentially dangerous chemicals, so follow the directions carefully and consult a professional when in doubt.








