 Most people think that people who run fast are "born fast" or "naturally fast", and that if you're not naturally fast, it is impossible for you to become fast. That is not true. Yes, having certain body proportions will make you naturally faster than other people, but you can become fast through training and learning the proper technique. To improve your speed, you obviously need to train by doing sprints. For more details on how to train, you can check out How to Run Faster or How to Run Faster and Increase Your Quickness


When you've trained for a while, practice sprinting with a gun in your hand to get used to it. Then, after you've done that for a while, practice sprinting with Nerf gear on:

A gun in your hand
a secondary strapped to you
ammo on you.


You will feel bulky and weighed down at first, but you'll get used to it, and then you'll have an advantage over other Nerfers.;
, You're useless in a Nerf battle if you get tired within the first 10 minutes. You need to have energy throughout the entire battle. To build up endurance, choose one of the following sports and do 30 minutes of that each day:


Jogging






swimming






biking






or even jumping on a trampoline







, Learn how to walk, jump, and climb as quietly as possible. For more details, look at How to Be Stealthy and How to Be Stealthy Like a Ninja After you can walk, jump, and climb silently, do it with Nerf gear on and a Nerf gun. It will probably be a lot harder, but it you practice, you can become just as stealthy with Nerf gear on than without it.
 To start, just shoot at still, medium sized objects from 10-15 away. Practice at different angles. As you get better, shoot at smaller and smaller targets, and shoot from farther and farther away until you can shoot and hit a relatively small object from 25 feet (7.6 m) away within 3 shots. Once you can do that, practice shooting moving objects, because, do you think your target is going to be standing still? Probably not. Have someone roll or throw something, and you shoot it from about 10 feet (3.0 m) away. When you get better, shoot from farther away and shoot smaller objects. The last step to mastering aim is shooting objects while you're moving. Set up a still object. First, practice shooting the object while walking slowly. When you've mastered shooting while walking, slowly start going faster. Do not start walking/jogging at a higher speed until you have mastered the speed slightly slower than it. Complete mastery of this exercise is being able to sprint while shooting and hitting your target on the first try. To challenge yourself, you can run, then leap and shoot at the target object while you're in the air.
 Out of all the things you can work on to improve your Nerf skills, this is the most beneficial. What I mean by "agility" is being quick on your feet, being able to navigate any area with ease, and being able to overcome any physical obstacle.
 You need strong leg muscles so you can jump over things more easily, and also have a more powerful stride for running. Do squats and lunges to increase leg strength. Jumping on a trampoline is extremely helpful, also.
 Climb trees, walls, etc. Practice until you can climb practically anything with ease. Climbing will help you overcome obstacles in Nerf.
 There are lots of great ones out there you can do. Look on football or soccer training sites to help you.
