 If you have multiple jars that need cleaning, then you can put more inside the sink or pot, so long as they all fit loosely. This method may not work well on candles made from very hard wax, but it will work well on soy candles due to the low melting point of soy-based wax., Make sure that the water level does not go too far past the wax level, in the jars and do not let any water get onto the wax. If you are using a sink, be sure to plug it.
 If you are using a very soft wax, such as soy wax, this should not take long at all. You can test and see whether or not the wax is soft by pressing your finger down onto it. If you are able to create a dent in the wax, then that means that the wax is ready to be removed.


Candles made from harder waxes may be more difficult to remove; however, the part that touches the glass should soften up enough for you to be able to pop the wax out by pushing down on the edge of it.
 Do not take the jar out of the water yet. Instead, hold the jar with one hand. Take a butter knife with the other hand, and slip the blade between the wax and the glass. Wriggle the knife so that it is right under the wax. Gently push down on the knife handle. This should cause the wax to pop right out, or at least loosen it enough so that you can easily remove it.
 If the wax is still inside the jar, you can remove it by turning the jar upside down and gently tapping it against the edge of your counter.
 The wick holder should have come out with the candle, but if it didn't, you can pop it off by slipping the tip of a butter knife between the wick holder and the glass, and then pushing down on the knife handle.
 If there is any wax residue still left inside the jar, you can remove it was washing the jar with soap and warm water. You can also wipe the residue off with a cotton ball soaked in baby oil.
 The jar is now ready to be reused. You can paint or decorate the jar as you like, or you can store items inside of it. You can also add a new wick inside and fill it with wax to make a new candle.


Consider recycling the old wax by melting it down and turning it into new candles or wax melts.

