 The biggest tale tell sign that a child needs glasses is that they will squint when looking at something they can’t see clearly. If you notice your child squinting frequently, it may be time for them to get glasses.Children will squint for nearsightedness and farsightedness, so this is a good sign to look for.;
, If your child seems to inspect things too closely, this might be a sign they need glasses. Your child may sit too close to the television or hold items up in front of their face in order to see them more clearly.Lowering their head while reading (in order to get closer to the words on the page) is also a sign that your child may need glasses.
 If you notice that your child frequently closes or covers one eye while they are viewing something, this may be a sign they need glasses. This gesture helps people self-correct vision problems and children will often do it without realizing it to reduce problems with double vision.This is usually a sign of a structural ocular problem, like an astigmatism.
 There are many possible symptoms that could indicate your child needs glasses. Everyone is different and children respond to problems with their eyesight in different ways. So it’s important for you to watch out for all of the signs and symptoms, including the following:Losing their place while reading
Clumsiness
Tilting their head to look at objects

, When people have to squint a lot because they aren’t wearing glasses, this inevitably leads to frequent headaches. If your child is complaining of chronic headaches in the frontal region near their brow, this could be a sign of vision problems.Constant headache pain can lead to stress and anxiety, so you’ll need to determine the underlying cause quickly.
 Excessive tearing can be a sign of extraordinary strain on the muscles in the eyes. This can often be caused by undiagnosed vision problems. If your child seems to have watery eyes more than usual, then they may need glasses.Additionally, if your child complains of having dry eyes frequently, this could be a sign of vision problems.
 Eye crossing can be a symptom of vision problems and should be taken seriously. If you notice that your child is crossing their eyes during normal activities or at unusual times, you should consider getting their vision checked. This symptom could be caused by excessive farsightedness.Of course, this excludes silly, playful eye crossing.
 Notice if your child is rubbing their eyes often, even when they are not tired. This could be an unconscious attempt to relieve the pain or pressure they feel from straining their eyes so much to see. Difficulty seeing can cause a lot of strain on the muscles of the eyes, which can, in turn, cause watery eyes., Ask your child to describe the look of something. If they clearly describe it inaccurately (for example, they say that brown hair is black, blond hair is white, that something big is small, and so on), then they may have color blindness and/or blurry vision. Your child will probably need glasses for both diagnoses., For example, to avoid further damage, don't let them stare at a screen or even pages of a book. Get them to move around. Moving your eyes around gives the eyes a break and prevents strain.


Try to help your child improve their vision naturally.
 Once you have established your belief that your child needs glasses, the next step is to take them to the optometrist so they can have an official eye exam and get fitted for glasses.It will probably take a couple weeks after your appointment for your child’s glasses to be ready for pick up.

