 Meanwhile, cut four sheets of heavy-duty aluminum foil.

The pieces of aluminum foil should be cut into squares that are 3 inches (7.6 cm) longer than the length of your rainbow trout.
If you only have light aluminum foil, cut eight sheets. Double up the sheets to create four thicker squares.;
, Coat the dull side of each aluminum foil square with a small amount of olive oil.

The foil should not be dripping wet, but there should be enough oil to make the surface evenly slick.
 Center each trout on a separate sheet of foil.

Place the trout skin-side down.
Consider leaving the head or tail on while cooking. This reduces the amount of skin that breaks, which allows the flavor of the rainbow trout to come out stronger.Note that most rainbow trout purchased in a store will be butterflied open. This is actually preferable for this recipe, but you can still prepare the recipe without butterflied trout.
 Sprinkle each trout with salt and pepper, to taste.

If you need a rough guideline on how much salt and pepper to use, try a total of 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) salt and 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) pepper, evenly spread over all four pieces of fish.
 Open each piece of trout so that they lie flat. Place two sprigs of tarragon or dill in the middle of each fish along with two slices of lemon. Fold the two sides together again.

You could also use 4 sprigs of rosemary instead of the dill or tarragon.
If the trout is not butterflied, you can lay the herbs and lemon slices on top of the fish instead of sandwiching them in the middle.
Drizzle each fish with 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) of olive oil.
 Grab the edges of the foil and fold them over the fish, crimping them together tightly to form a packet.

Make sure that the trout is centered in the middle of the square before folding the square up.
Place the packets on a baking sheet.
 When done, the flesh of the trout should be opaque. It should also flake easily when pierced with a fork.

Check on packet after 10 minutes. Continue cooking an additional 5 minutes if still undercooked.
 Remove the finished fish packets from the oven and transfer each to a plate. Cut across the top and remove the fish from the packet before eating.

Open the packet carefully to prevent yourself from getting burned by the steam.
Pour the juices from the packet over the fish on your plate.
Sprinkle the fish with more tarragon, dill, or parsley. Also serve the fish with lemon wedges, if desired.

