 You don’t want to look desperate by texting immediately, but you also don’t want to wait too long. Many women say they lose interest if they don’t hear from a guy pretty soon after that initial exchange of numbers. About 24 to 36 hours is a good rule of thumb., Use text messaging to communicate to her that you are interested in talking with her. Don’t allow texting to become an habitual exchange between the two of you. In addition, texting a lot with someone you don't know well can be awkward and she might read it as a sign that you're not really that interested., If you just met, re-introduce yourself; if she is someone you know or knew, but haven't texted with, mention that she gave you her number.


If she doesn't have your number, she may not have any clue who you are when you first text. Try saying “Hi Stella. It’s me, Stanley, we talked on Monday.”
If you exchanged some small talk, bring it up. Remind her that there was a spark of interest when you both met.
Stay away from anything negative about the situation when you met. If she was irked about the long line at the DMV, don’t remind her of feeling irritated.
Tell her how great it was talking with her. Say something like “Chatting with you made waiting in line actually fun.”

, Follow her lead in terms of text lengths and complexity. Mirroring her sentence structure can strengthen a connection, because it suggests that the two of you are in sync with each other., The biggest drawback about texting is probably that it can’t communicate things like facial expression, tone of voice, or body language. So don’t make sarcastic remarks, or make remarks that read as critical, complaining, or insecure. She won’t be able to be charmed by your self-deprecating humor without seeing your cute grin and adorable shoulder shrug too. , Let her know that texting with her is great, but you are hoping to talk on the phone with her. You could try saying something like "This is fun texting with you, and I'm sure talking with you will be even more fun."

, Don’t try to pin her down by making a phone date, but do let her know you intend to call. You want her to be sure about your level of interest, so when you sign off say something like "Let's talk soon."

