 Any good Indiana Jones (fan) film relies on one thing––a strong script. Make sure to include these things:


A strong introduction. All Indiana Jones films are renowned for their strong introductions, like the boulder scene or the hunt for the Cross of Coronado. Make sure that the introduction is separate from the rest of the plot (the only film that got away with this was Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, but only because the objects the Soviets were looking for had something to do with the climax of the movie).
An original story: All Indiana Jones films (excluding the fourth, an exception on all levels) follow a non-linear storyline that have nothing to do with the other. You can put references in from the original films, but don't put too many or it will come off as corny.
An artifact to go after: Indy always has to have these, or there's no story. You can include a historical one, or create a completely new one. Keep it along the lines of religious or extraterrestrial artifacts.
A time period: Anywhere between the late 1920s to the early 1960s is ideal.
A villain: If you're going to set it in the 1920s, make it gangsters or tomb robbers. Starting in late 1933, you can include Nazis. During the War Years, you can put Nazis, Imperial Japanese, or Fascist Italians. If it's after the war, put in Soviets or even Cubans. If you decide to, you can create a cult or a rival archaeologist like Belloq.;
, This is a top priority. Of course, you don't have hundred million dollar budgets like Spielberg and Lucas do, but you must have a little money to spare.


Stick to the basics. Buy Indy's whip and revolver first. If you have more money, buy a few more props like guns or rent vehicles. You can buy Indiana Jones costumes relatively cheap online.
 Okay, here's where it gets a bit tricky. You can make yourself Indy and ask friends for help. However, if you want a quality film, you can always recruit a few professional actors for pay., After everything has been put in order, shoot your film. You can choose a variety of settings to shoot your film, from your bedroom and backyard to film sets.
 Again, this is totally optional. Once you are done making your film, you can upload it on YouTube or any other video site and wait for the views to roll in. This step is optional.

