 You need to work with all the components of your film to make sure you have control. Control over what is in and out of the shot. Control of lighting. Control of voice-over and scripting. Control is the key.;
, The most popular editing software brands come from three companies. Adobe, Apple and Sony. The Adobe route will mean buying the pricey Premiere Pro at over $1000, or the cheaper Premiere Elements at under $200. The Apple route which means going with Final Cut Pro (for Mac's only) at also over $1000. The final option is routing for Sony with Vegas Pro at about $700, or Vegas Movie Studio Platinum at under $50.] Premiere has been awarded a lot of praise from editors, but has some compatibility issues on most middle range AMD processors. Final Cut Pro has been also been recommended by editors, but only runs on Mac. Vegas is not so much talked about but is the cheapest and often the fastest way of editing.
 In all sets (lots) you build, make sure they are residential so that you can control the Sims on the lot. Sets can either be full buildings, or you can cut the room in half like on real sets and only have the walls that are needed in your shot. For all sets you build you must include: An Empty Room covered with Pure Green Floors and Carpet, A Few Mirrors for the talking animation (Practice Speech) and a selection of hacks for animations, actors (Sims) and props.
 Mise en scène is a French term that literally translates to "putting on stage". In film, mise en scène is all to do with how you frame the shot. Where you put your actors (Sims) in a shot, depending on if you're shooting in 4:3 (TV) or 16:9 (wide-screen), is hugely important. You can use particular geometric compositions (the way something is presented on screen) to make your piece physically more appealing to the eye. Such as the Golden Section and the Fibonacci Sequence. And most important of all draw down any visual ideas you have on to a storyboard, the second you think of them.
 Now since you're probably not going to have an A-List actor in your movie, the story will have to be the star of your movie. Now thinking up of a plot is not a learn-able process, the best thing for it is a bit of inspiration and lots of imagination. But when you think about how your movie is going to be seen. Imagine you are your audience and they they know nothing of the plot. They are going to be asking lots of questions. What's going on? Who's that? How did that happen? If your audience are asking these questions, get your characters to ask them, i.e If a fight has started and a character walks in the room and says "What's going on?" you can get your characters to answer the question. This prevents audience confusion and seems very natural but it mustn't be exaggerated.
 Unlike Storyboarding can be done is the edit, as when your Sims talk during filming nothing they don't say any real words. So often scripting Is not necessary, improvisation with the plot whilst voicing, along with practice and brainstorming, can be much more effective than a script. But if you are working with multiple voicing artists a script is important to keep control of your movie.
 In editing your story will come together more than in any other part of the process. It is the editing where you fine tune factors. Voice-over lip syncing is almost impossible but you can do it to a certain extent. Another great way to make add like to your movie is music. If your movie becomes boring the audience will not get bored because they are being entertained by the music. Its almost like a boredom safety net. More in depth guides to editing, look at help articles for your editing suite.

