 Who's coming to the shower? Invite the mother-to-be's mom, aunts, sisters, cousins, and her best friends. Once you figure out the final count, you'll be able to determine how many invitations to buy, the quantity of food you'll need, and what space will be big enough to accommodate everyone.








You want to be organized for the event.

If you don't already have the guests' addresses, email them to ask.
If you're not sure who exactly should be invited, ask the new mom's sister or mother, or someone else who's close to her and can help you make sure no one who should be invited is left out.;
, There are many great ideas for invitations, from fill-in-the-blank, store bought cards, to computer generated and personalized invites. If you have the budget, sending a mini baby bottle with the party info is unique and cute. You could also get plain white boxes and decorate as baby blocks, with the information inside. The sky is the limit!









You don't have to send invitations through the mail; e-invites work just as well, and they come in many cute designs.
Make your own invitations by buying pink and blue cardstock and handwriting or printing the information on them. Include pink and blue confetti in the envelope.
 Make it clear that the event is a baby shower and be sure to include the name of the person it's being held for. In addition to these essential details, include the following info:









The date of the shower.
The place where it's being held.
The start and end times.
Information about where the new mom is registered (this is only considered acceptable if you are not related to the mother. If you are related to her, it's not polite. You can also have registry information ready to give in print or over the phone, should anyone ask where the mom-to-be has registered).
RSVP information or a regrets-only request, so you know who's coming. Give a date by which you'd like to hear whether people can make it.
 Give people plenty of time to mark their calendars and plan ahead. You'll probably start receiving RSVPs within a few days.








