 You can go near the baseball field, the basketball court, or your school (with permission), but preferably, the safest way to set up shop, is in your own front yard.;
, You're gonna wanna plan on how much you want to make in the course of a month. If you have friends helping you, you're gonna have to share or it's gonna be unfair. But if you are doing this by yourself, you're good to go!

, Remember, you don't wanna set up shop, and it starts to rain on everything. So check on your computer or phone for weather updates.
 Make sure it is clean. If not, just use some soap, and hose it off. Also, get a clean tablecloth, and two wooden dowels and glue them to the corners of your stand. You will need to make a sign (extra colorful and special!) so the dowels help it stay up. You could also try a large, sturdy box.
 Tell your friends, family, and anyone else you think of just so everyone could know about your awesome stand! Business is good, but it could always be better.
 The number one thing about this step: DON'T BUY! Homemade is key. It just won't be special if you buy Yodels, Twinkies, or Ho Ho's, when you can make your own version at home. Make mini cakes, brownies, Rice Krispie treats, doughnuts, and mini berry tarts.
 Again, homemade is key, so here is how to start out for a big 15 pitcher servings: Add 3 cups of water to 2 cups of freshly squeezed lemon juice to 2 and 1 half cups of sugar. You can perfect this recipe to your liking as business gets better.
 As the crowd gets bigger and heats up, you don't wanna run to the kitchen while a mob of thirsty people hound you over. Also, it may be a good idea to keep a bag of ice in the cooler and a plate of fresh mint leaves on the table. If you want, you can keep some lemon slices in a plastic bag in the cooler as well.
 Your parents may not approve of this so get their permission. If they say no,well they will just have to eat on the go!

, You don't have to do this, it is just to make you look more productive. You could record your profit. It could also be a notebook filled with scribbles not sales.
 After all the preparation you did, you may be a bit dirty. Take a quick shower before you start to sell the goods.

