 Dog experts agree that punishing a dog for bad behavior simply doesn’t work because a dog’s brain doesn’t work like a human’s brain. Dogs don’t have the same reasoning skills and don’t plan or premeditate as we do. They live in the moment. By the time you punish a dog for a behavior, he thinks he’s being punished for whatever he is currently doing – not the behavior he was doing previously to instigate your correction. Therefore, catch him in the act or immediately before it and express your disapproval.


Correct your dog’s behavior through either a) giving or not giving a reward if your dog already knows commands (“No!” is not a command) or b) giving a reward or verbally reprimanding in a firm tone. Yelling and hitting don’t work because they are not a natural means of communicating for a dog.Don’t try to have a conversation with your dog or put him in “time out.” These are corrections deriving from human psychology, not dog psychology.
The correction should be just enough to get your dog to listen, not to the point that he cowers or displays fear.
It should match the intensity of the behavior. If your correction is less intense than the behavior, the dog won’t listen to you. If it’s too intense or harsh, your dog can become fearful, insecure, confused and untrusting of you.
Do not use your dog’s name when correcting. Only say it when using positive reinforcement.
 Experts also almost universally agree that if you want your dog to behave in a certain way or to change a behavior, use positive reinforcement. Positive reinforcement uses praise and/or treats to reward your dog when he does what you want him to do. There are two critical elements to using positive reinforcement effectively. First, the reward must be given within seconds of the action. Otherwise your dog will think he’s being rewarded for whatever he’s doing the moment you give the treat. Second, you and everyone in the household have to be consistent.


Make sure everyone in your home knows the commands you use and the reward system you have in place.And remember that correction and positive reinforcement go hand-in-hand. Both are needed.
 When you’re initially teaching your dog a command or trying to stop bad behaviors, give a treat each time your dog does what is instructed of him. Once he’s learned or unlearned the behavior, taper down on using treats as his reward. Start by giving him a treat every 4 out of 5 times he responds properly. After awhile, move it to 3 and so forth until treats are only given as a reward occasionally.


Don’t decrease too fast, however, because your dog will become frustrated and much of your progress could be lost.
The goal is for your dog to work for your verbal praise because he wants you to be happy.