 Combine the water and salt in a small saucepan and bring the solution to a boil over medium-high heat. Allow the mixture to boil for a full five minutes, then remove it from the heat and let cool.


The water and salt are necessary components of the brine, but you can alter the flavor if desired by adding 1/4 cup (60 ml) sugar or 1/4 cup (60 ml) sili (small chili peppers).
 The flesh of each green mango needs to be cut into fat, long slivers.


After rinsing and drying each mango, peel off the skin using a sharp knife or vegetable peeler.
Cut each mango into three flat pieces. Two of the pieces should hold nothing but the flesh, while the third middle piece will contain the pit or seed.
Use a knife the shave away the flesh of this middle piece away from the seed. You should be able to get two long slivers from this section alone.
Cut the flesh from the remaining sections into fat slivers.
 Arrange the mango pieces in a large glass jar. The pieces should be packed closely enough to keep them upright, but there should also be gaps between them.


If you have a large enough jar, you can keep the slices in one jar. Otherwise, you may need to use several smaller jars.
Make sure that each jar is clean and dry before using it.
 Pour the cooled salt brine over the mango slices. Make sure that the slices are completely covered, but leave at least 1/2 inch (1 cm) of empty headspace at the top of the jar.


It is essential that the brine cools to room temperature before you pour it over the mango slices. If the brine is still hot or warm, it could partially cook the mango, causing a distortion in the taste and texture of the finished buro.
 Loosely cover the jar with its cap, then keep the jar in a cool to room temperature location for three days.


A basement or cellar would work well. Refrigerators are too cold, but a humid kitchen might be too warm.
You do not need to keep the jar covered tightly during the initial fermentation. In fact, for this type of buro, it is best if you leave the lid a little loose.
 After three days pass, you should tighten the lid of the jar and store the buro in your refrigerator.


When stored in the refrigerator, the buro should last for about one month.
You could also try storing the buro in your freezer. When frozen, it can stay good for two or three months.
 Burong mangga does not need to be cooked before you eat it. When you want to serve the buro, simply remove it from the jar and enjoy.

