 The EPA is responsible for enforcing federal environmental laws affecting human health and the environment. The EPA's enforcement wing will prosecute any violation within their jurisdiction. To see whether the EPA can help you, visit their enforcement website and browse the issues they handle.In general, the EPA will usually be able to handle any of the following environmental violations, so long as they involve federal law:Clean water, which includes protecting drinking water and cutting raw sewage, animal waste, and polluted stormwater runoff.
Clean air, which involves reducing pollution.
Clean energy and climate, which focuses on industries that must comply with applicable rules set out by the EPA.
Clean communities, which helps ensure people are not exposed to hazardous chemicals by requiring polluters to clean up their messes.;
, While the EPA can handle a variety of enforcement issues, they are not always the correct agency to have handle an issue. Furthermore, even if they are the correct agency, reporting may not be the correct avenue for ensuring compliance. Many times, your local, state, or tribal government will be responsible for policing certain environmental actions. If it is an emergency that may lead to an immediate threat to human health or the environment, you need to report your findings to the National Response Center.For example, if you are having problems with your workplace environment (e.g., handling toxic chemicals or breathing noxious fumes), you should contact the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
If you have concerns about wildlife being harmed, you should contact the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or the National Fish and Wildlife Service.
For farming concerns, you should contact your local Agricultural Extension office.If you think you have an emergency, which might include oil spills, radiation emergencies, or biological discharges, you need to contact the National Response Center at 1-800-424-8802., If the EPA is the agency you think should hear about an environmental law violation, you can use their online system to draft your report. The report page can be found at https://www.epa.gov/enforcement/report-environmental-violations. Once there, you will provide the EPA with the following:


Information about the suspected violation. This will include the violator's name, address, and the date of the incident.
Your contact information. If you want to submit your report anonymously, you can do so. However, if you submit the report anonymously, the EPA will be unable to contact you should they need further information. If they are unable to contact you, they may not be able to start an investigation.
The names and contact information of other people you have contacted about the violation. For example, if you have contacted a state agency as well as the EPA, include that information here.
A characterization of the violation. The EPA wants to know whether the violation was accidental or intentional; a release, spill, or dump; in the air, water, or land; and whether it was committed by an individual, company, or a government.
A description of the violation in as much detail as possible. This is also the opportunity to tell the EPA if you have videos, pictures, or other evidence that may help. You should also provide detailed directions on how to reach the site of the violation., When your report is complete, you will hit the "send report" button at the bottom of the page. At this point, the EPA will review your allegations and determine how to proceed. If you included your contact information, the EPA may contact you for more information if it is needed.If the EPA determines that the issue would be better handled by a different agency or government, the EPA will forward your information along to that entity., If you are having trouble using the EPA's website, or you have questions you would like answered prior to submitting your report, you can always call the EPA. The EPA has a different number for every region of the country. To find out which region you are in and the number to call, you can look up each region's customer service hotline online.


For example, if you live in Region 9, which covers California, Nevada, and Arizona, you can contact the EPA by calling 866-372-9378., If the violation you see involves state law, as opposed to a federal law, you will need to file a report with your state in order to start an enforcement action. Every state has multiple agencies that handle environmental compliance. In addition, each state will have a different name for their environmental enforcement agency. Do some research to determine who you will need to contact.]

For example, in New Hampshire, the main enforcement agency is the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services.In New York, you will contact the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.In Vermont, you will contact the Vermont Agency of Natural Resources., Many states will have different reports you should file depending on the type of violation you see. It will therefore be important to document the violation as best as possible so you can categorize it when the time comes. For example, in New Hampshire, there is a different report form for all of the following types of violations:Air pollution
Drinking water and groundwater
Surface water discharges
Surface water quality
Waste management

, Once you find the correct form, fill in the required information where needed. Each form should ask a series of questions you can answer. Based on your answers, the state agency may or may not start an investigation. In general, a state report will ask for the following:


A description of the affected area. This will include the address and directions about how to get there.
A description of the problem. For example, if you are reporting a surface water violation, you might be describing objects in water bodies, fish kills, flow issues, discharges, odors, or erosion.
Your contact information. However, in most states, you can also choose to remain anonymous. In a state like New Hampshire, you will not be allowed to remain anonymous if the case goes to an administrative hearing or to trial.
Information about the responsible party. This should include their address, phone number, and a description of their appearance.
Attachments. If you have any pictures, videos, or other information that can help your report, you should attach these things to your report. Make sure you are not trespassing or doing anything else illegal in order to obtain these attachments., After you complete your report and have attached any other documents, you should send your report in. Some states may allow you to send the report directly through the internet while others may require you to mail your report in.


For example, in New Hampshire, you are required to mail your report in to the appropriate agency tasked with enforcing the particular area of the environment you are dealing with.In New York, you can submit your report directly through the Department of Environmental Conservation's website., In addition to reporting violations to government agencies, private organizations can also help you find a positive resolution to environmental law violations. In general, these entities will be nonprofit organizations tasked with protecting certain environmental values. Do an online search for organizations in your area. When you conduct your search look for the following:


An organization with a legal team. These legal teams will be able to pursue legal actions should your report warrant them. You will want to contact an organization that is able to enforce the laws they are protecting.
An organization with a similar mission as yours. For example, if you are witnessing water quality violations, do not contact an organization whose mission it is to protect the air you breathe.
An organization with a positive reputation. If you want to get the most out of your report, you should work with an organization respected in your community. These organizations will usually have positive relationships with state and federal agencies, local courts, and other citizens where the violation is occurring.
 When you find an organization you think may be able to help, contact them to set up a meeting. Let the organization know why you are calling and ask if they can help. If they can, they will have you come in to discuss what you saw. If the organization cannot help you, ask if they have any suggestions for who can.
 When you attend your meeting, bring all of the information about the violation you have. The more information you bring, the easier it will be for the organization to assess the situation. For example, bring pictures of the pollution, including where its source is and who is causing it to happen. You might even take a video that shows how often the pollution is occurring, how much pollution is being discharged, and what the discharge looks like. You might also have documents including test results or letters you have written to the responsible party.
 If your assertions are valuable, the organization's enforcement team will work to investigate and resolve the violation on your behalf. While the organization will likely take the lead from here, you may be asked to help when necessary. For example, if the organization brings a lawsuit, they may ask you to testify as a "standing witness" who will help prove that citizens are being affected by the violation.


One common example of organizations getting involved in enforcement actions are water quality nonprofits bringing lawsuits under the federal Clean Water Act. The Clean Water Act allows citizens to bring lawsuits for water quality violations. Nonprofit organizations help by providing lawyers to bring these lawsuits on behalf of citizens that bring violations to their attention., Before you can submit a valuable report, you should have evidence of the environmental law violation happening. The EPA suggests looking for an unusual amount of smoke in the air, strong odors, oily looking water in streams, large amounts of litter, large amounts of dead animals, or disposal of odd materials at odd times of the day.When you find these things, the EPA suggests you take pictures and videos to document the violation.Be careful not to trespass or break any other laws while trying to gather your evidence. If you cannot obtain the evidence through legal means, do not gather it at all.
 Once you have evidence of possible violations, you should analyze state and federal environmental laws to help you determine if a violation is occurring. While you do not need to fully understand all of the intricacies of a law, you should have a general understanding of what it protects. Having this understanding will help you decide whether to report, and if so, who to report to (i.e., a state or federal agency).


For example, you may want to know that the Clean Water Act protects certain waterways from pollution. In addition, the law creates a permitting system for allowing the discharge of waste into those waterways. Finally, it might be helpful to not that the Clean Water Act has a citizen suit provision that allows citizens to bring lawsuits for violations.
 Different agencies and organizations may be limited in the types of actions they can bring to ensure compliance with environmental laws. In general, three different types of enforcement actions are available to ensure environmental laws are upheld.


First, you might take part in a an administrative hearing. These do not involve the courts and instead are handled by a quasi-judicial branches of certain agencies. In these situations, the agency or organization will present their case to an administrative law judge (ALJ) who will make a determination regarding the violations. The ALJ may choose to issue a notice of violation or an order requiring the violation to stop.
Second, you might go to civil court. These are formal lawsuits filed in court against people that commit environmental law violations. If you sent a report to the EPA, the Department of Justice will be responsible for bringing a lawsuit should they think one is warranted.
Third, the Department of Justice may choose to bring a criminal action against polluters whose actions are particularly egregious. If found guilty, these polluters can face criminal fines and possible jail time., When you choose who to report the possible violation to, you should think about what you want to get out of the report. If you want someone to be criminally prosecuted, you will have to contact the government. Private organizations cannot bring criminal actions.


However, if you want to bring a civil lawsuit, contacting a private organization may be your best option. These organizations are often highly motivated and have systems in place to help bring polluters to justice. On the other hand, government agencies may work slowly and may work towards a settlement to help keep costs low. If you win in a civil court, the polluter may have to pay civil penalties and may be required to clean up their mess.