 Microwaving works best for flowers with many petals, and no hairy or sticky surface. Roses, zinnias, and marigolds are good options, although varieties with thick petals might not work out.Pick the flowers when half-open and firm, before petals start dropping.Cut the stems pretty short for this method — about 1–2 inches (2.5–5cm)

, The stems won't be flexible after microwaving. If you want to bend the flowers for an arrangement, stick a 20–24 gauge wire through the base of the flower, then wrap it in a helix around the stem. Though it is best not to use metal in a microwave oven If the flower doesn't have a thick base, stick the wire through the center of the flower and into the stem. Push it down as far as you can to hide the wire from view.
 A desiccant is any substance that absorbs moisture. Silica gel is the best option for delicate and colorful petals, but you can use clay cat litter instead, or a 50







, Carefully position the flowers right-side up, with at least ¾ inch (2cm) of space between them. Pour more desiccant slowly over the flowers, burying them.








Use a toothpick to rearrange the petals if they get bent out of shape.
Start with just one or two flowers in case they end up burnt. It will get easier as you learn how much drying each flower will take.
 A separate, shallow cup of water absorbs some of the microwave's energy. This makes accidental burning or over-drying less likely., Add the container to the microwave and heat for 2 minutes. Poke through the desiccant with a toothpick to see if the flowers were dry. If not, heat them for 1-minute intervals, checking after each one.









This step can take a lot of trial and error, since there's so much variation between flowers and microwaves. Some thin flowers like daisies do best at low microwave settings, just above defrost.Others with many, thick petals can take as long as 8 minutes on medium or high temperatures.
 Remove the container from the microwave. Cover the container, leaving the lid slightly ajar, and leave it alone for 24 hours.The desiccant (especially silica gel) can take a long time to cool to a safe temperature.


Leave dahlias, pansies, and peonies for 36 hours instead.Larger, thicker flowers such as roses and carnations may be ready in as few as 10 hours.
Keep this out of reach of children and animals.
 Now that the container is cool, tip it gently to expose the flowers. Gently pull out the flowers, supporting them from below. Brush them off with a fine brush.









Optionally, preserve them with hairspray or floral sealer.

