 E flat major containing the notes E flat;, G, and B flat;. B flat; minor containing the notes B flat;, D flat;, and F. And F minor, which contains the notes F, A flat;, and C.;
, To start the song off play E flat; major in an inversion reading left to right the G above middle C, B flat;, and then E flat; with your right hand. It doesn't really matter what fingers you use to play the chords, but play with a fingering that feels most comfortable to you.
 Now you have the next chord B flat; minor reading, from left to right, the F above middle C, B flat;, and D flat;.
 Move the finger that is on B flat; to A flat; and the finger that is on D flat; to C. You may notice that with each chord you are only moving two fingers to make the next chord.
 Now play the first chord, E flat; major, in this manner 1-2-3, 1-2-3, 1-2.
 It is just like the pattern of the first chord only repeated.
, Your left hand will play this pattern with your right hand twice when the song first starts.
 When your right hand plays Eb major your left hand will play an octave of E flat;. With the chord B flat; minor in the right hand, the left will play octaves of B flat;. And with the F minor chord in your right hand you will play an F octave in the left hand.
 Your right hand will keep the same chords you've been playing, but not in any particular pattern. Experiment with how you play the chords with your right hand. Try playing with each word that is sang in the chorus. You will have to listen to the song to find what you want to play and for when to change chords.
 These notes are not far away from the F minor chord you will be playing around this time in the song.
 This is because the right hand chords inversions change and move up. The E flat; chord now reads, from left to right, the E flat; an octave above middle C, G, and B flat;. B flat; minor now reads, from left to right,the D flat; an octave above middle C, F, and B flat;. F minor now reads from, from left to right, the C an octave above middle C, F, and A flat;.
 This is the same pattern as before only using different inversions of each chord: 1-2-3, 1-2-3, 1-2. For B flat; minor you will play the pattern twice like before.
, You may notice that in the song you hear something different happening in the left hand while your right hand is playing the pattern for the B flat; chord. This starts with an octave of E flat; that is below the E flat; that you may have been playing normally. The octave will move up to a B flat; octave. You can play the B flat; octave twice. Your left thumb will play the C right above the B flat; you just played and if you can reach your left pinky can play B flat; with C. Put your thumb back on B flat; and play an octave again. Move down with your left hand to an A flat; octave then bring it down to a G octave and back up to the A flat; octave and hold.

