 Deep tissue massage is helpful for muscle function in general because it reduces muscle tension and promotes better circulation, which are important factors for preventing strains, spasms and cramps.If your muscle soreness doesn't fade away after a few days of rest and using home remedies, then schedule a 30-minute massage with a registered massage therapist. Have the therapist focus on your sore muscle and all directly related muscles and allow them to go as deep as you can tolerate it without wincing. Your therapist may also use trigger point therapy that focuses on the injured muscle fibers.


In terms of frequency, everybody's financial situation and muscle injury is unique. Some people may derive benefit and value from a single massage, others may seek it out multiple times per month.
As an alternative, ask your partner or spouse to massage your sore muscle(s). There's lots of instructional videos on the internet that can teach the basics of massage and offer pointers, although it's no substitute for professional training.
Always keep well hydrated after a massage in order to flush inflammatory by-products and lactic acid from the body. Failure to do so might lead to nausea or a mild headache.
 Acupuncture treatment is based on principles of traditional Chinese medicine and involves inserting very thin needles into specific energy points under your skin in efforts to reduce pain and inflammation.Acupuncture for muscle and joint soreness can be very effective, especially if it's done when acute symptoms first develop. Acupuncture works by triggering your body to release endorphins and serotonin (among other chemicals), which act to combat musculoskeletal pain. Acupuncture has a good safety record and is relatively affordable, so it's worth a try if your muscle soreness lingers and is not impacted by other treatments or approaches.


There is mixed evidence that acupuncture is effective for relieving chronic muscle and joint issues, but there's many anecdotal reports that it can help.Realize that the acupuncture points used to reduce your soreness may not be located in or near the problematic muscle — some points can be in distant areas of the body.
Acupuncture is practiced by more healthcare professionals than ever before, including some physicians, chiropractors, physical therapists and massage therapists — whoever you choose should be certified by the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine.
 If your muscle soreness is recurring (chronic) and acerbated by weakness, poor posture, overuse and/or degenerative conditions (such as osteoarthritis), then you need to consider undertaking some physical therapy and muscle rehabilitation. A physical therapist can show you specific and tailored stretches and strengthening exercises for your chronically sore muscles.It may seem counterintuitive to exercise while you feel soreness, but chronically weak muscles often quit generating pain when they are strengthened and start to function normally. Physiotherapy is usually required two to three times per week for four to eight weeks to positively impact chronically sore muscle issues.


In addition to strengthening exercises, physical therapists can also use therapeutic devices to treat your muscle soreness, such as electronic muscle stimulation (EMS), therapeutic ultrasound, infrared (heat) therapy and/or transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS).
EMS and TENS devices can be purchased from medical supply and rehabilitation stores (online too) and used at home. However, they should only be used under the supervision or advice of a healthcare professional.
Good general muscle strengthening exercises include swimming, rowing and bouncing on a mini-trampoline.

