 If you live in an apartment you may not be able to have any pets, let alone a dog. Review your lease or rental agreement and see if it addresses whether or not you can have a dog in your rental.


If your lease or rental agreement doesn't address pets, or if you can't find a copy of it, then you will need to contact your landlord to find out if pets are allowed.
Even if you can have pets, your landlord may increase your rent if you have a pet and he or she may have you sign a pet agreement. These pet agreements usually state that you will have control over your pet at all times and pay for any damages that your pet may incur.;
, When deciding what kind of dog will be suitable for your living space, you need to think about whether a potential dog breed will fit comfortably in that space. A large dog in a small apartment, for instance, may have a hard time navigating the space and moving around freely.


Space can be especially important if you have a lot of breakable or fragile items in a small home. A big dog in a small space will probably unintentionally knock things over just because there isn't space for them to move.
This is not to say that a large or medium sized dog cannot be happy in an apartment. There are some large breeds that can be very content in a relatively small home. These tend to be large breeds that have low energy levels, such as mastiffs and great Danes.Remember that all dogs grow up. This means that a tiny puppy that seems to fit easily in your apartment may not fit so nicely when it is all grown up. Take this into consideration when picking a breed., Even if you are allowed to have a dog in your home, it doesn't mean that you have a space that will work well for one. Think about your home and whether you can make it a safe and comfortable place for another creature besides yourself.


Homes that have a lot of hazards that cannot be changed may not be suitable for certain dogs. For example, if you live in an untraditional home, such as a boat, it may be hard to have a dog.
 This will need to happen several times every day at the least. This means that if you will have a hard time finding outdoor space for the dog or getting the dog outside this should influence your decision to get a dog.


For example, if you live in a fifth floor walk up, it may be hard for you to take the dog out several times every day.
Even if you have a dog that doesn't need a lot of walking, it will still need regular short walks. All dogs deserve a daily walk and fresh air.
 You may also want to think about your neighbors when assessing whether your home is suitable for a dog. A dog that is known to run around a lot and bark, such as a Jack Russell terrier, may cause a lot of noise for neighbors that live next to you or below you.


Considering your neighbors may influence your choice of dog breed more than whether or not to get a dog at all.

