 The soap created by this method will never be as smooth as soap created by other methods. It will have a rustic, grainy texture to it, which some people find Aesthetically  pleasing.The soap can be scented or unscented, colored or white, but make sure that they are all the same.
The soap does not have to be brand new. Re-batch soap-making is a great way to use up old slivers of soap.
 Work over a large bowl, and keep grating until you have about 1 pound (453 grams) of soap.Alternatively, you can chop the soap up into very find grains using a sharp knife, or grind it in a food processor., If the soap doesn't fit into the pot, gently press down on it until it does fit.If you are vegan, or don't like the idea of using milk in your soap, you can use distilled water instead. Both will add moisture back to your soap, and prevent it from becoming too dry., This will allow the soap to start "melting" and will ensure that it is moist enough for the next step. You do not want the soap to burn., Unlike melt-and-pour soap, re-batch soap will never become fully liquid. Instead, it will become soft and sticky, sort of like mashed potatoes or oatmeal.If the soap starts to become dry at any point, add in another tablespoon (15 milliliters) of milk or water. Be careful not to over-do this, however. If you add too much liquid, your soap won't set up properly and will take too long to dry once it is made.If your soap is scented, consider turning the stove fan on or opening up a window. As the soap heats up, it will start releasing its fragrance oils, which can cause headaches.
 From time to time, crack open the lid, and use a rubber spatula to scrape any soap down the sides of the pot. Eventually, the soap will reach its final consistency, and not soften any more. At this point, turn off the burner, and take the saucepan off the stove.Be patient during this step; it can take up to 2 to 3 hours for the soap to reach this stage.
Do not allow the soap to burn. If it starts to burn, lower the heat, and add a little cold water.Again, if the soap starts to feel dry, stir in some more water.
 Once the butters have melted, give the mixture a stir with a rubber spatula. If you can only find one of the butters and not the other, simply use more of the butter that you do have., The hemp seed oil is there to soften and nourish your skin. If you don't have any hemp seed oil, or simply don't like using it, you can use another type of oil instead. Vitamin E oil would work great, but so would olive oil and coconut oil. If your soap is not fragranced, and you'd like it to be, add in some lavender essential oil (or any other type of essential oil that you prefer). You can also use soap making fragrance oils; start with a smaller amount, as they are more potent than essential oils.

If you soap is scented, skip the essential oils.
 You can use all the same grain and texture, or you can experiment with combining different grain sizes. If you don't have any pink Himalayan salt, you can use sea salt instead. Avoid Dead Sea salt, however. It may sound fancy and luxurious, but is mineral content is too high. As a result, the soap may not set properly., From time to time, tap your mold against the table or counter. This will help settle the soap into the grooves of the mold. When you are done, smooth the top of the soap down with the back of your spoon or rubber spatula. If your spoon or spatula are sticking to the soap too much, sprinkle more salt on top of the soap, then try again. The salt will help create a barrier between the soap and the spoon, as well as add texture.

You can use silicone or plastic soap molds for this. If you are using plastic molds, consider lightly greasing them with coconut oil first. This will make it easier to pop the soaps out later on.
Consider adding a sprinkle of lavender flowers to the bottom of your mold, before you add the soap. This will give your soap a nice texture.
This is enough to fill about four 4-ounce (120-milliliter) soap molds. You can use smaller molds too, if you'd like. You will just end up with more bars of soap that are a little smaller.
 This will help the soap set up faster.If you don't want to do this, allow it to set on your counter for a 24 hours., The soap is ready when it is no longer dry; this can take a few days.