 You can choose an ordinary box or a specialized bra traveling case, but either way, the container you use should be hard.









There are several cases available on the market that are specially designed to hold bras, but the best are bra-shaped, hardcover, and designed so that the bras will lie flat instead of folded.If you don't want to buy an actual bra travel case, consider using a sturdy plastic container or cardboard box. The container should span the length of your bra cups when they lie flat, and the width of the container should roughly match the height of the cups.
 Lay the bras out flat and stack them on top of one another. The cups of one bra should fit over the cups of the one beneath it.









When packing bras with molded cups, you should never fold one cup into another. Doing so will cause dents, bumps, and other distortions in the cup you invert, and as a result, the bra will no longer fit as well as it should.
Consider tucking the straps in to prevent the hooks from snagging the other bras. The straps of each bra should be wedged in between the cups of the bra they belong to and the cups of the bra beneath it.
Most bra traveling cases can fit one to six bras, depending on the case itself and the size of your bras. If you have a small cup size, you can usually fit up to six; for larger cup sizes, you may only be able to fit one or two.
If you opt to use a plastic container or cardboard box, pack as many bras into the container as possible without crushing them. Do not stuff the bras into the box since doing so will distort the shape of the cups.
Since there is no risk of accidental crushing when you pack the bras in a separate case, you do not need to stuff the cups with any excess material.
 Sit the packed case inside of the main body of your empty suitcase, then pack the rest of your clothes around the case.









Fill in as much space around the sides of the case as possible. Doing so can prevent the bras from getting tossed around and tangled during transport.
Note that you can unpack your bras when you reach your destination, but if you pack them in a separate container and leave plenty of excess space, there is very little risk of causing them to become distorted. That being the case, you should be able to keep them in the case for the duration of the stay without much of any risk.

