 State that you have no desire to attack a loved one. Emphasize an interest in listening and responding to one another non-defensively.If something comes up, but tempers are running high or the context is not appropriate for an open, heartfelt conversation, ask your loved one to agree to talk soon.
State the intention of a conversation beforehand. For instance, say something like, “I want to strengthen our relationship by better understanding ______.”

, Particularly if you’re hoping to discuss your loved one’s unwillingness to change – or willingness to see something differently – talk about a time you came to an awakening of your own.Talk about a time you accepted help for something you had previously insisted wasn’t an issue.
Check your terminology and framing to ensure you are not shaming your loved on for whatever it is you believe he or she needs to change.
 Abandon the concept of who’s right and who’s wrong. If someone refuses to change – either a behavior or perspective on a single issue – he or she may not be relying on reason or logic to make this decision.The behavior may just be part of your loved one’s belief system, so debating will not help.


Avoid starting a debate with your loved one. Don’t ask your loved one to provide proof for his or her beliefs or try to prove your loved one wrong.
Ask questions. Try to better understand where your loved one is coming from. For example, you might ask something like, “What experiences did you have that have caused you to feel that way?”

, Making it clear that you recognize that your own perspectives are often subjective or opinionated may help loved one’s come to the same conclusion.Begin sentences with “I think ______”, “In my opinion_____”, or “It seems to me that _____”.
If a statement requires elaboration, follow with something like “So, I’m wondering about _____”, or “It seems that this might lead to _______”.
Elaborations are only necessary when your loved one doesn’t respond to your initial observations or stated feelings.
 Send clear signals that you are willing to revisit and rethink your positions, and that you hope your loved one will have the same attitude.If you state opinion as truth and your loved one jumps on you for it, admit that your terminology was problematic and adjust it.
Say something like, “Well… yes, you’re right, I can’t be positive, but I see it like this.”

, It is extremely normal for moments of tension to arise in everyday conversation, especially between loved ones who spend a lot of time together. If this does occur, quickly try to reduce the tension.Say something like, “Jeez, we’re both being pretty stubborn!”
All it takes for someone’s defenses to go up is one side refusing to give ground. Make sure it isn’t you that pushes a conversation into deadlock.
Follow up any potential spots of conversational lock-up with a question such as, “Do you see it differently?”

, You may end up feeling most frustrated just when your loved one is closest to adjusting their behavior, when they’ve acknowledged that things need to change but may still be slipping.Recognize that even when people are willing, change takes time. Breaking entrenched patterns of behavior in particular is a process.
Incremental improvements, even only during dialogue, are worth acknowledging.
Show your appreciation for a loved one’s effort and willingness to change by thanking your loved one for talking with you.
 Sometimes, it may be the most healthy or safe decision to change the subject or simply walk away. If your loved one is absolutely unwilling to have a mature conversation and becomes aggressive or starts to shout, then don’t risk your own stability and safety.End the conversation before it gets out of hand.


For example, you could say something like, “Let’s talk some other time when we are both feeling calm.” Or, “This has been a good start, but I think we should end it here.”

