 Before turning in for the evening, shampoo and condition your hair. Remove excess water by squeezing your locks with a towel. Brush through your tresses to remove any snarls. Divide your hair into two sections by creating a center part from the top of your forehead to the nape of your neck.


You may divide your hair into more sections if you would like.;
, When left in wet hair overnight, basic 3-strand plaits create luxurious, all-over natural waves.









Divide the left section into three equal subsections and plait the hair. French braid (or Dutch braid) your hair from the top of your left ear to the nape of your neck, gathering loose hair as your go. Once you reach the nape of your neck, braid the remaining hair in a standard 3-section plait. Secure the ends with a rubber band. Repeat on the right section.
If you want loose waves, flatten the braids by pulling on the individual subsections., Leaving a fishtail braid in overnight will allow you to achieve a messier, smaller wave without the hassle of using a curling iron.









Separate the left section into two equal halves. Grab the front subsection with your right hand and the back subsection with your left hand—your palms should face you. Section off a small piece of hair from the front subsection with your right index finger. Bring this hair across the front section and lay it in between the two subsections. Grad the hair with the left index finger and add it to the back subsection of hair. Repeat this process, but begin with the back subsection. Continue to alternate until you have reached the ends of your hair. Secure with a rubber band.
Repeat this process on the right section. Your left hand will hold the front section and your right hand will grasp the back section.,









Divide the left section of hair into two sub-sections. Tightly twist each subsection counterclockwise from root to end. While holding one end in each hand, tightly twist the subsections around each other in a clockwise motion until you reach the ends. Secure the twisted rope braid with a rubber band.
Repeat this process on the right section., Sleep with the braids in your hair. Upon waking up, remove the elastics and undo the braids. Tousle your hair with your fingers. Spray lightly with hairspray.If you are using one of these methods in the morning or afternoon, leave your hair in braids until it is day. You may speed up the drying process with a blow dryer.

