 Before you do anything else, you need to educate yourself on the tasks and responsibilities a film producer must deal with on the job. This self-study is informal but still an absolutely crucial step since it will prepare you for the path that lies before you.


Film producers are involved in nearly every aspect of a film's creation. As a film producer, you will be responsible for:

Finding a script, story, or idea for the movie. You might delegate some of the work to a separate screenwriter, but the initial task of finding a story to work with rests on your shoulders.
Finding funding for the production budget. If the project is small enough or you are wealthy enough, you might finance a project yourself, but many producers do need to secure some form of outside funding.
Hiring a creative team to make the movie. A head producer will need to hire lower-level producers and may even hire the director. These people will usually hire those who are less involved in the production side of things, including actors.
Handling schedules and expenses. You need to keep the project moving and also figure out what aspects of production to cut if your funds are running low.
Securing distribution. If you work through a major studio, much of this will already be taken care of. If not, though, you will need to find independent distribution companies.
Marketing the film. You will have help from your studio and distributor, but many of the final decisions will be your responsibility.


Also note that there are different types of producer positions, and each takes care of different aspects of the production process.

The head producer gets the final say in most decisions and maintains all financial, legal, and scheduling concerns.
An executive producer takes care of many financial concerns and may help secure the script or story for the film.
An associate producer essentially assists an executive producer in his or her tasks.
A line producer is a lower level position. He or she will usually take care of issues that come up during the shoot.
A co-producer is a line producer who is also involved in some of the creative production of the film.

;
, You can go to a film school or a liberal arts college that offers some form of film studies. Either way, you need to obtain a four-year Bachelor of Arts degree in production, film studies, or some other closely related field.


During your formal education, expect to take classes on cinema production, visual storytelling, editing, screenwriting, digital production, critical film studies, drawing, and film prep.If you attend a college with a good film program, you will also create short films for some of your classes. These films can and should be included in your portfolio.
 While not absolutely necessary, going onto graduate school and obtaining a Master of Fine Arts degree in theater or film production can prepare you even better for this career.


Master's degrees focus on both the creative and business sides of film production.
 Even after you complete your formal education, you should continue your informal education. Keep yourself up-to-date on the latest news and innovations concerning film production. You can learn on your own or by taking supplementary classes.


Check out colleges that offer film studies. Many may offer continuing education courses. While you will not earn another degree for completing them, you will usually receive some sort of certificate for doing so.
 Start gaining related experience as early as possible. If you are still a junior high student, high school student, or a high school graduate with no college education, you should look for ways to get involved with film and theater at school or in the community. Even experience not directly related to producing can be helpful.


Many film producers start as writers or actors, so even if you cannot get early experience in directly producing a film, try to get experience in one of these fields. Experience along these lines can help you get your foot in the door.
If there are no opportunities immediately available to you in regards to film, look for opportunities related to theater. Act in a high school play or write a script for a community theater. While not directly related to producing or film, even this sort of experience can give you a decent starting point.
If you are still in high school, also consider taking classes in drama, theater, dramatic literature, film, and business.
 During your college years or shortly after, you should give serious consideration to the idea of completing a formal internship. For this aspect of your experience, you should look for a position that will specifically give you production staff experience.


Chances are, you will not be able to secure an internship at a major studio while still in college. You can, however, find production internships at small studios, local television networks, and local radio stations.
Note that most internships are "unpaid," but you will at least receive college credit for completing them. The experience itself can be invaluable, and an internship looks good on your resume. If you do well enough, you might also be able to get some helpful networking in for the future.
If you cannot find an internship through an actual studio, start heading to the drama departments of nearby colleges and high schools. Any related experience is better than none.
 While you are still in your student years, begin to make your own short films and videos. These initial projects do not need to be anything extensive—a few minutes per project should be sufficient. The idea here is to give yourself a taste of what being a producer is like on a small scale while also gradually building your portfolio.


The initial short videos you produce can be distributed via the Internet.Any video that is 10 minutes or less can be uploaded fairly easily, and nowadays, some Internet videos can even go viral if the right audience catches onto them. Even if your work receives minimal exposure, though, you can gain a little experience in the shooting side of production as well as the distribution side.
 Aside from experience within the fields of drama and film, there are other life skills that are more basic and more versatile you should be looking to build upon.


Some of the additional skills you will need to master include communication skills, leadership skills, management ability, and creativity.
Consider taking business courses while in college. A second major or even a business minor can be extremely helpful. Business courses dealing with finance, marketing, and management will offer you the most benefit.
Leadership skills are necessary since you need to instruct the people on your crew. Communication skills are required if you want to provide these instructions and coordinate work effectively. Management skills are similarly necessary since you need to figure out how to keep things running smoothly.
While you may have your mind set on the business aspect of production, you also need to figure out the best ways to find appealing stories and interpret scripts, so creativity is a necessity.
 The market is always changing, but there are a few aspects you can count on to be fairly similar as the years progress. Once you get out of school and are ready to go out into the work force, do a little research on your job outlook, expected salary, and other aspects of your anticipated career.Overall, employment opportunities are expected to grow 3 percent from 2012 to 2022. This is slower than most other occupations.
You will likely face a great deal of competition within the field.
As of May 2012, the median annual wages for producers within the broader field were as follows:

Motion picture and video—$94,110
Cable and other subscription programming—$83,220
Television broadcasting—$56,950
Performing arts companies—$49,690
Radio broadcasting—$48,110



, Everyone has to start somewhere. Most entry-level positions related to film production will not pay much, nor will they come with much power or control. Nonetheless, these positions are essential steps you need to cross over while climbing the job ladder.


Note that at the entry-level, you can expect to find work as a production assistant or story editor. While your power and responsibilities will be limited, you can at least gain helpful prospective and experience.
Look for work with movie or television studios. You may find it easier to secure a job with a small studio instead of a larger one.
Assistant directors and other entry-level positions usually do not earn much money, especially in the non-profit sector, so you should prepare to live on a tight budget for a year or so.
Your chances of finding work might improve if you live in an area with more opportunities available, like Los Angeles. Of course, many others will have the same idea, so your competition will also be fiercer in those areas of the country.
 Meanwhile, you should begin focusing your energy on securing funds and resources for a longer film project of your own. It does not need to be a feature-length project, but it should at least be longer and more involved than the projects you worked on during your college years.


When working on a big project of your own, you could write your own script or hire a writer to do so for you. Alternatively, you can purchase literary work already made from the author.
Also consider doing work for hire or contract work. For instance, schools might be willing to make a contract with you to produce educational films.While this may not seem glamorous, the experience can be very helpful.
Consider submitting your own projects to student or small independent film festivals. These contests and events might be small, but those deeply involved in the industry do pay attention to them, so making a mark here could help you impress the right people.
 As you you gain experience with your own projects and experience in the industry, your portfolio will grow and more people will begin to notice your talent. You will be able to get higher-paid positions that allow you to have more control over the production process. It may take time, but with enough patience, energy, and skill, you can eventually work your way up to the top.


You will usually need several years of experience before you start working your way up.
Remember, this is quite a difficult profession to get into, it would be better if you first of all looked at becoming a writer or a screenwriter etc; if all goes well maybe a step up is needed. Look at Producers Assistant. Once you've gained experience, you'll be ready!

