 Pack up some sandwiches, a salad, bottles of water, and a blanket, and head for a nearby park. You don’t even need to prepare a full meal. Snacks work great too. Instead of sandwiches or salad, try bringing a bunch of grapes, some cheese and crackers, and something sweet for dessert. A casual picnic outdoors is a great way to get to know your date better without the pressure associated with a more formal setting, such as a fancy restaurant., If you live near an oceanside beach, you and your date can search for seashells and other treasures washed ashore. You can also clean up the beach together. Picking up trash might not seem glamorous, but it will give you and your date a chance to get to know each other better while doing something good for the environment.
 Not only does hiking along a nature trail provide a low pressure way to get to know someone better, it’s also an excellent opportunity to see some beautiful sites.Plus, you’ll get a bit of exercise while you’re at it.
 Both of these are easy date outings and entrance is often free.If your date enjoys farmer’s markets and flea markets, it can be fun for both of you to see what things catch the other’s eye as you browse the market.
 Many cities and towns host free outdoor concerts during summer.Attending one of these events with a date can be a fun and affordable way to check out local Indie bands.
 Choose a movie you already own or watch something online if you or your date have a subscription to Netflix or a similar service.


If you do have an online movie subscription service and aren’t prepared to invite your date over just yet, use a laptop, tablet, iPad, or other portable device to watch the movie together at the beach or park, for instance.
 Pull out that old stack of board games you haven’t played in a while and make a date of it.You can get together for a game night at home, the park, or even the library.


If you don’t have any board games on hand, try borrowing some from family and friends, or but some at a huge discount from a thrift store or garage sale.
 It’s usually cheaper to prepare a meal at home versus going out to eat. Plus, taking the time to cook for someone is always a nice gesture.


For a festive twist, make a themed meal. Prepare a meal of Italian, Chinese, or Mexican dishes, for instance, and play complementary music to go along with the food., Pick a charitable organization that appeals to you or your date and suggest volunteering there together.It’s a great way to get to know one another better, while also doing some good.

