


Search for the appropriate licenses to file on the Small Business Administration's website at http://www.sba.gov/content/search-business-licenses-and-permits.
If you will be hiring other tutors, you will need to obtain an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the federal government. Find more information here.
If you are setting up a formal business, the type of business (sole proprietorship, LLC, partnership) will determine the additional paperwork you will need and how you will be taxed. Forms can be found on the IRS website at http://www.irs.gov/businesses/small/article/0,,id=98359,00.html.;
,,


Focus on high-need areas such as math, science and reading. Parents are often willing to pay top dollar for private tutors who are subject area experts.
If hiring additional tutors, take into consideration their areas of expertise.
If you are working with families as a private tutor you can choose to tutor at your home, the student's home or a neutral location such as a library.



Working directly with schools will often require you to tutor at the school.
Fees for private tutoring should be based on your qualifications and background. Be competitive with the going rate in your area.



When working as a private tutoring service with public schools, the fees may be set by the district.
If you are unsure of what to charge, it is better to start with a lower rate and raise it as necessary.



Policies for a tutoring business will include your rates and payment policy, cancellation policy, communication policies, schedule and any other procedures you want to have in place.



Contact teachers, counselors and school administrators in your area.
Advertise through neighborhood newsletters, church bulletins and flyers.
Check the school district website to find out how they contract tutoring services.
Economically-challenged areas especially have a need for tutors and often schools in these areas will hire tutors or private tutoring services to help struggling students prepare for end of grade tests.



Individualize the lessons based on student needs and teacher and parent input.
You may need a more specific state-aligned curriculum for working with school districts that you can develop yourself or purchase.

