 Before you start making your invitations, you should take a trip to an art supply store to get all of the things you need to begin making your invitations. Here's what your shopping list should include:


Construction paper. Choose at least four different colors. Make sure one of them is light enough for you to be able to write on it. Light colors include yellow, light blue, or even white.
Scissors.
A glue stick.
Stencils, stamps, and stickers.
Glitter.
Colorful markers that won't smear or smell.
Large envelopes.
 Even if you're only making a handful of invitations, it'll take a lot of time and hard work. The process will be easier and more fun if you ask a trusted group of close friends to help you. This will also help generate excitement about your party.


Turn this event into a mini-party. Cook dinner for your friends, or create the cards while listening to great music or watching a silly movie. You can even have a card-making sleepover.
 This will be the paper you'll be writing on, so it should be a light color.


Since these invitations are homemade, you can choose a different color every time.
 Choose a marker color that contrasts nicely with the color of the paper. There are a few things you'll want to write on the invitation:


On the front, tell your guests you're having a birthday party. You can be silly or serious about it. Make sure to tell them whose birthday it's for.
On the inside, give your guests the relevant details, like when and where the party is, what they should bring, and whether or not they should RSVP.
Since you're writing by hand, you can have fun and tailor each invitation to the guest who will be receiving it. You don't have to do this for every guest, because it may take too long.
If your friends are helping, make sure that they have good handwriting!

, Your invitation will already look nice, but taking a few extra measures will really make it shine. Here's what you can do:


Cut designs of simple shapes like stars, hearts, or flowers, out of the remaining construction paper, and stick them onto the invitation with a glue stick. Wait for them to dry.
Place a few stickers or stamps on the invitations, or fill in the stencils you have.
Add glitter to the invitation. Just be careful--glitter can get a bit messy, and you don't want to annoy your guests by having them get glitter all over their hands as soon as they open the invitation.
Since you're making these invitations by hand, you can decorate each card differently.
 The envelopes you use will have to be large enough for the card to fit inside.


You can also add stickers or stamps to the envelope for an even more personalized touch.

