 Especially if you’re moving in together after your marriage, you may wish to discuss things like splitting chores, making meals, and running a house together. Your partner may lack certain skills like cooking or may differ in their approach to cleaning, so be clear on your expectations ahead of time. Is your partner cleaner or messier than you, and how will find a compromise?If you’re moving in together for the first time, have an idea of how the house will be run and who will be responsible for certain tasks.
 If you and your partner come from different faiths or spiritualities, talk about how this may affect your marriage. For example, if you’d like your partner to know your own spiritual traditions, say so. If you want to get married or raise a family in a specific tradition, talk this over with your partner. Consider any requests your partner has for you to learn their traditions.If you are hoping that your partner will convert to your faith, consider if that does not happen and how you will feel about it and your partner.
Ask your partner, “What role will spirituality play for you in our marriage? Do you want me to participate in any traditions with you or your family?”

, Whether you choose to combine your finances or not, you will need to talk about how to split expenses for things like rent, groceries, household necessities, pets, and other items. You may choose to contribute different amounts of money based on each of your income levels or blend all of your money together. Whatever you choose, talk about the arrangement ahead of time. Talk about your attitude toward money and savings.Talk about each person’s credit and how that might affect the marriage.
Say, “Say, I want to discuss how we each go about managing money. Do we put more emphasis on saving or spending?”

, Talk about where you want to live, what kind of job you want, where you want to travel, and what other goals and adventures you’d like to accomplish for the future. Talk about your short-term and long-term goals. If one partner wants to live in a different area or travel for work, discuss this openly and talk about how it might affect the marriage. Discuss your hopes and dreams and support each other on your goals.Ask your partner, “I'd like us to talk about what things we want to do separately and together in the short-term, and the long-term. Is this okay with you?”

, Joining your partner’s family may have some perks and drawbacks. Talk to your partner about what the family is like and how you will fit in. Are there customs or traditions you should know about? Ask if there are certain things you should avoid talking about with your partner’s family such as politics, religion, gun control, etc.Ask your partner how to get along and fit in with their family. What should you call your partner’s parents? Do you need to speak more loudly to his aunt or make any gestures to show respect?
Say, “What can I do to best fit in your family? How can I best show respect?”

, Even if having kids is a while off, start to talk about your potential family. Do both you and your partner want kids? How do you feel about adoption or being a foster parent? While you may disagree on the number of kids you want, you should both be on the same page of wanting or not wanting children prior to getting married.More delicate yet still important to discuss is physical and mental health history. If you or your partner have a history of cancer, diabetes, Alzheimer’s disease, bipolar disorder, or another illness in your family, let your partner know as this may affect your married life and your potential children.
Ask your partner, “Do you want children? How many? Do you have any physical or mental health problems that may affect our children?”

