 When you're first getting to know a cat, it's best to let it get used to its surroundings. If you've just brought a cat home, give it a room where it can hang out and calm down. Leave it alone (with everything it needs) for about a day before you try interacting with it.Even if your cat isn't new and tends to hide, this method can be a good way for you to reintroduce yourself to the cat.;
, A radio or playlist with gentle music (such as classical) may help the cat relax. It helps them feel not quite as alone. Play it softly so you don't annoy the cat, as cats' ears are more sensitive than ours., To start getting the cat used to you, try just hanging out in the room with it. Don't try to interact with it yet. Just be in the room. Try reading a book, for instance, or just play on your phone. Sitting on the floor can make you seem approachable.Don't force them out of hiding. Give them a chance to come out.
Also, stay relatively quiet, and don't make sudden movements that may startle the cat.
 Once the cat is slowly getting used to you, try encouraging interaction with treats. You could place your hand on the ground and place treats around it. The cat will be encouraged to come up and take treats.You could also try putting chicken (just chicken or another meat) baby food on your fingers or spoon and let the cat lick it.
If they're not quite ready to come out, try dropping a treat near where they are so they associate the treat with you., Even if your cat is still being skittish, playtime may bring them out of their shells a bit. Try using a toy that has a stick with a fleece tail or mouse hanging off of it. Gently brush it back and forth near where the cat is hiding to see if you can encourage it to come play.You could also try wiggling your fingers under a blanket or using a piece of yarn to entice the cat to play.
 Once your cat starts coming out regularly to see you when you're in the room, you can start moving towards petting. Start by letting the cat smell you. Reach out a flat palm for the cat to sniff. If the cat rubs its head on it or seems interested, you can try petting it on the back. If it runs away, you may need to try again another day., Sometimes, a skittish cat will show aggression because that is how it's dealing with being afraid. The important thing is to not yell or lash back at the cat. Just use a soothing voice and back up a little to give the cat space. Continue to talk to it for a few minutes. Don't just rush out of the room. If you just leave, that tells the cat that this behavior gets rid of the thing it's scared of--you!Set out a treat for it before you leave, so it still thinks of you in a positive light.
 If your cat hasn't been around other people much, you'll need to start slowly. The first step is just having your cat be in the same room with someone new. Close off exits, though leave a hiding place in the room, and have your friend just sit and talk with you. That way, the cat can get used to the idea of someone new being around.Hiding spots can include places like underneath a chair or behind a piece of furniture.
 One way to encourage positive interaction is to have playtime while your friend is over. Start with you playing with the cat (using a toy), and then get your friend to take over. Playtime will help your cat associate strangers with something they like., Just like you got your cat to interact with you with treats, you can also encourage interaction with others with treats. Have the person sit on floor. They can place their hand down with treats nearby, which may encourage the cat to approach.However, remember that feeding your cat too many treats can lead to obesity. Cats should only have 20 calories per pound of weight each day to maintain their size, so a 10 pound cat only needs 200 calories a day. When you're feeding treats, make sure you're taking those into account for your cat's caloric needs.Try to pick treats with healthier ingredients. A shorter list of ingredients is better than a longer list. Also, skip treats that have preservatives and dyes., The first part of interaction will likely be smelling. Your friend can even hold out a pointer finger for the cat to smell. Often, just offering it will get a cat to come over and take a good sniff.Keep in mind that some cats may need this introduction each time the person is over.
If the cat seems interested, the person can try to pet it.
 Your cat should take the lead when it comes to interactions. If you try to force a timid cat to interact, it's only going to make the situation worse. However, if your cat can decide to come out on its own, that may make future interactions easier., If you're trying to get a cat more accustomed to being petted, begin with areas the cat likes. For instance, if the cat likes its neck rubbed, start there. Move on to stroking parts it isn't quite as used to, such as the top of its head. Start with short sessions, and give your cat a treat as soon as you're done., Once you've worked on just getting the cat used to petting, start working on areas like its paws. Your cat will need its paws handled from time to time, such as when its claws are trimmed or when it visits the vet. However, most cats don't like their paws handled. Start by just touching the paws when the cat is near you or sitting on you (after some petting the cat likes), then work up to holding the paw in your hand. Keep the sessions short at first. Reward your cat with a treat afterwards.Try doing this step when the cat is sleepy.
 Most cats aren't huge fans of being picked up, but it does need to happen sometimes. To help it learn not to struggle, pick it up. When it struggles, talk to it soothingly. When it stops struggling, you can put it down. If you put it down before it stops struggling, it learns that's what results from that behavior., When you're first introducing pets, let them be in separate spaces. However, it can help to have a door between them, so they can sniff each other through the doors and start getting to know one another., A good next step is feeding them together, but one on each side of the door. They'll be able to smell and hear each other, but they'll also be doing something enjoyable, eating., The cat will start to want to explore the rest of the house after a few days. The first couple of times it goes into the larger house, try locking up your other pets. That way, the cat can get the lay of the land without having to worry., After a few days or a week, try introducing the animals. Some unhappiness is to be expected. However, if they continue to be aggressive, you may need to separate them again by guiding the cat back into is separate space.If one of the animals is a dog, keep it leashed for the first couple of introductions.
If they get in a serious fight, toss a towel over them, and then try to encourage the cat back into its room.
Only let them out together when you're at home for the first couple of times., Before you let them out unsupervised together, all animals should be relatively calm. They should be able to eat and go to the bathroom without looking worried. If they continually fight, you may need to slow down the introductions and keep them separated for a while longer.