 The two of you may be kept apart by jobs and other responsibilities for a large portion of the day. When you are together, make it a point to be be in close physical contact with the other person. Kiss, hug, and caress your partner.


Even if you don’t end up having sex, physical touch will help generate more intimacy between the two of you. It also helps you relax and improves your physical and emotional health.Consider setting time aside each day for the two of you to snuggle, hug, or just sit close with each other.
 Know your partner’s turn-ons, and yours, too. Keep in mind these turn-ons may not necessarily be physical or sexual in nature. See if you can find a pattern in your lives together when you are both more amorous, and do your best to replicate those times!


Talk to your partner about when they most want to have sex. They might say, “After a romantic date,” or “When we have a lot of fun together.” Figure out ways to create these moods for your partner. You may want to take them to a new restaurant or to play mini-golf, for example.
If your partner loves the thrill of anticipation, consider incorporating some flirtatious, teasing behaviors into your day. You could send racy texts, whisper things you want to do with them into their ear, or start making out with them only to stop and say, “More later.”, Consider what you and your partner like to create a romantic, intimate mood. While you might not be able to have a heart made of rose petals on the bed every time, you can still make your environment romantic and special.


Consider soft lighting, like candles or low ambient light. Overhead is probably too harsh.Invest in some nice, soft bedding you both enjoy spending time in.
Play music that helps set the mood: R&B, jazz, or soft rock may be good choices, but it depends on your taste.
At the very least, clean up your bedroom and free it of distractions. Turn off the TV and pick up clothes off the floor. Straightening up the rest of your living space, if you can, would also be a plus.
 While this doesn’t sound romantic, studies have shown how helping your partner with chores around the house can actually put them in the mood for sex, because they are less stressed with the household responsibilities hanging over their heads. Find out what chores your partner would like help with and do them without prompting.Consider doing the dishes, cleaning the bathroom, or putting the children to bed so your partner can relax.
Do not hold it over your partner’s head that you helped out, so you expect sex in return. That creates more pressure on your partner and may kill the mood.
 If the two of you have busy lives, you may struggle to find the time to reconnect. If you are not making time for each other outside of the bedroom, it will be difficult to make time inside the bedroom. A standing weekly date will help you both make your relationship a priority, which will enhance your sex life.Your date doesn’t have to be anything big. It may be as simple as going for a long walk. The important thing is that you are spending time together, reconnecting as a couple.
Get a babysitter. If you have kids, make sure you arrange a babysitter. It may be helpful for one partner to schedule the babysitter, while the other partner finds the date night activity., If you are using contraception, have it ready to go or already be using it (if you are female in a heterosexual relationship and using the birth control pill, for example). That way you can relax and enjoy sex when the mood strikes, rather than having to worry about running to the pharmacy, or risking an unintended pregnancy or an STI (sexually transmitted infection).


Remember that condoms are widely available, inexpensive, and the best prevention for both pregnancy and STIs when used correctly.Talk to your family doctor or visit a family planning clinic to learn more about contraception options.

