 In this case, you will create a corporation that provides childcare services.


File nonprofit articles of incorporation with the state in which you are establishing the daycare. You can get the appropriate forms and guidelines from the Secretary of State.
Include the name and address of your nonprofit daycare in the articles of incorporation, as well as the purpose of starting it. Describe who you will serve and how the daycare will be run and governed.;
, Parents should make up most of your Board.
 You will need to demonstrate that your daycare center will operate for charitable purposes.


Show the IRS or other relevant Tax office that your services are available to the general public so that parents can look for or keep employment.
Include your articles of incorporation, information on how much you charge for daycare services, the number of students you serve and your curriculum.
 Federal law forbids nonprofit daycares from discriminating based on race. You might also want to have a statement of nondiscrimination on file.
 The IRS will require that you not have excessive rates of compensation when you are a nonprofit daycare entity.
 While some of your daycare's income will come from what you charge the families who use your services, additional money can help you make improvements, hire more teachers and train staff.


Obtain a list of grant opportunities from your local Childcare Resource and Referral Agency. Visit www.childcareaware.com and enter your zip code. You will get the contact information for your agency, and they can give you a list of grants available in your area.
Inquire about grants and funding opportunities from your local United Way, Community Foundation and other organizations which give grants.
, Advertise in schools and community centers, as well as in local publications and online.


Promote your daycare center as a nonprofit organization. This might help you recruit parents who cannot afford private daycare.
 You will need to communicate regularly with the IRS and Secretary of State to keep your nonprofit status.

