 Although it is possible—and sometimes preferable—to freeze unbaked pies, pies are typically frozen after they have already been baked. This simplifies the thawing and reheating process.


Pies whose fillings is made of fruits or nuts—pecan, walnut, peach, cherry, apple, etc.—are relatively easy to bake, freeze, and reheat, because the firm texture of the fillings stays firm while frozen.It is unnecessary to change the recipe just because you are going to freeze the pies instead of eating them immediately after baking.;
, This can take up to several hours—but it is an important step. The pie should be cool when you can rest your hand on the bottom of the pie pan and do not feel any heat. If you freeze your baked pie without first letting it cool completely, the quality will diminish; the pie may become soggy or lose its flavor.You may simply set the pies on the counter to cool, or let them cool in the refrigerator.
 Start by putting several layers of cling wrap around the pies. The cling wrap will keep your pies from picking up bad tastes or smells from the freezer.


For extra protection, place each wrapped pie in an airtight storage container. You can wrap your pies in large zipping freezer bags or airtight plastic storage containers.
If you don’t have ziplock bags or large Tupperware, you can wrap the pies well with aluminum foil.
 You do not want the pies to be unsteady and fall. This will break the crust and make the pies much harder to bake and serve.


You’ll also want to avoid placing the pies in a position where they’ll have more items stacked on top of them. Although the frozen pies will be relatively stable, the crust can still be crushed or damaged if you place heavy objects on the pies.
 Do not place the pies on top of each other; each pie should have nothing placed on top of it for the duration of its time in the freezer.


If you do not have room in your freezer to distribute each pie individually, try to find a way to stack pies without damaging the filling or crust. First, freeze each pie individually, and then try stacking them inside of empty, clean pizza boxes.
 If the containers come open, the pies may receive freezer burn or may pick up a bad taste or smell from the freezer.


Fruit or nut pies can stay frozen for a relatively long time. They will keep in your freezer for up to 4 months.If you have a deep freeze, it will keep your pies safely frozen for a longer period of time., Allow the frozen pies to thaw completely before serving. If you would like to serve your pies hot, pre-heat your oven to 350°—then place the pies in the oven for about 6 minutes.


If you have enough time before you need to serve the pies, you may choose to let the pies thaw slowly in the refrigerator. You should give the pies at least 24 hours to thaw, if you choose this method.
If you prefer to serve the pie warm (apple or pecan pie, etc.), let the pie stand at room temperature for about 30 minutes, then place it in the oven at 350°, for about 30 minutes.

