 The floor is not a good option in a small dorm room. Look for a hamper that is easy to carry, easy to store, and washable (now and then). Pop-up hampers, X-frame hampers, and laundry bags are good choices. You can leave them out in the room, or they will fit nicely in a closet. When not in use, they fold up and can be easily tucked away until needed. Rigid hampers are great if you want to store stuff on top or use it as a piece of furniture, but they are somewhat awkward for transporting to the laundry area.;
, When you get a stain on your clothes, use a pre-wash to keep it from setting, thus making it easier to get it clean when you do get around to doing your laundry. Some pre-treat wipes and sticks actually remove the stain allowing you to wear the outfit at least one more time. If you have a tough stain, check out one of the numerous guides written specifically for removal of stains.
 Hopefully your parents have taught you the ins and outs of how to wash your clothes. If not, ask whether an organized or tidy roommate can talk you through it.
 Little loads of wash cost just as much as the full loads, so share the washer with a friend if you don't have enough to fill it. Full loads also save water and energy.
 Pieces like tops, hosiery and underwear will last longer and be easier to sort if you divide them first. Mesh bags come in many shapes and sizes and you may need several to organize and separate your clothes. Try mesh bags for hand or machine washing sweaters. They help to prevent them from twisting and stretching.


Even if you don't wash t-shirts in separate bags, it's wise to have one or two bags that you can use for delicate items, such as bras and sweaters.
 Air drying can be tricky when you're short on space. Try a portable folding dryer, sometimes called a clothes horse. They fold flat to take up little space and can be stored in the closet, under the bed, behind a door. There are many styles and sizes to choose from and they can be used indoors or outdoors.
 You will save space in your dryer and you may also save ironing time. Be sure that the dryer you pick is tall enough to keep the clothes from dragging on the floor. If you don’t like the stiffness of some air dried clothes, like your jeans, once they are dry or almost dry put them in the dryer with a fabric softener dryer sheet for about 15 minutes. This will make them softer, without wear and tear and tons of quarters.
 It's a necessary evil for most cotton clothing. Even in a dorm room, there are ways. An over-the-door ironing board is one solution, but you may prefer the tabletop ironing boards, because they can be used anywhere—on the bed, on a desk, even on the floor. If you are really strapped for space, try an ironing blanket. Just clear off a space on a hard surface, such as your desk. When finished it folds up to store in a drawer, on a hook, or on a shelf.

