 There are different types of dough that you can use for the modeling. Some of the favorites include:


Bread dough
Salt dough

See wikiHow's dough section for more ideas.;
,


Roll a piece of dough to 6.5 centimeter (2.6 in) long by 12mm in diameter for the pea pod. Aim for a fish-like shape.
Hollow the center of the dough into a boat shape using the handle of a teaspoon.
Pinch the ends into points for the stalk and the tip of the pod.
Roll some graded-sized balls to imitate peas and fill the pod with them. It will probably help to moisten the base of each pea slightly to ensure that it adheres properly.



Roll a piece of dough into a tube 9.5 centimeter (3.7 in) long by 2.5 centimeter (1.0 in) in diameter, then pinch in at one end to form the root tip or the carrot or parsnip.
Cut a small piece of dough with scissors to simulate the cut leaves and attach them to the top with a dab of water to moisten. Alternatively, push green dough through a garlic press to make the leafy top of carrots.



Model six to eight curved tubes of dough about 3 centimeter (1.2 in) long and 12mm wide for each garlic segment.
Form the inner stem of the bulb from a piece of dough about 4 centimeter (1.6 in) long and slightly wider at the base.
Fix the segments around the stem with a dab of water to moisten, leaving the stem protruding above the segments for about 12mm.



Form a piece of dough into an irregular oval shape 5 centimeter (2.0 in) long by 3 centimeter (1.2 in) in diameter to resemble a new potato. Randomly indent the surface of the dough with the point of a kitchen knife to form the eyes of the potato.



Roll a ball of dough into 2.5 centimeter (1.0 in) in diameter, then pinch one end into a point to form the root tip.
Cut a small piece of dough with scissors to simulate the cut leaves at the top end and attach them to the top of the radish with a dab of water to moisten.



Roll a ball of dough to 4 centimeter (1.6 in) in diameter.
Pinch a scrap of dough into a star shape about 3 centimeter (1.2 in) in diameter, wet the base and press it on the top of the ball, forming the calyx.
Fix a 2 centimeter (0.8 in) long stem in the middle of the calyx with a dab of water.
 Once you've grasped the basic method for making them, it becomes easy to use images of other vegetables to guide your modeling so that you can shape any style of vegetable. Some things to be aware of when modeling with dough include:

Know whether you need to color the dough before using it or after it has dried. In some cases, you may need to do both but be aware that in most cases, it is easier to dye the dough before using it to model with. Usually food coloring is the dye of choice but some craft paints will work well for surface coloring and details.
Use different colored dough for different areas of the vegetables, such as leaves, the flesh, the skin, etc. If dying the dough, dye smaller batches of colors for leaves and seeds, to avoid wasting dough.
Display the food as it would be if it were real. Find miniature plates/trays/bowls, etc. (bottle tops, card circles, baskets, etc. from your recycling are ideal) and glue in place. Use your imagination for making the display items from recyclables.

