 If you have never felt comfortable naked or have always hated your body, the first step is to decide that you want that to change.Set a specific goal -- to feel comfortable naked with the lights on in front of your spouse, for example -- to make it more likely that you will achieve a positive outcome.Create a detailed plan as to how you will achieve your goal. Decide how you will track your progress, when you would like to achieve your goal (make sure this gives you enough time to change), and what you will do to achieve success.
Start where you are. If you don’t feel comfortable with your body even with your clothes on, work on that first, then build up to nudity. If you are uncomfortable being naked in front of another person with the lights on, try leaving on the lights for just a few seconds while you’re naked. As you become more comfortable, you can extend the length of time.
Don't let the fact that you haven't yet accomplished the goal make you unhappy. Instead, be proud of yourself for working toward your goal.;
, There are many reasons why someone might criticize your appearance -- and many of these reasons have nothing to do with you or your body. What matters is what you think, not what others think.


The practice of mindfulness -- keeping your attention on the present moment and observing your thoughts and feelings without judging them -- can help you achieve self-acceptance and can make it possible for you to examine opinions and values concerning nudity and your own body with a certain level of detachment.Keep reminding yourself that beauty is in the eye of the beholder. Just because some cultures and societies worship a certain body type doesn’t mean it’s the best one. Look at Peter Paul Rubens’ painting “The Three Graces” to see what a beautiful woman’s body looked like during the Renaissance.Look for inspiration from those who have succeeded in conquering fear. For example, consider the bravery of Jae West, an eating disorder survivor who stood outside in London in a bra and panties to encourage support for self-acceptance., Remember that self-criticism is the harshest kind of criticism. People are more worried about their own appearance than yours. Just because you think everyone is looking at you or making fun of you doesn’t mean they are.


Try to evaluate your body objectively. Figure out what you’re actually bothered by. Are you most embarrassed by your weight? Pale skin? Freckles? Scars? Sweating? Knowing specifically what makes you uncomfortable can help you figure out how to change the situation.
Don’t expect to look like a celebrity. Models and movie stars are are professionally obligated to live up to different standards. The ones whose pictures you see can also afford personal trainers, chefs, stylists, makeup artists, as well as top of the line skincare, exercise equipment, and food. Furthermore, many photos in magazines are airbrushed to make the person look better.
Keep in mind that you didn’t choose your genes. Many aspects of your appearance are determined by the genes you inherited from your parents.Your genes also influence your propensity to gain or lose weight.This doesn’t mean you should give up; but it does mean you need to accept that you need to work with what you have, and that you may not be able to change some things about your appearance (your height, for example).

