 You will be spending a lot of time with this poem, so you want to choose one with a subject that interests you. Your interest will help you remain motivated. For example, a poem with several lines that you already enjoy quoting may be a good choice.Consider choosing a poem with a formal structure. The regulated length of lines and predictable rhyming patterns will make memorizing significantly easier.
Free verse poems are typically harder to memorize as they lack the structure, rhythm, and rhyming patterns that can aid memorization. If you are trying to learn a free verse poem, focus on any line and paragraph divisions that the author has used. Even inconsistent patterns will provide useful markers for your memorization of the full poem.;
, Recite the poem from beginning to end. Speak loudly and clearly to a group or to yourself. If you feel uncomfortable reciting the poem where a neighbor or roommate could overhear, try reading the poem while on a walk or when you are the only person at home. Speaking aloud is connected to greater memory retention., Now that you are familiar with the poem, read it in a manner that reflects how you think it should be read or performed. Before you start, review any lines that you did not know how to read during your recitation. You can use a tape recorder, a computer, or a smart phone to record yourself.


This recording will help you track changes in how you hear the poem and develop ideas for how you would like to deliver the poem once fully memorized. It will also allow you to review the poem in situations where you cannot work with a book.
 There is no clear limit to the amount of information that a human brain can memorize.There are, however, limits to working memory and how much you can learn in a given amount of time.Give yourself specific goals so that you can work with a realistic amount of text each week. These goals will also help you track your progress.


Divide a long poem into sections. You will not be able to work on the full text each time that you look at it. If the author included divisions, use them to establish the amount of the poem you will work with each day or week.
An individual’s ability to memorize, like physical exercises, gets stronger with practice. If you do not feel like you are making strong progress, be patient. If you work at memorizing the poem consistently, you will be able to learn more lines at a quicker pace as you progress.