 You should always do a trial run with the medication before you actually need to sedate your cat. This ensures that she responds well to it; otherwise, your pet may have a bad reaction in an already stressful situation. In general, you should give yourself at least a week of wiggle room, so you can revisit your vet and discuss other options if your first choice medication is ineffective.


Wait for a time when both you and your cat are calm and relaxed.
After giving her the medication, observe her for 12 hours to gauge her reaction to it.
The cat should be relaxed and calm, but not woozy or unconscious.If she appears disoriented or panicked, do not use that medication again.
 Make sure you're within the time frame for sedation you discussed with your vet. Give the medication time to kick in before the stressful event. Both you and the cat should be as relaxed as possible.


Wrap the cat in a small blanket, pillowcase, or towel with only her head exposed.
Hold her on the floor straddled between your legs or on your lap, or have someone hold the cat for you.
 These powerful medications can prove harmful if used inaccurately.


Put your thumb on one side of the cat's mouth, and your forefinger on the
Apply gentle pressure until your cat opens her mouth.
With your free hand, press gently down on the lower jaw to further open the mouth.
Pop in the pill or squeeze liquid medication into the inside of the mouth on the side of 1 cheek.
 Lift her face so her nose points upward, and gently rub her throat to encourage her to swallow. You might also blow gently in her face, which make her gulp or swallow. Stay in this position for a few seconds before removing the coverings and releasing the cat.


If you see the cat licking her nose, that’s a sign she’s probably swallowed the medicine.
Give your cat a lot of praise for her good behavior, and comfort her if she's upset about what just happened.
 It may help to wrap your cat snugly in a towel while administering the sedative. When she's swaddled like a baby, she won't be able to struggle as much and get away.


You can buy "pill guns" that let you drop the pill toward the back of the cat's mouth, raising the odds of her swallowing it.
Try wrapping the pill in a little bit of cheese or other treat your cat enjoys to sneak it to her.
Ask the veterinarian for liquid medication if you have trouble administering pills.
Ask the vet before trying to mix liquid sedative into the cat's wet food. You want to make sure it won't render the drug ineffective.
 Your veterinarian will let you know how long your specific medication and dosage should take to kick in, and how long it should be effective. In general, though, you're looking for your cat to become groggy and tired, but not disoriented and confused. The cat should be restful, but not lose consciousness suddenly. Some cats fall asleep entirely, while others stay awake, but quiet and calm.


Your cat may be back to normal after just a few hours, or she may seem drowsy for the next couple days.If, after a couple days, she’s still not back to normal, contact your veterinarian.

