 The app described in this section can create a mobile hotspot for your, but its functionality is limited and the speed is slow. However, it has the very important benefit of being able to broadcast a wireless network from the same wireless adapter that you use to connect to the internet. This connection will be very slow.
 Connectify is a paid program with a free version that allows you to create basic wireless hotspots. You can download Connectify from connectify.me.
 Double-click the downloaded program to run it, and confirm when Windows prompts you to proceed. Decline any offers to upgrade to the Pro version.
 Your computer will need to be rebooted in order for Connectify to finish installing it's virtual Wi-Fi adapter. You can reboot your computer from the Start menu or screen.
 Proceed through the prompts to continue using the free "Lite" version. This is all you need to create a virtual wireless network.
 Depending on your firewall settings, you may be prompted by Windows Firewall to allow Connectify through on your current network. Make sure to allow it, or the new wireless hotspot won't work.
 Connectify will create a new wireless hotspot and share your computer's internet connection.
 Choose this adapter from the "Internet to Share" menu.


You can use Connectify to create a wireless hotspot with the same adapter you're using to connect to the internet. The connection speed will be much lower than your computer's current connection.
For best results, you'll want to share a wired Ethernet connection with your new wireless hotspot. This will result in the best speeds.
 The free version of Connectify requires starting the network name with "Connectify-". Make sure to not include any personal information, as this network name will be public.
 This will prevent unauthorized users from accessing your internet connection. A password is always recommended, even if you're at home.
 Your new wireless network will begin broadcasting. You'll be able to see it on your mobile device's list of available wireless networks.
 You'll be able to see the "Connectify-Name" network on your mobile device's wireless network list. Tap it and enter the password you created when prompted.

