 A few weeks before the surgery, get your home ready.


Make sure that all the items you need on a regular basis are at hip level.
This way, you don't have to twist your pelvic muscles or strain other sore parts of your body.
Rearrange your closet so that items such as socks or underwear are near hip level, so you won’t have any trouble reaching down for those items.
Make sure you have a sleeping space in the downstairs of your home available for at least a couple of weeks after surgery, because stairs will be hard to handle.
Make sure you have a comfortable bed that makes it easy for you to lie down and get up with minimal support.
Get a chair with appropriate support, such as sturdy arms, to support yourself when you are getting up and sitting down.
 After your surgery, you may require a walker to help you with your routine activities.


Make sure that you arrange your house to enable unfettered movement.
Ensure that all objects are placed out of the way to help you move around easily.
 If your bathroom doesn't have any handle bars, now is the time to install them so you won’t have problems steadying yourself in the bathroom.


Arrange aids to help you bathe, including a chair and low level shelves to store your soaps and shampoos.
 Run errands to stock your house with the things you will need after your surgery.


Stock up on easy-to-prepare meals like frozen or canned food items.
Make sure that you have all the necessary items you need, like water, milk, snacks, juice, and other food items.
Don’t forget to stock up on items such as toilet paper, shampoo, soap, and other products that you use on a regular basis.
 Ask for a friend or a family member help you with grocery shopping, bill payments, and other necessary chores.


If that isn't possible, you could look into paying for bills online.
If you have a friend or family member who is able, have them cook delicious but healthy meals for you when they can.
 Your doctor may advise you to stop taking NSAIDs or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs a few weeks before surgery.


The reason for that is because NSAIDs are blood thinners and may increase blood loss during surgery.
Some medications taken for rheumatoid arthritis, such as humira, enbrel, methotrexate, and plaquinil, could impair your immune system, so it is best to abstain from using these if possible.
Also, avoid anticoagulants such as heparin and plavix, because these thin your blood and can increase blood loss when you undergo surgery.
 Your personal and business life is going to be affected by your hip replacement surgery, because you will need to take some time off to recover.


Once you learn how long it will take you to return to work, you need to plan your work schedule in such a way that the impact on your work will be reduced.
Try asking your partners or colleagues to help with your work until you can return.
 Talk to your doctor about the diet you should follow to make your surgery and recovery go smoothly.


Eat a balanced diet that gives you the energy necessary to recover.
Your doctors may suggest that you increase your intake of protein to speed up bone and muscle recovery.
Here are some suggestions to help you plan your diet:
Increase your protein intake by eating foods such as milk, eggs, fish, peanut butter, nuts, and beans.
Eat foods high in calcium to strengthen your bones, such as milk, cheese, yogurt and canned salmon.

