 Most vodka aficionados believe that drinking vodka in its pure form is the proper way to enjoy this beverage.








Vodka is commonly made by fermenting either grains or vegetables.Grain-based vodka tends to taste smooth, even fruity while vegetable-based vodka can taste harsh or medicinal.According to some vodka enthusiasts, a good vodka will taste creamy and smooth. It will smell grainy and have a thick texture when frozen. A bad vodka will be harsh, bitter tasting, watery, and smell like medicine. If vodka burns your palate, it is most likely lower quality.If you have trouble picking a vodka, opt for a popular brand. Most people prefer the taste of Grey Goose, Absolut, Smirnoff, Ketel One, or Stolichnaya.If pure vodka is too aggressive a taste for you, opt for a flavored vodka like green apple or vanilla. The added sugar content may make the drink more palatable.;
, This isn't wine! You want this beverage as cold as possible.








Don't worry about your vodka freezing solid. Alcohol has a much lower freezing point than water and will remain unfrozen in a standard freezer.
 Only fill it enough for a few sips. Remember, this isn't a cocktail; plain vodka will make you intoxicated more quickly.









Small tumblers are customary for clear vodkas. Fill the tumbler to between 3-5 millimeters below the rim.Shot glasses are acceptable substitutes for tumblers.
 Focus on savoring the taste rather than getting drunk.









Smell the vodka as you swirl it in your glass. Take a small sip and let the flavor rest on your palate for a few seconds. Exhale through your nose to fully appreciate its grainy aroma. Now swallow it and savor the aftertaste.Vodka was originally created to be a food spirit, meant to be imbibed gradually like wine., This will help counter the taste and balance the potency of plain vodka.


Russian drinkers refer to appetizers as "zakuski" and it is considered traditional to snack between each sip.Common zakuski include quiche, smoked fish, spicy sausage, olives, and cucumbers.

