 There are ways of cheating the system so that you don't need to finish the campaign. These you can find if you search the net.;
, So make sure you have at least 1 wingman when you start your game, more ideally is having 3 guys to help you battle the undead.
 Go to the wall near you and buy a Kar98. Although it's a bolt-action rifle it does a whole lot more damage than the M1 Carbine.
 If you have 3 buddies playing with you there will be 1 spare window, so give the best player 2 windows to watch.
 Then head to the door at the back of the room and press E. Make sure the guy with the most amount of cash does this, as it is quite pricey.
 This guy will then continue to open up the box (costing him every time) and try to get what's called a "Ray Gun". If a gun that is better than your current 2 guns pops up, grab it! But make sure you have your worst gun equipped when you do this, because whatever gun you have have equipped will be replaced with the one hovering over the box. REMEMBER: There are other guns in that room that you can buy, such as the Thompson sub-machine gun, which are also pretty darn good against Nazis. So if you are still using a Kar98 or a carbine, trash it and get your hands on that Tommy gun!

,, DO NOT, I repeat DO NOT head up the other stairwell in the 1st room you were in! You will see why in a moment.
 As you leave the stairs and turn into the room, you will see a doorway across from you, head into that room. Now all you have to do is cover 1 measly little window and a doorway (if you opened up the other stairwell you would be watching the stairwell as well)! Now your main aim is going to be staying alive in this room as long as possible. The doorway creates a funnel and all you need to do is keep up the fire! Bearing in mind that there is also a pump action shotgun on this floor and a BAR, both of which are enormously effective against the enemy!

, They can head downstairs in between rounds and try their luck at the box. But be very careful, as those zombies are sneaky mindless buggers and when the next round begins they will be streaming through the doors, windows and tunnels and might catch you out in the open.

