 Practice is very important in order to get into this career! You don't have to be in a billion plays, but maybe one or two. Something helpful to do is to read lines out of a movie! For example, pretend you are auditioning for the part of Mitchie on Camp Rock. Watch Camp Rock and then think about a part in the movie in which Mitchie acts really well and where she has more than one line. Repeat her lines the way she did it. Do this in front of a mirror so you can see your facial expressions - this really helps!;
, Make sure your family and your friends support you 100% on this. You're going to need a lot of support in order to get into this business. If your parents don't want you to do this, then sit down with them and tell them that this is your dream and they shouldn't stop you from achieving your dream. Get up and show them how good you act and/or sing. Make sure you have a lot of confidence, too!

, Do you get enough practice? Good! Now it's time to find auditions and maybe even an agent. You don't have to have an agent, but they are really helpful when it comes to finding auditions. Google "Disney Channel auditions" and see what comes up. Look at what you need to do in order to get into the audition. You will probably need a resume or portfolio and an 8x10 photo of yourself. Then send it to the company and see if you can get an audition. Try to go for local auditions. Some auditions move around to different states and countries, but most of them are in certain states. Always look for local auditions first, before you fly a couple of states over!

, You don't have to look perfect and be extremely attractive. Some roles in movies require you to look a certain way. But the only time you should change your look is if you really want to get that role. You don't have to look perfect, but you do have to look presentable. Wear clean clothes and take care of yourself. You don't need to look like a replica of Jessica Alba or Brad Pitt.
 Keep auditioning for any show or movie that you are interested in. They're not just gonna come and find you. You have to have a passion for acting/singing. If you want to do this just for fame, chances are you're not going to get into the business.
 Having faith in yourself is the major key to becoming a successful singer, actor or anything else in life.

