 Go up to a group of people and start a conversation. Try not to be self-conscious; stand up straight, speak clearly, and introduce yourself. Let your friend introduce himself or herself, too.You could try saying something like, “What did you guys order? We’re still deciding!”
Or, “How do you guys know the host? We were in her sorority in college!”

, Misunderstandings are common, especially with people you’ve just met, so make it clear that you are your friend aren’t together. If it’s easier, you can even mention that you’re taken by someone else.


For example, if someone asks if you’re dating, you could say, “Well, I’m taken by someone else, but my friend here is still single!”
Or, you could slyly slip your significant other into the conversation: “My boyfriend doesn’t like this bar, but Joe here knows that they have the best craft beer!”

, When you’re talking to the person you want your friend to meet, steer the conversation in a direction where you know your friend can contribute. Talk to the person for a few minutes to get a sense of what they’re like. Do you think your friend would like them? Do they have a lot to talk about?


For example, if the person you're talking to loves water sports, you could say something like, "Oh, no way! My friend Mary loves to water ski."
You could also say something like, "Oh, you're a Red Sox fan? So is Sue! We just went to a game the other weekend."

, If they don’t have a lot to talk about, or if you get a weird vibe from the person, take your friend to use the restroom or to get another drink. There’s no point in introducing them if you don’t think they would get along.
 Draw your friend and the person closer together in conversation. If you’ve steered the conversation towards travel, ask the person about where he’s travelled and then mention your friend’s recent travels.


Make the conversation about your friend, not you. You should be able to fade into the background of the conversation and let them keep talking.You should think of a couple really funny stories beforehand that paint your friend in a good light. If the conversation becomes relevant, bring these stories up to talk up your friend.