 Just like the heart-shaped copper wire, this homopolar motor uses a simple AA battery sitting atop a neodymium magnet in a vertical position with its positive pole oriented above the negative pole. Loop some copper wire around the magnet. You need not make the whole loop touch the base; an ovular loop which touches the battery at just two points is as acceptable as a circular loop which grips the whole magnet.
 Once the loop around the base is complete, bend the wire up and away from the loop around the magnet. The corkscrew’s diameter should be just a few millimeters wider than that of the battery. Stop the corkscrew about halfway up the length of the battery.
 At a point about three millimeters above the highest point on the battery, press the wire inwards at a ninety degree angle toward the center of the positive pole. Once the wire is over the positive pole’s central divot, bend it down so that it touches the divot, then races back up and away from the divot in a hairpin turn.
 Begin by turning the wire, now pointing straight up, in a ninety degree bend about one and a half inches above the positive pole of the battery. Approximately one centimeter along this length, pull the wire into a hairpin turn, angling it back toward the ninety degree turn you just made.
 This will be the dancer’s head. Once on the other side of the dancer’s “neck,” bring the wire back down on the other side of the dancer, mirroring the bends you just made. You should end up with a “T” shape with a circle above the central junction. You cannot end where you began, though (touching the central divot on the positive pole of the battery), and so will need to clip the wire at a point about half a centimeter above the positive pole of the battery.


It may help to use a template or outline you’ve drawn or printed from the internet when shaping the wire into the ballerina form. You can print the ballerina outline or template, then lay the wire over it, bending along the outline to get the desired shape.

