 Keep your feet a little more than shoulder width apart. Your fists should be above your eyes and in front of your face. If your opponent throws a cross punch, move your hands over your ears and allow your elbows to shield your face.
 A kick to the front or back of a knee or a calf may disable your opponent, giving you time to escape. Always aim for the abdominal area or face.
 If he falls, seize the chance to keep him there until he surrenders or becomes too weak to continue fighting. Hold him down for as long as you can. Hit him if necessary to keep him down.
 Although this may seem to be ineffective, it wears your opponent down. This gives you the chance to run or even fight back. Don't hesitate to frequently block or use this method the entire time.
 Opening your mouth will provide an open area for a punch to the jaw. This could result in a knockout or even a broken jaw. Ignore your enemy's taunts, and seize the chance to strike his jaw if he continues talking.
 If you're a female, tugging at your enemy's hair will give you the appearance of a sissy unless she does it first. However, do not hesitate to use this method if it gives you an advantage.
 Although it is underestimated, it is an excellent move to win fights. Do not hesitate to use your feet if the chance arises. However, beware of your enemy attempting to grab your leg or foot.
 Understand that your focus is to escape, not necessarily win the fight. The chances of beating a large group without help is low. Avoid showing your opponents that you are angry. When you fight, use your anger as energy against your enemies.


Do not hesitate to call for help if the need arises. Although your reputation as a tough person may fall, bringing harm to your social status is better than losing your life.
Beware of pride. You may convince yourself that you can fight a large group, but be realistic.
 Punch him in the side of his head. You could also push his head down and find enough strength and stability to swing him to the ground.
 Once he falls to the ground, pin him down until he surrenders. Allowing him to get up without surrendering may result in him throwing punches.
 Block your opponent's punches as best as you can. If his punches are weak enough for you to handle, attempt to hit him back.

