 They need everything we do: Social, environment, bathroom, et cetera. If you don't have enough money, just type "motherlode" if you want 50 000 simoleons or "kaching" if you want 1 000 in the cheat box (you can pull up the cheat box by holding Ctrl+Shift+C).;
, To increase a Sim's Hygiene, buy a shower or bathtub and direct the Sim to bathe or shower. If the Hygiene meter gets too low, the Sim will stink, which is represented by green clouds by your Sims' armpits.
Bladder is how much a Sim needs to use the bathroom. To increase Bladder, buy a toilet and direct the Sim to use it. Sloppy male Sims can "go" in the plants. If you ignore the Bladder meter, the Sim will have an accident on the floor, which needs to be cleaned up, makes the Hygiene meter low, and makes the Sim's accident be gossiped about.
Hunger is how long it has been since the Sim has last eaten. To satisfy hunger, go to the fridge and cook or just grab a snack. If you cannot get food from the fridge, try ordering groceries. Be careful- if the Sim tries to cook and isn't very good at it, the Sim could start a fire. If the Hunger meter is too low, the Sim will die of Hunger.
Environment is how nice the Sim's surroundings are. Buy paintings or sculptures to increase your Sim's Environment meter. If your Sim's Environment meter is low, he or she will refuse to do things and wave his or her arms around. This is the only want that Children do not have.
Comfort is, obviously, how comfortable your Sim is. Comfort can be increased by sitting in a chair or sleeping in a bed. The more expensive the item was, the more Comfort your Sim gets from it. If Comfort is low, the sim will drop actions from its queue.
Fun is how bored a Sim is or is not. To increase Fun, have the Sim play a video game or play Red Hands with another sim. If the Fun meter is low, the same things will happen as with the Environmental meter.
Energy can be increased by sleeping in bed or napping on the couch. If energy is low, your sim will pass out on the floor. Coffee and espresso can also improve a Sim's Energy meter.
Social is just what it sounds- having social interaction with other Sims. To improve Social, you can talk to another Sim on the phone, do any interaction with a Sim in person, or Chat on the computer. If the Social meter gets too low, a Sim in a rabbit costume- called the Social Bunny- will appear and talk to your Sim until its Social meter is at least halfway.

