 Examples are cars, flags, plastic bags, the cart you plan to use, young children, dogs, and anything else that might one day cross his path. Being traffic-wise is even more important to a driving horse, as places to drive off-road are rare.;
, He will need to get used to having something placed on his back. Be sure to let straps gently touch his legs and get him used to having his tail handled. Treats may be a good reward.
 Even if the horse is broke to ride you should introduce the bridle gently as he will not be used to blinders (solid pieces of leather on a harness bridle that keep the horse from seeing the cart behind him). Most people start with either a snaffle or a solid rubber bit. You may have to spend a while before the horse becomes comfortable with the bit and the blinders.
 If you have done your homework well, your horse should accept the harness with little trouble.
 He should fully understand these commands. If he doesn't, you can grab a lunge whip and as you go from walk to trot drag the whip behind them. If they don't respond to that, you can lightly tap them on the rump with the whip. Do not hit the horse at any time. When you are showing your horse in a show-driving competition, you will have to use a whip as a traditional item. If your horse doesn't stand still, it may be a good time to take the harness off and lunge them in a roundpen while using voice commands as they transition from walk to trot, trot to walk, stopping, etc. Once your horse understands this, then you will be able to move to ground driving.
 During ground driving, you walk behind the horse and teach him to respond to your (gentle) tugs on the reins and voice commands. To do this, have him walk toward a fence, as he prepares to stop, gently pull on both reins and tell him "whoa", or gently pull on one rein to encourage him to turn. Most horses get the message fairly quickly.
 He should be especially well-trained to stop at "whoa" and to stand perfectly still at "stand". Your horse shouldn't turn his head as he is turning, even though this is an indication that he's paying attention to you rather than what's going on outside of his periphery. Blinders can help him focus on looking straight ahead when performing this step.
 Pull it around him so that he can hear the noise it makes and see it moving. Let him smell of it and become completely familiar with it. As your are ground driving, ask someone to pull the cart between you and your horse on both sides and in front of your horse. Put the horse between the shafts (but do not hitch) and lead the horse while one or two helpers walk the cart to keep pace with the horse. You might even let him watch another horse pulling a cart.
 One person will need to hold the horse and comfort him (as well as have control of his head) while you hitch him up. Then lead him while he has the cart hitched to him. Do not get into the cart until you can walk him around without him getting panicky about a cart following so closely behind. Go through your commands with your horse before you feel absolutely certain your horse is ready to be truly driven, with you sitting in the cart has he pulls you and the cart along. You must be absolutely certain that your horse is ready; if you have any doubt, you may compromise the safety of both you and your horse.
 Once you have repeated the previous lesson as many times as necessary, you can step into the cart. Be sure you are wearing a helmet, and always have a friend nearby in case assistance is needed. First time must be slow, at walking pace, and preferably on a flat, level surface such as in a riding arena.
 Now, you can step it up to pleasure drives on back roads. Somewhere safe without much traffic is all you need.
 15-20 minutes of solid driving is about all a beginning young horse can handle per lesson. Be sure to reward lavishly, and of course, have fun!

