 Click this link in a Google Chrome browser window, then click the blue + FREE button to install Adblock Plus.


Adblock Plus accepts payments from companies to show some unobtrusive ads, although you can disable this option.The service is otherwise almost identical to the AdBlock extension described in the other section.
 Once Adblock Plus is installed, a new tab will open announcing this. Scroll down to view more options, and enable these extra protections if you want them:


Malware Blocking will block domains that are known sources of viruses or other malware attacks.
Remove Social Media Buttons will block buttons from Facebook, Twitter, etc. from appearing on other sites.
Disable Tracking will prevent websites you visit from tracking your browsing, which is usually done for the purpose of providing you with targeted ads.
 Click the Adblock Plus icon in the top right of your Google Chrome window. It looks like a red octagon with the letters "ABP" in the center. All the steps below can be completed in this menu.
 The first tab in the options menu is called "Filter lists," and lets you choose which lists of ads you wish to use to determine what gets blocked. By default, only "EasyList" is used, which should block most ads by itself. Here are some additional, commonly used options:


Uncheck "Allow some non-intrusive advertising" to disable small, text-only ads.
Check "Adblock Warning Removal List" to disable banners and messages requesting that you turn off Adblock.
Click "Add Filter Subscription," select a non-English language from the list, then click "Add" to disable ads in that language.
 If an ad manages to get through a filter, or if a large page element you don't care about is slowing down your browsing, you can block that specific ad:


Right click the ad, then click "Block Element." Alternatively, click the Adblock Plus icon in the top right, click "Block element," then click the ad.
Do not edit the filter that pops up without reading the instructions in the section below, or the official tutorial.
Click "Add," or press enter on your keyboard, to block the ad. If you made a mistake, click "Cancel" or press esc.

