 When your friend is feeling anxiety, you may want to move him or her to a quiet place. You want to reduce the stress of the situation and avoid causing any new stress. The goal is to help your friend by keeping the situation under control.If you are in a crowded place, help your friend find a quiet corner or part of the room. Do this discreetly so as not to draw attention to your friend, which may cause more anxiety.;
, Listening is one of the best things you can do for your friend during an anxiety attack. For someone with anxiety, having someone listen to your feelings can help you work through the anxiety. It also helps the feelings feel valid, which helps eliminate increased anxiety because a person might feel like they are being stupid or the feelings are wrong.Your friend may just need you to listen and try to understand his or her feelings during the panic attack. Just be a willing ear and listen to your friend.
For example, you may tell your friend, "I am here for you. I am here to listen to you without any judgment or pressure. If you need to talk through your feelings or express your anxieties, I am here to listen. I will give you the support and encouragement you need."

, Even if you are unsure what you should do, being with your friend can provide a tremendous help and comfort. Often, there will be nothing you can do to help your friend. The anxiety will have to run its course or work itself out. Being there helps your friend not feel so alone.You can ask your friend, “Is there anything I can do?” If your friend’s answer is no, stay with your friend and be there for him or her.
 If your friend is having an anxiety attack, you should ask if your friend takes anxiety medicine to treat the anxiety. You may already know he or she takes the medicine. Gently remind your friend to take the medicine if he or she hasn’t yet.Think about the way you phrase the question or reminder. You may ask, “Do you have any medication you take when you feel this way?” If the answer is yes or you know your friend takes anxiety medicine, ask, “Would you like me to get your anxiety medication?” or “Do you have your medication with you?”

, Breathing exercises are one of the best anxiety and panic relievers. Sometimes anxiety or panic can cause shortness of breath. Doing breathing exercises with your friend can help your friend gain control of his or her breath, focus on something, and calm down.Try getting your friend to inhale through the mouth and exhale through the mouth. You can try counting the breaths. Inhale for a count of four, hold for a count of four, then exhale for a count of four. Repeat five to 10 times.
 Anxiety attacks may end within a few minutes, or the person may feel the affects of the anxiety attack for days. You may not be able to stay with the person through the entire attack or the duration of the anxiety. Instead, you should help get them to a calmer mental state so the person can go about his or her day or go home.Stay with the person until his or her breathing is under control. You can explain how to do a simple breathing exercise by saying something like, "Take a deep breath in through your nose while I count to four. Then, hold the breath for a few seconds and exhale slowly." Continue doing breathing exercises with this person until he or she has stopped hyperventilating.
If your friend has taken anti-anxiety medication to help, remain with him or her until the medicine starts working.
Keep talking to your friend to gauge his or her words. Though your friend may not be happy or fine, you can stick around until the panic, intense fear, or anxiety has subsided. Listen for a more normal speech speed or look for a reduced amount of shaking.

