 Provide the student with any accommodation that helps them learn, but don’t separate them from the rest of the class. They should feel like one of the group, so treat them equally to your other students. For example, don’t repeatedly ask them if they need assistance in front of the other students., You can learn a lot about how the student prefers to learn by talking to those who have experience. The more information you have about your student, the easier it will be to help them be successful.Ask questions about the classroom climate, accommodations that have worked in the past, and the student’s learning style.
If the student has worked with any specialists, contact them as well.
 The student will benefit from having someone that they can talk to throughout the day. Their partner can also help reinforce the everyday language and concepts that the student may struggle with because of limited hearing., It's best for the student to be comfortable communicating with others and sharing ideas. Speaking in class helps all students learn better, and it prepares them for their post-school lives.

Assign presentations to the entire class, including the student who is deaf or hard of hearing.
Include group assignments and partner work that requires working with others to complete the assignment.
Some students may not be able to speak with a hearing class, but they can communicate through an interpreter who is able to translate aloud to the class what the student is signing.
If the student is giving a formal presentation through an interpreter, make sure that the student has time to work with their interpreter in advance so that the interpreter understands the presentation material.
 Deaf and hard of hearing students will need assistance and mental breaks from the stresses of constantly deciphering language, though they may not always request help. To make sure that your student has opportunities for your help, designate regular check-in times., Your deaf or hard of hearing student will need to watch either you, the interpreter, or both of you. If you begin speaking while they are reading, then the student will be left out of instruction. Instead, work out a system with your student so that they can let you know when they are finished reading and are ready to continue.The signal to continue the lesson can be as simple as the student looking up at you.
If you are concerned about the student taking more time to read than the rest of the class, plan differentiated questions for the students to begin working on in their notebooks so that class time is not wasted. Each student can begin work as their own pace. Later, have all of the students review their answers and fill in gaps with a partner.

