 If you don’t want to spend the time or effort to put together first aid kit, you can always buy one ready-made. More and more pet or cat-specific first aid kits are on the market these days. Start at your local pet supply store.


Many ready-made first aid kits are designed for either cats or dogs. These have basic supplies like gauze, water bottles, food, alcohol pads, and antibiotic ointment. Expect to pay $25 or more for one.
There are also cat-specific first aid and emergency evacuation kits. These are more expensive, some over $150, and can have medical items and food and water supplies for several days.
The Ready America “Grab n’ Go” 2-person emergency cat set is designed to keep you and your pet safe and fed for up to 3 days in an emergency. It contains food, water pouches, light sticks, a separate first aid kit, matches, pet collar, alcohol pads, and more., You will be able to find many of the same premade kits by shopping online. Try sites like Amazon.com or websites that cater only to pets, like Petsupplies.com and Petsmart.com. There you can compare prices and look for a kit that has everything you want.


Prices online will range from about $20 to over $50, depending on the model and its contents.
Keep in mind that you may end paying more online with added shipping costs, even if you are buying from a surplus merchandise site like Overstock.com.
 While a pet first aid kit is not a high-ticket purchase, you can still get the best bang for your money. Read reviews online, ask questions at your local pet store, and be sure to know what is inside each kit.


Most kits have the same generic items that are found in any first aid kit, like bandages, adhesive tape, cotton balls, and antiseptics.
The biggest difference between kits will be the make and pet-specific items. Some kits come with carrying cases, for instance. Will you need the kit on the go? Do you need certain pet items like a tick-remover or muzzle?
Don’t forget to take a look at canine first aid kits, as well. While made for dogs, they have most of the same items and are also a bit more common. For example, the Outdoor Safety Pro Model 2000 is a high-quality canine first aid kit. It contains 70 pieces and can handle anything from skunk spray and small wounds to aid for major injuries.