 There are a variety of exercises that can be used in the treatment of TMJ problems. The main aim of these exercises is to make use of your jaw muscles and to increase the jaw's mobility without fear of pain.Most exercises are focused on relaxing the muscles of your neck, your shoulders, and your jaw. Tension in any of these can worsen TMJ pain.
If your dentist identifies "trigger points" for your TMJ pain (trigger points are areas of muscle that are prone to causing you pain), she may recommend that you see a massage therapist for help in loosening these muscles.;
, Also, eating softer foods can help, as this decreases the stress and strain of chewing.


Pencil biting, pipe smoking and other repetitive movements and positions (such as with playing certain instruments like the violin or viola) are also thought to be associated with TMJ.
Opt for foods such as oatmeal, eggs, mashed potatoes, soups, and other options that are gentle on your jaw in order to decrease the pain.
 TMJ problems can be worsened by tense neck and shoulder muscles, which happens frequently to those who are poised over a computer keyboard all day.


If at all possible, break up your workday by scheduling in a walk or other activity every couple of hours. This will give your neck and shoulder muscles a chance to relax, and may help to ease the discomfort in your TMJ.
In addition, pay attention to sleeping positions. Sleeping on your side or stomach may put pressure on your jaw, exacerbating TMJ pain. Try to sleep on your back instead, and don't elevate your head too much., Applying heat can increase the blood flow to your jaw muscles and help to relax them. Start by taking a warm, moist towel and place it on the side of your jaw. Apply the towel for five minutes or until you feel increased comfort.You can apply this warm, moist towel four to five times in a day.
This procedure can help relieve discomfort and increase jaw flexibility.
 Use a cold pack, take a plastic bag and fill it with ice cubes, or simply keep a towel in your freezer and apply it on your jaw and face. Apply it for 10 minutes each time, four to five times per day.


Always wrap cold packs in a towel before applying them to your skin. Putting ice or a cold pack directly on your skin can cause frostbite.
 Give yourself a gentle massage with your fingertips to relax your jaw muscles and to provide relief from muscle tightness. Take two fingers and apply firm pressure with your fingertips over your jaw area. Move your fingertips over the jaw areas in perpendicular and small sweeping motions.You can do this gentle massage for one to two minutes initially, and then three to five minutes on each side of your jaw.
Always be gentle to avoid further problems and pain.
 Exercise produces endorphins, which are natural pain-killing chemicals in the brain. As a result, maintaining a healthy exercise regime can help to combat the pain in your jaw. A general guideline to follow is to do moderate-intensity aerobic exercise for 30 minutes at least five times per week, or 150 minutes total. Ideally, you want to choose sports that elevate your heart rate such as swimming, biking, speed walking, or running.


In addition to aerobic exercise, try to incorporate two to three days of strength training, which will build muscle and improve bone density.

