 Another great way to fill a room with the aroma of an essential oil is by burning a candle that contains the oil you're after. You can purchase essential oil candles of various sizes and prices online, at many farmer's markets, or in a home decor store in your area.


Even better, you can also easily make your own essential oil candles with supplies that are readily available at craft stores and online.
You can even purchase candles that are marketed specifically for aromatherapy. While these will often contain a higher concentration of essential oils, they will also usually be more expensive, and hover around $20 each.
 This quick and easy way to receive the calming therapeutic benefits of the scent of an essential oil requires no equipment beyond the oil itself. Drop one or two drops in your hands and rub them together. Warmth generated by the friction will help disperse the oil’s aroma.Alternatively, place a single drop on a cotton ball or paper towel and hold it beneath your nose for a brief period of time. This will prevent your hands from smelling like the oil for a while.
 Unscented skin care products are perfect candidates for an addition of essential oils. Whatever you use, simply add two drops to the bottle and shake to mix. Unscented oil made from almond or jojoba is ideal.Aside from a drop or two on the palms, or in other localized uses, essential oil should usually not be applied directly to the skin unless it has been heavily diluted. Undiluted essential oils can cause skin irritation for some people., Massages that incorporate aromatherapy are said to be more effective in terms of pain relief and mental rejuvenation. Add a drop or two of essential oil to the bottle of massage oil to amplify the relaxation your next massage will provide.Though it is a matter of preference, many people find it especially relaxing to have their neck and/or feet massaged with essential oils.
 Aside from massages and baths, there are other relaxing activities you can try to increase the calming benefits of aromatherapy. For instance, try one of these aromatherapy techniques during your next yoga or meditation session. Other good options include reading or practicing deep-breathing techniques while doing aromatherapy.

