 It's a gray app that contains gears (⚙️) and is typically located on your home screen.

Make sure your device is connected to Wi-Fi or a mobile network and "Airplane Mode" is disabled. Siri requires Internet access to function.;
, It's in the same section as the "General" and "Battery" menus., It will turn green.

Turn on Access When Locked to use Siri when your phone is in locked mode.
Turn on Allow "Hey Siri" to access Siri by simply speaking "Hey Siri" into your device.
 It's in the last section of the menu., Do so by tapping the language you prefer to speak., It's in the upper-left corner of the screen., It's in the last section of the menu., Doing so tells Siri what information belongs to you.

Siri uses contact information to call you by name and to execute commands like sending emails.
If you haven't created a contact card for yourself, open the Contacts app from the home screen, tap +, enter your information, and tap Done.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the screen., It's in the last section of the menu. Use this menu to tailor Siri's voice to your preference. Here you can choose whether you want a male or female voice and what kind of accent you want Siri to have. The accent options are:

American
Australian
British

, It's in the upper-left corner of the screen. This returns you to the main Siri settings page., It's near the bottom of the screen. Choose when you would like Siri to "speak" in response to your commands:

Tap Always On if you always want Siri to deliver a spoken response.
Tap Control with Ring Switch if you only want Siri to speak when your phone isn't in silent or vibrate-only mode; this does not affect "Hey Siri," Bluetooth speakers, or CarPlay.
Tap Hands-Free Only if you want Siri to speak only when you use "Hey Siri" or when you're using Bluetooth speakers or CarPlay.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the screen., It's at the bottom of the screen., Do so by sliding the apps with which you want to use Siri to the "On" (green) position., Do so until you see "What can I help you with?" on your screen.

You can do this on your Lock screen if you turned on "Access on Lock Screen."
If you turned on "Hey Siri," simply say "Hey Siri" to activate Siri.
 Siri is now set up and ready to use on your iPhone or iPad.