 If you or your spouse (or both of you) are constantly distracted, you won’t feel like a priority in the other person’s life. Not making time for your spouse, whether it’s time to share a fun evening at the movies together or time for sexual intimacy, can lead to feelings of disconnection and frustration.Sexual intimacy is often the first thing to go when you’re busy. If you’re finding that you don’t have the type of sexual connection that you used to have, try scheduling time for sex. It might seem like that’s a sure-fire way to kill the romance, but studies suggest just the opposite. 80% of married couples schedule time for sex, and it can actually help give you something to look forward to., A ritual can be a shared experience between you and your spouse. This type of shared experience is very important, as it fosters the sense that you have an intimate, familiar relationship with this particular person.Rituals don’t have to be elaborate, but they should be reliable and allow you and your spouse to connect. Be intentional about these rituals, and hold them sacred. Don’t skip out on them unless it’s really an emergency. Remember, your marriage is an investment: you’ll get out what you put in.


Try giving your spouse a hug at the end of the workday and asking about his or her day. Convey something about how you value your spouse, such as “I really love it when you pick me up from work” or “It was so nice of you to grab dinner.”
Think about all the rituals you probably went through when you were first dating. You had to arrange on a time to see each other, plan an activity, prepare to see each other, and interact with each other in ways that might not be routine. See if you can bring some of that back into your daily interactions.
Start a “date night” tradition. This doesn’t have to be high-pressure. It’s just a time when you come together and spend time appreciating the other person.
 Finding something that you both enjoy doing together can give you a valuable way to spend time together and relax at the same time. Try activities that also have other benefits, like exercise, or activities which help you feel exciting and youthful, like gaming.
 Once a year or so, you should take some time to fall in love with your spouse all over again. Review how you've changed as people and where you're now wanting to go in your lives. Spend a few weeks acting like you're dating each other for the first time all over again. You'll be surprised how much it helps your marriage.


Of course, it doesn't have to happen during February. Do whatever works for you!

, Board games are seeing a comeback and they can be a great way to bond and have fun with your spouse. There are the classics of course (Scrabble, Monopoly, etc) but there are also some great newcomers. Try Ticket to Ride, Settlers of Catan, or Once Upon a Time.


You don't have to play just the two of you either. Get your friends together for a weekly or monthly game night!

, Make some mutual friends and then all get together for a game night, a dinner party, a movie, or other fun hang out. This will let you have fun together and feel social and renewed! You can also have separate hangout time with just your friends and (them with theirs).
 Read a book together, either just at the same time or literally from the same book. This can give you something to talk about and open up conversations that you may not have had otherwise. You can read books on current events, parenting strategy, history books, or even just an exciting fiction!


If you love TV or the movies, watch some of the other’s favorites. Go to see new movies or talk about what’s going on in your favorite show. You’ll have common ground to talk about something you’re passionate about.
 Whether it's taking a dance class together, learning how to play instruments, or learning to draw, this can give you not only a way to bond but a great creative outlet. Learning new skills such as these will make you proud of yourself and proud of each other.
 Travel together if you can. It doesn't even have to be out of the country; you'd be surprised what adventures you can find in your own backyard. Anything that gets you out of the house will do, really. This will create new experiences that you can share and bond over.
 Take turns cooking a nice dinner for each other. If you're both terrible cooks, take a cooking class together, or get some online help. This is a way for you to bond that also fits nicely into a hectic schedule (you have to eat, right?).

