 As a working parent, you may think you ought to be able to come home from a day at the office and still manage to prepare dinner, fold the laundry, help with homework, clean up a bit, have a bit of fun with the kids, get everyone off to bed in time, and look over a few work emails for tomorrow. Remember, however, that while you can be a super parent, you aren’t superhuman. Don’t expect or try to pull the entire weight of work and parenting alone.Assign defined chores and tasks to your kids. Let them set the table, take out the trash, tidy up their own rooms, and so on. Encourage a healthy amount of independence in your kids, and reward quality efforts while not expecting miracles.If you have a spouse or significant other who you feel isn’t shouldering a sufficient load, broach the subject tactfully but clearly: “I know you work really hard and I appreciate the things you do around here, but I’m really struggling to keep up with the house and kids. I’d like to set up a more organized system to help us all get things done more efficiently.”

, Shuttling one or more kids to multiple school-related and extracurricular activities can drain a lot of time and energy, especially after a long workday. You want to support your kids’ interests and encourage them to be active and involved, but you also need to accept the reality that there is only so much time in each day.Prioritize and place limits upon your kids’ after-school activities. Encourage them to focus on their true passions, and say “I’m sorry, but you have to choose one or the other” when necessary. Factor in their interest level and practical concerns like event schedules and travel times.
You might feel bad saying “no,” but remember that teaching your kids to prioritize their time and energy is a valuable life lesson.
 You are probably either a “morning person” or a “night owl” naturally, although as a parent you may need to be both. While it is essential that you take time to relax a little and get enough sleep, use times of relative household tranquility to also get work done with limited distractions.Unless you truly are a creature of the night who catches a second (or third) wind after a day on the job and an evening with the kids, your best bet is probably to go to bed a bit earlier at night and wake up earlier in the morning. Use the half or full hour you can scrape together to prepare for the day ahead and catch up on things left over from yesterday.
 When you’re a busy working parent, fight the urge to stockpile a large supply of time off “just in case.” Might you wish you had that time eventually? Maybe. Do you need a little breather here and there when managing a job and a family? Definitely.There is nothing wrong with using some of your time off to catch up on housework, of course. However, use as much of your time off as you can to relax a little and enjoy some time with your kids. When you’re on vacation, actually go on vacation.
Don’t feel guilty about taking a little vacation from parenting, either. Have you parents or a trusted friend watch the kids for a weekend.
 Priorities change when you become a parent, and so does the time you have available each day. Some people take that to mean that you have to choose between “work” or “family” as a working parent, while others believe there are ways to maintain an effective balance. Only you can determine what works best in your situation, but look into options for greater workplace flexibility as one possibility.A lot depends upon your field of employment, but many employers have become more amenable to alternatives to the “nine to five” arrangement. Talk to your employer about possibly working from home a day or two per week, or creating a more flexible weekly schedule.
If it is feasible for you and you determine that it is in your family’s best interest, consider reducing your hours or even seeking different employment. This can be a worrisome prospect, but taking risks and making compromises are also parts of parenting.

