 When you drop tune your guitar, your strings are going to lose tension. Lighter gauge strings lose tone and sound floppy, especially the lower notes. To preserve the tone of your guitar, get strings that range from .012 to .060.Some string brands, such as D'addario, make sets of strings specifically designed for Drop C tuning.
If you feel that .012 is too heavy for your top string, you can get a lighter string for the top string and stick with the heavier gauges for your lower strings. It's all about your personal preference. You may want to experiment a little to find the right feel and sound for you.
 When you tune your guitar to Drop C, your bridge may lose tension and tilt up or down. You also will want to raise your bridge if you're using thicker strings. This is fairly rare, but still a possibility.Most electric guitars have fixed bridges that aren't affected by detuning the strings. However, if your guitar has a Floyd Rose bridge, raise the bridge before you tune your guitar to Drop C.
You want your bridge to be parallel to the body of your guitar. If your bridge is tilted up, tighten the bridge springs until it is in the right position. If it's tilted downward, you'll need to loosen the springs some.
 Because you're using larger strings, they need more room to vibrate. Adjusting the guitar's truss rod creates more space between the strings and the fretboard so they have room to sound clearly and cleanly.Check the neck of your guitar after you've replaced the strings and detuned it to Drop C. If the neck has more (or less) curve in it than it used to, you'll want to adjust the truss rod.
All you need to adjust your truss rod is a basic allen wrench. Go slow and don't turn it too much – you don't want to damage the neck of your guitar.
 Your guitar's nut is located at the top of the fret board behind the first fret, and has slots to hold your strings. These slots are pre-cut to fit standard guitar strings. If you move to a thicker gauge of strings, you may need to make the slots a little wider so they can accommodate the strings.Go slow and file them a little bit at a time. You can use a set of files, or you can simply use sandpaper. Wrap the sandpaper under the guitar string and slide it up and down the slot until the string fits smoothly.
 Just like the nut, your bridge may have saddles to hold the strings in place at the bottom. If you filed the slots in your guitar's nut, you'll probably also need to file the saddles to accommodate the thicker strings.You can't use sandpaper to file the saddles like you did with the nut. You have to use actual files. Since saddles are made of brass, aluminum, or steel, sandpaper won't affect them.
If you don't have a set of files, you might want to take your guitar to a guitar repair shop to get this work done. You can also buy a set of files and do it yourself. You can find these at most guitar shops or online.
As with the nut, be careful and go slowly. Remember that once you've filed the saddles down, you can't put material back if you've filed too much.
 Action refers to the space between the strings and the fret board. If your strings are creating too much buzz, you may need to raise the action. Lower the action if you're having a harder time than usual pressing the strings down to play your guitar.








Typically you adjust your string action from the bridge, by raising or lowering your bridge. If you've already raised your bridge to accommodate your thicker strings, you should be good to go. Just strum a few chords and see how it sounds.
 Once you have everything else set up correctly, adjust your string length so that your strings will stay in tune all the way up and down the fret board. To check intonation, you must have your guitar tuned precisely.








Plug your guitar into an electronic tuner and fret your sixth string at the twelfth fret. If the tuner reads the tone as flat when you pluck it, you'll need to adjust the saddle closer to the neck. If it's sharp, you need to adjust it further from the neck.
Repeat the same action with each string until your guitar has perfect intonation.

