 This step is important so that Collage.com can save your progress! Recovering a collage that isn't tied to an email involves unnecessary steps.;
, Collage.com offers posters, canvases, cards, blankets, mugs and mousepads. Collage.com collages are free to create and share; so don't worry, there is no obligation to buy! Collage.com has over 100 shapes to choose from and even the ability to create a custom collage with your very own name! Make sure that the shape you would like to use is highlighted in blue. After you've selected your product type and shape, click continue.
 Collage.com has the ability to upload pictures from your computer, import pictures from your Facebook albums or even import pictures from your FRIENDS Facebook albums (how neat of a gift is that?!) Once you upload your pictures, they will show on the right hand side under, "Photos for this Project." You can also add images that have previously been uploaded by selecting them from, "Add Photos From Album." All of the photos listed under, "Photos for this Project" will be used in your collage. Push continue and.
 Collage.com instantly creates your photo collage! On the final page there are several customization abilities listed under “Collage Options.” You can change the background color, add a border around each image and change that borders color, add a title, change the collages orientation and shuffle the photo placement which arranges your photos in another random pattern. Some of your photos might not be the correct orientation, no worries! Simply click on a photo and you can remove that picture from the collage or rotate the image a quarter of a turn. You also have the ability to “Drag and Swap” images. Simply click and hold the image you want to move then drag it over the image you want to swap with. The image will turn blue – release your mouse button and your pictures will swap.
 Voila! You now have a beautiful custom photo collage and didn’t have to spend hours upon hours working on picture placement. You can either order a high quality print by clicking “Add to Cart” or share your collage via email or Facebook by clicking the “Share Now” button:

