 Start by reading over the warranty that already comes with the product, often for free. Most free warranties last for 12 months or one year. They usually cover normal wear and tear and the maintenance of the product based on the manufacturer’s guidelines. This could include cleaning and maintaining the product as well as replacing damaged parts.For example, a warranty for an electronic product, like a laptop or phone, should cover drops and spills. It should also cover the cost of replacing damaged parts.
A warranty for a new car should cover repairs for 12 months. The types of repairs covered will depend on the warranty and the condition of the car.
A warranty for a home appliance, like a refrigerator, should cover damages and repairs for up to 12 months.;
, In some instances, if you pay for a product with your credit card, you may already get a warranty for the product. This will depend on your credit card company and the type of credit card you have. If this is the case, you may not need an extended warranty.


Often if you pay for products with cash or debit, you will not get any other warranty offers for the product. In this case, it may be a good option to get an extended warranty.
 A good warranty will offer deductibles for repairs, making it cheaper for you when you need the product to be repaired. Depending on the warranty, you may be able to get a deductible on all your repairs or most of your repairs.If there is no deductible for repairs in your existing warranty, you may want to get an extended warranty to cover these. However, most trustworthy manufacturers offer deductibles for repairs.
 Identify any restrictions or limits on the warranty that may be an issue for you. For example, if you plan to own the product for many years and are worried about repairs being covered, the 12 month coverage period of the existing warranty may not be enough for what you need. But if you are planning to trade in or sell the product within the warranty time, you may not go for an extended warranty.You should also find out if the warranty is transferable if you sell the product to someone else. Most manufacturers allow this as long as the product is sold within the coverage time of the warranty.
 An extended warranty is often a good idea if you feel the product may not be reliable and are worried about paying more than you should for repairs or damages after the existing warranty is over. Research the reliability of the product to determine if it will last and work well beyond the coverage time of the existing warranty. If not, you may want to consider an extended warranty.Do research online by looking at reviews of the product. Note if reviewers are recommending on investing in the extended warranty or if they feel comfortable just having the existing warranty.
Go over the specs of the product and note the quality of the parts. If the product does not look sturdy or trustworthy, you may invest in an extended warranty.
 You should also factor in the cost of the product and the cost of the extended warranty. If the warranty is more than 20 percent of the product’s price, it may cost too much and not be worth getting. Instead you may actually save money by paying for repairs and damages out of pocket, if they are ever needed.Avoid extended warranties that are close to half the cost of the product’s retail price. Most repairs and damages for products will be cheaper than half the cost of the product.
 You should also consider if the warranty is worth investing in based on the likelihood that the product will break down. Consider how reliable the product is and then calculate the most reasonable price for an extended warranty based on the failure rate of the product.For example, let's say you buy a $1,000 TV that has a 4 in 100 rate of failure. If you multiple the rate times the price (.04 x $1,000), you would get $40, which means the most you should pay for an extended warranty for the TV is $40.
 Expensive consumer products bought new, like refrigerators, washing machines, televisions, and stereos, are often reliable and do not usually break down. If they do break down, it is often during the coverage period of the existing warranty.Try not to let your emotions dictate the purchase of an extended warranty. Often people buy extended warranties because they are worried the product will fail and end up feeling guilty for not getting more warranty coverage. This may not be a smart move if the product is expensive and known to be reliable.
 If you are buying a used product, such as a used car, you may invest in an extended warranty. There is an increased risk when buying a used car, so the piece of mind and coverage of an extended warranty may be worth it for you.If you do decide to get the extended warranty for a used car, always make sure it is affordable and that it will cover you for a long period of time, such as five to seven years. This way, any damages or repairs you need are covered during this time.
 Getting an extended warranty for the purchase of a home may be a good idea, especially if the home is older and has dated appliances. You may opt for a lifetime warranty for specific things in the home, such as windows or appliances, particularly if you know you are going to need to replace them in the near future.Make sure the warranty can be used more than once to address any damages or repairs. This way, you won’t have to pay for issues out of pocket, especially if they are recurring, like faulty appliances or damaged windows.
If you do not think the extended warranty for your home is worth the investment, or is too expensive for you, you may opt for having a savings account for home repairs instead to cover these costs.
 Most retailers will offer extended warranties right as you are buying the product and may pressure you to decide whether to get one in the moment. Take a step back and delay the decision until you can think about it. Most retailers will actually allow you to add an extended warranty to a product before your existing warranty expires or within a certain time frame. Find out what the window of time for getting an extended warranty is and think on it before you buy it.For example, some car sellers will allow you to add an extended warranty to the car up to right before your existing warranty expires or you hit a certain number of miles.
Some electronics sellers allow you to add an extended warranty within 30 days to a year of buying an electronic device.

