 Intervention becomes more difficult as the addiction worsens. Do not put off helping your loved one. Make a well developed plan to intervene and carry it out as soon as feasible. The longer you wait the more harm may come to your loved one, depending on his specific circumstances and addiction severity.


If the situation becomes life threatening, you may be able to admit the person to a psychiatric hospital against his will. If you believe that your loved one is at serious risk of harming himself or others, discuss this with his therapist immediately or call your local emergency number (such as 911) in case of immediate danger.;
, Social support from friends and family is crucial to recovery from substance abuse.Tread carefully and learn how to appropriately support your loved one. The process of drug intervention requires you to address the person's lifestyle and problems, yet you must be careful not to make the other person feel that his freedom of choice is being threatened.


Don't criticize or judge. If you respect the other person you will get respect in return, which means that your opinion will become more valuable to him. For instance you can say something like, "I know you have been struggling with this for a while and I just want you to know that I am here to help and support you in your recovery." Avoid saying things like, "I am so sick and tired of you being drunk and high."
Help your loved one make the right decision, but do not force anything on him. This can damage the relationship and lead to less likelihood that he will receive treatment. You can say something like, "I will support you in getting the treatment you need. Please let me know how I can help. I want what is best for you."
Avoid arguments. You need to show support for your loved one's well-being rather than try to prove him wrong. Make the impression that you are a friend, not a foe. You can do this by being calm, avoiding aggression (such as raising your voice), and dealing with your own anger or sadness regarding your loved one's problem. If you find the situation is getting worse you can say something like, "It seems like this is turning into and argument and I don't want to fight. Maybe we need a break from talking about this for a bit."

, Professionals who specialize in drug intervention can help your chances of convincing the individual to go to a rehabilitation center.At times, the professional interventionist may not intervene directly but rather help you in doing so, especially if you are a close relative or friend of the person and he feels more comfortable talking to you. Some rehab centers have professional interventionists on staff that can help you with the intervention process.


If you are planning a group intervention, get professional assistance.Professionals (therapists, psychologists, etc) can help assist you in deciding what type of confrontation or treatment may be useful for your loved one. Contact your insurance and your loved one's if possible for treatment options.
If your loved one already has a therapist, you can ask your loved one politely if you can have permission to speak to his therapist. Keep in mind, you may have to sign a release in order to talk with the therapist. You can then explain your concerns and request assistance. Be wary that the therapist may not be able to perform the intervention herself due to boundary concerns.
 Choose an appropriate place for your discussion. Choose the meeting place wisely. Select a location where the person with addiction does not feel threatened or embarrassed. For example, it may be better to meet privately rather than in public places. At times, people with addictions can become withdrawn from the outside world, so go to the person's home if you can.


You may choose to confront your loved one alone or with a group of people, as in an intervention.Decide which approach you think will benefit your loved one most.
 Don't make your loved one feel like you are trying to trick him into going to a rehab center. Instead, you should be able to discuss this problem with the person with addiction openly and then direct the conversation towards a solution. Withdrawal from many types of drugs can be life-threatening. Going to a center where the withdrawal can be supervised can help alleviate the withdrawal symptoms. The centers are staffed so if anything happens during withdrawal, they can be there to assist.


Use “I statements” such as, “I feel sad knowing that you are struggling so badly with your addiction.” You can follow up by saying, “I would feel so much better knowing that you were getting treatment and being safe.”
If it helps, write down what you want to say beforehand so that you can practice being clear and indicating your concern.
 Emphasize the affect your loved one's problem has had on you, as well as family and friends. For example, try to help the person realize that addiction is not just a problem that is isolated to one person, but rather something that affects the whole family and society negatively. At times, a major convincing factor for seeking help can be love for others rather than for the self.


Depending on the type of drug used, you can educate your loved one about the consequences of using this drug. For example, if your loved one drinks alcohol to excess, you can explain that you are concerned for him due to the many health effects that drinking alcohol can cause such as memory issues, heart problems, digestive problems, bone damage, liver disease, eye problems, a weakened immune system and increased risk of cancer., One reason individuals may avoid treatment is due to stigma, or negative beliefs, about mental health and therapy services.You can help your loved one by addressing the myths and stigma about treatment.


Explain to your loved one that treatment is not meant to be seen as punishment. You can say, "Treatment is about getting the help you need. I hope you don't see it as a punishment. I don't see it that way, but as a fresh start for you."
You can educate your loved one that individuals who do not get treatment are at a much higher risk of relapse than those who receive therapy.You could say, "You know, I read that research shows that getting treatment helps people stay sober and not relapse."
Short-term treatment methods such as residential therapy and medication therapy often last less than 6 months. Hence, you may be able to present the addiction recovery treatment as just a short-term phase in the person's life that will have long-term benefits.

