 When breeding, try to provide your cockatiels with as much space as possible. At minimum, choose a cage that is 30 inches (76.2 cm) long, 18 inches wide, and 36 inches (91.4 cm) high. However, if at all possible go for something bigger.An aviary is actually ideal for breeding pairs but not a possibility for most people. This is a large room specifically designed for your birds to live in. If you have the ability to use an aviary, do so.If you decide on a cage, go for a welded wire cage. You'll need to add a nest box at some point and it's easier to do so when working with a cage of this kind.If you decide to build your own cage, do not use chicken wire with 1 by 1 inch openings. These are not safe for cockatiels as they can fit their heads through and get stuck., If you're breeding your birds, they'll need a nest box. This is a small box big enough to contain the 4 to 5 chicks cockatiels typically have when breeding.


Next boxes should be at least 10 inches (25.4 cm) high and 12 inches deep. They should have a 3 inch (7.6 cm) wide hole in the front so breeding pairs can access chicks. You can purchase a nest box at a pet store or build your own. However, it might be better to go the pet store route. You want to make sure the box is safe for your cockatiels and will promote the health and safety of their chicks.Some people use cardboard boxes in place of nest boxes. If your birds breed unexpectedly, this may work as a temporary solution. However, commercial nest boxes are relatively inexpensive and tend to hold up well., For their health, cockatiels needs stimulation in their cages. Also, mating usually occurs on perches. Therefore, have at least 2 perches in your cockatiels' cages if you expect them to breed.


Make sure perches are secure. If you don't feel comfortable installing them yourself, hire someone to do so. If a perch falls while a bird is standing on it, accidents could occur.Keep perches low enough that males can easily stand on them. If a male cannot properly mount a female, breeding will not occur., The heat of your cage should be monitored during the breeding process. It plays an essential role in the healthy development of your chicks.


Heat allows an embryo to develop. Therefore, make sure the cage is not too cold or drafty.
You should also strive to keep the heat stable. Sharp variations between hot and cold temperatures can confuse your cockatiels. If the weather suddenly becomes warm, for example, your cockatiel may leave her eggs. If it becomes cold again quickly, she may not realize she needs to return to the eggs and keep them warm. This could result in the embryo dying. Keep the cage at a stable room temperature.