 A wide variety of prescription medications can interfere with fertility. If you're concerned about your fertility, talk to your doctor about any existing medications. See if anything you're taking is having an adverse effect on your fertility, and whether you can try a different medication.Medications used to treat anxiety and depression may have an effect on sperm count.
Certain medications used to treat an enlarged prostate can also cause fertility issues.
Medications used for fungal infections may also adversely affect fertility.
 Infertility is a medical condition in which the body does not produce viable sperm. If you suspect you're infertile, make an appointment with your doctor for evaluation. Your doctor will do a physical examination of the external genitalia and skin, semen analysis and may test for autoantibodies and other biochemical derangements, sperm chromatin and DNA analysis, do genetic testing for the CFTR gene, and endocrine tests.
You may notice some of the following symptoms:Difficulty achieving an erection, a lower sex drive, and problems with overall sexual function
Pain, discomfort, or a lump around the testicles
Recent surgery around the groin
A history of sexual problems, or problems with the prostate

, If you have any STIs, seek treatment right away. A round of antibiotics may be necessary to treat a sexually transmitted infection. If your fertility issues are caused by an STI, treatment will be necessary to correct the issue. Talk to your doctor about the right treatments, and ask him or her about anything else you need to do to restore fertility., Hormonal treatments are occasionally used to correct fertility issues. If your doctor finds you have a hormonal imbalance affecting fertility, talk to him or her about your options in terms of hormonal treatments.High or low levels of certain hormones can affect fertility. Synthetic replacement hormones can help correct this problem.
Your doctor will determine which hormones will be most helpful to correct your issues.
Endocrine abnormalities include the following: androgen receptor issues, low serum testosterone and high FSH or LH levels. Your

, In rare cases, infertility is caused by damage to the reproductive organs. If your doctor determines this is the case, they may recommend surgery. Your doctor will go over your specific surgery with you, and give you the details about things like the procedure and recovery time.