 Most audio files that you download from the internet, such as .mp3 or .aac files, are already compressed. Further compression of these types of files will typically result in a poor-sounding file. Compression is best suited for uncompressed formats such as .wav or .aiff.
 This is a free, open-source audio editing program that is available for Windows, Mac, and Linux. You can download it from audacity.sourceforge.net/.
 You may be prompted to copy the file into your Audacity project; this will help prevent you from saving over the original.
 This isn't recommended for music or anything with essential stereo effects, but for spoken voice or other recordings that don't require high-fidelity, switching to mono (single-track) can make the file significantly smaller.


Click the ▼ next to the file's name in the project area. Select "Split to Mono" from the menu.
 This will open a window allowing you to set where you want the file to be saved, as well as the format you want to use.
 All of the formats listed in the "Save as type" menu are a form of compression, except .wav and .aiff. The format you choose depends on your requirements.


.mp3 is the most common format for music, as it allows for good compression without too much noticeable quality loss. it is also compatible with virtually any device.
.flac is a lossless form of compression. It is good if you intend to playback the audio through a high-quality sound system, but it is not compatible with many devices. .flac will also not lead to a drastic reduction in file size.
 After you've chosen your format, click the Options... button. The options available will vary depending on the format you selected.


For .mp3, a lower bitrate will result in a smaller file but will reduce the quality of the audio. 128 Kbps is about equivalent to the audio quality of FM radio, while 320 Kbps is about equivalent to a CD.
 If you made the file mono, you will be asked to confirm that you want to proceed. Audacity will convert and compress the audio, and the new file will appear at the location you specified.If you are making an /mp3 file and don't have the Lame codec, you'll be prompted to download it. Follow the instructions on the page to download and install the Lame codec. You may need to restart the Export process.

