 You can create your own songs to save as ringtones, or use existing songs from your iTunes library to do the same.


To use a song from your iTunes library, connect your phone to iTunes and drag a song from your iTunes library into the "Tones" section of your phone. It'll now appear when you're in your phone's settings as an option to set as your ringtone.
To create a new song, open Garageband on your phone and create new project. When you go to save that song, tap the "Ringtone" button at the bottom of the screen to save it to your list of available ringtones.
 If you've ever wanted to capture a screenshot of a particular moment while you're filming a video, you can simply by pressing the shutter button.


Open your Camera.
Slide the setting at the bottom of the window to "Video."
Tap the red "Capture" button at the bottom of your screen. While recording, it will reveal a white shutter button to its left.
Tap the white shutter button that appears to take a photo of that moment in your video recording.
 If you have trouble holding your phone steady while pressing the button to take a selfie or a regular photo, you can take the photo with a hand that's not on your phone by plugging in headphones or earphones.


Plug earphones with a volume control into your iPhone.
Open the Camera app.
Press the volume up or volume down buttons on your earphones to capture a photo.
 Your iPhone keyboard has several characters that aren't immediately visible, similar to the "Alt" symbols on most computers. You can access these symbols simply by holding down on a key.


Open your keyboard by tapping on any text field.
Tap and hold a key whose alternate symbols you'd like to see.
Drag your finger (without lifting it off of the screen) to the symbol you'd like to type in the window that appears.
If no window appears, this means that the letter you've chosen has no symbols associated with it in your keyboard.
 You can create vibration patterns that are shorter, longer, or of different rhythms depending on the app or person who's sending the notification.


Tap "Settings."
Tap "Sounds."
In the "Sounds and Vibration Patterns" section, tap on any of the notification types that you'd like to se your own vibration pattern for.
Tap "Vibration" at the top of that notification type's menu.
Tap "Create New Vibration" near the bottom of the screen.
Tap your screen according to the rhythm you'd like your vibration to make, and hit Save at the top-right corner of the screen when you're done!

