 A lab coat, tool belt, paint-spattered overalls, suit or uniform can tell you what a person does professionally. Use that information to determine whether they are young (too young for a job), a professional, a skilled worker, or are retired.;
, Lines near the eyes, mouth or neck will tell you how old the person is likely to be. Age spots on hands can be a good indication of their decade as well. Some people who have had a lot of sun exposure or who have smoked, may display more wrinkles, while those living in cooler and moister climates may have smoother skin.
 Sometimes wealth or the desire to be wealthy is shown in the quality of garments, shoes and even a haircut. Look for a wristwatch, diamond earrings or designer bags. However, be wary - many educated people shun such articles, and wear more casual clothing. Some may even sport dishevelled hairdo's and have facial hair (beards or moustaches in men.) Alternatively, look for signs of thriftiness. Faded clothes, discount clothing labels or worn shoes might tell you if a person has less money, although many principled people shun the pressure dictated by fashion and make a point of wearing simple clothes made of natural fabrics which naturally fade faster. In addition certain very good shoe brands outlast cheaper brands by far, and although they may start to look worn with time, they are made to last for more than a decade, and therefore will cost many times over what a cheaper shoe in a similar style would cost.
While these signals may tell you what economic decisions the person has made, they do not translate into behavior.
 If the person has their hair in place, their clothing pressed and an attention to style, they may be very detail oriented. Someone with a more casual wardrobe or “bed head” might be creative or messy, although a detail orientated person may have made the choice to focus on detail in their work and not to spend too much time and financial resources on their personal appearance

, Just as the saying goes, “you can’t judge a book by its cover", clothing is the least accurate way to read a personality.

