 Finding someone who wants to be in a casual relationship can be tricky since it is not as conventional as a romantic relationship. If you have a friend or acquaintance who you are comfortable with, consider approaching that person. Tell this potential partner that you aren’t looking for anything serious, but you would like to spend some time with them one-on-one. Be respectful and understanding if this person declines.


There are numerous dating websites and apps that can help you find someone who is on the same page as you are. Be yourself on these websites, and be honest about what you are looking for. Always stay safe and let a friend know if and when you meet a potential partner for the first time.;
, Communication is the key to success in any relationship, and casual relationships are no exception. It is important to be upfront and honest about what each of you are looking for in a causal relationship. If you want companionship, intimacy, or simply someone to go to a museum or a movie with you, let your potential partner know. Encourage your partner to communicate their wants, needs, and expectations with you, and promise to continue the open line of communication.


Say to your partner, “I really enjoy spending time with you, but I am not looking for a commitment or a relationship. Is this something you are comfortable with?”

, With your partner, decide on the parameters of the casual relationship. Perhaps you will only see each other a few nights a month, or maybe you will plan to have dinner only on the weekends. Limit your time spent together so that it does not begin to feel like a committed relationship. Discuss your options and what you both are comfortable with.
 With so many platforms of communication, from text messages to online chats, it is important to be upfront about which method works best for the two of you, and how often you should be in contact.Constant communication could increase your emotional investment, so be sure to keep to the communication boundaries the two of you set.
 Have a conversation early on about whether or not to maintain a public or private relationship. If you and your partner have mutual friends, it may be important for the two of you to keep the relationship private. If you and your partner don’t have mutual acquaintances, it may not bother either one of you if others know about it. Discuss this aspect early on so you’ll know how to react should others ask questions.
 It is important to figure out in the beginning how and under what circumstances to end the casual relationship. Maybe you should end the relationship after a set period of time, or maybe you plan to end things if one of you meets someone else. Decide together how best to end things when the time comes. A quick phone call or a chat over a cup of coffee may be low-key options that reflect the casualness of the relationship.
 Although you wish to be in casual relationship, acknowledge that you may not always feel that way. Spending time with someone may spark romantic feelings no matter how often you tell yourself you do not want to be emotionally invested. Remember that this is okay. Make it a point to check in regularly with the other person and make sure that the current setup is still working for them. This conversation may easily be something you avoid for a long period of time because it's uncomfortable. Be honest with yourself, and notice if your feelings for your partner begin to grow into something more serious.


Discuss this possibility with your partner at the beginning of the relationship. Acknowledge that you or your partner may develop romantic feelings, and agree on a method for handling this situation should it arise. Perhaps you will agree to end things without a discussion, or perhaps you will agree to have a conversation about it but will end things soon after. Decide what is most comfortable for you and your partner.
Your partner may develop feelings for you that you do not share. If this happens, continue to be open and honest with your partner about your wants and needs. Do not give your partner false hope, but do let them down easily and respectfully.
 Being in a non-exclusive relationship does not mean that you can be unfair or discourteous to your partner. You should both strive to be kind, thoughtful, and considerate when you spend time together and when communicating about activities. Do not intentionally ignore your partner or consistently break plans with them. Being mutually respectful of one another is not synonymous with a commitment.