 When picking a juice for your kids, look for one that says 100 percent juice. These drinks have only fruit juice in them, so they are somewhat healthier for your kids than drinks that only contain a small percentage of fruit juice, as the rest of the drink is made up of basic sugar water and artificial flavors.On the label, you should see the words "100% juice." In the ingredients, you won't see any added sugar, such as "high fructose corn syrup," "sugar," "honey," or "corn syrup." Instead, you'll see ingredients such as "apple juice from concentrate," "grape juice," or "cranberry juice.";
, Another option is vegetable juice, which is healthier for your child because it is less sugary than fruit juice. However, many kids don't like pure vegetable juice, so try one of the blends that includes both fruit and vegetable juices.Once again, you should see the words "100% vegetable juice" on the label. The ingredients should be made up of things like "tomato juice," "celery juice," "beet juice," or "onion juice from concentrate."

, You may think that freshly squeezed juice is better than juices that are made from concentrate. However, nutritionally, you won't see much difference between the two, as long as you're picking 100 percent juice.In other words, if you see "orange juice from concentrate" on the label, that is nutritionally pretty much the same as "orange juice."

, While fortified juices can provide vitamins for your kids, these juices are often not 100 percent juice. Always be sure to check that the drink is pure juice rather than a juice blend with added sugars. If you're not sure, read the ingredient list. If it has ingredients like "sugar" or "high-fructose corn syrup," then it's not pure juice.Even if you see claims like "100% DV of vitamin D," make sure to still look for the label "100% juice."

, Every juice offers some nutrients, but juices don't all offer the same nutrients. Therefore, it's a good idea to switch up the juices your kids are drinking, so they get a variety of vitamins. Try apple, red grape juice, pomegranate juice, orange juice, pineapple juice, grapefruit juice, and tomato juice just to name a few. Berry juices are also good choices., Some people believe that organic juices are healthier. To be labelled organic, foods must be free of synthetic flavors and dyes. It also must be grown with organic farming methods, including not using synthetic pesticides. For that reason, organic juices contain fewer unnatural ingredients.A juice has to be certified by the government to earn the label "organic." Look for the word on the front of the label.
 When giving your children juice, make sure to keep it no more than 4 to 6 ounces (1/2 to 3/4 of a cup) of juice per day for children ages 1 to 6 and no more than 8 to 12 ounces (1 to 1½ cups) for children 7 to 18 years old.One way to help with portion sizes is to choose options that are pre-portioned, such as juice boxes., Babies under 6 months should stick solely to formula or breast milk for drinking and you should not offer juice until after 12 months. After 6 months, babies can start to drink small amounts of water, but make sure to discuss this with your pediatrician. Juice can take away from the nutrition they need to get from those other sources, and babies don't need the added sugar.Some sources suggest waiting until kids are 2-years-old before giving them juice. Children who don't have juice won't crave juice, which will keep their sugar intake lower., When starting your child on juice, it is a good idea to dilute it 50/50 with water. This will cut down on the sugar and calories while still giving your child the taste of juice. If your older kids like the taste of juice but you'd like to cut back on their sugar, try adding a dash of juice to water and sparkling water. It may take your kids some time to adjust, but they'll soon like this refreshing beverage., If you let your child sip juice frequently throughout the day, you increase their chances of developing tooth decay because sugar and acid are constantly on their teeth. Children should only drink juice at mealtimes, so that they don't have that sugar on their teeth all day long., When your child wants some juice, just say, “No, you can't have juice right now, but here is an apple.” Don’t ask your child if they would like a piece of fruit instead of juice because the answer will probably be no. The whole fruit has fiber, whereas the juice does not, helping them to feel full. Juice contributes to your child's overall calories, but it doesn't help them feel as full.For instance, if your child asks for orange juice, ask if they want an orange instead. Similarly, you could offer an apple instead of apple juice, along with a cup of water.
 Water is the best option for kids (and adults!), so serve water as much as possible. Tap water and sparkling water are both good options for kids, iced or lukewarm, depending on their preference.Make drinking water more fun! Let kids have a special cup or water bottle that's just for them. Silly straws can also make it more fun.
Try sparkling waters with added flavors that don't have sweeteners.
Another way to make water more fun for kids is to add pieces of fruit for a light flavor. You can add lemon, lime, grapefruit, or orange wedges, or slices of strawberries or cucumber, for instance. Mint leaves are also a nice addition.
If your kids complain about the water tasting bad, try using a filtered water pitcher that you keep cold in the fridge.
 Another healthy option is low-fat milk. Milk is a great option for kids because it provides them with the calcium they need to strengthen their bones. While milk does have some sugar (from lactose), it's not as sugary as juice, and it contains protein, as well., Tea can also be a good option for older children (10 years and older), as long as it is caffeine-free. It should also be unsweetened or very lightly sweetened to cut down on sugar. Try choosing teas in fun flavors kids might like, such as raspberry tea or mint tea.