 If your toddler’s nosebleed was caused by a fall or other injury, make sure there aren't any serious injuries, particularly if he fell on or got hit in the face.


If your child fell or was hit in the face, and swelling accompanies the bleeding, you should get medical treatment as soon as possible. His nose could be broken.;
, If at all possible, take your child into a bathroom (or any uncarpeted room — blood can stain carpeting). If you are in public, it’s best to move your toddler out of public view; she may be upset by people staring, and some people feel sick or faint when they see blood.
 Your toddler’s head needs to be higher than his heart to avoid creating extra pressure in the nose, which could lead to increased bleeding.For the best results, have your child sit in a chair or in your lap.


If you place your child in a reclined position, blood can go down the throat, which could cause nausea and vomiting. Sitting up is much better., Using a basin, a napkin, or the sink, help your toddler spit out the blood gently. For most, the taste of blood is unenjoyable, and swallowing a lot of blood may lead to vomiting.
 Whether your toddler is in a chair or in your lap, he needs to lean forward a bit so that he is less likely to swallow blood.If your toddler is sitting in a chair, place a hand on his back and gently push forward.
If your toddler is sitting in your lap, lean forward gently, pushing him forward.
 Using a handkerchief, towel, or other soft cloth, wipe away any blood that is visible.
 If your toddler is able to blow her nose, that will help get rid of excess blood.
 Be gentle; if you pinch too tightly your child is likely to struggle, and in the case of injury, you may make the situation worse.


Resist the temptation to let go of the nose before the ten minutes are up, as this can break any clot that is forming.
Be sure you do not cover your child’s mouth at the same time. He needs to be able to breathe freely.
Distract the toddler. Depending on the age of the toddler, he may need some distraction while you are holding his nose. Something such as a favorite television show or book might work well.
 After pinching the nose closed for ten minutes, check to see if it is still bleeding. If so, continue to pinch the nose for ten minutes more., If the bleeding continues, place a cold compress on the bridge of your toddler’s nose. Doing so narrows the blood vessels and may help reduce the bleeding., Once the bleeding stops, try to get your child to rest. Encourage your toddler not to touch or blow her nose again.
 Get medical treatment immediately if your child is injured. In addition, call your pediatrician if any of the following situations apply:You have completed all of the previous steps, but the bleeding has not stopped.
Your child is experiencing nosebleeds several times a week.
Your child is dizzy, weak, or pale.
Your child has recently started a new medication.
Your child has a known or suspected bleeding problem.
Your child has a severe headache.
Your child is bleeding anywhere else — ears, mouth, or gums, for example — or has blood in his stool.
Your child has unexplained bruises on his body.
 Once your child is taken care of, clean up any blood that may have dripped onto the furniture, floor, or countertops. Wipe the area down with disinfectant.
 In the vast majority of cases, nosebleeds are nothing to worry about. If you panic unnecessarily, you will frighten your child and make the situation worse. Remain as calm as possible.


The “stay calm” rule also applies if you are certain that your toddler’s nosebleed is the result of enthusiastic nose picking. This is not the time to reprimand or embarrass your toddler, or to get upset or angry. Stay calm and deal with the nosebleed itself before addressing the cause.
 He may be most upset because he doesn't understand what is happening. Try to keep your voice low and calm. As you go through each step to deal with the bleeding, explain what you are doing and why.
 Once you have dealt with the bleeding, provide some physical affection, such as a hug or some cuddles, to comfort her. Explain that although a nosebleed might be scary, it doesn't mean that she is dying or that she is very sick.
 The nose is full of tiny blood vessels that are easily irritated when hit or poked.Because toddlers are so curious and often clumsy, they are especially likely to get nosebleeds. They may put their fingers or small objects up their noses, and they may often slip and fall; both of these tendencies can lead to nosebleeds.
 All of this will irritate the sensitive mucous membranes inside the nose.
 If your toddler takes an antihistamine in the form of a nasal spray, she is more likely to develop a nosebleed. These medications dry out the nasal cavities, making them more susceptible to irritation and bleeding., Cold, dry weather leads to more frequent nosebleeds.This problem is often exacerbated by indoor heating systems, which tend to dry out the mucous membranes of the nose, making it more sensitive and prone to bleeding.
 Although it is rare, a toddler’s nosebleeds could be a sign of a medical condition that prevents blood from clotting effectively.Your pediatrician can order tests that will check for these conditions.


In most cases, toddlers with clotting disorders come from families with a history of such conditions. If you, your spouse or partner, or any other close members of your family have problems with effective blood clotting, you should talk to your child’s pediatrician immediately. Consider, too, whether your toddler has other areas of bleeding or easy bruising.
 If your toddler gets a lot of nosebleeds, apply a product such as Vaseline at night to keep the nasal passages moist. You can also moisten the nasal passages with saline spray, drops, or gels.You may also want to get a humidifier for your child’s room. Humidifiers keep the air from getting too dry, which may help prevent future nosebleeds., You may be able to prevent nosebleeds by keeping your child’s room free of dust and other allergens,which can dry the mucous membranes and cause nosebleeds. Keep your child away from smoke; if anyone in the household smokes, make sure they do so outside. Pay particular attention to carpets, curtains, and stuffed toys, which can trap allergens.
 Toddlers are curious creatures, prone to sticking fingers up their noses. If you keep your child’s nails trimmed, he will be less likely to cause a nosebleed., Make sure your child is eating lots of healthy, unprocessed foods. Avoid artificial sweeteners, which can suppress the immune system. Also try to incorporate foods high in omega 3 fats, as these can help boost the immune system and strengthen blood vessels