 While keeping your face shape and hair texture in mind is important, you should also play around with your hair to see what sort of styles you like the most. Stand in front of a mirror and try out a bunch of different styles, or fold your hair up to see what it would be like to have short hair. Try straightening your hair, or curling it to see if you like the way it looks. For men, try spiking it or slicking it back.Ultimately, you should get a cut that will make you feel confident and happy, regardless of whether or not it compliments your appearance. Your cut should be based on your own personal preferences.
 Look up your face shape online and browse through images of people with your face shape. Consider what kind of haircuts the people in these photos have, and whether or not you would want that haircut.


If you find one that you like, print out the picture and take it to your hairstylist.
 If you are having a difficult time figuring out what hairstyle you want, set up an appointment with a hairstylist to talk about your possibilities. You won’t have to get your haircut then and there, but having the opinion of a professional may help you to make your decision.
 Consider how much time you're willing to put into your hairstyle every day. If you don't like spending more than five minutes on your hair in the morning, then you might not be happy with several layers that have to be straightened or curled each day.


Remember that for a short look, you'll have to get another hair cut every three or four weeks to maintain the length.
Longer hair, on the other hand, can go up to six to eight weeks without a trim, but special attention must be paid to avoid split ends and heat damage.
 Now that you've evaluated face shape, hair texture, facial features and maintenance, choose a hairstyle that you feel will bring all of these aspects together.


Find a compromise. For instance, if you've found a really great cut that you think would look great on your square face but you're worried about wearing thin hair in a long, ask your stylist if there's any way to add some volume. He or she will be happy to work with you and design the right cut for your needs.

