 Obviously, a four-year-old would like a different present than a 25-year-old, so keep the age of the person in mind while you shop for the present.;
, The large majority of the success of this present depends on their personality and their likes and dislikes. When shopping, keep the following questions in mind:



Do they like to read? If you know that the person loves reading, buy them a Halloween-themed book, for example, "It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown!", mystery novels, suspense novels, horror books, or humor books about Halloween topics, like zombies are also good ideas.







Are they creative? If the person that you're buying the present for is creative, consider buying them a Halloween craft kit. There are various ones on the market that help your child make foam pumpkins, decorations, door hangers, pom-pom creatures, etc. A jack o' Lantern carving kit (complete with a pumpkin) is another possible idea for a present.







Are they wearing a costume this year? If they are, buy something to enhance their costumes. As trick-or-treating is still very important for children, consider getting them a gift that they can wear as part of their costumes. For example, if you want to give a present to a child who's being a witch, give her a package with some green face paint, fake warts, black nail polish, and black teeth wax.







Do they like decorating their house? If the person likes decorating their house for Halloween, decorations will be a huge hit. Consider buying pumpkin lights, window stickers, caution tape, a fake hand, arm, or leg, styrofoam tombstones, a talking witch, a scary music soundtrack, etc.







Do they like makeup or accessories? Teenagers may no longer be celebrating Halloween by trick-or-treating, but they still attend costume parties or have other reasons to dress up. Glow-in-the-dark makeup is a good idea for older girls. Any accessories that are Halloween-themed, like spider earrings or a necklace with a witch hat are other ideas for girls. You could also get some purple, black, or orange nail polish and some Halloween nail decals for her. For boys, stuff like fake blood or theatrical effects makeup that can make someone look impaled are good ideas, as well as fake knives, axes, or scary masks that they can wear.







Will they use lotions and fragrances? Many beauty & cosmetics stores sell hand creams, lotions, candles, soaps, hand sanitizers, and fragrances that have Halloween themes, such as pumpkin spice. Some stores will even have pre-made gift baskets. If not, pick and choose the things that she'd like. Try stores like Bath and Body Works or Bed Bath & Beyond. There might be something that catches your eye.







Do they like scary movies? If you know that the person in question loves horror or thriller movies, buy them a classic scary movie that they can watch on Halloween night.
 Add something else that everyone likes, such as a Halloween-themed stuffed animal (for younger kids), or Halloween-themed t-shirts (orange and black, have Halloween-themed pictures or quotes on them, etc.)

, Everyone loves candy, so throw in a few small chocolate bars, bags of chips or a cookie to top off your Halloween gift.

