 Exercise and eat right. If your insides are healthy, then it will show on your face. Exercise helps to get rid of redness and acne by circulating the oxygen. Also when you sweat on your face, your pores are releasing the dirt and impurities inside of them. Drink a lot of water. If you're dehydrated, then it's going to show in your face. You should drink eight glasses a day. Don't skip the fruits and veggies either! What you get out of your skin depends on what you put into it;
, There is oily, dry, combination, and normal types of skin. If your skin's oily, then your facial glands are producing more oil. If your face is dry, then you're not producing enough oil. By determining your skin type you can find products that are specially made for you.
 Washing your face every morning and night gets rid of the impurities that your skin holds onto. Choose a facial wash that is formulated for your skin type. If you have dry skin, try a cream cleanser. If you have oily skin, try a liquid cleanser.
 What a toner does is it gets rid of the residue that some cleansers can leave behind, causing acne. A toner preps the skin for the moisturizer, so your skin won't break out from the moisture.
 It is one of your best friends. But be aware you have to choose carefully, Read on the bottles for your face type. There are many out there that are formulated specifically for your face type.
 Facial masks get rid of impurities in your pores. You should use a facial mask twice a week at the most. For people with dry skin, try a hydrating facial.
 Do this once a week. Its kind of like exercising except not. Wet a hand towel with hot water. And then lay it on your face. Or you can boil some water on the oven, put your face where the steam is and put a towel around your head. This forces the impurities out of your pores.
 You can have a facial cleanser that exfoliates your face daily. Or you can use an abrasive exfoliate, with salt, sugar, or any other types of scrubs. You can buy them at your local drugstore. This gets rid of the dead skin cells, making dull skin glow.
 The types of foundations that you put on your skin are critical. You don't want to put a two year old foundation on your face because it is most likely infested with bacteria, making your face break out. Your best bet is to buy mineral foundation, it's natural and won't clog your pores. If you don't like mineral foundation, then replace your foundation once every 6 months, to avoid bacteria causing acne.
 Toners are used to remove any leftover bacteria or dirt. If you have oily skin remember to use an oil free moisturizer

, Picking and popping your pimples can lead to serious skin damaged. They can create deep scars in your skin that are hard to get rid of.
 Sooner or later your acne will go away.
 The dermatologist can see your skin condition and prescribe you with the right medication.

