 The canvas tops of Converses are less ideal than the toes if you’re looking to adhere embellishments such as crystals or metal studs. The material is simply too porous. To get the most longevity of out your design, plan on bedazzling the toes.

Need some ideas? Draw inspiration from color families. Try warm colors, cool colors, jewel tones or classic black and white.
Animal prints make a big statement. You could bedazzle a leopard print or zebra stripe for a wild look.
 Creating micro-abrasions on the toes of the shoes will allow embellishments to adhere more fully. This will keep your design intact longer.Get a fine-grained piece of sandpaper from the hardware store or use the rougher side of a nail file to scratch the toes. Work in smooth circular motions, covering the toe area completely.
 Crystals or studs that have metal teeth can damage your shoes and compromise the water-resistance of the rubber toe. Opt for flat-back embellishments to keep your Converses (and your special design) lasting their longest., This extremely strong specialty glue will keep the embellishments on your shoes for the long haul. Do not touch this glue with your bare fingers, as it cures very quickly. When you are ready to work, use an old pair of tweezers to dip the gems’ flat backs gently into the glue and place them where you want on the toes.Industrial glues such as E6000 tend to have strong fumes. Be sure to perform your decorating in a well-ventilated area. Outside is ideal.
 Once you have completed your design, let your glue set for 48-72 hours to keep the embellishments from coming off. The longer the glue is able to sit undisturbed, the more fully it will harden., If you want to decorate with glitter rather than gems or studs, use the same E6000 glue. Since you can’t apply glitter with tweezers, use a popsicle stick to the spread a small amount of glue over the toe of the shoe. Then use a cup to sprinkle your glitter over the desired area. Let cure for the same 48-72 hours.Glitter is more prone to “shedding” so keep this in mind as you consider how you want to decorate your Converses.

