 Regular daily brushing is crucial for maintaining good dental health and it may also help to reverse the decay process. Make sure that you brush your teeth at least twice per day, such as in the morning and before you go to bed.Choose a toothpaste that contains fluoride. Fluoride is necessary for remineralizing teeth and reversing tooth decay. It can also help to protect your teeth from future decay.Use a soft bristle toothbrush. Hard-bristled toothbrushes can damage your teeth and gums.Brush all surfaces of your teeth (front, back, and tops). Use short, swift strokes as you brush your teeth. You should spend about two minutes brushing, and for a better action you can also leave the toothpaste in your mouth for the next two minutes before rinsing so fluoride can remineralize your enamel.;
, Flossing is important because a toothbrush does not clean between your teeth, but bacteria often hides between your teeth and causes tooth decay. That is why you need to floss between your teeth at least once per day as well.To floss your teeth, wrap and 18 inch piece of floss around each of your index fingers. Then, use the floss to clean between all of your teeth.
As you floss your teeth, try to rub the floss up and down the sides of your teeth to pull out any remaining plaque underneath your gums. Do not just move the floss back and forth.
Try using a water flosser if you have trouble using floss. For people who have braces or other dental work that gets in the way, a water flosser can be a useful tool for cleaning between your teeth using the pressure of water to stimulate the blood flow in the gums for better protection against bacteria., Mouthwash can help to reduce decay causing kill bacteria inside of your mouth, so it is a great addition to your dental hygiene routine. Some mouthwashes also contain fluoride, so they can help to strengthen your teeth as well.To use mouthwash, pour the recommended amount into the cap (usually about 30 mL) and then swish the amount in your mouth for about one minute. After you have finished swishing the mouthwash, spit it out. Do not swallow the mouthwash.
Do not rinse with water afterwards so the antibacterial effect will last longer. If the mouthwash is too strong and gives a burning feeling, then dilute it with 50:50 water.
 Regular visits to your dentist will also help to protect against tooth decay. Make sure that you visit your dentist for a cleaning and exam at least twice per year to stay on top of your dental health.


Ask your dentist about fluoride treatments and other protective measure for your teeth. Your dentist can even apply a dental sealant to your teeth to help protect them from tooth decay.