 When you are treating anorexia with brain stimulation, it’s important that you stick to your treatment plan. Attend all of your check-ups, check-ins, and therapy sessions to make sure that you are doing okay and to monitor how the brain stimulation treatment is working.


You should go to all of your appointments, even if you feel that your brain stimulation treatment has worked and you’re better.
If you have an emergency and can’t keep an appointment, you should reschedule it as soon as possible.
 One thing that can help you stick with your treatment plan when you are treating anorexia with brain stimulation is to write about your treatment experiences. Journaling can help you release emotions, keep track of important things, and document your experience.Write about your successes in treating anorexia, no matter how small you think they are. For instance, you might write, “I only looked at the scale 3 times today.”
Write about any fears or concerns you have about the treatment. You can share them with your provider.
Use your journal as a place to explore all of your feelings about brain stimulation treatment and your anorexia.
 Almost every medical treatment has some side effects. Brain stimulation therapies are no exception. But, you can handle the side effects if you are aware of your body and emotions, document any side effects you have, and talk to your medical professional about alleviating them.


Be aware of changes in your body physically, emotionally and mentally. For instance, for the day or two after your treatment pay attention to any nausea, fatigue, confusion, or other side effects you may be experiencing.
Write about any side effects you notice in your treatment journal as a way of documenting them. For example, you might write, “I felt a little dizzy after the treatment today.”
Let your healthcare professional know that you are experiencing side effects and that you would like help managing them. For instance, you might say, “I’d like to talk about how I can manage the side effects of my treatment.”

, When you are treating anorexia with brain stimulation, your family and friends can support and encourage you to stick to your treatment plan. They can also help you with any day-to-day tasks that you can’t get to as you are completing your treatment.


Let the people close to you know specifically what you need. For instance, you might say, “Dad, could you watch my dog for a few days?”
Ask someone just to be with you when you are feeling down or nervous about your treatment. You don’t have to say or do anything, other than just be present.
Talk to someone close to you about how you are feeling emotionally and physically.
 Brain stimulation treatments can help you manage your anorexia, but there is no magic cure that will make the disorder go away completely. You still have to actively work to keep it under control. Continue doing the things you were doing to manage your anorexia before you started brain stimulation therapy.


Continue practicing healthy eating habits. For example, don’t start skipping breakfast because you feel the brain stimulation treatments are helping.
Keep working with your healthcare professional to address others issues in your life that may be contributing to your anorexia.

