 Existentialism is a philosophical movement grounded in a particular historical context, and transferring its tenets to today's cultural moment means understanding what it meant when it developed.


It developed and flourished in Europe during the 1940s and 1950s, in a post-war context in which many people felt disillusioned with organized religion and society and felt like life had no real meaning or purpose.;
, Like all branches of philosophy, existentialism developed through the writings of prominent philosophers. Start by reading works of Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, and Albert Camus.Check out http://faculty.risd.edu/dkeefer/pod/wall.pdf for a free PDF of Jean-Paul Sartre's short story The Wall, which contains the themes of his philosophy.
While de Beauvoir wrote many works that are considered essential reading, The Second Sex is a great place to start. It is a critical look at society's gender roles, and garnered de Beauvoir a reputation as a founder of the feminist movement.Try Albert Camus' The Stranger, available for purchase on Amazon.
 As a philosophy, existentialism is based on a major premise and several minor premises:


The major premise of existentialism is that the meaning of existence and the nature of humanity cannot be truly understood through natural sciences (like biology and psychology) or by moral categories (found in religion and social codes) alone. Instead, meaning is found in authenticity.Existentialists believe there is no larger meaning or order to the universe or to our lives; that is, there is no destiny or fate, and your individual life has no pre-determined purpose.
Still, people have complete free will and can make choices about their daily actions in order to make those actions meaningful and ordered despite the lack of meaning and order in the universe. Thus, life gains meaning by individuals ascribing meaning through authentic lives.
 Nihilism states there is no purpose to life and there never can be whereas existentialism says you make your own.


While many existentialist writings have themes of anxiety, hopelessness, and boredom, it is not because the writers did not see a purpose in life. It is because they were overwhelmed with the challenge of creating meaning in a world where meaning is not inherent, as well as frustrated with academic systems that ascribed purpose where, to their minds, it did not exist., Existentialism is all about being who you are outside of social norms, culture, religion, or other ideas of what you should be. Its about recognizing that you have the freedom to choose who you want to be and only you can make that choice.


Of course, the problem with authenticity is knowing when you've actually achieved who you really are outside of society's expectations, versus when you are simply doing what you think looks or appears authentic to others-- which is exactly the opposite of what you should be trying for.When you make a choice about your self presentation or actions, ask, "Is this what I really want, or am I doing this because it will please someone else?" For instance, when you get dressed in the morning, are you choosing what you like, or what you think others will find sexy or cool?

, Find a passion and go after it, whether it be art like existential painter Jackson Pollock, writing like existential author Fyodor Dostoevsky, or philosophical inquiry.Being an existentialist means that you recognize the value in self-expression, so find a way to let your inner self be expressed on the outside.
 Existentialism is a habit of the mind, and involves considering questions about how individuals must live.


Existentialists ponder questions about the meaning of life and death, whether or not there is a God and whether deity is involved in individual lives (nearly all existentialist philosophers believe there is no God, since there is no meaning or order), the meaning of friendship and love, and other questions that have to do with the individual.Existentialists are less worried about social or political issues like what the role of the state should be., Existentialist philosophy holds that each person must create their own meaning, and in order for it to be authentic, it has to be something that you arrive at on your own rather than being told by someone else.


Existentialists also tend to believe there is no God, but some like Kierkegaard or Dostoevsky believed both in God and in free will and self-determination. The important thing is the freedom to choose what to believe., A major application of existential philosophy is recognizing the inherent value in choice and self-identity, and allowing others to live authentic lives as well.


Do not impose your moral or philosophical code on others. Let them live their own authentic lives, rather than trying to shape them into what you want them to be. Rather paradoxically, this means if they don't want to be existentialists, its not up to you to convince them!

, One reason that the philosophy is often associated with anxiety and hopelessness is because existentialist philosophers recognize that their actions have consequences and are not meaningless.Even though a person may have good intentions, he also always acts on limited knowledge and with limited truth, which means his actions are always imperfect. Because others see the actions, they influence others' perception of truth, which has a ripple effect of potentially devastating consequences.