 Take out your insoles and put them in a box filled with baking soda, because chances are the insides of your gym shoes don’t smell great. It’s best that they sit overnight, so take out the insoles the night before you want to wash your shoes., Especially if your shoes are very dirty, use an old rag to wipe down the filth before putting them in the wash. This will help prevent gross dirt and grass from collecting in your washer.If the dirt’s really crusted on, bang those shoes up against each other outside.
 Because dirt tends to collect around the eyelets of your shoes, you should always remove the shoelaces before washing. This way they’ll be exposed more freely for cleaning during the wash cycle., Put the shoelaces into a mesh bag so they won’t get tangled up. You can then throw this mesh bag in the washing machine.These mesh bags are often used for washing women’s delicates and are found in the laundry aisle of a home goods store.
 If your shoes have any heavily soiled areas, pretreat them with a laundry product, such as Shout. Simply spray the product on the stained area before you throw the shoes in the wash., Before you wash your gym shoes, be sure that the material that they are made of is appropriate for washing. If not, you might ruin the shoes by adding water.Leather is an example of material that needs extra care. If your gym shoes are leather, you should clean them by hand.
 To give your shoes more support in the wash, fill the washer with old towels or other linens that you don’t mind being exposed to your dirty shoes. This will be a more gentle environment for your shoes.This will also cut down on the amount of clunking you hear during the wash cycle.
 You can use the normal amount of detergent that you would use for any load the size of the one you’ve included your gym shoes in. However, you should always use liquid detergent. Powdered detergent may stick to the inside of your shoes.Using more detergent than necessary will not make your shoes cleaner. It’ll just leave soap residue on your shoes that’ll make them stiff., The gentle cycle won’t spin your shoes around as much, so it will reduce how banged around they get. Using cold water, instead of hot, will prevent any shrinkage of your shoes., After the wash cycle has ended, immediately remove your shoes so they don’t become moldy., You should never put your shoes into the dryer, since the exposure to heat can lead to misshapen shoes or cause the glue that keeps your shoes together to disintegrate. Instead, leave your shoes and shoelaces out in an open space to air dry.Leave your shoes outside overnight to dry.
However, you can set your shoes in front of a dehumidifier, air vent, or fan to help them dry more quickly in a few hours.Don’t put shoes in direct sunlight as this may cause them to shrink and not fit correctly., If you’re concerned about your shoes losing their shape, ball up newspaper and stuff it inside the shoes.The newspaper will also soak up the moisture and help your shoes dry faster.
 Remove your insoles from the baking soda they’ve been soaking in during the washing and drying of your shoes. Shake off the insoles and then brush off any remaining baking soda with a soft-bristled brush., After your shoes have completely dried, put your shoelaces and insoles back into your shoes. You’ll be good to go with newly cleaned shoes!