 Add the salt, butter, and 3 cups (375 g) of the flour to a food processor. Pulse the mixture together for one to two minutes. When the ingredients become the texture of breadcrumbs, turn on the food processor and slowly add the cold water to create a pastry ball.If you don’t have a food processor, combine the salt, butter, and flour in a large bowl. Use a pastry knife to blend the ingredients until they become like breadcrumbs. Add the water gradually and use the pastry knife to bring the pastry together into a ball.
 Dust a flat surface with a light sprinkling of flour. Turn the pastry ball out onto the flour. Knead the pastry for about a minute, until all the ingredients are incorporated and the pastry is a smooth ball. Wrap the ball in a layer of plastic wrap and transfer it to the refrigerator for 15 minutes.

Resting the pastry will give the gluten time to relax, and this will make for a light and fluffy pastry.
 Pour the oil into a large saucepan. Heat the pan over medium heat. When the oil is shimmering, add the onion and carrot. Cook the vegetables for five minutes, stirring regularly.

For added flavor and texture, add ⅛ cup (10 g) of chopped porcini mushrooms to the pan and cook them with the onions and carrots., Transfer the ground beef to the hot saucepan with the carrots and onions. Let the meat cook for about five minutes. Flip the meat with a spatula and cook for another three to five minutes, until the meat is browned. Sprinkle in the remaining tablespoon (8 g) of flour. Stir the mixture and cook for two minutes.The flour will help thicken the juices from the meat and vegetables.
 In a medium bowl, whisk together the tomato paste, Worcestershire sauce, beef stock, salt, and pepper. Pour this mixture into the saucepan with the meat and vegetables. Bring the mixture to a simmer and cook for 10 minutes. After 10 minutes, remove the pan from the heat and set it aside.

To make a beef, ale, and onion pie, replace half the beef stock with dark ale., Divide the pastry into quarters. On a floured surface, roll out the pastry quarters one at a time. You want all four of the pastry quarters to be rolled out into circles with a 9.5-inch (24-cm) diameter., Grease two 9-inch (23-cm) pie plates with butter or shortening. Line each pie plate with a pastry circle. Use a slotted spoon to divide the meat filling evenly between the two pies. Use a pastry brush to brush the beaten egg onto the edges of the pie shell. Lay one pastry circle over each pie.

To seal the pastry, pinch the edges together with your finger or a fork.
It’s important to use a slotted spoon for the meat, because you don’t want too much of the sauce in the pies. Too much sauce will make the pies soggy., Preheat the oven to 350 F (177 C). Brush the top of each pie with more of the beaten egg. Place the pies on a large baking sheet. Bake the pies for 20 to 25 minutes, or until the pastry is golden brown.Place each pie on a separate baking sheet if they don’t fit on one.
 Remove the pies from the oven. Set them aside to cool for about 10 minutes.Cut each pie into halves to serve four people. To serve eight people, cut each pie into quarters and serve with potatoes, vegetables, or another dish on the side.