 If you are putting an HDTV in an existing home theater cabinet, make sure you know the maximum size that will fit. Measure the TV enclosure diagonally, as this is how HDTVs are measured. For example, a 50" HDTV is 50" from corner to corner, but is less than that horizontally.;
, As you get further away from the TV, the recommended size increases for best picture and viewing experience. While you will still be able to enjoy your TV from anywhere in the room, you can get the best experience by optimizing your screen placement and seating arrangements. When it comes to distance from the TV vs. size, THX recommends:


3.5–5 feet (1.1–1.5 m): 35" class
4–6 feet (1.2–1.8 m): 40" class
5–7.5 feet (1.5–2.3 m): 50" class
6–9 feet (1.8–2.7 m): 60" class

, Mounting larger TVs requires larger brackets, which can make the mounting more expensive. Wall-mounting TVs can be difficult, especially for larger models since you need to really ensure that the mount is securely fastened.
 While the "bigger is better" mentality may be a little outdated, one of the most common complaints from new TV buyers is that they should have purchased a bigger model. If you can afford it, consider bumping up to the next size class.
 Traditional LCD TVs use CCFL lighting to show the pixels on the screen. LED TVs use LEDs to light up the LCD display. So in essence, they are the same type of TV with different lighting configurations. LED TVs typically provide better color and picture quality than CCFL LCDs, and are also much more efficient. LCDs, on the other hand, are typically the cheapest TVs available.
 An edge-lit LED is thinner and cheaper than a backlit, but since the lighting only comes from the edges, it can lead to a slightly washed-out picture. Backlit LEDs are slightly thicker and more expensive, but will give a much more uniform and clearer picture quality.
 Plasma TVs in general are not being produced anymore, with the exception of LG and Samsung. This means you will likely see few or no plasma models on the showroom floor of your local electronics store.Many people still consider plasmas superior, as they provide better picture quality and look the best in dark rooms. They are also viewable from the most angles. They are often heavier and more power-hungry than the other models, and suffer from the worst glare in bright rooms.
 3D TVs were a big thing a few years ago, but support is starting to fade. Networks that embraced 3D such as ESPN have started to drop support, and 3D has become less of a selling point for home movies. You can still find plenty of 3D TVs, and if you're a fan, the lower prices mean now is the best time to buy.
 The two main resolutions for HDTVs are 720P and 1080P Both of these are considered "HD", though 1080P is sometimes called "True HD". Most 1080P TVs can switch to 720P mode depending on the input. Not everyone can tell the difference between the two, but 1080P will result in a clearer, sharper picture.


The larger your TV, the more noticeable the difference between 720P and 1080P will become.
720P-only TVs have largely been phased out, except in the smallest models.
 These have 4 times the pixels of a 1080P TV, and the sharpness difference can be startling. You may need to be viewing from a specific distance in order to actually see the difference, and a lot rests on the viewers visual acuity.


There isn't much out there yet that takes advantage of 4K. TV channels are not yet being broadcast in UHD, and when they do they will require new hardware to convert the signals. Netflix has a very limited selection of 4K content, and only a few Blu-rays have been treated to a 4K remaster. At this point, buying a 4K TV is more future-proofing than anything. 1080P content will still look great on your UHD TV., You won't get HD picture from a VHS player, and only certain devices are capable of outputting at 4K. Not all TV channels broadcast at the same resolution. The PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, and Wii U are the only video game consoles that can output at 1080P. Computers with high-end video cards can output resolutions even higher than 4K UHD.
 The majority of specifications, especially the contrast and refresh rate, are designed to confuse and overwhelm the consumer. They largely don't mean anything on paper, and differences should only be checked by comparing models in person.
 When looking at HDTVs in person, check the compare the contrast settings for a few models. There is no industry standard for measuring contrast, so specifications mean virtually nothing when compared against each other on paper.Contrast is one of the most important factors in picture quality. It is the difference between the darkest black and the brightest white that the TV can display. If the TV can produce a large range between the two, you will be able to see more at the intended brightness and color settings.
 This is the second-most important factor for picture quality. Too little color will make the picture muted and weak, while too much will make images look fake and unnatural.
 The refresh rate of traditional TVs is 60 Hz, which is the number of times that the screen can refresh in one second (60). The refresh rate is determined by the source, and getting a TV that boasts a refresh rate of 120 Hz will not be beneficial unless you are using an input that is able to output at that refresh rate.The most common use for a 120 Hz TV is to connect a computer to it, as most modern computers are able to output at that refresh rate. This enables a much smoother desktop and gaming experience.
Not everyone can perceive the difference beyond 60 Hz. Some people feel that displaying 60 Hz content on a 120 Hz display feels unnatural.
When purchasing a 3D TV, ensure that the refresh rate is at least 120Hz.
 Your TV is only as good as the devices you can plug into it, and you'll soon regret your purchase if you have to switch cables for your devices all the time. Make sure that the TV you pick has enough HDMI inputs for all your important devices. If you have some older equipment, make sure that it has inputs for those as well, such as VGA, component, and composite ports.


Other things to look for include Ethernet ports or Wi-Fi for smart TV services and USB ports for digital cameras or a Chromecast.

