 Purines are natural substances that are actually found in almost all foods. However, there are only a small number of foods that contain high concentrations of purine. Purine can increase your uric acid levels, which can lead to gout or already existing gout becoming worse. lead to urate crystals.Foods to avoid include:


Anchovies, sardines gravies, sweetbreads, and animal products like liver and brains.
You should also avoid foods like asparagus, carp, cauliflower, lobster, mushrooms, oysters, rabbit, spinach, trout and veal.;
, When you lower the amount of sugar you eat, you may find that you have an easier time losing weight. Fructose, which is a type of sugar, also increases uric acid so it is better to avoid foods with fructose if you have gout.


Avoid fructose products like corn syrup and some soft drinks.
 There are both good carbohydrates, like whole grains, and bad carbs, like foods with saturated fat. Try to cut out refined carbs and focus on complex carbs.Complex carbs include: Whole grains, wheat breads, and cereals.
 Saturated fat can slow down your body’s ability to eliminate uric acid. High-fat diets can also increase your risk of obesity and increase your chances of having a gout attack, so if you are trying to lose weight, start paying attention to how much fat you eat each day.Switch to low-fat dairy products to cut out some of the fat in your diet.
Look for lean proteins that have little or no fat content.
Use olive oil, which is a monounsaturated fat (a good fat) rather than butter or margarine when you cook.
 When you drink enough water, you lower your risk of developing urate crystals around your joints. While the amount of water you drink depends on your weight and lifestyle, try to drink water throughout the day.In general, try to drink around two liters of water. If you exercise a lot, you may want to consider upping your intake and drinking around 3 liters (0.8 US gal) each day.
 Alcohol can disrupt the process of removing uric acid from your body. Alcohol also contains a lot of calories, so drinking in excessive can make you gain weight.Beer and hard alcohol also contains more purines than wine, so keep that in mind when picking out your beverage for the night.

