 Use Comcast Xfinity Speed Test to find out what your download and upload speeds actually are. This will be used as a diagnostic tool.;
, If your connection seems to drop off during peak hours or partway through downloads, Comcast may be throttling your bandwidth.
 Compare the speeds you got from the test to the speed level which you're paying for. You may have to call Comcast to find this out. You can also ask about possible throttling, if you discovered this during the previous step.


If you are getting the speed you're paying for but find that this is too slow, you may want to upgrade.
 Are several people in your house all using the internet at once? Is anyone downloading something big, like a movie or playing an online game? This can significantly slow your internet.
 Much like the above, if your neighbors are putting pressure on your bandwidth by using your internet, everyone will have slower internet.
 Some areas will simply have very slow internet. If you live in a major city, or a newer city, this should not be a problem. However, if you live in a rural area or an area which has not seen recent infrastructure updating, Comcast's connection equipment may simply be dated. Call Comcast for more information.


Your location within a given room can make a difference too. Try moving next to the router. If your connection improves, you will know that your location was part of the problem.
 An overworked processor will bog down even the fastest internet connection.
 First, run a scan for viruses and other malware. A virus will significantly slow your connection.Then, make sure that the software itself isn't slowing the system too much. Many common anti-virus programs can slow your system down significantly.


Try switching to a faster anti-virus program, like Avast!.
 Some browsers are significantly faster than others. If you think the browser might be the issue, consider switching to Chrome, since this is usually the fastest browser (that is compatible with most sites).
 Close programs which communicate with the internet (which are not currently in use). Examples of such programs include Skype and updating programs.
 The DNS (or Domain Name System) Server is sort of like the phonebook for the internet. Your computer will choose one to use automatically, but using a bad one can be like the difference between using a 20lb paper phonebook and using Google. If nothing else works, consider manually finding a better DNS server. This can improve your internet speed by a significant amount.
 These are programs which find the best DNS Server for you to use. A good, reliable, reputable one is Google's "namebench" program.
 It is usually the one which is geographically closest.
 Change your computers settings to default to the recommended DNS Server. This is done differently depending on your operating system.


On a PC, from the Control Panel click Network and Internet →Network and Sharing Center → Manage Network Connections. Right click the connection that you want to change and then click Properties. Click Networking → This connection uses the following items → Properties and then specify a DNS address in the specified area.
On a Mac, click System Preferences→ Network→ select your connection → Advanced → DNS and then add the new DNS server.
 If you have a big home, place it in a central location if possible. Don’t put it close to your modem or any other wireless devices, as this can cause line interference. (For example, a 2.4-ghz router may conflict with a 2.4-ghz phone.) If necessary, buy a longer cable to allow as much distance as possible between your modem and router.
 Type 192.168.1.1 in your internet address bar to connect to the router and fill in your user name and password. Once you have access, go to the Settings and make sure that the specifications listed here the ones recommended by Comcast. You can find these either in the information packet that you got when you first set up your internet or online.


If you haven’t ever set up a username and password, use the default settings for your router, which can be found in the manual or searched online. The default username is often admin and the default password is often either password or left blank.
To be safe, jot down your router’s current settings before modifying them. This will prevent you from making any major mishaps.
 If the above suggestions fail, the problem may be that your router isn’t fast enough to accommodate the connection speed you’re paying for. Compare the mbps (megabytes per second) on any new candidates to the mbps on your old one to see what your options are. If you do online gaming or a lot of big downloads, you may even want a gigabyte router.


Make sure the router is Comcast approved. Some may not function well with Comcast equipment.
Try to get a wireless G or N router with WPA or WPA2 support, which provide better encryption protection than WEP. (If you have an older computer or laptop, make sure it supports this.)

