 Persistence can also be viewed as an assertiveness technique, one aimed at ensuring that you're properly understood by another person and one that makes it clear that you don't give your ground on something without making a conscious choice to do so. If you're the type of person to barely whisper what you want or don't want from other people or you're easily trapped and lead off in other directions when trying to explain what you want or don't want from someone else, then you will be helped a great deal by learning to be persistent in interactions with other people.


Persistence in making requests and refusals enables people to know what you want, clearly and without any embellishment.
Persistence enables you to stand up for yourself when people attempt to waylay, dissuade or redirect your wants to be more consistent with their own preferences. Whether or not you succeed in getting the response you're seeking does not matter; it is how you approached it that will be remembered by others.
 This is a common technique used in assertiveness training, to help you stick to your initial message and to have it to return to when the person you're interacting with keeps trying to redirect you elsewhere. Basically, this technique consists of making a continuous, clear statement about your feeling, intention or decision without becoming angry, defensive or irritated, no matter how much you have to repeat yourself.


Learn to state a clear and reasonable refusal or request repeatedly. Do this by being definite to begin with (I don't want this or I do want that).






Proceed to recognizing any attempts by the other party to question you, sidetrack you, or cause you to feel guilty. These are all attempts to break your persistence.






Avoid getting angry or being malicious. This is simply about repeatedly making it clear what your preferences are. Hence, the "broken record".
 On less common occasions, you may find that a compromise will work but you only if it doesn't cause you to feel that you've given in or being used. In this case, accept the need for a compromise as part of your assertive approach, listen carefully to what the other person is asking and formulate questions based on what they've said to ask them how much they're willing to compromise. In your case, only offer what you can without feeling resentful or used up.


An example of a workable compromise: Bill has asked Jenny if he can borrow her car tonight. Jenny has already told Bill that since he dented it, she is no longer happy to loan it to him. Bill gets very worked up and says that he promises to take good care of it and will even fill it up before returning it. Jenny can see this as a bribe of sorts but she is also concerned that Bill won't have access to public transportation after midnight and therefore might get into trouble trying to come home. She is personally happy to collect Bill because she will be out with friends in the same area that night. Therefore, Jenny might ask Bill if he is happy for her to collect him, on the understanding that she won't ever lend him the car again but that since she will be in the area after midnight, she is very happy to help him get home again. Bill smiles, says yes and they both get a warm glow inside. In this situation, Jenny might also make it clear that this is a one-off win-win and that Bill will need to investigate his own options for all future situations.
 This means only answering questions that are relevant and not being lead into answering questions that have little or nothing to do with the matter but then are used by the other person to launch into distracting you from what you've asked for or refused. When making your request or refusal, be careful of the following:


Always make eye contact. This shows that you mean business. This is as important with asking the kids to go to bed on time as it is when asking the boss for a raise.






Avoid beginning with an apology unless it's absolutely necessary. An apology usually is a way to self-efface and it gives too much leverage to the recipient who realizes that maybe you can be talked out of your refusal or request because of guilt, uncertainty or fear.






Always be specific. State with clarity the exact thing that you want done/to happen/to change, etc. or what it is that you're refusing to do/lend/give, etc.






Remain calm, polite and positive. Do not get angry, volatile or difficult. Do not sulk. In particular, never threaten or exaggerate.
 In the case of both a request or a refusal, a compromise may be appropriate. In the case of a request, the other person has a right to refuse. Ultimately, persistence is knowing that you have tried your best, stood up for yourself and not being sidestepped or angered. Even where you don't get what it is that you wanted, you have gone about being persistent in a way that earns respect and keeps your dignity completely intact.

