 A major indicator of dissociative fugue is sudden and unplanned travel.One may take an unexpected drive across the country, hop on a bus or train and head away from home. The person may end up a place that he or she has never visited before or has no familiarity.


The person may drive for hours, take the subway around town, or start walking.;
, In some cases, individuals may take on a new identity to compensate for the loss of identity. The person may take on a new name, choose new interests and make new friends., Though there’s no definitive precursor to dissociative fugue, extreme stress can be one contributing factor. Stress can be due to violence, abuse, war, natural disaster, or an accident. The event can have happened to the person, or the person may have witnessed a traumatic event, such as a child witnessing abuse in the home.Be on the lookout for a fragile mental state following a trauma or extreme stressor. Ask, “Was there a large traumatic event that is difficult to deal with? How is that affecting life?”
While stress can be a large contributing factor, it does not necessarily proceed every dissociative fugue.A fugue may not immediately follow a trauma. It may not set in immediately.
 Dissociative fugue affects memory, perception, and identity. Despite these major changes, the person does not appear mentally ill or have dangerous or disruptive functioning.The person may appear to function normally in terms of social functioning and day-to-day functioning, yet has no memories of life.


Ask whether the dissociation affects functioning. If there appears to be hallucinations, delusions, or other mental health markers, it’s important to receive

, Typically, the length of the fugue depends on the severity of the stressor that sets it off. Fugues can last moments, days, weeks, and rarely, months or years.Generally, fugues last a matter of days.


Most individuals who experience a dissociative fugue have one episode with no recurrence.
 It’s not uncommon for individuals to forget what happened during the fugue state.Once memories and identity return, the person may not recall the events of the fugue, such as travel, the people he or she met, items bought, or other events that occurred.


In some cases, trauma that preceded the fugue will continue to be blocked, even once the original identity has been restored.
 It’s believed that the person’s memories are still present, yet buried momentarily and are unable to be recalled. Memories can resurface due to environmental triggers in a person’s surroundings.The person may respond to a trigger to help remember oneself. This may be a childhood home, long-term spouse or partner, siblings, parents, pets, etc.
 Dissociative fugue involves a loss of memories and a loss of identity. A person may not remember his or her own name, family members, job, or other identifying factors from life.While in the fugue state, the person may not have any memories from his or her life. The person may be unable to recall any people to call or help with the identity problems.
 Some forms of memory loss can result from drug and alcohol intoxication. Reports of “blackouts” can occur due to alcohol use or as a result of using drugs.Ask whether drugs or alcohol have been used, in what frequency, and how recently. Ask about drug or alcohol amount and frequency.
Sleep deprivation can also cause lapses in memory or identity.
 Diagnosing dissociative fugue involves ruling out medical causes first. See a medical doctor for an examination. He or she may run a series of tests to rule of medical causes for the fugue. Certain diagnoses, such as head injuries and brain diseases can include memory problems or identity problems.A physician may run blood tests, x-rays, other other diagnostic tests to rule out medical causes.
 These disorders can affect memory functioning and may require running some tests.
 After ruling out medical causes, you may choose to have a psychological evaluation to more clearly define a diagnosis. A psychologist uses various assessments to diagnose dissociative fugue.A thorough history from family members may also be included.


A psychologist may rule out other memory disorders, such as dissociative identity disorder or multiple personality disorder.These disorders are a more severe form of identity confusion.

