 Aging skin doesn't need harsh products like the ones teenagers often need to use, as there isn't usually any excess oil. If your cleanser is too harsh, it will be stripping your skin of its natural oils, and therefore drying out the skin and causing it to age more quickly. Look for ones that are aimed at your age group, or ones that describe themselves as gentle or moisturizing. Women should moisturize their faces any time before they wear make-up.It is still important to cleanse your face as you get older, as it removes traces of chemicals from your environment or any make up which can cause aging if left on the skin.;
, It's important to give your skin a moisture boost so that it can look after itself. Dry skin ages more quickly if it's not moisturized. Look for anti-aging moisturizers with a high percentage of their active ingredient. If in doubt about which to buy (there are hundreds on the market), try looking at reviews or try to find scientific research supporting the product. Make sure that the product you decide on is rich and deeply moisturizing, unlike the ones you may have used in your younger years.


And remember, moisturizing is not just for women, there are plenty of similar products on the market aimed at men.
 There are many moisturizers which already contain SPF protection in them, and this is because it is vital to protect your skin from harmful UV rays every day in order to avoid sun-damage. The sun is one of the main things that causes premature aging, so dermatologists recommend that you should wear at least SPF 15 daily to avoid wrinkles, brown spots and a dull complexion. As well as this, it will protect you from skin cancer.You can put sun screen not just on your face, but on your chest and the tops of your hands, if you're just going to be out in the sun for a little while. This will prevent those spots on your chest and hands. If you're going to really be out in the sun, though, then you'll need to put sunscreen all over your body.
 Gently exfoliating encourages skin cell renewal, therefore encouraging younger looking skin. Choose something that is aimed at older skin as they are more gentle and less likely to dry out or damage the skin. Exfoliation is also good to do as it leaves your skin feeling softer and looking brighter. For men, exfoliating before shaving your face can make the shaving process easier as it exposes more of the hair.
 For men, this will make you look better groomed and less scruffy allowing you to look good with age, and for women this will hide this side effect of aging. Here are some things to keep in mind for each gender:



Men: Keep your face clean shaven or neatly trimmed, and always trim your nose and ear hair. You can buy nose hair trimmers at your local pharmacy and it’s completely simple and painless to use. Letting this hair grow wild adds age and also makes you look more scruffy. Make sure to pluck those nose hairs too, if you want to avoid that old man look.

Women: Facial hair can sometimes appear in women after the menopause due to a change in hormone levels. To get rid of this, and therefore hide your age a little better, there are a few easy ways to keep it away including laser removal, waxing, depilatory/hair removal cream and threading.

Women should also make sure to keep their eyebrows looking pretty thick. As you get older, your eyebrows may start to thin out, so make sure to color them in with a pencil that matches the color of your eyebrows so you continue to look youthful.
 There are dozens of make-up tricks that can help women make their features continue to stand out as well as to hide the signs of aging. The trick is to hide those blemishes while emphasizing your best features, such as your eyes. Here are some tricks to try:


Make sure you use a creamy concealer. Any concealer that is waxy or that can get cakey can actually make you look older.Put a dab of blush at the height of your cheekbones, but don't use blush in the hollows of your cheeks. As you get older, your face will actually lose fat, and your cheeks will naturally get a little hollower. This can make you look a bit older, so there's no need to emphasize this further with too much blush.Start using brown eyeliner instead of black. As you get older, black will start to look too stark in contrast to the rest of your face. Brown will create more gentle frames around your eyes.
Show off your lashes. As you get older, your lashes will naturally get thinner and will straighten out, so counteract that by curling your lashes or even wearing thickening mascara when you can.
Minimize the drama around your lips. A nice pale shade of lipstick can be a great addition to your face, but don't line your lips too much or wear bright lipstick; your lips will thin out as you get older, and there's no need to overcompensate.
 Good teeth can immediately make you look younger and more attractive. Make sure you have a good tooth-care routine, this should include brushing, flossing and using mouth wash. If your teeth aren't white enough, or if you have problems with your teeth, go to your dentist for advice. You could have professional whitening, or if you have problems such as decay, wonky teeth or stained teeth you could get these things treated.


There are also over the counter whitening products which can also be effective, although you might want to talk to your dentist for advice beforehand.
Teeth can give away your real age more than any other part of your body, so start early with your total teeth care routine.
 This isn't for everyone, as some people love to rock their grey or peppery hair. However, many people want to get rid of grey hair, and there are many hair dyes on the market that can tackle it. It's best to choose a color that is fairly similar to what your natural hair color was so that it appears more natural. You could choose to get your hair dyed at a salon, or you could choose the cheaper option and buy an at-home hair dying kit. You must remember, however, that all hair dye is damaging to the hair, so avoid dying it too often, and use products designed to care for damaged or dyed hair.


As a way of avoiding dying your hair too often, you can apply hair dye primarily to the roots where your real hair color is showing, leave it there for longer, and then work the rest through the hair for the last few minutes. Another alternative is to buy root touch-up kits that match the hair dye you used.
Women should consider getting highlights along with dying their hair, to add a softer edge to their new look.
Try using natural or organic hair dyes free from harmful chemicals. You will have better hair and it will be better.
 Have you been rocking "The Rachel" for the last twenty years? If so, then you're overdue for a trendier haircut that can make the most of your youthful face and features. Check out some stylish magazines or even some celebrity gossip magazines and see what hairstyles are popular these days. You don't have to go for something ultra-trendy if that's not your thing, but getting a haircut that suits you better than your old one can make you look a decade younger. Here are some things to consider when you go for a new haircut:Women:

Consider getting bangs if you have a larger forehead and if they fit your face shape. They will make you look more youthful.
Layers can also take years off the age you look. They'll make your hair look more textured, airy, and voluminous, and will get rid of that flat, stringy look your hair might be suffering from.
Chop off your hair so it frames your face and falls above your shoulders. Cutting a few inches off your hair will make you look years younger. Just make sure you don't cut it too short so you end up looking like you're rocking the Grandma look.



Men:

Let your hair grow out just a bit so your features look less harsh. But don't let your hair get too shaggy or you'll look a bit more haggard and old.
If you're going bald, consider shaving your head. This will make you look younger -- and sexier -- instead of just letting your bald spot show.
 Wearing clothes that flatter your figure can make you instantly look slimmer and more trendy, without having to try too hard. This applies to men as well, although men's' body shapes have less variety than women's body shapes. You won't look any younger if you dress like a person half your age; in fact, this may make you look even older. Instead, focus on clothing that is right for you.


Women don't need to show additional cleavage to look younger; instead, wear flattering shirts that emphasize your best features without calling too much attention to your chest.
If you've been wearing the same things for the past decade, it’s time to update your wardrobe. If you don't know what to buy, try asking a friend or family member with good style to go to some shops with you, or if you are uncomfortable doing this, have a look in magazines and see what kinds of things you like on models in there and see how you can apply it to yourself.
If you are still unsure, either go to a shop and ask a sales assistant for advice, or just go and pick up all the items of clothing you like the look of, even if you think they might not suit you, take them to the changing rooms and have fun trying new things. Eventually you'll be pleasantly surprised with something and will have something new and fresh.
 Bright colors will make you look more youthful, fun, and vibrant. Wearing vibrant colors will also make you feel more youthful and energetic. Get rid of all of those black, gray, and neutral-toned clothes and spice up your wardrobe with some red, orange, green, and other festive colors. Though black and darker colors may be slimming, they also make you look a bit older than you really are.


You don't have to get rid of your darker colored clothes completely. But if you do wear a black shirt, for example, spice it up with a colorful tie or a bright piece of jewelry.
 Women should put away those matching necklace and earring sets that make them look dignified, but a bit older, in favor of trendier jewelry. You'll look a lot younger if you have cute, stylish earrings instead of wearing that matching pear earring and necklace set you love so much. Women who wear colorful rings are also said to look younger, because the rings add some spice to their outfit.


Additionally, it helps to get manicures and pedicures regularly. This extra hand maintenance will make you look even younger.
 Studies show that wearing pink-grapefruit scented perfume -- or even lotion -- makes women give off a younger vibe than any other scent. Don't overdo it, of course, but just a dab behind the ears can work wonders.
 Drink at least 10 8 oz. glasses of water and you will help keep your skin moist and will continue to look as fresh and young as can be. Hydrating will keep your insides healthy and will make you not only feel better, but look healthy on the outside. Make drinking water a regular part of your daily routine. Don't just drink it with meals, but make sure to have a glass every hour or two, even if you're not feeling particularly thirsty.You don't have to over-hydrate, but make a point of drinking enough water to stay healthy and look young.
 This can be difficult, some people are too busy, unsure of what to do or think they are too unfit to start exercise. However, even small but regular amounts of exercise will help to keep you energetic and lively, which won't only keep you looking young, but will keep you feeling young too! Combine this with a healthy, well balanced diet and you'll be in better health for longer, have more energy and prevent illnesses which can add years onto your appearance.Make a goal of exercising for at least 30 minutes a day.
If it's really hard to work exercising into your daily routine, aim to walk as much as you can. Walk to the grocery store for 20 minutes instead of driving, walk when you're chatting on the phone with your friends, or just try to walk for at least two hours a week.
Though staying in shape is important, losing weight drastically or yo-yo dieting may make you suddenly lose a lot of weight, but it can actually make you look older. Losing weight quickly can make your facial and neck skin look a bit saggy, so it's better to take things in moderation and lose weight gradually. Low-carb, high-fat diets can actually assist with weight loss.Some great exercises for older people include yoga, Pilates, biking, easy hiking, and tennis.
 Though there is no one magical food that will take ten years off your face, there are some foods you can eat regularly that can make you look and feel more youthful. Here are some foods that you should incorporate into your diet if you haven't already:Oranges. The vitamin C in this delicious fruit is guaranteed to make you feel younger.
Broccoli. This vegetable has vitamin C and properties that help keep your liver strong.
Low-fat yogurt. It can help your skin and give you the calcium you need for healthy teeth.
Berries. The antioxidants in any kind of berry can help keep your skin fresh.
Sweet potatoes. These are great for your complexion and hair.
Carrots. These are another fantastic food for your skin.
 It is a water-soluble vitamin that is an antioxidant. This means that it protects your cells from damage that is caused by free radicals. Vitamin C is known to help the skin heal, protect from the sun's harmful UV rays, and support the rest of the body (not only the skin) in other ways. Don't take more than 2000 mg per day as it can increase your chance for kidney stones.., This fat-soluble vitamin helps keep our bones strong, prevent cancer and autoimmunity, and support healthy aging of the skin. There are receptors for Vitamin D all over your body., It's shown that these vitamins help to repair the skin and possibly prevent Alzheimer's disease., That's right. Studies show that having sex at least three times a week makes you look ten times younger than people who don't. This is because sex leads to the production of a human growth hormone that prevents aging. This doesn't mean that you should go out looking for a good shag three nights a week just to look younger, but if you have a partner that you love (or like), then make a point of getting it on a bit more.You may be telling yourself that you're too busy, tired, or just have too much on your mind to have sex. But hey, now you can think of having sex not as a fun way to pass the time, but as a means of looking younger. Now that's productive!

, Nothing will make you look older faster than slouching over like your grandmother. Having good posture will make you look much younger; all you have to do is make a conscious effort to keep your spine straight, your shoulders up instead of slouching, and your face looking ahead instead of down at the floor, and you'll instantly look ten years younger. Keeping your spine straight will also make the nerve cells in the spine fire more efficiently, giving you more energy and making you look and feel younger throughout the day.It may be tempting to slouch when you're sitting down, but remember that good posture is something you can maintain whether you're sitting down or standing up.
 You shouldn't go for 10-12 hours a sleep every night just to try to look younger. That won't work. However, you should aim to be well-rested as often as you can. As you get older, your body will begin to show signs of tiredness more and more, especially around the eyes. You may even find, as you age, that you need less sleep than you did a decade ago, and that's fine too. Try to stick to whatever magic sleep number works for you, whether it's seven hours or even a little less., Getting a massage at least once a month, whether it's done professionally or administered by a loving (or begrudging) significant other, can make you feel relaxed and ease up on some of the tension that makes your body look older. It also stimulates the secretion of anabolic hormones, which reduce aging.


Make a goal of getting a massage at least once a month, or even more frequently, if you're feeling particularly tense.
 Doing yoga is a lower-impact way of taking care of your mind and body, relieving stress, and making yourself feel more grateful for the life you're given. Take a look around the yoga studio and see how youthful and energetic all of the women are; surely going to yoga at least once or twice a week couldn't hurt how young you look. Yoga is also a great way to get exercise, heal injuries, or to work out as a beginner (if you take a class for beginners, that is.)Doing yoga also generally promotes a healthy lifestyle that will help you look younger.
 It's a fact that a stressful lifestyle will make you tired and unhappy, and will give you wrinkles. Try to reduce the number of responsibilities you have, and find new ways of coping with life's demands. Try taking at least an hour a day to chill out and do something such as relaxing in the bath with a good book, or to watch your favorite TV program. Though it's impossible to fully eliminate stress from your life, even if you live on a tropical paradise and have found a bag full of money, you can take steps to minimize the stress you're feeling.


This means avoiding situations that bring you great stress, like going to loud parties you don't even like or getting in your car during the peak of rush-hour traffic.
Make a list of the ten things that stress you out the most. Now, write down five ways that you can reduce your exposure to each thing, if you can.
Of course, there are some stressful things you can't avoid, such as an aging parent or a spouse who lost his job; however, you do have the power to develop a more positive attitude toward these things.
 If you're a smoker, make a concerted effort to quit smoking as soon as you can (easier said than done, eh?). It's one of the worst things you can do if you're trying to avoid looking old. It makes your lips thinner, your skin dryer and more wrinkly, and dull and your hair and nails discolored. As well as this, quitting will make you much more healthy and less likely to get a serious disease in the future.


Smoking obviously also makes you smell like cigarettes. This is not a smell associated with people in the first bloom of youth -- not in 2013, anyway.
 Add laughter to your life. As you age, happiness and laughter are an essential element of your well-being. Surrounded by good friends with funny stories keeps you young and vibrant. Don't worry about giving yourself wrinkles from laughing too much -- just laugh your heart out. Be around people who make you laugh and feel ten years younger, and you will begin to look it.
 The side effects of alcohol drinking are less widely known than the effects of smoking, but it is just as harmful. Alcohol can cause premature aging as well as being linked with disease later in life. Alcohol also dehydrates you, which will make your skin look more dry. Alcohol can also create puffiness around your eyes the day after you drink it, and that does not create a youthful effect, either.


Of course, part of looking young is feeling young and having fun. And for some people, alcohol is a fun social lubricant. So, if you like to get crazy and have a few martinis now and again, don't cut the drinking out of your life completely.
 Seriously. Part of looking young is having a fun, carefree attitude. This doesn't mean that you should be immature, dance on tables, or make fun of people like you're in the sixth grade. It does mean that you should be positive, friendly, and avoid jealousy, resentment, or any other feelings that make you feel like you're turning into an old lady.Stop worrying as much as you can and go out there and enjoy the world. You'll be too busy having fun to worry about how you look.
Be proud of your age. Stay positive about how you look, even if you wish you could look a little younger, and other people will see your looks in a more positive light.

