 Cut your bread into slices, then cut them into half inch cubes by making a criss-cross cut on the bread. Once you're done cutting up your bread, you can put them in a bowl and season them with salt and pepper., Preheat your oven to 275°F (135°C). Spread your breadcrumbs out on a baking sheet and place it in the oven once it's hot. Monitor your breadcrumbs and pull them out to rotate the baking sheets and to stir up the breadcrumbs. This will help them crisp.You can line your baking sheet with tin foil to help with catch all the leftover crumbs and help with clean up.
 You can either cut your break up your sausage with your hands into teaspoon sizes.Some sausage even comes pre-broken. Try to keep your pieces of sausage a similar size so that it can all cook evenly.
 Add a teaspoon of butter or oil to a large skillet and heat the pan on medium heat. Do not burn your butter or allow it to brown. Once the pan is hot, add in your sausage and continue to cook it until it is brown and cooked all the way through. Your sausage should cook in around eight minutes.Once you're done cooking the sausage, remove it and allow the grease to drain onto a paper towel.
 Add your celery, onion, garlic and spices to the skillet and continue to cook them until they are soft, which should take around 5 to 10 minutes. Do not keep them on the heat too long or they may become mushy.
 Whisk your chicken stock and eggs in a large bowl and pour in your sausage while mixing. Add your bread cubes, sausage, and vegetables to it. Fold your mixture over thoroughly using a spatula or spoon. Add more chicken stock if you want your stuffing to be more moist., Use butter or cooking spray to grease the inside of your slow cooker. This will prevent food from sticking to the sides. Use a 6-quart standard slow cooker to cook your stuffing., Pour your mixture into the slow cooker and put the lid on top. Set it to low and allow it to cook for 4 hours. Once it's done cooking, allow the stuffing to set for 5 or 6 minutes before serving.
