 If you set the broiler on, know that you'll have to watch the peppers vigilantly to ensure they don't overcook. The oven, at 500, will cook a bit more slowly and evenly, and is the best way to go., You can also drizzle a small amount of oil out on the sheet if you do not have cooking spray.
 They don't have to be very separated, but they need enough room that you can flip them as they cook. The object is to burn the skin on the peppers so you can peel it off, but you want to make sure all the sides are well crisped.


You can cut the peppers in half and remove seeds before cooking. Some believe this detracts from the flavor, others note it makes the work much easier later. It is your call!, You want to keep the peppers moving. If you're using the broiler, make sure you turn it even more frequently -- ever 3-5 minutes -- to ensure they don't burn completely., They should have bits of color poking through, not so charred that they resemble coals. But the skin should be relatively well colored and hot. When the peppers have turned black almost all over, remove them from the oven.
 If you're only roasting 1-2 peppers, this is the way to go, as you can directly roast them without heating the whole oven. The most common way to do this is a grill, but you can even use your stove-top range if you want.



If using your stove-top: wrap the peppers in 2 layers of aluminum foil. Peppers "weep" as they roast, and you don't want these juices on your stove. This mess won't be a problem on a grill., If you're using the stovetop method, you can simply rest the peppers on the grate that normally holds your pots and pans on the stove. For the grill, toss the pepper right on the grate above the flame.
 You'll want to make sure everything cooks evenly, and the whole pepper blisters nicely and evenly. Make sure you keep the peppers moving, keeping an eye on the charring.


For the foil-wrapped peppers, use the tongs to feel the sides soften. You'll notice the side on direct heat gets noticeably squishier.
 Again, you can choose how long to keep the peppers on depending on your tastes, but almost all of the skin needs to be blackened and blistered. For the stovetop, remove the peppers once they entire thing feels soft and pliable under the tongs.