 One of the most serious obstacles to focusing in the modern world is the constant temptation to surf and text. A distracting phone notification can take time away from reading, cause you to lose your place, or even cause you to forget what was happening in the book. Turn off your phone and computer. Move to a distant location where you won’t be tempted to use them., We are biologically wired so that loud noises and bright lights will break our attention; this is a relic of a time when we needed to be constantly vigilant about predators. To prevent these interruptions, we should try to block out unanticipated noises. Earplugs can do this, but most people will find headphones more pleasant.


If you're using headphones, it's important that the music you listen to is not itself distracting. This will vary from person to person, but often the optimal music for these purposes is soft, without lyrics, and fairly repetitive., Meditation has been shown to expand parts of the brain involved in conscious focus.When meditating, focus on one thing, preferably your breathing, and try to shut out the rest of the world. Do this for a few minutes per day to improve your concentration and possibly for a minute before you begin to read, to get you primed to concentrate., You may like to lie down when you read, but that certainly won't help you stay awake. Exercise good posture. Sit straight up. Keep your knees parallel to your hips. Let your feet rest flat on the floor.One study has shown that students that sit up perform better on tests than those who slouch. Good posture may help you focus, and it'll also help prevent getting aches and pains from being hunched over a book., Caffeine can help you concentrate on what you’re doing, give you energy, and keep you awake.It can even help alleviate focus problems caused by ADHD.If you are not used to caffeine, try some green tea so that you don’t become over-caffeinated. Otherwise, a cup of coffee should help.


Caffeine works best if you do not overuse it. It is ideal to have one dose of caffeine per day, whenever you most need to concentrate., If you consistently have trouble reading, you might suffer from ADHD. Visit a psychiatrist and honestly describe your symptoms. If he believes that you do suffer from ADHD, he will likely prescribe you medication that can help you concentrate.Don’t try to diagnose yourself before going to the psychiatrist. Suggestion can be powerful; it is easy to convince yourself that you have the symptoms of ADHD and end up giving your psychiatrist a skewed perspective on what you are experiencing.

