 Modern technology provides many convenient options for sending along a quick “hello” or planning your upcoming time together. Even small gestures like a short text message or well-timed voicemail can help sustain each of you during long stretches apart.Although you may not be able to spend time together physically, you can still communicate by sending emails, text messages, or by calling each other throughout the day. For example, if you work the graveyard shift, call your partner during the last break of your shift as your partner is just waking up and beginning his/her day.
Of course, if you do get the occasional chance to drop in while you know your loved one is on a break, take it. Even a few minutes of face-to-face time can provide a needed boost of energy and appreciation.
 When you work opposite shifts from your partner, you will have no choice but to divide up some of the important decision-making responsibilities. The person at home during the daytime will primarily be put in the position of making quick decisions on subjects like finances, home repairs, and issues related to any children you may have.First and foremost, of course, you have to demonstrate trust in each other or your relationship isn’t going to survive regardless of what times you each go to work. If you need to be consulted on — or even approve — every little decision that has to be made, then you may have a relationship problem that is bigger than working opposite shifts.
That said, it makes sense to lay out some ground rules together for what decisions should and should not be made unilaterally by one of you while the other is unavailable for consultation at work. Perhaps, depending on your circumstances, changing your cable TV plan to get a better deal is OK, while trading in your car for a new one is not. Or, hiring a plumber to fix a leaky sink is a “yes,” while hiring a plumber to completely remodel your bathroom is a “no.”

, Few people can thrive when they have to spend long stretches separated from their relationship partner. While no one else can completely fill this void, you can manage some of the loneliness by turning towards other people you know and care about.If you have family nearby, spend more time with them when your partner is unavailable due to work. They can offer you support when you need it, or just someone to talk to comfortably. Also, think of the “bonus points” you can earn with your parents by spending more time with them!
Partners in a couple often find themselves drifting away from their old, individual friends in favor of “couple” friends. One of the possible advantages of opposite shift relationships is that it is much easier to keep your own circle of friends. You can watch football or go bargain-hunting with your friends without worrying if your partner will be bored or annoyed.
If you find yourself turning down some of your limited time with your partner in favor of more time with your friends, however, you may have some deeper relationship troubles brewing.
 If you have kids, you’ll likely have no problem filling your time while your significant other is at work. Otherwise, you may find yourself with some free, alone time. Use this time to your advantage by doing something for yourself with it.Seize the opportunity to take up a hobby that you enjoy but that does not interest your partner. It could be knitting, stamp collecting, gourmet cooking, golf, or any one of a number of activities.
Don’t feel guilty about using your time this way while your partner is off at work. If it makes you happy, it will benefit your relationship. Encourage your partner to take up his/her own hobbies as well.
Eventually, chances are that your shifts will change, you’ll have kids, or some other factors will cause you to lose this time to yourself. So enjoy it while you can.

