 Federal law requires each state's child support enforcement agency to make its services available to you if you open a case. The exact department you need to contact and the procedures for enforcing child support orders differ among states and even among different counties within each state.You can find the contact information for your state's child support enforcement agency by using the locator provided by the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Office of Child Support Enforcement at http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/css/state-and-tribal-child-support-agency-contacts-map.
Contact your state agency as soon as possible when the other parent gets behind. Child support arrears become more difficult to collect as the amount owed grows. Furthermore, federal law limits the ability to collect back child support after several years have elapsed.Even if the deadbeat parent has moved to a different state, the federal Uniform Interstate Family Support Act means other states must defer to a child support order entered in your state, which has continuing exclusive jurisdiction over your child support case.Because collection processes are automated in most states, the child support agency typically is automatically notified once the amount of arrearages reaches a certain threshold level.States have collectors to go after deadbeat parents for unpaid child support. Federal law requires states to make these services available to you either for free or for a fee of $25 a year or less.Federal law allows child support agencies to use methods such as seizure of property and assets, liens on real or personal property, or interception of state or federal tax returns without involving the courts., The agency will have an application or other forms for you to fill out to begin withholding income from the other parent to pay for child support arrears.


Wage garnishment is one of the first tools the state has at its disposal to collect child support arrears on your behalf.In some states, wage garnishment is automatic if the non-custodial parent misses even one payment. Your state agency will be able to tell you what tools have already been used, if any, to collect the unpaid child support you're owed.Federal law requires employers to report new hires to their state's child support enforcement agency. This information is included in a national directory, so if the other parent was recently hired, your state's child support agency will have information about his new employer.If the other parent is self-employed or otherwise has irregular income, he may be required to pay child support directly to the child support enforcement agency., You may have to fill out information about your child including custody arrangements, or supply copies of the original court orders.


If unpaid child support was owed before the agency became involved in your case, the agency has to verify the amount of arrears before it can collect that money on your behalf. You can present this evidence to the child support agency, but you may have to go to court and have the amount verified before the agency can start collections processes.Each state and county has specific forms you must fill out to open a case. For example, if you live in Los Angeles County, you must submit a copy of all judgments and orders in your case as well as a Declaration of Support Payment History and records of payments made and payments missed., Keep in contact with the agency and keep your records up to date to make sure you continue to get your payments.


The federal Child Support Enforcement Act empowers state attorneys to collect back child support using a number of enforcement measures including filing liens against property or real estate, suspending professional or driver's licenses, and freezing bank accounts.If the other parent is receiving a tax refund, the state agency may be able to intercept that refund to cover any unpaid child support payments.If direct methods don't work, the child support enforcement agency has the ability to take the other parent to court on your behalf to seek other methods of collecting unpaid child support.