 Say exactly what you saw or what the authority figure reported to you. Tell your child that you love them, but you are concerned about their bullying.


Remain calm during this conversation. Even if you are angry, disappointed, or concerned, you should keep a steady voice. If you become upset, your child might become defensive, anxious, or defiant.
Be direct. Ask your child if the report about their bullying is true. If they deny it, ensure they have an acceptable explanation as to why their behavior was understood as bullying.
Listen to your child’s side of the story. Were they bullying, or were they standing up for themselves against a bully? If the latter, help them think about alternatives to physical force or aggression of their own. For instance, you could recommend that next time, they get a parent or teacher involved in the conflict.;
, Perhaps they were trying to impress their friends. Perhaps they wanted to attract attention from their peers or from adults (including you). Perhaps they have anger issues stemming from a lack of attention at home or some other cause, such as marital conflict.


Perhaps your child hasn’t learned appropriate conflict resolution tactics.
Bullies are often insecure, or were bullied by others.Reflect on the home situation for the child. Although it may be difficult to confront these issues, ask yourself if there are there any sources of conflict within your family.
Talk to your child's teachers, nurses, school administration, baby sitters, and other daily caretakers. They may have witnessed things that your child is hesitant to talk to you about.
If you have a hard time figuring out why your child is bullying another, consider seeking professional help. Child psychologists are trained to identify and prescribe remedies for various causes of bullying behavior. If your child is bullying another child, enroll them in therapy.
Remember, understanding why your child bullies others does not excuse their behavior – it only explains it.
 As a parent, you might not see bullying behavior at home, or your child might not engage in bullying when you’re around. Even if the child does bully others around you, you might be tempted to be generous and dismissive when you see it because you love your child. However, it is important to recognize when your child is being hurtful or domineering towards someone else, and take necessary corrective action.


Do not dismiss reports from teachers and other parents about your child’s behavior. Take them at their word and talk to your child about their actions.If someone tells you that they have seen your child bully others, ask them questions about the incident to learn as much as you can about it. Be sure to thank them for coming to you.
 These traits demonstrate a need for control and difficulty relating to others. Keep an eye out for behavior that denies personal responsibility and justifies aggression or emotional outbursts. Your child may also exhibit:


poor social skills
anxiety, depression, or frustration
a lack of accountability
a lack of empathy
a need for control
low self-esteem
jealousy

, It is important to recognize when your child has an emotional disability that might impact their social relations. If you have trouble doing so, or suspect an emotional or developmental disability, consult a child psychiatrist for a professional diagnosis.


For example, a child who struggles to read faces or process verbal and social cues might not realize when they accidentally upset another child.

