 Many men don’t want to tell people close to them about the rape. You may be afraid or embarrassed, but your family and friends can be your greatest supporters.Keeping them in the dark can cause a distance in your relationship and make you feel isolated.


You don’t have to tell all of your family members and friends. Start by someone very close to you, who is also supportive of you.
Try to talk to them in a private place, where you feel comfortable and safe telling them about the rape.
You could start the conversation by saying, “I need to talk to you about something that happened to me. I was raped.”

, Even if you don't choose to report your attack, you need to get help to overcome the trauma of rape. If you don't, it can cause long-term effects on your mental health. Rape can cause feelings of depression, anxiety, shame, fear, anger, feelings of vulnerability, loss of self-image, feelings of blame, self-distancing, and self-harming behaviors.It can also cause Rape-Related Post traumatic Stress Disorder.You deserve help, so reach out to a professional.


Therapists, counselors, and psychologists are trained to give you the support you need to deal with being a victim of a rape.
Professionals can also teach you effective ways to cope with the emotional, mental, and physical effects of the rape.
Contact your local rape crisis center. They offer a range of services for male rape victims and can refer you to a crisis counselor.
Ask a family member or friend to go with the first time or two if you aren’t comfortable seeing a therapist on your own.
 Although it is not talked about a lot, the number of males that have been raped is close to the number of females that have experienced this trauma.Joining a support group or online forum can connect you with others that have been through the same thing. They can help you deal with being raped and the effects of it.


Check with your school counselor, local rape crisis center, or religious organization for information about support groups near you.
You can call 1-800-656-HOPE or visit the RAINN website to find a support group in your area.
If you aren’t comfortable going to an in-person support group, consider joining an online forum or group for male rape victims.

