 The TANF program is designed to provide temporary financial assistance to needy families. The program provides grants to cover basic family needs like food and housing.Cases are evaluated on an individual basis, so everyone's experience will vary.You can click here to access a list of services offered by individual states.
Alternatively, you could call (202) 401-9275 to get further information about the TANF program.
 SNAP is designed to help low-income families buy good-quality food. The program is more commonly known as "Food Stamps," although the old stamps are typically not used anymore. If you're approved, you'll receive a card that works like a debit card, and works at approved locations. Follow these steps to apply for the program.Click here to see if your state accepts online SNAP applications. If so, fill out the application and submit it online.
If your state doesn't accept online application, click here to find where the nearest SNAP office is in your state. Go there in person to fill out the paperwork.
After you submit your paperwork, the SNAP office may want to interview you. Schedule this right away so you can get your benefits as soon as possible. Make sure you ask the SNAP representative what paperwork you need to bring to your interview. They will often need things like government identification, social security numbers, and bank information., The LIHEAP is a federally-funded program designed to help struggling families pay their energy bills. Single mothers who are having financial difficulties can apply for this program to help keep their homes powered.There are a number of different forms you might have to fill out to apply for this program, depending on your situation. Click here to access all the relevant paperwork you'll need.
You can also call (202) 401-9351 for any information you might need.
 If your child's father owes you child support and hasn't paid, there is a state office that enforces support payments. View this map to find your state and get the contact information for your state child support office.
 The federal government offers hundreds of grants for various reasons. Some of these are designed to help single mothers with expenses. Search this catalog to see if there are any grants that you could apply for., States might also offer their own aid programs for single mothers. This depends on which state you live in. Click here to see a list of assistance programs offered by individual states.

