 Before you can curl Barbie's hair, you'll need to gather certain supplies. You should be able to use basic household supplies but you may have to run to a craft store for certain products.


In addition to your Barbie doll, you will need pipe cleaners. If you don't have pipe cleaners, you can usually find them it at a local craft store.If you cannot find pipe cleaners, any thin, twistable device works. You could try gathering twist ties from bread bags, for example.
You will also need a pair of scissors.
If you're considering washing your doll's hair before or after curling it, you should have have a comb, gentle shampoo, and conditioner.;
, Cut the pipe cleaners or twist ties in half using the scissors. Then, fold the pipe cleaners or twist ties into a v-shape.Twist ties are generally shorter than pipe cleaners. You may not need to cut them in half, depending on their length.
 Once your supplies are prepared, you can begin working with Barbie's hair. Gather one small section of Barbie's hair. Then, take your pipe cleaner and place the bended end on the doll's scalp. Pull the hair in a straight line along the twist tie or pipe cleaner.
 Take the section of twirled hair and wrap it over and under each side of the pipe cleaner or twist tie. Do this until you reach the end of the strand of hair. Then, twist the ends of the pipe cleaner or twist tie together to prevent the hair from unraveling.
 Take another section of Barbie's hair and repeat the process above. Keep repeating until all of Barbie's hair is curled into pipe cleaners or twist ties.How many curls you have depends on how curly you want your Barbie's hair. Thinner strands will result in frizzier, tighter curls while thicker strands will result in wavier curls.
 Once all the pipe cleaners are in, boil a pot of water. Dunk Barbie's head in the water and hold for a count of ten.
 After counting to ten, remove Barbie's head from the water. Gently blot the doll's hair dry with a clean paper towel.
 For best results, leave the doll's hair alone overnight. This will give the hair time to fully dry, allowing the curls to set in completely., In the morning, unravel all of the twists in Barbie's hair. Work slowly as to not tangle the hair in the process. Separate the curls and gently fluff Barbie's hair, using your fingers or a small brush. If you notice any loose ends, gently snip them off with scissors.







