 One of the easiest ways to make some quick cash is to sell unwanted items online. There are a large number of well-known sites that provide a platform for this. You may decide to list items on sites that have a large number of visitors, or choose a more niche site where your items will stand out from the crowd.


You could consider posting listings across multiple sites, but remember that as soon as an item is sold you will have to quickly remove the listings from any other sites.
To price your items, do some research on how much similar things are being listed and sold for.
Always be accurate and truthful in descriptions of the goods you are selling, and always try to include a picture when appropriate. A good picture can really help your items sell.You can sell of old CDs and DVDs very quickly online, but the return for each item will be relatively small.;
, If you have decided to try and sell some things to make some quick cash, perhaps the best way to get a good and fast return is to sell expensive items first. Look through your room and house and see what you don’t need, and what might fetch a good price. High-end electronic goods may maintain their value, but things such as old text books can also bring in a significant windfall.


If you are selling old books, do some research and think about using specialist book selling websites as well as the more mainstream online stores and auction sites.
One big ticket item that can bring in significant cash is a wedding dress. You may not want to part with it, but it can bring in hundreds of dollars in a pinch., There are alternatives to selling your old stuff online. It takes a bit more work, but if you have some good second hand stores nearby you can take in some of your stuff and see if the store owner is interested. Often second hand stores both buy and sell items, and going there in person means you can talk about a price face-to-face.


If you have items such as vintage clothing or furniture, you should be able to get a good price in a vintage or second hand store.
It’s a good idea to visit a few stores first to look around and see what kind of prices they are charging for items similar to what you are selling.
Specialist second hand book stores also buy books, but will generally be quite selective about what they buy.You can either consign your old things or sell them outright. Consignment means that you get an agreed percentage of the price they are re-sold for, whereas selling out-right gives you money up front.
Consigning is usually a higher risk, because you may not get anything at all if it isn’t sold, but if it sells well you may get more than from selling out-right., Another way to make money by selling on old things, is to scour local garage sales from items that are being sold off cheaply, which you think you will be able to sell on at a higher price. Try to play it safe at the start and only buy things you are very confident you can turn a profit on.


Don’t forget to include the costs of listing and shipping items you intend to sell on.
Look for yard sale and garage sales in your local newspaper., Similar to selling things, recycling can be another way to make quick cash. There are all sorts of things which you may be able to recycle, so take a good look around your house for things that may have a value. Old electronic items, such as mobile phones can be recycled to earn you some cash. There are a number of websites that will offer you money to recycle your old phone. Search online and then enter the details of your phone. You will be made an offer, and then be asked to mail your phone before the money is transferred to you.Old phones will be stripped for parts, whereas newer phones may be refurbished and sold on.
Other things you can get paid to recycle include everything from printing cartridges, to old tires.
You can also recycle aluminium cans. This is a tried and trusted method, but you will need to gather an awful lot of cans to make much cash.
For aluminium cans you might get 40-50 cents per pound from your local recycling centre.