 Rushing through your meals will make you end up eating more, since your stomach doesn't have time to send your brain the signal that it's full. Chew your food slowly and pay attention to what you're eating. Put your fork down in between bites, if that helps you to slow down. Avoid eating in front of the TV or while reading, since the lack of attention to your meal will have you mindlessly overeating.
 By alternating full-force cardio with small rest periods, you maximize your ghrelin level reduction (which will suppress your appetite).
 When a big craving hits, brush your teeth. The flavor tricks your mind into thinking that you ate something, and it puts you off your food for a few hours, since eating right after brushing makes food taste horrible.You don't want to go brushing your teeth 5 times a day, though. Brushing too much can wear away the enamel on your teeth. Brush no more than 2 or 3 times a day.
Chewing minty sugarless gum might be another good way to trick yourself into feeling full for awhile.
 Studies show that being sleep deprived causes us to eat more throughout the day, and also increases our affinity for high caloric foods . On the other hand, getting too much sleep can have the same effect. Aim to get 7 or 8 hours of sleep every night to achieve the "sweet spot" necessary to keep your hunger in check.
 Boredom is a major culprit when it comes to overeating. If you have too much time on your hands, chances are you'll fill it with food. Stay active all day long, whether you're at work or at home. Change things up by taking short walks, meeting with people in person, doing activities that require the use of your hands, and so on. Don't give yourself time to get hungry!

, Eating because you're sad, angry, or just stressed out is a great way to kill any diet. Stress causes the body to overproduce hormones that make you feel hungry, which is why the idea of reaching for cookies and ice cream to deal with bad news has become a cultural cliché. Manage your problems with meditation, exercise, and therapy so you won't turn to sugar and starch.

