 Trying to find the best over the counter cold medicine can be a frustrating experience. There are so many varieties that it can be difficult to know which is best for you, especially when your head is stuffed up. Ask your pharmacist to recommend a medication that is safe and effective.Be very clear when describing your symptoms to the pharmacist. Make sure to let him know if you're feeling very drowsy, or if you are having trouble sleeping. You should also tell him if you have any allergies or sensitivities.
 You don't want to take too many over the counter medications. That can lead to drowsiness and potentially cause other health issues. However, you can safely take one medication when fighting your cold. Choose one that targets your worst symptoms.If your cold is causing you to stay awake at night coughing, look for an over the counter medication that contains dextromethorphan. This substance in one of the most effective in reducing nasal congestion.
 Colds come with various aches and pains and sometimes even a fever. Your muscles and joints might be sore, which just adds to your general misery. Try taking an over the counter painkiller to ease these symptoms.Aspirin and ibuprofen are effective at helping you get over your cold. Just remember to carefully follow the dosage guidelines on the bottle.
Use caution when giving a child aspirin, as it has been linked to Reye's syndrome. Never give aspirin to a child under the age of two. Children who have recently recovered from the chicken pox or the flu should never be given aspirin. Consult your doctor before giving any child aspirin., If you have a basic cold, your doctor can't really do much to help you. Antibiotics have proven to be ineffective against the common cold. Save yourself a trip and don't make a doctor's appointment if you know you are suffering from a cold.If your symptoms are persistent or especially severe, then you should call your doctor. You'll want medical advice particularly if you are having significant trouble breathing.

