 Select a mind frame that feels particularly reliable and bright to the mind. It might be awareness of something, feelings of happiness, equanimity, peaceful silence or a kind and gentle frame of mind such as compassion, kindness, or an appreciative happiness. It is different for each person which particular frame of mind they wish to use.


In practice, it should be one that you don't feel the need to compare to similar feelings, or be attached too. It should be one where you feel safe, restful and/or makes the mind is more cheerful and bright. Try for ones you are familiar with and/or can go to quite quickly.;
, Most important is to learn how this frame of mind occurs and how it goes away. Similarly how to return to it as how it is lost.
 If you are, then that's fine, if you aren't try and find out exactly what made the mind change. Try and check every few minutes if you can.
, Ask yourself is the different frame of mind restful or stressful?

, By knowing when you are stressed, afraid, angry, depressed or otherwise anxious you can go back to it.


Some methods are a self reminder, a mantra, image or mnemonic that prompts the mind to return to it or whatever works for you. Just practice returning until you feel confident in your ability to do it. Its a skill, but a very useful one to build.
 Try and explore the events forwards and backwards to see a common thread or event that made you leave the point of reference.
 Once you are familiar with both your point of reference, recognising when you have left it, returning to it and recognising a common thread, only then should you try and find out how that common thread or event happens. Not everyone can do it at once.
 Should anything in life be a shock or distressing, you can quickly return to your point of reference and then come to terms with things in your own time.



Its actually a lot like being able to deal yourself a winning hand in a card game. You can choose the feelings you want to have anything to do with and dump the ones you don't like last weeks garbage.
 So if its something happens that could cause problems like losing your discretion, or something you could regret like shouting at someone you care about, you can distance yourself from it and say "no" and then deal with the problem from a calmer frame of mind. If it was something good that brightens the mind, you can embrace it without being unsure.
 If you normally, or have ever had to experience an unpleasant thought chain again and again, you can return to your frame of reference and put away that thought or feeling and try to build knowledge from your foundation.
 There is a common theme that distorts the mind, you just have to find your particular one, how it happened and how you can return to your "safe-house". Give it a try and find out how your mind works and how you can avoid, work with and resolve problems.

