 Before you can plan the layout for your wedding shower, it’s important to determine how much space is available in the yard. In a smaller yard, it may be easier to set up one large table for all of the guests. In a larger yard, you may prefer to set up several smaller tables throughout the space for guests.In addition to the table(s) for guests, you may want to include a table for the gifts and one for the cake or desserts.
At a backyard wedding shower, it’s also a good idea to set up a drink station so guests can help themselves to cocktails and other beverages. You can use a table or a kitchen cart depending on the size of the yard.
It’s also important to make sure that there’s enough room for the grill at a barbecue wedding shower. Verify that there will be enough space around it for the cook(s) to work comfortably.;
, In addition to tables where guests can eat, you’ll want to include some other seating options so guests can mingle throughout the shower. Simple benches work well, as do folding lawn chairs.More formal outdoor furniture, such as a wicker chair or loveseat, is also a nice option.
If you want the barbecue shower to have an informal, picnic-like feel, lay down some blankets in the grass and add large pillows or cushions for guests to sit on.
 Depending on the time of day that you hold the shower and how shady the yard is, you may want to consider adding some type of sun coverings to protect guests from the harsh rays. Simple outdoor umbrellas work well, but you can also purchase small portable tents that you can place in extremely sunny areas in the yard.If the yard has no shade at all and you’re holding the shower in the middle of the day, you may want to rent a large tent to cover the entire area.
Make sure that the areas where you plan to keep the food and beverages are properly shielded too. Food can spoil more quickly when left out in the hot sun.
 Hopefully, you’ll have beautiful weather on the day of the shower, but it’s important to plan for poor weather just in case. Moving the shower indoors in the event that it rains is usually the easiest option if your house is large enough.A large rented tent can be an effective option if you want to hold the shower rain or shine.
You may decide that you want to postpone if the weather is bad. If that’s the case, list the backup date on the invitation so friends and family can keep that day and time available too -- and set a specific time for when you’ll decide to cancel the event, such as the night before or the morning of.
 Barbecuing food can be a time consuming process because you have to stand over the grill to ensure that the food doesn’t burn. You may want to hire caterers to handle the barbecuing so you can enjoy time with your guests and the guest(s) of honor.Many catering companies or barbecue restaurants are equipped to handle barbecues. They will supply the food, and in most cases, the grill equipment, so you only have to worry about having the room to accommodate them.
Catering the shower will obviously cost more than preparing the barbecue yourself, so it’s not the best option if you’re on a budget.
If you don’t want to pay extra for catering, consider asking a friend or family member who isn’t on the guest list to help with the grilling.
 No matter what type of shower you’re hosting, it’s usually easier to serve the food buffet-style. However, at a backyard barbecue event, it’s an especially good idea because serving guests one by one takes a long time. Set up a table or two to place the food, plates, and cutlery on, and allow the guests to help themselves.If you’re concerned about the food from the grill getting cold, use chafing dishes to keep the dishes warm. You can find chafing dishes, racks, and fuel at any party supply store.
 Because barbecuing the main course will take some time, it’s best to choose simple hors d’oeuvres or appetizers that don’t require much -- or any -- cooking time. For example, simple skewers with fresh vegetables, fruit, and cheese can be a tasty appetizer that you can prepare ahead of time. Your favorite dip or spread with an assortment of crackers or breadsticks also works well.Make a simple antipasto platter with fresh cheeses, salami, olives, and roasted red peppers, and serve it with crackers or bread.
If you want hot appetizers, consider making a couple of pizzas that you can cook right on the grill. Add your favorite toppings, and cut them into bite size pieces for guests to enjoy.
 Instead of the usual barbecue fare of burgers and hotdogs, opt for more sophisticated dishes, such as barbecued chicken, steak, brisket, or seafood. Kabobs that alternate meat with vegetables are ideal options too. If you’re going for a more casual shower and the guest of honor is a fan, you might even consider barbecuing some ribs.Any grilled meat dish can be simple but delicious if you find the right marinade. Search online for some recipes that the guest(s) of honor is sure to enjoy.
Make sure to have a vegetarian option on hand. Grilled vegetable skewers are usually the easiest way to go, but you can also grill whole portobello mushrooms to serve as “steaks.” Tofu steaks are another option.
 Because grilling the meat or other main course will require most of your attention, you may want to get some help with the side dishes. Visit your local grocery store or deli to purchase premade sides that are traditionally served at barbecues, such as coleslaw, potato salad, or pasta salad, so you don’t have to worry about making them yourself.If you want to make the side dishes yourself, prepare them the day before so you don’t have to worry about finishing them when you’re manning the grill.
If you want to have some warm sides, think about options that you can easily toss on the grill so you don’t have to run inside to the kitchen. Grilled corn is a classic barbecue side, as are grilled potatoes.
 It’s always fun to choose a signature cocktail for a wedding shower -- and rename it to celebrate the guest(s) of honor. Keep up the barbecue theme by choosing an iced tea- or lemonade-based option. Make sure to have a non-alcoholic option available as well, though.If you want the guests to mix their own cocktails, make sure to print out instructions and leave them at the drink station where they’re easily accessible.
You can get the best of both worlds by making an Arnold Palmer, which is a mixture of lemonade and iced tea, and adding your favorite spirit, such as bourbon or vodka. Mix up a batch without the alcohol too.
 You’ll want a special dessert to celebrate the guest(s) of honor’s upcoming wedding, but it doesn’t necessarily have to be a cake. Consider playing up the fun barbecue theme by opting for a pie instead. You can go classic with a cherry or apple pie, but it’s best to choose the guest(s) of honor’s favorite.If you prefer a cake for the shower, you may also want to make mini pies for the dessert table. Heart-shaped hand pies are an ideal option.
If the guest(s) of honor isn’t a fan of pies, cupcakes are another sweet option for a barbecue wedding shower. Make a large display of them to present to the guest(s) of honor, and then serve an individual cupcake to each guest.
Cookies are another delicious option for the dessert table. Sugar or butter cookies with the guest(s) of honor’s monogram(s) in icing can be a fun touch.
 You may have decided that the barbecue aspect is the theme of the shower, but you don’t necessarily have to decorate with that look in mind. If the guest(s) of honor has a particular interest that you want to emphasize, incorporate that into the shower’s decor.A tropical or luau theme can be fun for a backyard barbecue shower.
 To make the backyard shower feel special, it helps to create a defined entrance to the party. You might decorate an arbor or trellis with balloons or flowers, or place a wooden sign with the guest(s) of honor’s name in the ground at the backyard gate to help welcome guests.Even placing simple potted plants or flowers in an arrangement at the gate can help create a defined entrance for the shower.
 To play up the barbecue or picnic feel of the shower, gingham tablecloths and napkins are an ideal option. Customize the look to the event that you’re celebrating, though, by using gingham in a shade that corresponds to the couple’s wedding color palette.If you want to fully recreate the wedding’s color scheme, incorporate solid pops of the other shades in the palette for the shower decor through plates, cups, balloons, and other small touches.
 With a shower that takes place outdoors, you want to take advantage of the lovely scenery in the yard. Large, ornate floral arrangements aren’t necessary if there is greenery and flowers in the yard. Instead, gather simple bunches of flowers that you can place in small jars or vases on the tables throughout the shower.For the most elegant, cohesive look, choose flowers that are similar to those growing in the yard.
 If you’re holding your backyard barbecue shower in the evening or at night, you’ll need some lighting. Wind strings of twinkling lights through the trees and bushes, or hang them over the area where you’ve set up the tables. Paper lanterns can also add color and light to the event.For a simple, elegant look, white string lights are the best option. If you prefer a most festive feel for the shower, choose multicolored or colored string lights.
Candlelight is also effective mood lighting. Scatter votive candles on the tables throughout the yard.
 To make any shower special, you should include items that celebrate the happy couple. Place photos of them on the gift or dessert table or hang monogram letters on a fence or wall to make the shower feel more personal.Create a fun garland from photos of the couple by using small clothespins to attach the pictures to ribbon or twine. String the garland across the yard or in specific areas, such as over the dessert table.

