 The ninja called this a "bokken." These were traditionally used to train for sword combat. However, many ninja preferred them to actual swords for attacking enemies, since they were lighter, easy to maneuver and more portable than a traditional sword.


Since "bokken" were made of strong, dense wood and were very effective in combat.
Another bonus when using a "bokken" – unlike with a sharp metal sword, the ninja couldn’t accidentally injure themselves with a "bokken.", The ninja sword, called a "ninja-to," was shorter and lighter than a traditional sword. "Ninja-to" were used in sword combat, and they also aided in travel by helping the ninja scale walls quickly and easily.


The "ninja-to" scabbards were fashioned to be several inches longer than their blades. The extra space inside the scabbard was used as a secret compartment to hide small weapons and poisons.Since the "ninja-to" were cheap to make, they provided the additional advantage of being disposable in difficult combat situations. It could be left behind when a quick escape is needed, for example., "Nunchakus" (or nunchucks) were very portable, making them a great choice for the ninja. "Nunchakus" could be useful in almost any combat situation as both offensive and defensive weapons, capable of blocking blows from swords and staffs.


"Nunchakus" were also used to disarm enemies wielding swords by tangling the blade between the two sticks and yanking it out of the opponent’s hand.
It was also possible for a skilled ninja to strangle an enemy with nunchakus., These staffs were hollow and had a wide range of offensive and defensive moves, making them handy and practical.Because a bamboo staff looked harmless enough and wouldn’t call any attention to the ninja, it was a great weapon to carry around out in the open and use in surprise attacks on enemies.The ninja also used the hollow staff to hide poison darts in. With a quick flick of the wrist, a ninja could use the "bo" to unleash a poison dart on an unsuspecting opponent.
They also occasionally hid small knives (such as the "kunai") in the hollow end of the "bo" for use in combat.

