 Hair dye intended for use on your head is too harsh to be used on your chest or pubic area. Instead, purchase a product created specifically for body hair.These products can be found at beauty supply stores or online.
Most of these products are marketed toward women, and advertised for used on pubic hair. These products are also safe for men to use, and can be used on any body hair (including chests and beards).
Many body hair dye products are available in both "natural colors" (like blond, black, and auburn), and "fun colors" (like pink, red, and blue). Choose the color that best matches your natural color, or opt for something a little funky.
 Body hair dye (just like dye for your head) will come in two parts: color and developer. Following the instructions included with your dye, mix these two products together.Mix these products in a non-metallic/non-ceramic bowl, or in the container provided.
Do this in a well-ventilated area.
You may want to wear rubber gloves.
 Any type of dye product has the potential to stain your skin. To prevent this, apply some petroleum jelly (not included in the kit) to the area around the hair you plan to dye.Dye will potentially stain anything it comes into contact with. Use old towels to protect your bathroom floor and counter, and use an old washcloth to wash away dye.
 Using either the wand provided or a small hair dye applicator brush, carefully apply the color to the area you'd like to dye. If you get some on your skin, simply wipe it away with a damp, soapy cloth.You can purchase a hair dye applicator brush at beauty supply stores or online.
 For blond, light brown, and red color tones, leave the product on for 15 minutes. For dark brown, black, and bold colors, leave the product on for 20 minutes. Set a timer for yourself.While you wait, you may want to apply a piece of plastic wrap to the hair dye area.
You can intensify the power of the hair dye by applying heat from a blow-dryer.
The dye may tingle a bit. However, if you feel a painful burning sensation, remove the dye immediately.
 After waiting the appropriate amount of time, get into the shower and rinse the dye from your hair until the water runs clear. Then wash the area with soap and water to remove any excess dye from your skin.