 Neither of the ingredients work well on their own, but together, they are the most widely-touted method for removing dried red wine stains.The dish soap should be a non-bleach, non-alkali detergent product – although it's okay to use a bleach-based product if your cotton is white. Bleach might help you remove the stain, but it might also remove any other colors from the fabric!For a slightly stronger mixture, use one part dish detergent and two parts hydrogen peroxide.;
, First, pour a small amount of the soap-and-peroxide solution onto the stain. Use your fingers to massage the mix into the stained area. Work inward, from the outside of the stain towards the center; this should keep the stain from spreading.


Before you apply the soap-and-peroxide mixture, place a towel inside of the garment to keep the stain from transferring to the other side. This way, the towel will absorb the stain.
If you don't want to massage the stain with your hands, or if the fabric is particularly delicate: you can blot the stain instead. Pour the soap-and-peroxide solution onto a clean towel, then firmly dab the stain with the towel.
 Make sure that the stain is thoroughly saturated with the mixture. Leave the cotton to sit for at least 30 minutes before you try to wash out the soap.
 Fill a bowl with warm water, then let the cotton soak. Make sure that the material is thoroughly saturated with water. Try running the stain under a warm faucet.
 Transfer the fabric to hot water, then let soak for an hour. A washing machine with a soak cycle is perfect for this.


Don't add any laundry soap! The fabric should still have some soap-and-peroxide mix in it.
 Once the cotton has soaked in the hot-to-warm water for one hour, give it a cold rinse. Don't add any laundry soap. If you don't want to rinse by hand, you can run a washing machine on a cold cycle.
 Don't use a drying machine, especially if the fabric is 100% cotton! High heat can dramatically shrink wet cotton. If the red wine stain remains, feel free to repeat the process.

