 When you start with GKR you are a 10th Kyu white belt, which means you are 10 grades away from black belt. The second level is yellow belt.


Orange belt comes after yellow, it is called 7th Kyu, which means you are 7 grades away from black belt.
After you have been a yellow belt for 12 lessons yours Sensei will award you your 7th Kyu ho. This is your orange tip, it is worn with an orange tip at the end of your yellow belt. This means you are halfway towards your orange belt. You don't have to do anything special to grade to this level. It is an encouragement grade.;
, It usually takes 4-9 months of karate to reach orange belt level, depending on how many days a week you train, if you train once a week it will take at least 9 months if you train 2 times a week it will take 4 1/2 -5 months.
 Also it must have been a minimum of three months since your yellow belt grading. So if you grade for example in January, you have to wait until at least April to grade to orange.
 You also need to know Taigyoku Shodan (1st Kata) and Taigyoku Nidan (2nd kata) and be able to do the. To the count and to your own timing.



Like for your yellow belt, when you are ready your sensei will give you a grading slip with your details on it and the time and date and place for your grading. Gradings are held on Sundays and once a month in each region.
 You need to pay for your grading fee and your belt if you need one.
 This was not required for your yellow belt grading but it will be required for your orange belt grading.


Your grading will include warm up, strikes, blocks, stretching, stances, kicks and Kata. You may also be asked to do some combinations.
There will usually be sparring at your grading. You may spar if you want to but it won't be required to grade, if you are too scared or don't have sparring gear yet, it won't matter if you sit to the side.
 Also concentrate.
 If you don't pass, ask the sensei what the reason was. Usually you will be allowed to come back in a month or two and try again.

