 Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) is a type of depression caused by a biochemical imbalance due to changing seasons. In some locations, usually ones further from the equator, there is less sunlight during the fall and winter months. This can change your body’s chemistry and cause symptoms that are very similar to clinical depression.These symptoms include:Low energy or fatigue
Difficulty concentrating
Increased appetite
Wanting to be isolated or alone
Disrupted sleep patterns, excessive sleepiness
SAD usually begins between 18 and 30 years of age.
You may experience increased carbohydrate cravings if you are suffering from SAD. This could lead to weight gain.
 The treatment for SAD is very similar to treatment for clinical depression. Anti-depressant medications and professional therapy are usually enough to treat SAD., Light therapy can help regulate your body’s internal clock. You can find light therapy devices at many retailers and online. The light therapy lamp should be 10,000 Lux. (Lux refers to how intense the light is.)Check with the manufacturer to be sure that your light therapy lamp is designed to treat SAD. Some light boxes used to treat skin disorders emit more ultraviolet light and could cause damage to your eyes.Light therapy is generally safe. However, if you have bipolar affective disorder you should consult with your doctor before starting light therapy.
Light therapy may also cause complications for individuals who have lupus, skin cancer, or some eye conditions., Exposure to natural sunlight may help elevate your mood.Open your curtains and blinds. Spend time outdoors when possible.
 Painting your walls with lighter colors can help reflect the natural light.Fun, bright décor may also help elevate your mood.
 When you can, try to emphasize the enjoyable aspects of winter. Try curling up in front of a fire if you have a fireplace. Roast some marshmallows. Drink some hot cocoa (in moderation, of course)., Just as with clinical depression, you can relieve the symptoms of SAD with exercise.If you live in a wintry climate, try participating in winter sports such as skiing or snowshoeing.
 Always consult with your doctor before taking any natural remedies. Some remedies may interfere with medication or cause complications to existing medical conditions.Try melatonin to help regulate your sleep. Melatonin supplements may help you regulate your sleep cycles if they’ve been disturbed by SAD.
Try St.John’s wort. There is some evidence that St. John’s wort may help alleviate mild depressive symptoms.St. John’s wort may limit the effectiveness of prescription medications, including birth control pills, heart medications, and cancer medications.St. John's wort cannot be taken with SSRIs, tricyclics, or other types of antidepressant medications. This may cause serotonin syndrome.Do not take St. John’s wort without first talking with your doctor.
 If you live in a location that gets very little natural sunlight during the winter, consider taking a vacation to a sunny place. Locations such as the Caribbean and American Southwest often have bright sunshine even during the winter.