 Turn off the TV and cable box. And then try unplugging of the all cables and plugging them back in to each input/output. Turn the box back on.;
, Check that the “input” selection on the television is on the right setting and that the channel is set to three.
 If your cable is still not working properly, there may be interference. Interference can be caused by weather, heavy appliances running or even the actual local stations. Here are some basic signs that interference may be a problem:


If you see a snow effect, it may be a temporary broadcast problem. In that case, check the other channels. If they are also experiencing snow, then it may be interference that will simply go away on its own. If the problem persists for more than a day, contact Time Warner Cable.
If you see speckled bands across the picture, it may be the result of external interference like the weather or a heavy-duty appliance running near the cable box. Try turning off the cable box and seeing if that fixes the problem. If the problem persists for more than a day, contact Time Warner Cable.
If you see straight or wavy lines diagonally in picture, it could be either interference or a problem with the TV not the cable box. If the problem persists for more than a day, contact television repairman.
If you see ghosting or double images then you are probably on a local station, not a basic cable station. The problem can be solved with fine tuning or with the local station correcting the problem on it's end. If the problem persists for more than a day, contact television repairman.
If you see the picture pulling horizontally, try adjusting the "horizontal hold" setting. This may be the result of your box picking up too much signal. If the problem persists for more than a day, contact Time Warner Cable.
If you see the picture is rolling vertically, adjust the "vertical hold" setting. If the problem persists for more than a day, call your TV repair service.
If you see the picture is too large or too small for the screen, check the set adjustments on the television. If the problem persists for more than a day, call your TV repair service.
 If you have been unable to solve your cable problems on your own, it's time to bring in a professional. Especially if the problem is one of the following:


If you see no picture on a lit screen, avoid tampering with the television or cable box. The problem is not likely on your side of the connection or something that you can fix yourself. Contact Time Warner Cable.
If you see a picture but no sound on every channel, avoid tampering with the television or cable box. The problem is not likely on your side of the connection or something that you can fix yourself. Contact Time Warner Cable.
If you see no light on the screen with or without sound, avoid tampering with the television or cable box. The problem is not likely on your side of the connection or something that you can fix yourself. Contact Time Warner Cable.
If you see a horizontal white line across the center of your television this means that your vertical amplifier collapsed. Contact a television repairman.

