 Do you have a medical condition, such as fibromyalgia or neuropathy which may make you more prone to cramps? Are you taking any medications? Some can cause cramps, or make them worse.;
, Nocturnal leg cramps become more frequent as one ages, but they can also be precipitated by a host of conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, and fibromyalgia. Getting the proper treatment and medications for these can alleviate some of the tendency to have spasms.
 Look over any prescriptions you are taking together. Some medication may be causing the leg cramps, or making them recur more often. Alternative medicines may be available. Also, if you have other symptoms apart from cramps, see your doctor who may examine you or do some checks to rule out a secondary cause for the cramps.
 There are many prescription drugs that are available, which help relax tense muscles and keep them from going into painful spasms. Be aware that some cause dependency, and ask your doctor how to avoid becoming hooked.
 Stretching exercises are commonly advised. Some doctors swear by these exercises to relieve nocturnal cramps, others aren't sold. Either way, stretching will not hurt you, so if you try them and find they help you, that's a good thing. Stretch your hamstrings, inner thigh muscles, and quadriceps, but stretch gently and don't overdo. There are lots of instructions with pictures available on the internet for each exercise.
 This is strongly advised. Positions which prevent the calf muscle from shortening when you are asleep may help. The following are not proven treatments (from research studies), but some experts believe that they help to prevent cramps.


Positioning your feet is helpful. If you can "trap" your toes against your sheets, it can keep your foot from turning down and allowing your calf muscles to seize.
 If you do get a cramp, stand up and walk around. This loosens the muscle in your leg, thus relieving the cramp.
 Cold muscles are much more likely to cramp. Even if it is a warm night, as you sleep, you become more sensitive to cool drafts. A light sheet will help reflect some of your body heat back to you, and warm muscles are much less likely to cramp.


In winter, use a covered hot water bottle to place near the area of your legs that cramps most often.






Try a warm shower if mid-cramp. It might help ease the pain.






Very hot water can get rid of cramps if you stay in it for a while. Your cramps will be less likely come back. Just be sure to use water that is hot but not burning.
 Prefer foods rich in magnesium, potassium and sodium., Be careful not to take too much; ask your doctor what the right amount is for you, as well as the right form (for example, magnesium citrate versus magnesium gluconate). Deficiency of any of these minerals can cause leg cramps., Serious safety concerns, including fatalities, associated with quinine are well-documented.Quinine can cause tinnitus, dizziness, disorientation, nausea, visual changes, and auditory deficits. There is also evidence that quinine causes serious cardiac arrhythmias. Serious adverse reactions associated with quinine use also include severe skin reactions, thrombocytopenia (a decrease in blood platelets that can cause hemorrhage or clotting problems) and other serious hematological events, permanent visual and hearing disturbances, hypoglycemia, kidney failure and generalized anaphylaxis.

