 You want to start by trimming the mustache with a pair of clippers or a small pair of scissors. The shorter hair is less likely to catch in the razor, and you’ll also have a clearer view with which to work.
 Whether in the shower or just over the sink, you should clean the skin and then apply heat. If you do not shower, then the best way to apply heat is with a wrung out, warm towel over the mustache for about a minute.


The heat both softens the hair and opens the pores, which means a closer shave with less irritation.
 Pre-shave oils give you both an extra layer of lubrication and protection against skin irritation when wet shaving. Apply a small amount to the skin around your upper lip that will come in contact with the razor., Whether you prefer canned shave gels or mixing your own shaving soap in a mug, you need to work it into a creamy lather and apply it to your face. Regardless of which type you use, applying with a shave brush helps exfoliate the skin as well as lifting and softening the hair., Using a fresh razor that has been heated with warm water, make short strokes in the same direction as the grain of the hair. Since hair does not typically grow at right angles out of a man’s face, you can test the grain direction for your particular mustache by running your fingers over the scruff to find the direction it feels smooth as opposed to prickly.


For safety razors, you want to hold the razor at about a 30-degree angle, and you do not want to apply pressure. Simply allow the weight of the razor to slide across the skin with your hand guiding it instead of pulling it.For cartridge razors, keep the plane of the cutting surface parallel with the skin. The close spacing in multi-blade cartridges will likely require rinsing the blade after each short stroke.
Stretch your upper lip downward to give yourself a taut, flat shaving surface.
Especially if you have a thick mustache and didn’t trim it very short to start, this may take several passes. Be thorough, but also be aware that many passes can lead to more nicks and shaving irritation. Reapply shaving gel or soap as needed.
 A nice cold water rinse when you have finished will soothe the skin and close the pores that you opened with the shower or warm towel.
 As with an electric shave, you will want to apply an aftershave the complements your specific skin type.

