 This is a great excuse to head to your local beauty supply emporium. Using cosmetics is one of the simplest ways to cover up blushing. Try using a primer to make sure that the rest of your make-up goes on smoothly. Then, choose a foundation that is right for you. Avoid one that is too heavy, or you will risk looking overly made-up. Instead, choose one that is lightweight but offers a high amount of pigmentation. This will give you the coverage that you are looking for. This would be a great time to enlist some help. Go to your local department store and wander around the cosmetics counters. Enlist the aid of a salesperson to help you try out some different options until you find the one the foundation or concealer that is right for you.
 If your blushing is related to social anxiety, it is possible that your doctor will be able to help you. Certain medications can reduce mild anxiety, and therefore, reduce your blushes. Often, these are beta blockers or a type of SSRIs. Consult your doctor to see if this option might be right for you., Seeing a therapist can be a great way to conquer anxiety issues. If you know that blushing is caused by stress, you should consider therapy as a way to learn to work through your condition. Your therapist can help you identify your triggers and then help you learn to utilize methods to either avoid them or deal with them more confidently.Medication only covers the symptoms, but does not resolve the root issue. Going to therapy will help to address the root issue.
 Treating your blushes might be a lengthy process. It is important to remember to try to take some of the pressure off of yourself. Remember, blushing is common. You are not alone in dealing with this condition. The less you stress about blushing, the less it will occur., Surgery is a last resort, and used only for very extreme cases. But it has successfully helped individuals greatly reduce their tendency to blush. Typically, the surgery is called endoscopic thoracic sympathectomy. It involves cutting the nerves that cause the blood vessels in the face to widen, which is what causes blushing. As with any surgical procedure, there are risks, so make sure to talk to your doctor about all of the possible outcomes.