 This can take 1 to 2 days depending upon the size of the roast.;
, Place it on a plate for seasoning.
, Add 1 tbsp. (14.8ml) of canola or olive oil to the pan.
 Turn the roast on each of its sides when they reach a caramel color.


Browning a roast helps it to seal in the juices during the cooking process. It is recommended whether you use an oven or a slow cooker.
 There are several ways to achieve a delicious result from a pork roast recipe, so choose what is preferable for your meal.


Cook the pork roast in the oven on 325 degrees Fahrenheit (163 degrees Celsius). Cooking time will be 35 minutes per lb. (0.45kg) of meat. A pork roast with the bone in will cook faster than a boneless roast. It will result in a crispier surface texture with less moisture. This is an ideal method if you want to make gravy.
Cook the pork roast in a slow cooker, for the most tender roast. Place the brown roast in the slow cooker for approximately 6 hours on low. If your roast is extremely large, you may want to cut it into a few pieces. Always reduce the amount of liquid you add to the slow cooker, unless the recipe is intended for crock pot use.
Cook the pork roast in a Dutch oven on your stove top. You will want to bring all the ingredients, including the added liquid, to a boil. Then, turn down the temperature and cook covered on low for 2.5 to 3 hours.
 This pork roast recipe, and most other recipes, can be adapted according to the way you want to cook the roast.
 Add the onions and the apples to the roasting pan, Dutch oven or slow cooker.
 You can also use chicken broth.



If you are using a slow cooker, use 1/2 cup (118ml) of beef broth, and 1/2 cup (118ml) of apple juice. The moisture stays in the crock pot while it cooks, and too much moisture can make the roast soupy.
 (2.1g) of chopped sage, thyme or rosemary.


If you are using a slow cooker, use half of the spices that are called for in the recipe. The long cooking time increases the intensity of the flavor.
 This will allow the fat to drip down and flavor the meat.
 Some experts now say that pork must reach over 145 degrees Fahrenheit to be safe.
, Cover it with aluminum foil so that it doesn't lose too much heat.
, Pour it into a frying pan and simmer it on high heat until it is reduced by half. Pour it over the slices of roast pork.
