 If you have fibromyalgia and want to increase your flexibility, it's better to stretch after you've exercised, when your muscles are fully warmed up. Trying to stretch before exercise can lead to additional pain as well as possibly damaging your muscles.Be gentle with your stretching and don't force the stretch any further than you comfortably can. You want to feel the stretch, but the stretch itself shouldn't hurt.
 Gentle yoga is not as strenuous as other types of yoga, moves more slowly, and ensures that your body is well-supported in every pose. The restorative qualities of gentle yoga as well as its focus on deep breathing and meditation can help ease chronic pain.Many yoga poses also have an energizing effect which can decrease your feelings of fatigue brought on by fibromyalgia.
You should be able to find a gentle yoga class in your area, particularly if you live in a large- to medium-sized city or town. Do a quick internet search with "gentle yoga" and the name of the place where you live, or ask at your favorite gym or fitness club.
 Some yoga poses can be difficult for any beginner, but especially for those suffering from a chronic pain condition such as fibromyalgia. However, all poses have modifications that allow you to safely perform the pose without additional pain or difficulty.Props such as yoga blocks, straps, and bolsters can help support you in positions and keep you from having to lean or stretch as far.
Work with a yoga instructor who has experience assisting people with fibromyalgia or other chronic pain conditions, and take it slow. Don't push yourself further than you are comfortable and don't be ashamed to need to use a modification.
 Studies have shown the slow, gentle movements of tai chi can help relieve pain and other symptoms of fibromyalgia. For some, it's even better for increasing flexibility and easing symptoms than stretching or yoga.Look for a tai chi class near you with an instructor who has experience working with people who have fibromyalgia or other chronic pain conditions.
Watch a class before you sign up, so you can get an idea of the movements involved and evaluate whether it's something you think would benefit you. This also gives you an opportunity to talk to the instructor and other class members.
 Like tai chi, studies have shown that pilates can decrease the symptoms of fibromyalgia better than a regimen of relaxation and simple stretches. The practice is designed primarily to build core strength, while also increasing balance and flexibility.Pilates classes can get expensive, so try to find a community class rather than going to a studio, and interview instructors before signing up for a lot of classes. Choose an instructor who has experience working with people who have fibromyalgia or another chronic pain condition.
You also could talk to your health care provider and see if they know of any pilates instructors they would recommend. This can be an easy way to find someone who understands the difficulties you might have with the program.
Don't try to do pilates at home on your own. The program requires a little guidance, especially when you're just starting out, and if you're not using correct form you may end up doing more harm than good.

