 Models have the benefit of makeup artists, hair stylists and designer clothing to help them look good. Makeup artists spend hours applying makeup to models' faces, and sometimes even their bodies, before fashion shows.Instead of aiming for perfection, aim for good health. Your natural beauty will be more radiant if you take good care of yourself.
 Being healthy is much more important than being thin. If you are concerned about your weight, check with your doctor to find out your proper weight range. Follow your doctor’s recommendations to get to that healthy weight range and stay within it.
 Models’ diets vary widely and some of them are not healthy at all, so try not to focus on eating exactly like some models do.Instead, focus on making your diet as healthy as possible.


Begin your day with a healthy breakfast. Eggs, whole grain bread, fruit, oatmeal and yogurt are some of the many options that make up a great breakfast.
Eat a variety of foods, especially fruits and vegetables. To get the nutrients that you need to be healthy, eat plenty of fruits and veggies. Incorporate at least one serving of fruit or vegetables into each meal. Choose fruits and vegetables as snacks between meals as well.Choose lean proteins. Protein is important for good health, but you should choose proteins that will provide you with the most health benefits. Avoid fattier meats, such as pork and beef. Opt for leaner options instead, such as turkey and fish. Fish is a great choice because it also contains heart-healthy omega-3s.Choose whole grains. Steer clear of highly processed foods, such as white rice, white flour, white pasta and white bread. Instead, choose whole grain breads, whole wheat pastas, brown rice and whole wheat flour., Being well-hydrated is not only important for good health, it will also help to give your skin a glowing look. The amount of water that you need to drink each day is based on how much you weigh.


You should drink half an ounce to an ounce of water per pound, every day. If you weigh 160 pounds, you should drink between 80 and 160 ounces of water per day., To stay healthy and look great, you need to exercise on a regular basis. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services recommends 150 minutes of moderate aerobic exercise, such as walking, or 75 minutes of vigorous aerobic exercise, such as running. each week. This activity should be spread out over the course of the week, not done all at once. You should also aim for two strength training sessions per week to help keep your body toned.Keep in mind that most models work out much more than 150 minutes per week to maintain their stellar physiques. Some male models work out as much as 15 hours per week.Victoria's Secret models work out five times per week to maintain their thin physiques., Models have great smiles, so make sure to brush, floss, and use mouthwash twice daily to keep your teeth looking fabulous. If your teeth are not as white as you’d like them to be, consider whitening at-home treatments like special toothpastes, gels, and strips to give your teeth a model white gleam.To keep your teeth healthy and looking great, you should also get your teeth cleaned and checked by your dentist at least once per year. You should also go to see your dentist if your teeth or gums bother you.Follow your dentist’s recommendations for good dental care.
 The life of a model is stressful, so it is important to practice relaxation techniques to stay balanced. A bit of stress is normal and can even help motivate you. But too much stress is bad for your health and can even affect the way you look.Take time for yourself. Meditate, practice yoga or take a bubble bath. Just make sure that you make a little time for yourself every day.

