 For this project, you will need several feet of a flexible wire, wire cutters and pliers, and beads of your choice.


If you wanted to take this project one step further, you could use a soldering iron to attach all the pieces to each other permanently.






You can use any beads, although glass beads give the best appearance for this project. Add seed beads (the smallest type of beads) as spacers between larger beads if you prefer.






Have at least six colors of beads prepared in a large enough quantity to match the desired size of your project.






If you intend on mounting this project for display when you finish, create a base out of wood for your model to be attached to.
 These are the long strands on the sides that hold the ladder-shaped DNA molecule together. Cut two pieces of wire to an equal length; these pieces will make up the body of the DNA model, so make them whatever length you would like depending on how big or small your want your model to be.


Choose two colors of beads, and put one on one end of each piece of wire. Wrap the end of the wire through the bead a second time, creating a loop on the outside of the bead. This will prevent the beads from sliding off the end of the wire.






Add two colors of beads in an alternating pattern down the wire. The two colors represent the sugar and phosphate groups that make up the length of the double helix.






You can choose to use 1 bead of each color or multiple beads of each color, but make sure that you have the same amount of beads for both colors on the wire.
Do the same for your other double helix piece of wire, making sure that when the two pieces are set next to each other the colors (sugar and phosphate groups) line up.






Leave two inches of empty space at the top of the wire, so that you can attach the “ladder rungs” in the space between beads.
 Count the number of sugar groups you created on the double helix, and then cut pieces of wire 2.5 inches (6.4 cm) long in that number.


Wrap the ends of one piece of wire around the double helix wire near to your sugar group beads. Do this for all the pieces, so that you are left with one complete double helix with many pieces of wire sticking out from it.
If you want to make a more aesthetically pleasing and sturdier DNA model, use your soldering iron to weld the small pieces of wire to the long double helix strand.
 Choose four other colors of beads, and give them each one of the nitrogenous bases to represent. Guanine and cytosine are always a pair, and thymine and adenine are always a pair.


You will probably need multiple beads to fill each little piece of wire, so choose equal numbers of each nitrogenous base beads to attach to the wires.
Make sure that you keep your bead pairs in the correct groupings. Always put cytosine and guanine together, and thymine and adenine. You can put them in any order you want though, and have more of some pairs than of others.
 Once you’ve gotten all the beads separated out, place them onto the wire spikes you have sticking out from your one double-helix strand. Be sure to leave a about ½ inch of space at the end of the wire for it to be attached to the other double helix strand.
 With all the beads added to the nitrogenous base pieces, you can bring your other double helix strand over to attach. Line up the side so that it mirrors the first nitrogenous base, and then attach the small pieces of wire.


You can wrap the pieces of wire to the double helix strand using needle-nose pliers. Attach these small bits of wire to the same place you did on the opposing double helix strand.
If you are able, you can use your soldering iron to melt the last pieces of wire together, creating a very smooth-looking model.
 To prevent any beads from coming off your model, wrap the wire in a loop around the last bead on each of your double helix strands. You can also choose to solder the wire into a knot-shape to block beads from coming undone.
 To create the classic spiral shape of a DNA strand, hold the ends and gently spin them counter-clockwise.
 once you have added all the finishing touches, your model is complete! Hang it from a mobile or your ceiling using fishing wire, or attach it to a wooden base with a bit more wire or glue. Show off your handiwork!