 There are several websites out there that are dedicated to collecting Stardoll offers from around the world and making them available to users in all countries. One of these popular sites is Underneath Stardoll. How to Get Free, which is specific to Stardoll freebies, is another one.


When you use these sites, you may have to follow links to the campaigns on the Stardoll site and follow instructions to accept your gifts.
To take advantage of offers from other countries, you will likely have to use a proxy server that will allow you to browse as though you were in that country.A quick internet search for “(country you want) proxy server” will provide you with one to use.;
, There are at least three free codes available that you can redeem for Stardoll gift bags. When you are logged in to Stardoll, hover over where it displays your Stardollar balance and click when it says Get More. Under the More Choices tab, go to Gift Card. Enter the following gift codes one at a time, and each one will get you a free gift bag (return to My Suite to open the bags):RH-ZZSJ486M3
RH-D4JJNP3KA
RH-VSYDKK6PR

, There are many Stardoll clubs that will give out free swag as a thank you for joining. Note that you do have to be at least level eight to join groups. Some clubs that give free stuff to new joiners include:Amy Diamond Saturdays, who give away free posters
Tokio Hotel will give you a blue head

, There are programs out there that have been developed as cheats that allow you to fill your Stardoll bank account without having to do anything. If you go this route, beware of malicious programs that install adware or malware on your computer, or that are just designed to steal your account.
 Certain contests, like The Vote, award daily prizes just for voting. Under Contests, go to The Vote, and vote on your favorite photos for a chance to win free swag.
 Every time a friend you’ve invited joins Stardoll and confirms an email address, you’ll get free Starpoints.Even better, if you invite a friend to join and he or she signs up and pays for a Superstar account, you’ll get an quick 50 Stardollars.To make friends, click on Make More Friends on the left navigation bar, or click the top Chat & Friends tab.
 These change all the time, but they can include installing toolbars in exchange for Starcoins or Stardollars, linking your Stardoll account to your Facebook account, and downloading apps.


To access these easy ways to earn free money, go to My Account > Earn Stardollars > Stardoll Offers.
 There are many companies partnered with Stardoll who are willing to pay you Starcoins or Stardollars for the time you spend playing games or downloading apps and then playing the games.
 Other companies have partnered with Stardoll, and Stardoll will reward you with Stardollars for completing surveys, installing and opening different apps on your mobile device, watching videos, and playing games.


You can quickly earn over 100 Stardollars just by subscribing to different sites and creating profiles.

