









The best cut to use in a slow cooker is a pork picnic shoulder roast. This cut, also known as a pork arm shoulder, is often used to make pulled pork. The fat and marbling this cut brings helps it to stay moist and tender after cooking for a long time in the slow cooker.
This recipe calls for 2 boneless pork picnic shoulder roasts, 4,5 lbs.(1.1-to-1.4 kg) each, trimmed and tied.;
,









Mince 2 onions, 6 cloves of garlic and 1 tbsp. of fresh thyme.
Peel 1 lb. (.5 kg) each of carrots and parsnips and cut them into 1-inch (2.5 cm) pieces.










Heat 2 tbsp. of vegetable oil in a 12-inch (30.5 cm) skillet over medium-high heat until it begins to shimmer.
Add onions, garlic, 1 tbsp. of tomato paste and thyme. Cook this until the onions are soft and slightly brown--about 8-to-10 minutes.










Stir 1/4 cup of all-purpose flour into the onion mixture and cook, stirring with a wooden spoon for 1 minute.
Slowly whisk in 1/2 cup dry white wine. With a whisk or a wooden spoon, scrape up any brown bits that have stuck to the bottom of the skillet. Whisk to remove any lumps. Pour this mixture into the slow cooker.










Add 28 oz. of diced tomatoes and the carrot and parsnip chunks to the slow cooker.
Season the roasts well with salt and pepper and place them in the slow cooker, pushing them down so they are surrounded by the other ingredients.










Cover the slow cooker and cook until the pork is tender: 9-to-11 hours on low or 5-to-7 hours on high.










When they are cooked, place the roasts on a cutting board to rest for 20 minutes. Loosely cover them with aluminum foil to keep them from cooling too much.
Let the liquid in the cooker settle for about 5 minutes and then remove any fat that has risen to the top with a large spoon.
Stir in 2 tsp. of white wine vinegar and season sauce to taste with salt and vinegar.










Remove the twine from the roasts and slice the pork into 1/4 inch (1.25 cm) slices and place on a serving platter. Spoon about 1 cup of sauce over the meat and serve the rest of the sauce at the table.

