 Even though claw machines are cheap, because you don't win every time, it can get expensive fast. Go to the Sol Arcade in Jamaa Township and try the following games to get gems fast:


Temple of Trivia - As long as the game is full or mostly full, you have the opportunity to earn up to 200 gems
Falling Phantoms - If you can get first place, you can earn a lot of gems. Gems sometimes pop up on the sides if you last long enough
Best Dressed - As long as the game is full or mostly full, you have the opportunity to earn up to 200 gems. However, this game is tricky as there's no way to be "good" at it, it all depends on what the people playing it like
Splash and Dash - Normal Splash and Dash can earn you up to 100 gems. If you come in first 10 times, you can unlock Pro Splash and Dash, which can earn you up to 150 gems;
, The claw machine in the Sol Arcade is always a good place to start, and you can get all of the common plushies here. Each try only costs 5 gems, but you don't win every time. At the moment, there are no glitches that make it easier to win.
 These are the plushies that people will trade better items to get since they often take some time to obtain. Be patient while collecting these.


Keep playing a regular claw machine. Eventually, you will get a plushie that has some sort of clothing or other accessories that make it rare
Find a jammer who has "The Claw" or other plushie machines in their den. People can buy plushie machines, especially members. "The Claw" gives you the opportunity to get phantom plushies, and some plushies offer plushies like eagles and goats that are rarer. Try going to a crowded place and asking "does anyone have claw machines at their den?" or something to that effect
Consider purchasing things from Animal Jam Outfitters. Most of the things that they sell come with codes for the game and some can be redeemed for plushies
Collect diamonds. In the Diamond Shop in Jamaa Township, there are plushie machines you can buy to get rarer plushies and giant plushies, which are worth more than most plushies you get from claws
Go to special events, like the Summer Carnival. They often offer plushies that can only be gotten during certain times of the year, making them rarer
Try going to other people's plushie stores and making trades there, which can be faster than trying to collect all your own

, You don't want a huge den because it will be too hard to fill it with good plushies. The small den that is available to everyone (members and nonmembers) is actually one of the best.
 Consider buying some wallpaper, flooring, and tables (to put plushies on) that will make your store look prettier and therefore more appealing to visitors.



If you bought tables, put your rare plushies on the tables
Common plushies can go on the ground or the wall
Try to only have one of each color and type of plushie displayed (ex. don't have three purple giraffes out) otherwise it can look like you have a small stock. Remember that you can replace a plushie as soon as you sell it if you have a replacement
Group plushies by type. They shouldn't be randomly scattered everywhere, otherwise, it gets too busy.
Don't put out too many plushies, otherwise, it gets too busy. Stick to putting out your best and rarest ones, and you can always put out the more common ones as your stock runs out.
 Jamaa Township is usually the best place for this. Say something like, "plushie store my den!" If you have a lot of rare plushies, you can say something like "plushie store my den! lots of rare plushies" to attract more customers.
 Once there are a few people at your den - say, 3 or more - go ahead and head back. People will get impatient if they have to wait too long, and will likely leave if you don't come back pretty quickly.
 It is Animal Jam store custom to hop on an item that you want. If you can clearly tell what they're hopping on, tell them that you will put it on trade for them to try and buy. If you can't tell, ask them politely, then put it on trade.



If there are specific things that you want, consider telling your customers that you're most likely to or will only accept those things. (I advise against saying only, as you may lose customers if they don't have the things you asked for.)
Remember that you are under no obligation to sell your plushies. If a person is not trading something that you think is fair, just tell them that politely. If they get mad, stay calm. If they ask what you want for it, give them a few suggestions.
Make sure you're really ready to part with your plushies. If there's some that you want to keep for yourself, don't put them up for sale, as it can cause tension if you decide partway through a sale that you don't want to sell that plushie.

