 Search keywords “Pokemon card maker” and you should find many online generators. Two popular sites are mypokecard.com or pokecard.net
, If you’re going for realism, search for an animated image with the same characteristics as real Pokemon, like sharp edges and bold colors. If you want a funny card or something unique, you can use a photo of yourself or scary animal. Once you’ve chosen your image, upload it onto the site.


Choose an image that goes with the type of Pokémon that you’re creating. For example, you might choose a water or fire type, in which case you should make sure the image you choose fits the type. So if you have a photo of a animal shooting water from its mouth, don`t choose fire type.
 The evolution stage is similar to giving your Pokemon’s age. If it's basic then it’s a kid, if it’s stage 1 then it’s a teen, and if it’s stage 2 then it is a adult.
 If choosing a name is difficult, think about what your Pokémon represents. Is it funny? Is it powerful? Is it scary? You can name it after its move like “Firebreather” or “Lightning Strike”, Each Pokémon has a set of special characteristics and a card maker site will prompt you with what to fill out. This is what makes up your Pokémon and should be fun. Think about the type moves and and weaknesses your card should have. Put in its attacks, fill out the author statement, and the weaknesses of the Pokemon., It’s important to come up with a name that represents your Pokémon well. Use the official Pokémon font that can be found using a quick online search., The stronger your Pokémon is, the higher the HP level. You can also be hit more often with a high HP number.How much health your Pokémon will have depends on its type. For example, water types tend to have high health. Additionally, Stage 1 or Stage 2 evolutions will have more health than previous evolutions.
 Below the Pokemon’s image, add 2 or 3 types of attacks. When attacking your opponent, you need to develop a strategy so choose your moves wisely.As with health, the damage your attacks do is based on the Pokémon's type and evolutionary stage. Different types also have different effects (ie. electric types often have coin flips in their attacks, and fire types commonly make you detach energy to attack).
For example, when attacking, you could say, "Quick Attack, hit!" If your opponent does not say dodge before you say hit, than your opponent loses however many damage counters the move has.
Sometimes, if a Pokémon is very weak to a type of pokemon, you can retreat. Other times, when your opponent is very weak to a certain type of pokemon, and the move has a boost in attack.
Keep in mind that you can also use potions, trainer cards and supporter cards together with your moves. Those cards count as one turn.
 Directly to the right, create how many damage counters the attack move has. Whenever attacking, make sure to check for special conditions. Next to the attacks will be the damage it produces and under will also be either the status it changes to (ex.sleep poison stunned), or instructions to flip a coin to do more damage, depending on heads or tails. On the left side will be the attacks attribute.Attack attributes often put the defending Pokémon to sleep or continue to deal damage.
Before starting a battle, always make sure to check weakness and resistance.
 The Pokedex number is the order assigned by the International Pokédex. It gives a brief history and characteristics of your Pokemon

, For example, mushroom pokemon, tiny mouse pokemon, or destruction Pokémon are all valid types. Also, include the height and weight below the image to help distinguish your type., When trading and selling cards, you can find out if it is rare, when you look at the bottom right corner. There will be either a circle meaning not rare, a rhombus meaning uncommon, a star meaning rare, and a shining star meaning very rare.
 You will find two numbers that indicate how rare a card is. The higher the number the better. If you find a card that looks something like this, (109\108) that means that you have a rare card.
 Pokémon cards will list something about the pokemon. For example, "Because it is very proud, it hates accepting food from people. Its thick fur guards it from stuns. The illustrator weakness resistance and retreat cost should also located at the bottom of your card.
 Some cards are rare Holofoil or collectable cards, and usually have a shiny texture. So if you decide to mimic this feature, use glossy material. There are several different types of cards. There are full Art Cards, Holofoils, Reverse Holos, and Old School cards.


Old School cards are older cards. They often have different art styles, or red HP. If you are not sure, check the bottom of the card for the date. You cannot buy these cards in stores.
 Pokemon cards are 2 separate cards glued together, a front and a back. Remove them, and keep the back for later.
 Upload the file to an image editor, preferably one that can support layers, such as Paintshop pro, GIMP 2 or Photoshop.
 There are many image creating software that allow you to both create and edit. Some must be purchased, like Photoshop, and some are free, like GIMP.


There are also websites that specifically cater to creating Pokemon imagery. If you use a website, simply follow the directions given.
 Search keywords like “Pokemon Card Resources” or simply use a real card as your template. Recreate the Pokémon card template using the tools of the image software.


Recreate the border, edit your Pokémon picture, write text for HP, moveset, and any other things that are necessary to get an authentic look.
 When creating your text it is important to choose the right fonts as they appear on official cards. Search for Pokémon fonts online but keep in mind that some sites may require you to purchase their fonts., Choose a file name that’s easy to remember and file type. Go to the top menu and click 'export' to export the card to a pdf and save it as a JPEG or PNG.
 Open the PDF file with a Word Processor (ex. Microsoft Word) and resize it to match that of an authentic card (6.3 in width and 8.8 cm in height). Once you've resized it, remember the pixels of the card that you printed, so you can make a back.
 Make sure to use high quality color ink for best results. You should also consider the cardboard you are going to use. White cardstock works well.


Keep in mind the texture of the card.
 Be careful not to create jagged or slanted edges. Use the back of the card that you saved to ensure that the size matches up. Glue it to the back of an existing card for rigidity. Apply a transparent tape on the cards to give it a glossy feel


Glue it on with a strong glue such as rubber cement.
Use the back of an existing card that you preferably do not care for such as a weak double.

