 The bomb, or ball, is located in the middle of the field and the goals are at either end. Every time the ball is planted onto one of those goals, the scoring team wins a point. The team to reach the point limit first wins. If you can master these few rules of the game, then playing will become a lot easier.;
, A Grifball match is a fast-paced and fun game played with gravity hammers and energy swords. When you are holding the ball, you are significantly faster than the other players and have extra over-shields. You can jump a lot higher as well, but you have a forced waypoint so that everyone can see you.
 It's easy to find enemies have surrounded you or that the opposing ball carrier is nearing your goal, so be vigilant and try to keep an eye on the action at all times. Use your radar, other team member's warning and your own wisdom to keep up with the play.
 If you are chasing the ball carrier, then selecting your energy sword is far more effective due to their enhanced over-shields. But if you are fighting normal players, then your gravity hammer should suffice. Make sure you get your timing right when attacking, or you could be left in a vulnerable position.
 At the beginning of the match, it is likely that both teams will try to simply run into each other and grab the ball. Consider, however, going around the sides or deploying some other tactic to secure the ball for yourself. Anyone can swing a gravity hammer or chase after a ball mindlessly, but to win, you'll need to employ every ounce of tactical thinking within you and utilize it.
 Nothing is more important in a match of Grifball than team work. Make sure you all have working microphones and can communicate clearly. Some players should go for the ball and ball carrier, one should stay behind to protect the goal and one should try to loop around behind the enemy team to disrupt play. This, although but one tactic for a team, is an effective one. If you have the ball, team work needs to be flawless.
 On the rare occasion you get the ball, you need to make sure you maximize it's potential. This means using your enhanced speed, shields and lowered gravity to out maneuver the enemy. At this point, your team will become invaluable in getting you to the goal, so keep close to them and use them to distract or kill the enemy.
 Don't throw your life away by charging aimlessly at the enemy line. Wait for others to spawn or regroup before launching your next attack. If you have the ball, consider retreating behind your allies also in order to form a new plan of attack. You'll know when you should retreat, so do it before it's too late. You never know when taking another look at a situation can open your eyes to a new opportunity.

