 The surviving families are in tremendous shock in the immediate days and weeks following the death of their loved one.;
, The family may not be able to respond to you right away or express their appreciation for your thoughtfulness.
 Grieving families who have experienced the traumatic death of a loved one may need their family and close friends around them.
, Often bereaved families will be overwhelmed by gifts of food and flowers. Consider making a contribution to a charity or memorial fund in honor of their loved one. Often families will specify a charity or organization that their loved one was involved with or supported, and find this type of donation particularly touching.
 A card can express your sympathies and be an important reminder to a grieving family of your care and concern.
 If you talk with a family member, say you are sorry for their loss, or say you want to offer your condolences. That's enough. Avoid saying things like "I understand exactly how you feel," or "It was his (or her) time," or "He (or she) wouldn't want for you to be sad."

, In many communities, a procession is held when a fallen service member's remains are brought home. Consider standing near the processional route to show your support for the family. Bring an American flag, carry a sign that expresses your feelings, and stand in respect to honor the sacrifice their loved one has made for our nation.
 If a memorial or funeral service is open to the public, consider attending. Your presence can be a valuable support to the family, which appreciates knowing that their loved one is being remembered by many. Some families may need to observe their funeral ceremonies in private. If that is the case, please respect their wishes and be with them in your thoughts and prayers.
 If you are a business person who can offer an in-kind donation to help the family that will help during the funeral process, such as limousine services, public relations assistance, or event management aid, consider donating your time and services.

