 An impacted tooth results when the teeth in your mouth are too crowded for your new tooth to emerge. Your jaw also might be too small for your tooth to come in. Wisdom teeth are the most likely impacted teeth culprits and typically come in when one is 17-21 years old., An impacted tooth can cause myriad effects on your oral and overall health. If you start noticing symptoms, write them down and when they started. Bring the list to your dentist appointment. Particularly, watch out for:


Newly crooked teeth
Bad breath
Gum pain
Jawbone pain, which can radiate up to your front teeth
Red or swollen gums especially around impacted tooth area
Bad taste when biting
Hole where impacted tooth should be
Trouble opening your mouth (less common)
Swollen lymph nodes in your neck (less common)Cysts inside your mouthIncreased salivation

, If you have several of the above symptoms, visit your dentist. After asking about your symptoms, she will check your teeth.Then, she will look for swelling in your gums. Then, she will give you an x-ray to see whether your tooth is impacted.After checking the results, she can prescribe treatment.
 If your tooth is causing you pain, painkillers available from drugstores can help relieve your pain.NSAIDs like Ibuprofen or Naproxen Sodium good options because they reduce inflammation and relieve pain. Talk to your dentist about which option is right for you and how much medication you should take.
 Do not eat or drink very hot colds or foods or beverages. This can exacerbate your pain. Also avoid eating food that requires a lot of chewing (e.g. tortilla chips, broccoli). Chewing can be very painful. It can also irritate your teeth and cause bleeding.
 You can reduce your pain by creating a warm water and salt mixture. Combine one half teaspoon of salt with one cup of warm (not boiled) water. Stir the mixture.Pour ¼ cup of the solution into your mouth. Gently swish it around. Spit out the mixture into the sink when you are done.
 Pour ⅛ cup of mouthwash into a small cup. Place the liquid in your mouth. Swish the mixture for thirty seconds. Spit it out into the sink.
 If your dentist determines that your impacted tooth could later cause problems (e.g. crowding, pain, etc.) or has caused gum disease or tooth decay already, it is best to opt for removal.Oral surgeons generally perform such procedures.The surgeon will cut open your gums and take out any obstructing bone. Then he will stitch the opening together. There likely will be some pain and swelling afterwards. Ice packs and painkillers can help alleviate your pain.Earlier removal of wisdom teeth is better. If a surgeon removes these teeth before a patient is twenty years old, the teeth will not be as developed.This will make the procedure easier and hopefully less painful.
Your dentist can also be reduce swelling by injecting anti-inflammatory medication immediately after extraction.

