 If absolutely necessary, ask out your crush over the phone, or over a video call – but try not to pop the question over text. It can be much easier to communicate with people over text or instant messaging, especially people you like, but you may find that asking out a crush face-to-face is much more romantic. If casual and noncommittal is what you're looking for, then feel free to go the text route – but don't expect your crush to be impressed., Find a time when neither you nor your crush have anywhere else to be. He/she shouldn't be stressed or in a rush. If possible, pick a place where you're both comfortable, and where you would normally hang out or run into each other. Try to create as smooth and easy a moment as possible.
 This conversation will probably be much easier for both of you if you don't ask him/her out in front of a bunch of people. Many people have trouble talking about their feelings one-on-one, let alone when the spotlight is on them. If you don't normally find yourself alone with your crush, you'll need to create that space. It is much easier to get someone alone if you're friends, or at least on casual speaking terms.Ask him/her to take a walk with you: home from school, or between classes, or around the block. Ask your crush to step outside with you for a second. You can say "Can I talk to you alone for a minute?" or "Want to walk to class with me?"
Especially don't ask someone out in front of his/her friends! Your crush might be embarrassed, or he/she might not want to talk about this in front of a bunch of people. You might be rejected just because your crush feels uncomfortable.
 Better yet, ask your crush out while you're already hanging out one-on-one. You don't have to jump straight into the big question. It might help you set the mood if you ask your crush about his/her day, crack some jokes, and listen to what he/she has to say. You should both feel comfortable and at ease.
 Even the best-laid plans run into obstacles. Perhaps you tried to walk your crush home after school, but another couple of mutual friends decided to tag along. Be patient. You can always ask your crush out tomorrow, but it can be hard to take back an awkward moment that happened when you rushed things. Look for a time when everything seems right.

