 This is often driven by the places you can play. If you are in your mid-teens, you (generally) cannot play in bars. The set list for a house party is usually different than it is for a bar, or for a outdoor festival. Very few places want bands that play all original songs, unless you are dragging the entire crowd into the joint (by fliers, word of mouth, reputation).;
, Everybody knows somebody who knows someone who (eventually) wants a live band somewhere. Opportunities will present themselves - it's up to you to recognize them and act upon them.
 Learn your instrument, focus on what you can do the be a better part of the whole. Learn to sing and play. Learn to play more than one instrument. Learn to write music, write lyrics, or write both. Let the other members worry about themselves; that way the only person you have a right to be angry with is yourself.
 Same night, same time, same setup. Home base.
 Ever show up to a practice only to find that the song was learned by different guys in different keys? Email and text messages are quick and cheap, but very essential.
 Have everyone associated with band jobs mark the calendar for when they can play and when they can't be there - that way anyone can look at the calendar and say "yes" or "sorry, no" to any job opportunity on very short notice.
, This helps find bad cords, broken things, dead spots "on stage" for vocal monitors, and helps moderate instrument volumes. All instruments should be just as loud as the drums. If someone wants to hear themselves louder, move their equipment closer to their head so that person is happy, and the other players are not suffering bleeding ears. The volume in practice should be the same as live on stage so there are no surprises, no differences in sound for the players (you will feel comfortable like being at the practice space).
 You can get a heck of a lot done when everyone comes prepared.
 Have extra tunes in case (the "pocket"). Have a plan, follow the plan. If the crowd is not reacting like you'd expect or hope, pull tunes from the pocket and see what happens. The pocket (reacting to the crowd) is part of the plan.
 This person is responsible to decide on set list changes, and to let everyone know about the changes in plenty of time for the players to be prepared (guitar change? patch changes on the vocal effects unit?).
, Practice keeping a positive attitude on your face while you play music - no matter who missed a spot, blew a chord change, or plain forgot where they were - THE SHOW MUST GO ON (there is a reason this phrase has been handed down through the centuries by other entertainers). The bass and drums should never stop when there has been a flub - ever. Practice this failure situation so it does not surprise you or piss you off - make it look like it's part of the show. You are the only ones who need to know what happened.

