 Most wedding etiquette experts suggest providing 1 ceremony program per couple and 1 per single guest. Plan to make at least 20 extras as keepsakes for the wedding party and family members.
 There are several different options for wedding booklet formats, such as a tri-fold brochure, single piece of large cardstock or multi-page booklet. The wedding booklet should coordinate with the wedding invitations and other stationery.


Utilize a publishing or word processing software program to design the wedding booklets. Some programs include design templates for wedding programs and other similar printed pieces.
Incorporate colors, graphic elements and fonts that coordinate with or complement the wedding invitations. If your wedding has a theme, use the wedding ceremony booklet to carry out the theme. For example, if your wedding incorporates a beach theme, include seashell graphics on the ceremony program. If you wedding colors are black and white, consider wrapping the ceremony booklets with a black satin ribbon.
 Office supply and paper vendors offer many types of paper in different weights and colors. Select a paper that is appropriate for the type of booklet you are making. For example, if you are making a multi-page booklet, choose a mid-weight paper that folds easily, rather than a heavy cardstock. If you are creating a 1-page panel card, your best choice would be a cardstock that won't bend easily. Ask your local paper supplier about the best paper choice for your booklet design.


Purchase any other supplies required to make the wedding ceremony booklets. If you are using ribbon to hold a multi-page booklet together, purchase the ribbon. Don't forget other supplies that may be necessary, such as paper trimmers, scissors, adhesive and hole punches. If you will be printing the booklets using your home printer, be sure to purchase extra ink cartridges.
 Depending on how labor-intensive your wedding ceremony booklet is, assembling the programs can take a few minutes or a few hours. Consider asking your family or bridal party to help you assemble the booklets.
 Because wedding programs can be any shape or size, the presentation may vary. Consider filling a wicker basket, antique tray or glass bowl with the booklets, and place them at the entrance to your ceremony venue.


Ask a family member or friend to greet wedding guests as they arrive and hand out the wedding ceremony booklets. This ensures that each couple gets 1 booklet and you won't run out of booklets before all of the guests arrive. Ushers tend to be busy seating guests, so a designated greeter or program attendant is helpful in distributing the booklets.

