 Have the cat neutered (male) or spayed (female) and at a minimum the cat should also have a rabies vaccination, treatment for any parasites (fleas or worms), vaccination for distemper, and a test for feline leukemia is also recommended. In many places, these services are offered for free as a general animal control policy.
 Female cats should be kept under observation in a cage with access to a litter box and food and water for 5 days after the spay operations. Males can be released the day after the operation. You can return it back to the habitat from which it came, or take it elsewhere.


If releasing the cat to a new area a caregiver needs to be available to help the cat become acclimated to its new environment, which can take several weeks. In general, this policy is promoted by the ASPCA as a way of helping to control the cat population. If the cat seemed to be getting on well in the environment, release it and put food, water and shelter out regularly. Cats that are released to areas they are not familiar with are unlikely to survive unless they have a caretaker because they do not have a source of food, water, or shelter. Other cats already in the area may also attack them in territory disputes.
 If you live in an urban area, releasing a stray might be irresponsible. Cat rescue and no-kill shelters are a much better option. They will likely be happy to do the work of finding the cat a good home.


Feral cats are almost never adopted from shelters, as they have a high euthanasia rate of more than 90%. If the cat is unadoptable it is better to release to the area where it was caught.
Many rescues will pay the cost of a stray cat's veterinary bills for you. Save your receipts.
If you can, offer to foster the cat until a home is found. Some organizations have more cats than they have foster homes. Just don't take offense if they prefer to foster with someone who has experience with cats.
 If you're sure the cat is not owned and you're uncomfortable or unable to take the cat elsewhere, find a suitable home for the cat yourself. You can advertise, ask around, and find a suitable candidate for keeping the cat for a pet.


Ask around informally to see if any of your friends or relatives might be interested in looking after the cat. Start by asking trusted friends and acquaintances. This way the cat gets a good home, and you can visit it sometimes.
Advertise the cat locally. Put the cat on Petfinder.com. Make sure the profile is honest about the cat's situation. You can also put an ad online or in the local classifieds.
 Some stray cats make great pets once they adjust to life in a human home. Think carefully about whether you have the time, money and a good environment to take on a pet. If you plan on keeping the animal, make sure that it gets looked after thoroughly at the vet and that it's a safe animal to be around before letting it into your home.

