 Social media is not the only way to stay in contact with people. Instead of getting updates about what your friends are up to via social media, give them a call or send them an email or text message.Ask them, “What are you up to later? Would you like to grab some pizza and hang out?”, Without the constant instinct to check social media, you’ll be more engaged in the world around you. Strike up a conversation with your seatmate on the bus. “Lovely weather today, isn’t it?” you might say.You could also get involved in your community. Look up local charities or nonprofit organizations that offer volunteer opportunities. You might be able to volunteer at your local soup kitchen, food bank, or home-building organization (like Habitat for Humanity).
Check out local clubs and groups on Meetup.com. The site allows people to connect and share their favorite interests, including movies, books, and meals. If you don’t see a group you’re interested in, start one of your own!

, Social media isn’t just a great tool for communicating and seeing what others are doing. It is also often a primary mode of getting the news. But even without social media, you can stay informed. To read the day’s news, read a newspaper, visit the site of your favorite news purveyor, or grab a periodical covering current events from your local newsstand., Many people have a long backlog of books they promised themselves they’d get to “someday.” Now that you’re taking a break from social media, your “someday” has arrived. Settle into a cozy chair with a mug of warm tea and one of the books that seem most interesting to you.If you like reading but don’t have books of your own to read, visit your local public library and check out a few volumes that seem interesting.
 Dust, vacuum, and do the dishes. Go through your closet and identify clothes that you don’t wear anymore. Take them to the secondhand store for donation. Go through your books, movies, and games and look for ones that you’re willing to part with. Put them up for sale on Craigslist or eBay., Use time that you’d otherwise devote to browsing social media to reply to your other correspondence (email or voicemail).Get started on school projects or catch up on your homework. If you work from home, use social media time to locate new clients or revenue streams., Take stock of everything and everyone in your life that you’re thankful for. For instance, make a list of friends and family who are always there for you when you’re down. Make another list of your favorite things or places – your local library, for instance, or your game collection. This will redirect your attention from social media and make it easier to take and maintain your break from it.