 You can choose from different color LED lights that will be powered by the solar energy you are collecting. Once you've decided, purchase all the items, listed under the Things You'll Need.;
, Familiarize yourself with the parts as this will make it easier for you to build the lantern.
 A good recommended length to work with is 3 inches or just a bit longer for all the black and red wires. This ensures you have enough length to re-strip the wires as well.
 To do this, insert the newly cut end you just cut into the number 18 size stripping hole below where the cutting blade is on the wire stripper/cutter. Only strip about 1/2in to 3/4in. This will be enough length to tie together in the wire nut. Grip the handles, pull the wire back and the wire stripper should remove the plastic covering the wire. If it doesn't strip, you need to make sure you have the wire in the correct sized hole.


When pulling back to strip the wire, do not grip the circuit board and pull as this can result in pulling the wire out of the circuit board. Pull by gripping the wire only.
 Install batteries as instructed on battery holder.
 To connect the wires, bring both ends of red wires together, straighten out the exposed wiring so they easily insert into wire nut(the one from the battery charger and the one from the circuit board) and insert the ends with the wire exposed into the wire nut. Twist the wire nut clockwise as if you were tightening. (remember righty tighty, lefty loosey). After you twist clockwise to tighten the wires together, you can pull wire nut off. Your wire ends should be wrapped together creating a secure electrical bond.


It is very important you connect it to the battery section of the circuit.
 It is very important you connect it to the BATTERY section of the circuit!

, The hole should be large enough for the two black and red wires coming from the solar panel to fit through.The hole should also be made about a 1/2 inches off the edge of the lip of the lid. This will allow the panel to lay flat on the top and will also make sure you can glue the battery holder on the other side of the lid.
, After you twist clockwise to tighten the wires together, you can pull wire nut off. Your wire ends should be wrapped together creating a secure electrical bond. Like steps the previous steps it is important to connect these wires to their correct destination on the circuit board.
, Your LED lights should now be on. They are currently running off the battery power as your circuit board is set to battery as the default mode. If your lights do not come on, check to make sure the tiny switches on the circuit board are in the "on" position which is towards the center of the board. Also check to make sure your wires are all connected properly.
 Apply a small amount of the instant glue to the batteries and press onto the bottom side of the lid. Hold until it stays on its own.
, Apply a small amount of glue to the bottom of the panel (the side that does not look like a grid and has the wires coming out of it) and press and hold the panel to the top of the lid for about a minute. It might not lay completely flat which is okay. Make sure it stays in place though.
 You can now put anything into your mason jar to accessorize your solar lantern. Ideas include - stones, succulent plants, marbles, flower pedals.
