 You can use the decorating bag immediately after making it, so keep your frosting nearby.;
, There is no specific size that it must be, but you should aim to have a piece that is approximately 12 inches (30.5 cm) high by 14 to 18 inches (35.6 to 45.7 cm) long.
 Take an end of the parchment paper in each hand, with the outside of the roll down. Roll it back and forth against the edge of a clean counter, to make it as flat as possible.
 Place your hand down on the straight edge to steady it.
 You should have 2 obtuse triangles when you are finished. Place 1 triangle aside, to make another cake decorating bag in the future.


You can also fold the parchment paper down from a rectangle into a square by moving the upper left corner to the bottom right portion of the paper. Cut off the excess paper at the right end and then cut at the fold. Although this may feel more exact, it can cause slight problems and gaping in the decorating bag, where the fold was pressed and cut.
 Take the right corner of the triangle and curve it up to meet the top, or apex, of the triangle. You will need to make a cone shape, with the tip pointing toward you.
 Take the left corner and wrap it over the cone to the right, until it reaches the back and top of the triangle.


Make sure the cone forms a closed tip at the end.
 Fold them down toward the inside of the bag. Staple it in place, if it does not seem to be holding together on its own.
 If you do want to use a scalloped, flower or other decorating tip, snip the end of the bag very slightly and push a decorating tip into the bottom of the cone.
 Allow the frosting to drip into the center of the cone. Fill the bag a third full with icing.
 Begin to fold the top down like a toothpaste tube. This will push the icing down into the bottom of the tube.
 Make sure to start small. You can always take off more, if you want a larger icing stream.
 Continue to fold the pastry bag down as the bag starts to empty. It will ensure extra icing doesn't come out of the top.
 You can create shapes, writing and intricate decorations with practice.

