 Have the crate ready with a blanket in it when your dog gets home. Show the dog the crate, talking in an encouraging voice. To help the dog get used to the idea, place some treats inside the crate. Keep using treats to get the dog to go inside. You can use a toy if that's more motivating for the dog.Next, try feeding the dog in the crate. Wait a week or so before you start this process. Place the food bowl as far in as the dog will go. If the dog goes all the way in, try closing the door just while it's eating. Each time you feed the dog, close the door a bit longer.
Teach them a command for the crate. You can use whatever command you want, such as "kennel," "bed," or "crate," as long as you are consistent. Use a treat to call the dog over, saying the command word. Get them to enter the crate with the treat, then give them the treat. Close the door, and sit with the dog for about 10 minutes. After a few minutes, leave the room for a bit. Once your dog can do this step for about half an hour without you in the room (without getting anxious), you can start leaving the dog alone in the house for short periods in the crate.
After that, you can try crating at night. It may help to start the dog in the same room as you.
 Most dogs will have a little separation anxiety, especially if they've been in a shelter before coming to your house. To help with the anxiety, put a toy in the dog's crate, and leave the dog for short periods of time at first, showing that you'll always come back to the dog., A re-homed dog is getting used to new rules. What was fine in their old house may not be fine in yours, such as sleeping on the bed. The dog may take a while to adjust, and you need to be patient. An old dog can learn new tricks, as long as you give them the time to do so., Don't overwhelm the dog with too much family time in the first couple of days or so. Let the dog get used to the environment without bombarding him with four people at once. You can visit with the dog one or two at a time, but try to limit too many people at once., While you shouldn't overwhelm the dog with too many people in the first couple of days, you should try to socialize the dog with friends and family in the first couple of weeks. Have them come over and visit, so that your dog can learn to distinguish between strangers and friends.Don't force people on the dog. Let the dog approach them.
 When you get a new dog from another home, you don't know what went on in that home. Therefore, you may find that certain things are triggering for your new dog. In an abusive home, newspapers, collars, and leashes may all have been used to abuse the dog and could be triggers, for instance.If something is a trigger, you're going to need to be patient with the dog. You'll need to give the dog time to adjust to using it or wearing it. In the case of a leash, you can let the dog drag it around the house for short periods, just to get the dog used to it. Be sure to supervise the dog, as it can get tangled up in the leash. Also, offer positive reinforcement such as treats and praise.
If it's something the dog doesn't need to use, such as newspapers, try keeping it out of the dog's sight as much as possible.

