 Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly butter an 8-inch springform pan. Cut parchment paper to line the bottom of the pan and place it on top of the buttered bottom. Take another long strip of parchment paper and wrap it along the buttered sides of the pan.


Leave a few inches of parchment paper sticking up and out from the sides of the pan. This will make it easier to remove the fruitcake after it has baked.;
, If you have a stand mixer, place them in the bowl with a beater attachment. If not, get a hand mixer out. Beat the ingredients until the mixture is light and fluffy.


Make sure your butter is not completely cold and hard or this will make beating difficult.
 Add one of the eggs and beat the mixture until the egg is incorporated. Add the other egg and beat the mixture again. Add the final egg and stir until combined.
 Stir the mixture until these ingredients are thoroughly combined.
 Take a spatula and using your wrist, gently make circles, folding these ingredients into the batter.


Do not simply stir or beat the batter or you'll lose all the volume you've created by beating the butter.
 Whisk these ingredients for 20 seconds to completely combine the leavening agent.
 Add the dry flour mixture into your wet batter. Take a spatula and using your wrist, gently make circles, folding these ingredients into the batter.
 Pour the batter into your prepared springform pan. Take a knife and smooth over the top. Set the springform pan on top of a larger baking sheet.
 Place the loaf in the oven and bake for 1 hour.
 Turn the oven down to 300 degrees F. Then bake your fruitcake for another 90 minutes.
 Stick a cake tester or toothpick into the center of the cake. If it comes out clean, turn off the oven and remove your fruitcake from the oven.


If it's not done, return the fruitcake to the oven and check every 5 minutes till it's done.
 Poke several holes over the top of the cake and brush a little brandy over the top.
 Once the cake is completely cool, release the springform side of the pan and remove the bottom of the cake tin. Remove the parchment paper from the bottom and sides, then wrap the fruitcake completely in plastic wrap. Cover the wrapped fruitcake completely with aluminum foil. Set the fruitcake in a seal-able storage bag or cake tin.
 Brush the fruitcake with a little brandy once or twice a week. Take care to re-wrap the fruitcake well. Do this for several weeks, or until you're ready to serve the fruitcake.

