 Take the time to acknowledge your strength. Be proud at being able to stand up for yourself. Toxic and abusive people hold on to their victims like vices. By ending a toxic relationship once and for all, you are relieving yourself of the stress and paving a road to a happier and healthier outlook on life.Buy yourself flowers or some little thing that you have always wanted but never treated yourself to. Soak in a tub or go get a massage.
Toxic people tear others apart inside and make them feel terrible. Make a list about what you used to like doing before they hurt you, and start doing those things again.
Start a new hobby. Maybe you always meant to learn how to play the guitar that sitting in your closet or wanted to try your hand at painting landscapes. Think about giving yourself a makeover.
Maybe you could splurge and go on a vacation that you have always dreamed of. If that is not in the cards, think about a stay-cation. Go and check out the sites you have never gotten to, right in your own city; museums, parks. There are likely historical sites you can visit as well.
 Realize that you have friends that you are closer to than any of your family members.

Invite your closest friend over for coffee or lunch. Take the opportunity to talk to them about what has happened and get it all out for, hopefully, the last time. Based on history, they will already be aware of the problem, and will be glad to be there for you. You know you would be there for them.
Think about planning a get together, maybe a pot luck dinner together with a group of your friends. That will take your mind off things.
 You may not be able to rid yourself of the feeling of guilt associated with cutting ties with a family member on your own. This can be especially true if it is a parent or sibling. Deep down you may realize that you have made the right decision, but you need more positive reinforcement than you can get from friends. If this is how you are feeling, you should talk with a counselor, or perhaps look at joining a support group.