 State the problem as simply as possible, and write down this sentence as a "label" for that behavior. Now realize how obvious the motivation for it might be, and clearly determine not to act that way in response.;
, List simple alternative actions you can take which involve less response.
 Decide clearly to avoid repeating those faults in the future, and the clear opposite actions that you could take to mark a change in your own behavior. This might involve seeking help with problems such as anger, alcohol, drugs, gambling, morals or all typical human faults. Just work out how to be a better human being that can't be accused of anything with justification.
 Maybe this could be a relative, but it must be someone sensible who knows you well, and who is likely to be trustworthy and discreet. Someone who won't spill the beans to the opposition. Find something enjoyable and diverting to do with someone else. Ideally this should involve a "change in context", so you are not immersed in the problems you are trying to address.
 Find ways of making your familiar environment a bit different now that things are different. See yourself in some new clothes, doing things differently. Take the trouble to organize better food, some physical exercise, new thoughts, fresh ideas, and information about human psychology.
 This will establish the consistency of your feelings for them when they inevitably want to make decisions for themselves. Keep all legal papers in one folder, and a diary and folder of all correspondence from the other person, for the future. Have a computer file for emails. Log all phone calls with time and a brief code of the stuff that was said, it will often be the same so a simple code helps avoid having to dwell on the power of the assertions.
 Systematically put all these good things together so they are like a time capsule that you can choose to look at one day in the future. Now realize that you need a completely new "capsule" of information about your new life. Start filling it with notes and diaries about the things you can do that help move your mindset away from actions responsive to the problem.
 Make sure this is recorded somewhere appropriately either by filing a statement with the Court or with the people who may have some influence over the other person. Make sure it is carefully typed/or written, and well presented so it shows that you are being fair and rational. Make it a statement of fact that any reasonable person would respect.
 In my case, at one stage, I wondered whether I would feel less despair if I knew that my children would never be able to return. Such as if they had died from natural causes etc. Whatever you do, keep it firmly in mind that they can be as much victims of the actions of the other person, as you are, except they have less self defense against the insinuations and discredit that might be being propagated against you. Accept that for a time, they may have to believe what they are told just to keep their relationship with the other parent manageable. Have faith that human beings are all so much the same that time will eventually show that you are not the monster that you might have been depicted to be. Hard to say it, but perhaps its true: Try to move on from this problem. Once you have done all that you can reasonably do, stop hammering away at a lost cause. To do so might in fact be quite counterproductive, so known when to give up... for the time being.
 Project the attitude that their stuff is something from the past and you just no longer have time to dwell in that sort of rubbish. Don't validate anything by giving it attention or response, put those matters below your dignity.
 Most of us wonder how anyone else could possibly understand as our life is falling apart. Be supportive, but also realize that their decisions must be their own decisions, not your advice.
 The problem with violence is that it affects you more than you can realize and is most unlikely to give any long term satisfaction. Don't do things that can't be undone, and realize that even thinking that way takes a toll on your own mental health and recovery.
 Find somewhere silent and practice completing one thought after another until you only have one thing to think about at a time. Reduce your personal turmoil, watch the things in nature that just go on time after time, unaffected by these human problems. I watch clouds, small birds, and inconsequential insects that just keep doing all the things they normally do. Get things into perspective, the world is a very big place, and our affairs are of very little real significance in the course of time.

