 Many people use a public relations press release format in order to ensure their article appears as a news story. The story must be primarily made of text rendered in HTML coding. HTML coding is a very common way of coding websites. Portable Document Format (PDF) is not HTML format and will not be listed on Google News. Check with the person posting the story on your site, if you are unsure if your site uses HTML coding.


If it is only a video or a picture, it may appear under the "Images" or "Videos" Google search tabs, but it will not appear on Google News.;
, Also make sure it is not a classified ads, job postings or an event announcement.
 Currently, each suggested Google News site is only checked, or "crawled," once. If there are changes made to the story or site, it will not show up on the Google News link.


Web crawling pertains to a software program that automatically downloads websites if they fit certain criteria. This is what Google News uses to choose its news programs in order to review the large amount of story suggestions it receives every day.



Each story that you suggest for Google News must have a unique, permanent URL. Many sites post links or news entries on a single page day after day. To appear on Google News, the URL must be a unique page that will not be replaced by any other articles.
For example: www.bestsites.com/news.html would not be accepted because it is likely the place where all news appears. However, www.bestsites.com/news123.html would fit Google criteria because it is unique sub-page to your site.
Each URL must contain at least 3 numbers. These numbers must be unique to the news story and they cannot be a 4 digit number that starts with 19 or 20 because it resembles a year.
 Find the "Email Us" icon shaped like a yellow envelope.
 It will ask you if you are a representative of the news provider for the content. Check the "Yes" circle. It will also ask if your news story is listed on a site, a mobile site or a YouTube channel. Identify the kind of site you are using in the following boxes.
 You should list your URL, the authors, the location, language, categories and your contact information, as well as anything else that is applicable to your news story. Press "Submit" when you are finished. This will allow the Google News engine to crawl your site for the requirements and data.



Once accepted to Google News, your article can take 1 to 2 weeks to appear on Google News searches.

