 Try to find a veterinarian who has an interest in rabbits and who is comfortable providing veterinary care for rabbits as well. You might need to seek out an exotics veterinarian or at least find a veterinarian who has done some ongoing professional development on rabbits. Take your Rex rabbit for annual checkups and watch for any signs of a problem. If your Rex rabbit seems like he is sick, then take him to see a veterinarian right away. Signs that your Rex might be sick include:losing lots of fur
not going to the bathroom
not using back legs or not hopping
producing dark red urine or no urine
seeming extra tired and not moving or reacting normally
having loose stools
having a fever of 105 degrees Fahrenheit or higher
having runny eyes and/or nose
drooling (wet chin);
, Spaying and neutering your rabbit helps to prevent unwanted litters and it can also protect your rabbit’s health in certain ways. If you do not plan on breeding your Rex rabbit, then get your rabbit spayed or neutered.


Not spaying and neutering predisposes your rabbit to hormonal behaviors, like urine spraying, food guarding, and fighting. Female rabbits also have a higher risk of uterine cancer if they are not spayed., Your Rex will need to get plenty of exercise to stay healthy. Try to allow your Rex at least two hours of exercise outside of his cage every day. When you exercise your Rex, make sure that you:Do not let your rabbit play outside. Your rabbit will be in danger from predators and parasites if you let her play outside. Inside of your home is the safest place for your Rex rabbit.

Confine your Rex to one or two rooms. You can use baby gates to keep your rabbit from getting lost in your house and to make it easier to supervise her as well.
 A Rex rabbit will chew on almost anything, including door edges, wall trim, chairs, table legs, area rugs, loose carpeting, or loose wallpaper.That is why it is so important to monitor your rabbit closely when she is playing outside of her cage.


If you notice your Rex rabbit chewing on something that she shouldn’t, don’t get mad or punish your rabbit. Just gently pick up her up, place her somewhere else, and then give her something else to chew on, such as a cardboard box, cotton cloth, or an apple slice.
 Your Rex rabbit will also chew on electrical cords, which can harm her and damage your electronics. Cover up electrical cords with hard plastic tubing or some spiral wrap. If you don’t have something to cover your electrical cords, then just lift them off of the ground so your rabbit can’t access them., Your Rex rabbit will need a quick brushing about once per week to keep him from shedding as much and to keep his fur soft. Run a natural bristle brush or comb over your rabbit’s fur about once per week.Don’t let your Rex rabbit get wet and do not bathe him. Rabbits are not fond of water and they can also develop hypothermia if they get wet.

