 Some people notice changes in their dreams when faced with overwhelming stress and/or anxiety. Think about whether the nightmares started around a particular time in your life, and whether your ability to handle stress is affecting your dream state. If so, learning some relaxation techniques to help you cope with stress and anxiety may help to reduce the frequency of your nightmares.Exercising regularly is a great way to cope with stress.Try to exercise for 30 minutes every day and do something that you enjoy. For example, you can try walking, swimming, biking, dancing, or playing a sport, such as basketball.
Use breathing techniques, meditation, or yoga to help you cope with stress.

Practice progressive muscle relaxation before bed. This is the process of tensing and releasing the muscles in your body moving from your toes to the top of your head Some participants who practiced progressive muscle relaxation saw a decrease in nightmares or an elimination of nightmares altogether., Watching a scary movie or TV show close to bedtime may also increase the chances that you will have a nightmare, so it is best to avoid these.Instead, try watching something funny or informative, such as a romantic comedy or a nature program.


Keep the time before bed as calm as possible. Try reading a funny or romantic book, or just dedicate your evening to relaxing and preparing for a good night’s sleep.
 To obtain a diagnosis of nightmare disorder, your dreams cannot be related to using alcohol or other substances.However, some people do have nightmares as a result of drinking alcohol or using other substances too close to bedtime. To eliminate this risk factor, avoid drinking any alcoholic beverages or using any other substances before you go to bed., Sometimes it may not be possible to prevent a nightmare, but talking about it can help. Upon waking, describe your nightmare to a parent, friend, or to your significant other. Explain what happened, who was in the dream, and what made it so scary.You may also consider rewriting the ending of your dream. Try to imagine a happy ending for the nightmare.
Journaling about your dream may also help you to understand it better and express the way that it made you feel.

