 Be aware yourself that you are involved in an affair; if you're making up excuses and calling the relationship anything but an affair, you will neglect to fix it because you haven't yet accepted the raw facts. Acknowledging your current situation for what it really is is one of the biggest steps you'll take to freeing yourself from the ties that bind you.;
, In order for you to start reclaiming your damaged self esteem, start listing the reasons why it's no longer wise to be involved in this love triangle. Some examples include:


You are failing to address the things that are not working in your life. Whether you're unhappy in your marriage, hating your job, exhausted raising your kids, or just unsure what to do with your life, an affair is a symptom, not an answer. Try treating the cause of your unhappiness front on, rather than hiding behind the thrill of illicit dating.
No matter how careful both of you think you are being, eventually something will leak and the affair will be discovered by someone. Even your attitude is giving you away to those attuned to changes.
Being "the other woman" is disrespectful to who you are. You have a right to be a whole person, not someone who is wearing many different faces and suffering from the tension of trying to juggle all the lies. Being true to yourself means being honest with yourself about what is really compelling you to be "the other woman". Perhaps you want more attention, more love or more money––whatever the reason, there are better ways to go about getting what you need, much more openly and without hurting others or yourself.
Sneaking around gets tedious with time. It might be fun to begin with but as time goes on, maintaining the lie can become exhausting and fraught with fear of discovery. Hardly the stuff of excitement that you might have felt when the affair started.
 Here's a thought: If he or she says that he or she loves you and you mean everything to him or her, shouldn't something have happened by now? Many times the other person won't leave his or her sanctioned relationship, despite making vague promises. Have you been given any real signs of the promise to divorce, move out and move on being actioned? Likely not, and that speaks volumes.
 Would you want to be dubbed as "the girl who destroyed my relationship"? No one on in their right mind wants to be played on or cheated with. So do yourself and the significant other a favor, and stop the affair.
 What makes you think that what he or she is doing right now he or she won't do to you should you ever really get together? As they say, "Old habits die hard". Change does not happen overnight. Change comes to those who consciously choose to change.
 What happens in the movies don't happen in real life. The other woman doesn't usually get the last laugh, the riches and the man or woman. It happens but very rarely do those who have affairs end up this way. If he or she really loves you, he or she will choose you, but if this has been going on for years, he or she is using you as an emotional and physical substitute for his or her girlfriend.

