 Large meals and large quantities of fluids can intensify nausea symptoms. Whenever possible, try to eat smaller meals throughout the day as opposed to a usual breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Sipping beverages can also help., Overly sweet or fatty foods, as well as fried foods, are more likely to cause nausea and vomiting than bland foods. The smell of food is just as important when it comes to preventing nausea, and you may find that eating foods cold makes them less aromatic.By cooking and freezing meals in advance of your next chemotherapy treatment, you can avoid nausea related to cooking smells.You may find other smells, such as soaps, detergents, or anything else, that also trigger your nausea. Do what you can to minimize your exposure to other triggering scents., Pressure from a belt or a tight shirt against your abdomen can worsen the sensation of nausea. Try wearing loose shirts and pants during the worst of your symptoms to avoid increasing them, especially directly after meals., A bad metallic taste in your mouth is another common side effect of chemotherapy. The taste can lead to nausea or a simple lack of desire to eat. Rinse your mouth with a mouthwash or chew sugar-free gum to help combat any bad taste from the chemotherapy.


Another rinse you may want to try is adding one half teaspoon each of salt and baking soda to a quart of water., Some herbal teas are known for their ability to combat nausea. One study showed that ginger tea helped reduce nausea (but not vomiting) caused by chemo.Peppermint tea is another herbal tea that has been used to treat nausea; however, it lacks research with regard to nausea caused by chemo., Any high-priced (or even low-priced) herbal remedy or “superfood” that claims to cure nausea caused by chemo should be viewed with some skepticism. Look into the proven results (published studies in reputable sources) of any option before spending money on it.


You should also ask your doctor before taking any type of supplement to ensure that it won’t interact with any of your prescription meds.
 Your physician will have a large selection of different anti-nausea medications to choose from, but the right choice for you will depend on the severity of your symptoms, as well as the type of chemotherapy you are receiving.Commonly prescribed anti-nausea medications include:Dexamethasone
Ondansetron (or Zofran)
Metoclopramide (or Reglan)
Motion sickness treatments such as Gravol (Dimenhydrinate) are often used to control nausea that persists for more than several days after chemotherapy treatment.
Cannabinoids
Anti-anxiety drugs such as Ativan
Proton pump inhibitors and histamine H2 receptor antagonists

, You’re likely to have quite a regimen of medications as you undergo chemotherapy. Ask your doctor for clear instructions on a medication schedule that will make any anti-nausea medication as effective as possible.Note that timing the anti-nausea medications properly in relationship to your other meds is key to effectiveness.
Also, since your treatment plan depends upon you taking all of your meds on schedule, contact your doctor immediately if you’re having trouble keeping liquids or your medications down.In severe cases, this may require intravenous delivery of your medications (as well as fluids to help keep you hydrated if you are vomiting a lot).

