 The best way to remove the tick is to use pointy-edged tweezers, angling the points to ensure that the head of the tick is removed along with the body.Old-fashioned methods, such as soaking it with petroleum jelly or painted the affected site with nail polish, should be avoided as they traumatize the tick, which may then regurgitate its stomach contents (including bacteria) into the dog's bloodstream.


Did you remove the whole tick? If you've jerked or twisted the tick while removing it, the mouth-parts may break off and remain in the skin. You may be able to remove the mouth-parts separately using clean tweezers.You should still be able to identify the tick without the mouth-parts.
Put the tick in a vial or lidded jar, or place it on a piece of white paper and use a piece of clear tape to cover it.;
, How many legs does it have? Ticks, like other arachnids, will have eight legs in the nymph and adult stage, but will have only six legs in the larval stage.If you've put the tick in a jar or vial, watch it move. If it is a tick, it will crawl, but will not be able to fly or jump.
Ticks have flattened, tear-shaped bodies at all stages of growth. When engorged, the tick's body will be rounded and its color will be lighter.
Deer ticks are smaller than their counterparts, the dog and lone star ticks. Deer tick nymphs are typically the size of a poppy seed, 1 to 2 mm (.039 to .078 inches) in diameter, while adults range from 2 to 3.5 mm (.078 to .137 inches) and are roughly the size of a sesame seed. An engorged tick may be about 10 mm long.Hard ticks, such as the deer tick, have a scutum or shield covering the body.Soft ticks do not have this feature., A magnifying glass can be helpful, as ticks in pre-adult stages are quite small.


The scutum is the hard section behind the tick's head. A deer tick will have a solid-color scutum, while the shield of other ticks is patterned.The scutum can also provide information about the gender of the tick.The scutum of the adult male will cover most of the body, while that of the female will be much smaller.
If the tick is engorged (after feeding) it can be hard to identify by other characteristics. An engorged deer tick will be rust- or brown-red in color, while the color of other engorged ticks may be pale gray or greenish-gray.However, the scutum will remain unchanged.

