 Some companies have sabbatical programs for their employees, which will determine how much time you can take off and whether you will receive pay. If your company does not have an official sabbatical policy, it will be up to you to make a case to your boss — or quit your job, if it's time for a life change.


If your company does not have an official policy, your best bet is to plan for a sabbatical that lasts six to twelve weeks.If you've been working for the company for fewer than four years, an even shorter mini-sabbatical may be more reasonable.;
, Purchase a three-ring binder with clear inserts so you can organize your sabbatical in an organized and thought-out fashion. This will keep you on track and make the trip real. You will put everything about this trip in the binder, including thoughts, lists, photos, photocopies from books, print outs from websites, and notes.
 Write down all your goals on a personal list. Keep these goals in mind while you plan the sabbatical. Here are a few examples of what you might be looking for:


Seeing new places
Relaxing, and improving physical and mental health
Doing humanitarian work
Considering a different career
Learning new skills

, This is the fun part of planning. Look at your goals and decide how you would most enjoy accomplishing them. If you have any lifelong dreams, this could be the time to accomplish them. If you're having trouble coming up with ideas, try answering these questions:


Where would you love to go on vacation?
Is there anything you've always wanted to do?
Have you ever considered alternate careers? Or are you aiming for a promotion or "sideways" movement to a related area? Could you learn the necessary skills if you had the spare time?
Are there any hobbies you've been interested in, but never had the time for? Are there hobbies your friends have that seem fun?

, This is the boring part of the plan, but necessary. Now that you have an idea of some of the things you might get up to, it's time to estimate the cost. Determine how much money you can spend per month during your sabbatical, and begin to research any costs associated with your tentative plans.


Ideally, save 10–20% of your available budget for unexpected expenses, especially if you are quitting your job to take the sabbatical.
Start saving money for your sabbatical early. Set aside a portion of each paycheck, try to pay off debt, and stop using credit cards while you're saving.
If you are planning a long trip abroad, look for more advice in the section on logistics.
 It's often a good idea to wait until planning is well underway before you begin this conversation. Some of the people in your life may be more risk-averse than you, or may not support the idea of a vacation. Bring it up after you have an estimate of how much the sabbatical would cost, and what you would like to do. With a more concrete understanding of the situation, you can respond to their concerns reasonably and logically. Of course, many family members and friends may fully support you already.
 Your sabbatical can be beneficial to your employer as well, especially if you need a break to regain your enthusiasm and motivation. Give him additional reasons as well, for instance:


If you are traveling abroad, consider whether your new language skills and cultural connection could be beneficial to your employer, or whether there are contacts abroad that your company does business with.
You might learn new, work-relevant skills through classes, personal projects, or visiting other organizations.
Offer to train coworkers or interns to cover any vital work that needs to be done in your absence.

