 Look at every possible resource for chin reference: online images, your reflection, your friends and family, pictures of presidents on coins. After a few months, you'll notice something interesting - all chins are different, and yet, fundamentally the same. Anatomically, the chin is mostly defined by the human mandible. This bone structure is what gives the chin it's sharp, royal angles. It is less hindered by fleshy muscles or soft tissue, unless the recipient is overweight of course.;
, You won't be able to tell if your chin looks right if it's situated on an anatomically incorrect face right? Try taking some online classes or going to live drawing sessions and work on every part of the face other than the chin. Once you can draw soulful eyes, tender lips, and sterling cheekbones you are ready to begin drawing the most powerful feature of the face.
 For instance, feminine chins are generally smaller and sharper whereas masculine chins are larger and more boxy. Making this decision is critical as it will completely determine the personality of your drawing.
 Once you've decided the sort of chin you want to draw, begin drawing the sides of the chin. Keeping in mind that chins are like cornerstones holding together the cheeks of the face, make sure the angle of the sides of the chin match up to sides of the face. This is important or else your chin may look like it belongs elsewhere!

, This is the most difficult part of the entire chin - it may be tempting to connect the sides of the chin with a single horizontal line or to extend the sides down into a point, but these techniques will make your chin look amateur at best. Begin at the left side and slowly descend in the south-east direction as if you are gently caressing the bottom of a magnet. Continue on your path eastwards, leveling out as you reach the meridian of the face, and finally finish with a gentle slope upwards as you reach your destination on the right side of the face. Look back and admire your chin - congratulations! You've drawn a perfect human chin!

