 The type of business records you need to keep is directly related to the type of business you have.Corporations will have different recordkeeping requirements from sole proprietorships, and sole proprietorships will have different requirements from partnerships. If this is your first time starting a business and filing federal business taxes, check what type of reporting requirements you have.


If you are a C or S corporation, you will be required to file an IRS Form 1120 to report business income.Form 1120 requires in depth disclosures about particular sources of income and deductions.If you are a partnership, you will be required to file an IRS Form 1065 to report your income.While Form 1065, like Form 1120, requires you to identify income and deductions, the types of income and deductions you will have are very different.
Look through the tax forms and determine what types of records are required for your business.;
, In general, the IRS does not require any specific type of record to be kept. Instead, you can choose to keep any type of record that helps you prove your business's income and expenses. However, in some limited circumstances, the IRS may require you to keep a specific kind of record.If you are new to federal business tax and aren't sure whether you need to keep a specific type of record, contact the IRS.
 Whatever method you use to keep business records, you need to be able to clearly show your business's income and expenses. The system you have needs to include a summary of your business's transactions.


Business income might include profits from the sale of goods, dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and capital gains.If you have any income from any of these sources, you need to keep records about them.
Business expenses are the costs of running your business. They are important because you can usually deduct them on your federal tax return. Examples of business expenses include the cost of materials, the cost of storage, labor costs, and some business start-up costs., If you run a corporation, you are encouraged to keep board of directors' meeting notes.These notes may be requested by the IRS if they choose to audit you., As your business runs, you will generate supporting documents. Your supporting documents need to be kept because they will provide the information you need to fill in your business books (e.g., journals and ledgers). Supporting documents include:Sales slips
Paid bills
Invoices
Receipts
Deposit slips
Canceled checks

, Before you file your first business income tax return, you need to determine how you are going to report your income and expenses. The accounting method you choose will need to be used to both keep your books and figure your taxable income. If you want to change your accounting method down the road, you will need to get IRS approval. The IRS generally allows to to pick from the cash method or accrual method.


Under the cash method, you will report all income in the same year you receive it. You will deduct expenses during the tax year you pay them.
Under the accrual method, you will report income in the year you earn it, even though you might not receive the income until later. You will deduct expenses in the tax year incur them, regardless of when you pay them., The recordkeeping system you use needs to accurately summarize your business transactions (which are determined through your supporting documents). Most business transactions are recorded in journals and ledgers. You can buy journals and ledgers at your local office supply store. Journals are books used to record every business transaction shown through your supporting documents. You may need to keep multiple journals for transactions that occur often. Ledgers are books containing the totals from all your journals.For example, as a small business that sells goods, you may get receipts when you sell laptop computers, buy laptop parts, and sell desktop computers. All of these transactions will have supporting documents. At the end of each day, use the supporting documents and write down the transactions in your journals. Use the ledger to compile all of the information in one place.
 At this point, you are probably keeping supporting documents, journals, ledgers, and various other records about your business. If you are keeping them in hard copy, they are probably taking up quite a bit of space. While the IRS allows you to keep hard copies of everything, you might consider storing your records electronically. When you do this, you will be able to input data faster, retrieve records quicker, and transfer records to the IRS quickly if they ask for them.


If you choose to use an electronic storage system, you need to make sure it complies with IRS standards. Your storage system must be able to index, store, preserve, retrieve, and reproduce all of your records in a legible format.
The IRS can test your electronic system to ensure it meets their standards., If you have more than one business, each business must keep its own records. Each business is likely to have its own recordkeeping requirements and you do not want to get them mixed up. Additionally, if the IRS decides to audit your business, they will only want to see your records for the business being audited, not all of your businesses., Once you have all the materials necessary to keep good records and you know what records to keep, you will need to create a system for summarizing your transactions so your records are kept up-to-date and accurate. For example, a small business will usually summarize their business transactions by doing the following:Compiling all supporting documents daily
Keeping a business checkbook
Summarizing your cash receipts daily
Summarizing your cash receipts monthly
Keeping a check disbursements journal
Filling out a depreciation worksheet
Keeping an employment compensation record

, As you continue to keep business records for tax purposes, go back through those records and check them for completeness and accuracy. If you are using a single-entry system, your bookkeeping will simply be based on profit and loss statements based on daily and monthly receipts and disbursements. This type of bookkeeping is simple but not self-balancing. Therefore, if you use this type of system, you should check weekly for errors and make sure your books balance.


If you use a double-entry system (i.e., journals and ledgers), each account will have two columns, one for debits and the other for credits. It is self-balancing because you will always record each transaction as both a debit and credit. As long as your credit column equals the debit column, your books are good., Good records are key to running a successful business. Aside from needing them in case you are audited by the IRS, business records can help you:Monitor your business's progress
Prepare you financial statements
Identify the sources of your receipts
Keep track of possible deductions
Prepare for taxes
Support your tax return

, It is your responsibility, as the owner of a business, to back up any information you include in your business income tax return. If you are audited, you have the responsibility to prove that your entries, deductions, and statements in your tax return are accurate. You will prove these things by giving the IRS your records. Therefore, if you have accurate and complete business records, you will always be able to prove the claims you make on your tax filings., The IRS requires you to keep your business records for a specific period of time depending on what the record is. For example, if you have employees, you must keep all employment tax records for a specified period of time., Your business records must be kept as long as the IRS may need them in order to administer the tax code. This time period is called the period of limitations, which is the period of time in which you can amend your tax return, claim a credit, claim a refund, or the IRS can levy additional taxes. The clock starts running on this time period from the due date of your business income tax return. Therefore, if you file your business taxes one week early, the clock for record retention will not start until one week later, on the official due date.


For example, if you owe an additional tax, the period of limitations is three years. If you fail to file a tax return, the IRS can ask for your business records for an unlimited period of time for that particular year., If the IRS is within the period of limitations and they ask to see your records, you need to make them available. The IRS will let you know how they want the records, and you will be able to tell them whether you have them in electronic or hard form. Because you might find yourself getting audited, you should always be prepared. Keep your records in a safe, fire resistant area. In addition, if you keep your records electronically, make sure you back them up.
 While it is important to keep tax records for as long as necessary, it is also a good business practice to destroy records when you are able to do so. Destruction of records frees up physical space for new records and makes the retrieval of records easier.


Never destroy business records until you are 100% sure they are no loner needed. If you destroy records improperly, you can be fined or even possibly imprisoned.

