 Using any kind of deicer is pointless if there is snow piled on the ice. Use a snow shovel to push the snow off of the ice before you do anything else. You don’t have to get the snow completely off, but try to get it down to two inches (5 cm) or less.If you have a plow that attaches to a four wheeler or tractor, it’s much faster to clear the snow this way.;
, Rock salt contains chemicals that are harmful to animals and plant life. When you spread the salt, make sure not to throw any on the grass or plants near your driveway. Also, make sure that your pets do not eat the salt if you have them outside., You’ll need about four pounds (1.8 kg) of rock salt per 1000 square feet (93 square meters) of driveway. Scoop up the salt with an old plastic cup and slowly shake it out over the surface of the driveway. Don’t pile too much salt on any specific spot.The freezing temperature of saltwater is lower than that of regular water, so this is the basic principle that causes salt to melt ice.
If you have a push behind rotary spreader, like the kind you’d use for yard fertilizer, fill it with salt and use it to spread the salt quickly and evenly.
Calcium chloride pellets and magnesium chloride pellets can be substituted and applied in the same fashion.
 Letting the salt sit on the ice will melt it slowly, but adding warm water to the mix will speed things up. Fill a spray bottle with lukewarm water and mist the entire area where you laid the salt. Simply pouring water from a jug would work too, but it will distribute the water unevenly.This is not necessary if you are using calcium chloride pellets or magnesium chloride pellets.
 Thin ice will probably melt in 5-10 minutes, but for thicker ice you’ll need to wait longer. It could take up to 30 minutes or so. If it’s below freezing outside, you should wait inside to keep warm. Check the ice a couple of times until you notice that it has melted., To completely remove ice from the driveway, use a metal snow shovel to scrape off the slush that remains. If you leave the mostly melted ice on the driveway, there’s a risk of it freezing again.If you are in a hurry or it’s obvious that the ice has totally melted to water, don’t worry about shoveling off the slush.

