 The tension associated with uncertainty about whether you should tell people in your life about your sexual orientation can contribute to stress and unhappiness. If you want to share your identity with your siblings and feel ready to do so, go for it!


If you’re nervous, know that you’re not alone. In fact, less than a quarter of people who identify as bisexual are entirely open about it with others.If you don’t feel ready to tell your siblings, or simply don’t want to, it’s entirely okay. There’s no reason you have to do so, and it’s fine to wait until you feel comfortable doing so.
 Consider getting someone else’s advice on how to begin the conversation and how to respond to any potential responses. By speaking to those who know you and your siblings, you can be better prepared to ensure the conversation goes smoothly and respectfully.


Talk to a friend who has had similar conversations before.
Talk to one of your parents.
Consider inviting someone to join the conversation. Tell them that you don’t need them to speak for you, but that their support would help.
 Your own self-confidence and sense of self-worth depends on your ability to accept the sexual orientation you identify with. Embracing your sexuality as a meaningful part of who you are will help you stand up to the unique challenges you may face as a bisexual person.Don’t allow yourself to become consumed by emotional turmoil. Wishing, or worse, praying to be different than you are is a sure way to guarantee your own unhappiness.
Questioning who you are makes it harder to achieve goals in your life generally, and makes it more likely that you will become depressed or overuse substances.
Recognize negative, detrimental, or dangerous behaviors before they take over your life. If you’re struggling with addiction or depression, get professional help.
Speak with a therapist or counselor. While you know your siblings better than most people, there are also trained professional who can help you deal with experiences such as those you’re going through.
Again, you’re not alone. Almost a third of LGBT youth attempt suicide. If you ever have suicidal thoughts, call 1(800) 273-8255.
 There are countless websites geared towards bisexual people that offer information and stories. Even better, there are online communities of people who are ready and willing to support you.


Check out the It Gets Better Project. This website posts supportive stories from people who identify as having a minority sexual orientation. Stories are posted by people from all over the world.Visit Being Gay is OK. This website is designed specifically for people under 25, and provides helpful, supportive advice for young people coming to terms with their sexuality.Explore the LGBT Foundation website. The foundation’s website provides a wealth of information on available types of support and much more.