 It is important to remember that you have family or friends who want to spend time with you and talk to you. Talk to these close confidants about what you are experiencing, and ask them for help if you can find the courage to do so. You should draw comfort and happiness from the fact that you do have people who you can turn to., The best way to do this is by meditating and using breathing techniques. During meditation, the goal is to empty your mind of any thoughts and simply feel at peace. Breathing techniques are based on what works for an individual. Try breathing in as deeply as you can and then expelling all the air from your lungs and repeating the process.Listening to soothing music can act as a form of meditation. If you are feeling anxious, play music that will help to calm yourself down.
Yoga can be an excellent form of meditation that combines both mental and physical exercise.
 Not getting enough sleep can aggravate your paranoia and make your symptoms worse. Because of this, it is important to make sure that you have a regular sleep schedule. Try to go to bed and get up around the same time each day. Don’t drink caffeine before bed, as this can throw off your sleeping patterns., While you may dislike when others question your rationale governing your fears and anxieties, it is important for you to reflect upon the motivations that inspire your actions and interactions. Ask yourself, “why am I fearful, suspicious, or anxious?” Try justifying your fears--do they make sense to you? You should also think about how these negative thoughts are affecting your well-being., Eat well-balanced meals and exercise as often as possible. It is important to keep yourself healthy so that you can feel good about yourself. Put food into your body that will make you feel good. Avoid things like alcohol and tobacco that can have a negative impact on both your physical and mental states.
 Like eating healthy food to increase your positivity, it is also important to do activities that will inspire positive feelings. Do things that you love, whether that means taking time to garden each day, go to the movies, or even go dancing. Create a positive outlet for yourself by working on a project that you enjoy.
 As a person with PPD, you should constantly be supplying yourself with positive thoughts. One way that you can do this is by reading and watching material that have uplifting content. Inspirational books and movies that discuss people overcoming great odds, be it psychologically, emotionally, or physically, can give you the fodder for your own inspirational fire.

