 Even if it is your absolute favorite movie or TV show, give it a wide berth for a while. If you get to the stage where you feel guilty about not watching it, this is when you know your obsession is out of hand! Hide their films away at least for a while.


If you see this actor in theater, stop going to the theater shows until you're over this actor.;
, This can be hard, especially if you spent all that time gathering pictures of the actors to use as your wallpaper. However, it's best to delete them, as this will stop that connection and you won't see the actor's face every time you turn on your phone.
 You do not have to take them down for good, just until you stop obsessing over them, that way when you put it back up you can appreciate them as an actor not your 'future husband'.
 Okay, so the advantage of a crush on an actor is that you can find out lots about this person by just a click of a button. It might help therefore to read a bad film critic or some bad comments about this actor, then use this negativity to get over him/her!

, Or, avoid Twitter for a while. If you are at the obsessing stage and have tried to make contact with them, it's now time to stop. It is likely the actor will not reply and if they do, it will be out of sympathy or a routine message sent from their minders or their book of "fan messages".
 So sure you may have seen their interviews, read all about them, seen all their tweets, watched all their movies, but this does not mean you know everything about them. The only things you know about them are the public things you do not truly know them. What you are doing is fantasizing and filling int the gaps to suit yourself, imaging up the ideal person without knowing the reality. That is super unhealthy and can cause you to do the same thing to real people you do know if you don't take care.
 It may sound harsh but the majority of the time they have wives/husbands, families or boyfriends/girlfriends. So, no matter what you tell yourself, they are not going to up sticks and leave that behind because of a tweet you sent them.
 For example, if you fancied Johnny Depp, you need to avoid writing Mrs Depp everywhere!

, If you are too busy obsessing over an actor, it may affect your real life. Wondering why you haven't got a boyfriend/girlfriend? Perhaps its because you are too busy crushing over your actor crush to open your eyes to the real world. Maybe nobody can measure up to this fantasy image of a person you've created in your head––if that's the case, it really is time to come back down to earth.

