 Starting from the very tips of your toes, gradually flex and then loosen all of your muscles one by one. Move to your ankles, then calves, knees, and upwards towards your neck.
 Lightly squeeze your left fist, release it, and then repeat it with the right hand. Alternate back and forth, counting each clench as if they were sheep.
 Focus on loosening your muscles and sinking into the bed. Don't judge or resist any thoughts, or feel like you need to go blank and avoid all thought. Think of clouds, a quiet place, or nothingness., Starting at one, slowly work your way up. If you lose track, simply go back to one and start over.
 Take your mind off sleeping and put it on something relaxing.


Build your perfect house or room in your mind.
Picture something calming from nature. Explore all the sense in your mind.
Invent a movie or story starring you.
Imagine yourself walking through your house looking at all the walls and etc.
 Get a bottle of bubbles, the kind children play with. Blowing bubbles makes you focus on deep breathing., Get comfortable, close your eyes, and try your best to stay awake — you'll be happy when you fail. It is scientifically proven to work., This is just a calm, relaxed, and perfectly at peace state of mind that is accessible to anyone. To do so:


Picture yourself in a warm, safe space.
Imagine yourself walking down stairs, relaxing more with each step.Repeat some words to yourself, over and over. "Falling deeply asleep, sleeping deeply," should be enough.
 To do so:Place the tip of your tongue behind your two front teeth.
Exhale completely.
Close your mouth.
Inhale through your nose for four seconds.
Hold your breath for seven seconds.
Exhale completely through your mouth again for eight seconds.
Repeat until you fall asleep., Turn a dim light back on and read for 10 minutes. You could also go for a walk, do some light yoga, or make a small snack., There are many supplements which may help you fall asleep, but results vary from person to person. Try out:



Chamomile tea. When brewing it, make sure to use 2-3 bags, and keep a lid on the pot to trap the essential oils.Melatonin is the most common sleep supplement on the market. It is naturally produced by the body, found in many foods, and is non-addictive.Chlorpheniramine maleate, also sold as 'Chlortrimeton' or 'Coricidin-HBP', is an antihistamine that causes drowsiness without raising blood pressure.Valerian is a relaxing herb that helps with sleep.