 Use an ear dropper filled with mineral oil for ear mites. Ear mites are extremely obnoxious pests that usually inhabit dogs and cats' ears more often than humans. Find a common earwax dropper at your local pharmacy, and fill it up with mineral oil. Apply to the whole of your pet's ear, inside and around the inside of the fleshy part.


Keep your pets outside during this time so they do not spill the oil on your furniture or carpet.
 Apply sulfur lotion to the entirety of your body if you have scabies (itch mites). Most experts recommend over-the-counter Lindane as a fairly non-toxic substance. Pure sulfur also works, but is harder to obtain and has a very noxious odor. Make sure you shower thoroughly before application. Consult your doctor or pharmacist before use because some of these scabies treatments do require a prescription due to their toxicity.
 Introduce predator mites in your garden if you have spider mites. Spider mites feast on vegetation in gardens and lawns, killing droves of plants. You can purchase a small colony of predator mites, which actually prove beneficial to your garden's habitat. You can also choose to use chemical treatments, though this may risk the health of your vegetation; so predator mites are an easy, non-toxic alternative.
 These mites can be found indoors and outdoors and are carried by birds. The only way to really get rid of them is through insecticide use, but this is best left done by an exterminator. Move any bird nests close to your home and cut down tree limbs near your house. If the mites are present in farm birds - like chickens - replace all nesting materials and add fresh garlic to their drinking water., Clover mites are reddish brown in color and don't present much of a threat to humans or animals. If they are bothering you though, you can kill them off by mixing borax with warm water and spraying the solution where you notice the mites. This will kill them off and prevent more from joining the party., The last thing some people may want is to bring spiders willingly into their home or garden. However, spiders are a natural enemy of mites and will work to eat them. Keeping spiders around will reduce the total number of mites you have at any one time, and keep it that way. Therefore, don’t kill spiders when you see them in or around your home.

