 It is completely up to you how much you think it is reasonable to spend on clothing, cosmetics, hair cuts etc. Look at your income and what you need to spend live and allocate an amount to looking good. Consider your lifestyle and what you really need. When you’re sticking to a budget, the crucial element in making the most of your appearance is to take a look at your real life and what types of clothing and beauty treatments your real life requires. Just because those red leather, $175 sling-back high heels look amazing doesn’t mean you buy them, especially if you work in landscaping and rarely wear a dress, if you'll wreck gel nails within a week, don't bother and if you swim a lot, a high maintenance hairstyle might not suit. Be practical.Work from the principle of the item’s Return on Investment (ROI), even if it’s a pair of $3 earrings. How often will you wear them? With how many outfits can you wear them? How long will they last?;
, Unless you have a pile of cash hidden or a nice tax return has just been deposited into your bank account, remember that building a wardrobe won’t happen overnight. You want to slowly acquire basic and versatile pieces at the cheapest price possible, while looking ahead and asking yourself: “Will this still be wearable in a couple of years?”


Shop out of season. Shop for spring and summer items in the fall and winter and vice versa. Perusing the sales racks for items that can be worn in the opposite season than your in, can result in great bargains. Keep in mind that your bargain may be out of style come the season you'll wear it. Avoid extremes of fashion if being in style is important to you.Hit the outlet stores where major retailers offload overstock, which the stores sell at reduced prices. Be careful, though, because sometimes items have defects.Shop at discount stores like Marshall’s and TJ Maxx, where retailers also offload their overages. You can often find good deals on purses, shoes and accessories. They also regularly have huge clearance sales around the holidays and the end of the season., Instead, choose selectively, going for quality over quantity. Just like shopping at outlet and discount stores, rein yourself in at all other stores, too. Just because something is on sale for $19.99 doesn’t mean you need it, or that you should buy it. That $19.99 might as well be $100 if you’re living on a really tight budget. If it doesn’t play a versatile role in your overall wardrobe, if you can’t see yourself wearing it in a couple of years and if you’re iffy about it, put it back.Always think about quality over quantity. It’s much better to buy a $65 pair of jeans and have them tailored to fit perfectly than to buy two pairs of $30 jeans that sag in the butt and are too long., When we hear, “You simply must start with the basics,” we often think, “Okay, here comes the boring shopping.” Basics don’t have to be boring. Instead, they have to be versatile, solid-colored pieces that form the foundation of your wardrobe. The more versatile they are, the further you can stretch your wardrobe. Many such items are far from boring, being made in a variety of cuts, materials and textures that can be mixed and matched.


For instance, pairing different textures like jersey with lace or silk with wool takes the basics from bland to brilliant.
Mixing textures also doesn’t break the beauty tenet that simple is more, or better. This concept is great when you’re styling on a budget because dressing simply doesn’t have to cost much. It only needs to be put together well.
The basic of the basics typically includes: a black dress; white button-down, fitted blouse; short-sleeved white t-shirt; well-fitted blazer; khaki pants; fitted jeans; solid-colored pantsuit or skirt/jacket combo for work, if needed; and a pair of both black flats and solid-colored tennis shoes. What you need m a y be radically different., After you have the basic basics, you will need to gradually add more. Stick to one or two color families for your basics and build from there. For example, neutrals – black, brown, grey, tan, navy and some would say white – are the colors for basics for a reason. They go with just about everything, including each other. Sticking to one or two will allow you to not only mix them with each other but also to only buy pieces that color-coordinate with your base palettes. Make sure you don’t buy anything that won’t go with at least two-three other items you already have!
Color-coordinating is pretty easy. Look online at a color wheel. To find the complementary color of the item you want to wear, look directly across the color wheel to the other side. The color you see is your item’s complementary color. Looking good can involve looking bold and unconventional. Pair any colors you like.The colors on each side of the complementary color are the semi-complimentary colors and can also be worn, one at a time if you are very conventional and boring. Remember, there are no fashion police in real life.You can wear navy suits or blue shirts with brown leather shoes and belts if you like. Brown is closest to orange/red-orange, which is across from blue on the color wheel. You may no yt? Look good in this outfit at the beach or working on your garden., Often the difference between cheap and expensive clothes is the fabric used and the cut, which makes more expensive clothing look sleek and form fitting. One way to make up for this is by wearing spanx and other shapewear. Another difference is that expensive clothing is often lined, whereas cheaper clothing often is not. This can make a big difference in the overall appearance of a piece. A quick fix is by wearing a slip under your dress or skirt, for instance, or a sheer camisole under a shirt.


Another option is to have your clothing tailored. This would be best if you found an expensive but timeless basic at a hugely discounted price that wasn’t quite the right size or fit. It’s also a good option for minor adjustments to an item you spent a bit more on for the sake of quality over quantity.
 Accessorizing with jewelry, scarves, headbands, shoes, purses, watches and so forth might be the most important thing you can do to look great on a budget, as long as it’s not overdone! Classic accessories can be worn many times, in many ways and with many different outfits. They add to your basics, pulling everything together. They can transform essentially the same outfit from one event or occasion to another, such as from work to dinner.


They can also elevate a cheap look to a more expensive look. For instance, don a pair of cubic zirconium stud earrings with a simple black dress when real diamonds aren’t in your budget.
Avoid fake leather, too much plastic and overly shiny metals. They look cheap. Instead go for canvas, wood and brushed or matte metals.
Buy a smaller number of interestingly designed pieces, even if they’re a bit pricier, rather than a lot of accessories that are essentially interchangeable., You can add color in ways other than through accessorizing to add some wow-factor to your base palette. This is where blazers, coats, sweaters, cardigans, wraps, bright shirts and tank tops, colorful or patterned tights, etc. come into play. Much of the method relies upon layering to add color, ensuring that the colors coordinate or don’t overpower the outfit.


Color-coordinate by using analogous colors. Take the color of the piece you’re wearing, look on the color wheel at the color to the left and the color to the right of the original. These are the analogous colors. Choose one and use it to coordinate with your original.
Sometimes you are in situations where you need a more subdued look. In these cases, add one accent color to your neutral palette. For example, wear a black skirt and tailored jacket, black heels and add an embellished, emerald-colored top under the jacket. Pair it with faux pearl and black-beaded earrings., Now that you have your basics, accessories and additional items to add color and texture, work on mixing and matching your wardrobe. You’ll be amazed at how many outfits you can put together with a relatively small amount of clothes and accessories. For example, a simple blue dress can be made ready for a cocktail party with the right pair of high heels and jewelry. Or you can throw a sweater over it, transforming it into a skirt, and pull on some boots for an afternoon lunch.


Remember that shoes play a vital role in making your wardrobe more versatile, but you don’t need a ton of shoes to do it. Make the shoes themselves become versatile. A pair of tall, brown leather boots can be dressed up or down, for instance.
 Even less expensive clothes, which tend to fade and shrink, will last longer and maintain their color, shape and quality better with proper care. Make sure you read the labels and wash your clothes as instructed. If it says to dry clean, don’t wash it! Generally, always wash clothes with like colors. Wash dark colors in cold, so they won’t fade as quickly. Buy a drying rack to air dry your clothes as much as possible to reduce shrinking, or tumble dry clothes on low heat. Never rub stains; instead blot the stain with cool water and then use a stain remover before washing.


Consider using RIT dye when your black clothes have faded a lot, which can happen quickly.
Another way to always look put together is to simply iron your clothes before wearing them.
Polishing your shoes regularly will do wonders, too. If you have an expensive pair of shoes that are in great condition except for the soles, have them resoled.
Learn basic sewing and mending techniques, and keep extra buttons, thread and needles for basic repairs., Looking good also includes having some form of hairstyle that looks purposeful. Getting your hair professionally done on a regular basis, however, can be very expensive. Ask your stylist if he or she will do your hair from home, which some will do inexpensively because salons pocket about 60% of the overall fee.Ask if there’s a junior stylist with lower rates at your salon. Look into stylists who work from home; for new salons in town with Grand Opening discounts; at the beauty school; and at the barber’s shop, where you can save a bundle on simple cuts.Have a friend or family member cut your hair and dye it yourself. Or get a salon or barbershop cut and dye it yourself. Try semi-permanent color your first time.
Check out salon loyalty programs, in which you get a free service after a certain number of visits and the like.
 First, skip the clarifying shampoo and, instead, every six weeks mix 1 tablespoon of baking powder with 2 tablespoons of white vinegar, work it into your hair and rinse to get rid of build-up. Don’t do this after dyeing your hair, or it will strip the color. Secondly, exchange expensive shampoos for baby shampoo. Also, wash and condition your hair on alternating days. Finally, to bring out shine, mix a ¼ cup of lemon juice with 1 cup of warm water and pour it over your hair after you’ve washed it for lighter-colored hair. For darker hair, use a ¼ cup of white vinegar and 1 cup of warm water.In general, use half of all additional products. Logically, you don’t need a volumizing shampoo and conditioner, mouse and root booster if you still have to tease your hair.
 You don’t have to buy expensive makeup to still look great wearing it. There are a lot of good, yet cheap drugstore products. The key to having nice make-up is in knowing what colors to use and how to apply it. Start by heading to a department store’s makeup section and see if you can get a makeover. Another option is to find good tutorials on YouTube.


When buying make-up, go for the drugstore products first. Stock up on them when stores have buy one, get one free deals, which happens regularly.
If you do splurge on a product, make sure it’s something that’s going to help your skin’s appearance like foundation or concealer, not lipstick or eyeshadow., Well-groomed nails are an important part of the whole package. Rough, discolored or unfiled nails can spoil an outfit that’s otherwise in tip-top shape – perfectly accessorized, color-coordinated, polished and pressed. Luckily, you can correct most nail problems yourself with a pair of clippers and a nail file. Add a top coat for some shine. If you want to add color, apply a base coat, two layers of color and then a top coat. If you do these things and keep your cuticles well moisturized with lotion, you can save a bundle by not having them done at a salon.
 If you’re willing to sift through racks of clothes you won’t want, you’ll find many hidden gems in thrift stores. Amazing leather coats for $25. Cashmere sweaters for $5. The perfect Ralph Lauren wool pantsuit for $8 that you can wear to work. Sometimes, especially in the more posh parts of town, you’ll even find price tags still on clothes. They’re also a great place to find shoes, purses, scarves, jewelry, slips, belts, ties and hats.Some stores have discount days, and often there’s a discount of some kind every day. Call and ask before you go. Value Village, if there's one near you, for instance, gives you 20% off everything you buy that day if you donate just one item when you walk in. The discounts vary by organization.
 Fashion consignment shops are usually smaller, local establishments that tend to sell designer clothing that’s in good condition. The selection is much smaller than at thrift stores, but it’s more focused. The prices are higher than at thrift stores, but you can be in and out quickly. The same cannot be said when you go thrift shopping.
 The best bargains on designer clothing, shoes, beauty products and accessories may be on Overstock.com. You do actually save money, and there is a lot from which to choose. The company offers a variety of discounts throughout the year as well as a discount for becoming a member. You can also shop online on eBay. Look for items that aren’t being marketed well, that have poorer-quality photographs or that are mislabeled. This often means they’re not being sold by a professional eBay seller, so they’ll often get fewer bids and be cheaper.Look closely at the terms of the MasterCard associated with Overstock.com. You have to spend a lot on the card to earn points, and the savings may not end up paying the interest on the card purchases.
A downside to both is you can’t try things on first, and getting refunds from eBay purchases can be tricky.
 Also called upcycling, refashioning clothes has become quite popular in the last decade. It involves taking old articles of clothing or fabrics and altering them to create something new. You might resize, add embellishments or cut articles apart and sew them together to create a new piece. Use your old clothes, thrift-store clothing, pieces of fabric, blankets, etc. You can also make accessories from a variety of materials., Gather friends together, have everyone bring clothing items and accessories they don’t wear often and start trading. Most people, even those with tight budgets, have nice things hiding in the backs of their closets for lack of wear. Even if a friend has something that’s not a perfect fit, refashion it, take it in yourself or see a tailor. Finish your clothes swapping with a fashion show!