 On your Internet browser, go to www.mail.aol.com. This will bring you to the main AOL mail page where you log into your account with your username and password. Click on the “Sign In” button at the bottom of the page to continue.;
, On the far right corner, right below your name, look for the “Options” button, and click on it. Look for “Account Info” on the menu that displays, and click again.
 On the new page, you will be asked to verify your account by answering your secret question. Type your secret answer into the box, and click on “OK” right next to it.
 After giving the right answer, a new page will load that has all of your account information. In the middle of the page will be “Account Recovery Information.” There are four options that you can add and edit from there.
 To the right of the mobile phone number section is a blue “Add” button. Click on it to make the text box appear. Click on the box and enter your mobile number (area code first). When you’re done, click on the “Save” button beside the box.
 “Alternate phone” gives you the option to enter another phone number should something happen to your mobile phone. Just click on “Add,” enter the number by clicking on the box, and clicking on “Save” once finished.
 First, click on the “Add/Edit” button to open up a new box to wherein to type an alternate email address. Click on “Save” afterwards.


An email will go out to that email address you just entered to confirm that it’s yours. Just sign in to that other email account when you’re done with AOL, and click on the confirmation link in that email message.
 Alter it by clicking on “Edit” next to security question. This will open up two boxes. The first one lets you select the question. A simple drop-down menu, just click on the box, and scroll through until you find the question that suits you. Click on the box below that to type in the answer to your security question. Click on the “Save” button afterwards.
 Make sure everything is exactly how you want it. When you are finished, scroll to the bottom of the page, and click on the blue “Done” button. You have successfully edited your AOL Mail recover settings!