 Note that this step only applies if your baby or toddler is already on solid foods and, as a result, also has solid waste. Fluid waste will come out in the wash and does not need to be removed beforehand.;
, Cold water is preferable to hot water, since hot water is more likely to set stains into the cloth. Do not add the soap nuts yet, since this is only a pre-wash cycle meant to remove additional waste. Instead, add 1/2 cup baking soda or washing soda to the cold wash to aid in the removal of stains and odors.
 The rinse cycle will flush away any baking soda and may help in the further removal of solid waste.
 Many soap nut sellers will include a bag with the purchase of your nuts, but if you do not receive a bag, simply choose one made of thin cotton that seals tightly upon being drawn. The bag must allow the saponin to seep through, but it must also prevent the nuts themselves from falling out and bouncing around the washing machine. Break the nuts apart so the water can circulate in them freely.


Check the soap nut label for more specific instructions on how to determine the correct number of nuts to use. Usually it is between 3 and 8 soap nuts.
 There is no need to dry the diapers before starting this new cycle. Run the machine through a hot washing cycle. Do not use cold water this time. Hot water is needed in order to release the saponin, which acts as the cleaning agent inside the nut.
 Soap nut liquid is made from real soap nuts, contains no chemical additives, and works just as effectively as the actual nuts themselves. Add the liquid directly into the machine’s bucket with the cloth diapers. Do not add it into any of the compartments meant for liquid fabric softener or bleach.
 The soap nuts will not leave any residue on the diapers as long as you use cold water to rinse them. Moreover, the nuts actually act as a natural fabric softener, and keeping them in for both the wash and rinse cycles improves the softness of your diapers upon removal from the machine.
 Pin them to a clothesline and allow them to dry in the sun or toss them directly into the dryer. Do not dry the diapers with your cloth nuts, though. The nuts should be removed as soon as the final rinse cycle completes itself and serve no purpose in the drying cycle.
 Some soap nuts may even be used up to ten times. Check the seller’s label to verify how often your nuts can be safely reused.

