 A whole chicken wing has two joints connecting three sections. You should be able to visually identify both joints.The wing should bend in two places, and each bend corresponds to one joint.
The rounded end previously connected to the body of the chicken is the wingette (also called a "flat"). The middle portion between both joints is the drumette, and the pointed end is the tip.
Once you've visually identified both joints, use your fingers to feel for the areas that seem hollow or loose. Those are the connecting points, and those are the points at which you'll cut the wing.;
, Bend it back at the joint between the drumette and the wingette, forcing the joint apart.


You should hold the wingette and drumette in either hand so that the two portions form an upright "V" shape. Disregard the wing tip for now.
Pull down on both portions until you hear a slight crack. Continue until the bone connected to the end of the drumette forces its way through the connecting skin.
 Place the chicken wing on your cutting board and position a sharp knife directly between the exposed joint. Press down and through the joint to cleanly separate both pieces.You'll need to use a straight, downward force to cut through the joint, but you may need to use a sawing motion to cut through the connecting skin.
Alternatively, you can cut through the exposed joint using sharp, clean kitchen scissors.
 Hold the connected wingette and tip in your hands. Wiggle or bend back the wing tip until you force the joint apart.


This part of the process is usually easier than the first part since this joint is less firm.
Hold the wingette ready while using your other hand to wiggle the tip. Do this until you can hear or feel the joint pop, then continue bending the joint back until you can reveal two bones. The smaller of the two bones is connected to the wing tip.
 Return the wing to the cutting board and use a sharp knife to cut straight through the wingette and the tip, cleanly separating both pieces.


The two pieces should separate easily with a knife. If desired, however, you can separate these portions using kitchen scissors instead.
 Use the wingette and drumette in recipes calling for chicken wing pieces. Discard the wing tips.


The wing tips have little to no meat, making them unfit for use in normal recipes. If you don't wish to completely discard them, you could save the tips and use them for use in chicken stock later.

