 Even though GSPs have short coats, they will still shed if they are not brushed on a regular basis. To reduce shedding, use a rubber brush to go over your GSP’s coat about once or twice per week.Start brushing your GSP from a young age so that he will be used to it. To make it more pleasant for him, try giving your GSP a treat after you finish brushing him.
 GSPs are more prone to ear infections than some breeds, so it is important to inspect and clean your GSP’s ears at least once per week. To clean your GSP’s ears, you will need to use a damp (not wet) piece of cotton gauze to wipe out the inside of your dog’s ear flap.


Wrap the gauze around your finger and use your finger to gently wipe the inside of your GSP's ear flap and ear.
Do not try to stick the gauze deep into your dog’s ears or use a cotton swab on your dog’s ears.Check your dog’s ears often as well to see if he has any debris or wax buildup in his ears. A good time to check your GSP’s ears is when you are brushing him.
If you notice lots of wax buildup, discharge, or a bad smell coming from your GSP’s ears, then take him to see your veterinarian. Your veterinarian can do a deep cleaning, check for infections, and provide medication for your dog's ears if needed., Nail upkeep is important for GSPs because long nails may pose an injury hazard for these active dogs. If your GSP is active, then you may not need to trim his nails often or even at all, but you should trim your GSP’s nails whenever they start to click on the ground while he is walking. Be careful to avoid the quick when you trim your GSP’s nails. The quick is a blood vessel inside of a dog’s nail and it can be extremely painful if you hit it.To avoid cutting the quick, trim a small sliver of nail at a time and check the trimmed surface as you go. If you start to notice a circle on the trimmed surface, stop cutting. The quick is just below this circle.
 Care for your GSP’s teeth by brushing them regularly from the time your GSP is a puppy. You can teach your GSP to like brushing by placing a bit of peanut butter or liver on a dog toothbrush and allowing him to lick the toothbrush. After doing this a few times, he should be more accepting of the toothbrush.Never use human toothpaste on your GSP. Human toothpaste contains ingredients, such as fluoride, that are toxic to dogs.
 GSPs are prone to droopy lower eyelids, which can make it more likely that dust, dirt, and other particles will get into their eyes and cause irritation. If you are spending long periods outdoors with your GSP, then you may need to flush your GSP’s eyes out with saline solution now and then to remove these particles.To flush your GSP’s eyes out with saline solution, you will need to hold your dog’s eyelid open and gently squeeze saline solution into your dog’s eyes from just above his eyes. This is much easier with a friend and you will need to be careful not to allow the bottle tip to touch your dog’s eye or it may cause injury.
Flushing out your dog’s eyes with saline solution is similar to giving a dog eye drops but more solution may be required to flush out dust particles and debris from your dog’s eyes.
Ask your veterinarian for some special saline fluid for your GSP’s eyes. Your veterinarian can also demonstrate how to use it.

