 Describe what happened in each instance and what was so memorable about it. Include big things, like special occasions, and little things, like good conversations you remember. It’s a great, personal gift that shows the recipient you appreciate your relationship with them.For example, you could write something like, "On July 4, 2001, we tried to go to the fireworks show downtown, but couldn't find any parking. So instead we drove out to the middle of nowhere and sat on the hood of the car, watching the fireworks from the shows all around us."
You could also write something like, "I had a cold once, but had to go to work anyway, and when I woke up, you'd packed me a lunch with chicken noodle soup in a thermos. It was so thoughtful and reminded me how much you care.";
, Ask each of their friends and family members to write down their favorite thing about them on a slip of paper. Then place all of those slips of paper into a glass or decorative jar. The recipient can read them all at once, or pull one out when they need a little boost to their day.For example, people can write things like "Your eyes are my favorite color blue," or "You always tell the funniest jokes!"

, The photos you choose are up to you and can vary depending on who the recipient is. You can place the photos in a photo album, or you could go a few steps further and make an actual scrapbook with different colored paper and decorations.For example, if you recently lost a loved one like a grandparent, you could gift your siblings with a scrapbook of photos of them with your grandparent.
You can also make a scrapbook of a vacation you took with the recipient (or that they took with someone else).
If you don’t have enough photos on your own, ask the recipient’s friends and family to help out and send photos they have.
 You can choose the charity one of two ways: you can donate in their name to a charity that supports a cause close to their heart – like the ASPCA for animal lovers. Or you can donate to a charity related to something that’s happened in their life – like the ACS if they or someone they love has had cancer.Donors Choose is a great website for looking up reputable charities to donate to.

