 In some cases while trying to obtain a refund, the representative you are working with may not be completely familiar with the company's contracts, policies, or terms and conditions. You should become familiar with the return policy and cite the particular provision that you are relying on.Read through the merchant's contracts, receipts, and other related documentation to determine if you can legitimately receive reimbursement based on your situation. Then mention your findings to the merchant in your effort to receive a refund.;
, The first step to resolving your billing dispute is to work directly with the merchant. Many companies and businesses have policies in place in which they are required to provide you with a refund if you are dissatisfied with their product or service, or if you have a negative experience with their company., If the merchant is unable or unwilling to provide you with a refund, you may more easily be able to get a store credit that you can apply toward other products or services at the store., If working with a store clerk or customer service representative does not lead to a solution, you should try talking with a manager or owner. In most cases, merchants will work with you to resolve issues if you take the time to escalate your situation to their boss or to an executive team whose goal is to maintain customer satisfaction., Since credit card chargebacks are costly for most companies and businesses, they will most likely work with you to resolve the issue to avoid a credit card chargeback., Put your complaint in writing. Explain the details of your initial purchase, if you made one, and the reason for requesting the refund. Even if the merchant does not eventually agree and grant you a refund, the letter will provide documentation of your complaint. You will need this documentation to proceed with a chargeback.Be sure to follow the credit card company's requirements to request a chargeback and be sure you comply with any deadlines.
 If a merchant does not work with you to resolve your issue, your next step will be to seek a credit card chargeback through your bank or card company. In general, a chargeback is available for any one of three different reasons:Seek a chargeback if your credit card statement reflects fraudulent charges. If you are charged for products or services you did not purchase or authorize, you will be entitled to use a credit card chargeback.
Seek a chargeback when you do not receive a full refund for an item you returned. In some cases, a merchant may take back the item you purchased, but will not issue you a full refund to your credit card. In this case, you could use the chargeback to challenge the partial return policy.
Use a chargeback if you do not receive a product or service you paid for. For example, if you ordered a product from the Internet and you never received it in the mail, a merchant may dispute the order and refuse to provide you with a refund.
 You have a limited amount of time to resolve your complaint after the transaction date. The time may vary depending on state law, but in general you will have 120 days from the date of the transaction to submit your complaint.The time begins from the date of the transaction. Taking time to try to resolve the problem with the merchant can be valuable as an initial step, but do not lose track of the deadline to file the chargeback complaint.
 You need to notify the bank or credit card company that you have a dispute. Usually, you just need to call the telephone number that is printed on your credit card for Customer Service. Tell the clerk who answers that you are calling to dispute a charge on your card. To proceed further, you will need to provide the details of the dispute. In particular, you will need to give the bank the following information:The date of the initial transaction. If your dispute began with a purchase that you made, you will want to provide the date of that purchase. If, on the other hand, you are disputing a charge that appears on your card statement incorrectly, you will provide the date that appears on that charge.
The amount of money that is in dispute. You will want to provide the bank with the exact amount. If you have a receipt or a copy of your credit card statement, you should be able to find the amount there.
The efforts you have already taken to resolve the issue. Provide the bank with as much detail as you can. This will include the names of any clerks or other store employees you spoke with, the general content of those conversations, and their responses to your requests.
 In most cases, after you report your dispute to your bank over the telephone, you will be issued a credit for that amount. This will be a temporary credit, subject to subsequent validation of your dispute., After you make your initial report to the bank, you will usually be sent a formal report form. You will need to complete this form in writing with the details of your dispute. Fill in the form as completely as you can, providing as much detail as possible.Use your receipt and credit card statement to help complete the form accurately.
Be concise. Provide all the facts necessary to detail your dispute, but limit your responses. If you get wordy, you may just confuse the issue.
Refer to the complaint letter that you sent to the merchant. You should attach a copy of that letter to the completed chargeback report form.
 In most cases, you will be required to present receipts or contracts from the transaction. Make sure that your records are complete, and include everything when you submit your completed report., After reviewing your written report, the bank or credit card company will make a final decision to sustain or reverse the previous temporary chargeback. If the bank finds that your documentation and explanation support your position, then you will receive a report in your favor, and the temporary credit will remain in your account. On the other hand, if the bank does not support your claim, then the temporary credit will be reversed, and the initial charge will apply.

