 The best way to learn about music is to learn from professionals such as music teachers and band directors. You will usually be exposed to a wide range of music as well as learn the theory behind music. You can start with a school band at any age - middle school concert or marching band, high school marching band, school orchestra... there are plenty of possibilities.;
, See if you can join another group at school, or an outside ensemble. Many schools have a jazz band, an elite brass group, indoor percussion, or other things of that nature. This will expand your knowledge of different types of music.
 Many areas have All City, All County, and/or All State bands that you can audition for. Being chosen to be a part of these bands is a great honor, will challenge you, and will look great on college applications.
 S&E is an event that many school districts put on every year, where musicians can perform solos or ensemble pieces for a judge, and are graded according to their personal performance.
 This is a great way to get one-on-one help with your music, advance beyond others in your class, and get special teaching in certain areas of music that you're not as familiar with. You can also see about getting one-on-one lessons with your band director after school.
 Some schools offer music theory, music composition, or other courses of the sort.
 Learning an instrument that is closely related to the one you already know can help you broaden your skill and at the same time help you understand the differences between types of music played by different instruments. Being able to play several instruments can also make you an asset to your band, being able to switch instruments as a certain piece needs more "power" from a certain section.
 Pick a favorite song and analyze what makes it good, and try to apply those things to your own music. Try to play songs by ear on your instrument, or write sheet music for them.
 Get out and play your instrument or song for your church, a community event, or even just for your friends. Over time, your music will get better, and you'll get used to the stress of playing in front of people.
 This is a great way to continue on with music with your friends, and can earn you some fame and/or money in your area. If you don't wish to form a group, play as a solo musician.
 This is the best thing that you can do for your music education.

