 One important thing about telling your partner about your PTSD is making sure he or she is safe and supportive. If you and your partner are going to have a healthy relationship when you have PTSD, your partner needs to be emotionally supportive for you.You need to ask yourself if you believe your partner can be understanding when he or she finds out that you have PTSD. Will your partner be able to handle this knowledge? Will your partner provide you with support, help, and love during good and bad times?;
, If you are considering telling your partner about your PTSD, you both are probably in a relationship where you both have strong feelings for one another, or may even love one another. Your partner loves you, and he or she may have seen you suffering and not known the cause. Think about your partner’s feelings and how he or she may have felt over the last few months or years.


Loved ones of those with PTSD often feel helpless because they don’t know how to help or what is even wrong. Loved ones may also feel rejected due to a person with PTSD’s behavior. Your partner may not have realized that your behavior was due to symptoms of PTSD. If you have not shared anything with your partner, he or she may feel left out or rejected. Your partner may know that something is the matter, but he or she may not understand why you will not allow him or her to help you. Letting your partner in on what's going on will help your partner feel included in your life.
When you prepare what to say, consider your partner’s feelings so you can try to address those things if they come up in the conversation.
 You don’t have to tell your partner everything at once. You don’t have to go into detail. You may want to start slow. The first time you tell your partner about your PTSD, you may not reveal everything. Tell your partner bits of it one thing at a time.

Eventually, you will build trust with your partner and feel more comfortable telling him or her about your experience and condition.
 Before you tell your partner about your PTSD, you should make sure you have learned as much as you can and really understand what your condition means. This can help you answer any questions your partner may have and help him or her understand what you are going through.For example, you may want to read books or informative websites about the condition before discussing this with your partner. You may want to compile a list of resources for your partner.
You may consider going to group therapy and listening to how others have discussed the topic with their loved ones. You may also visit a therapist who can give you information or tips for telling your partner.
If you think you have PTSD, but have not yet received a diagnosis, then you will need to get a diagnosis from a licensed mental health professional. PTSD is a mental disorder, and like medical conditions, getting treatment for it will help you resolve the illness.
 If you are nervous about telling your partner about your PTSD, you can practice ahead of time. Go through the words you want to say aloud to yourself. This helps you feel comfortable saying them and get used to the feeling of the words coming off of your tongue.You may want to write down what you want to say. You can read part of what you’ve written, or refer to bullet points to help you remember points you want to make.
You can also practice what you want to say to your partner with your therapist.

