 If you are new to the area, make a point of getting to know the people who live near you. Knock on the door and introduce yourself. After an initial introduction, or if you've lived in the area for a while but don't yet know your neighbours, say hello when you see them in the street. Do your best to be friendly and approachable from the outset.;
, If your neighbour is elderly, there may be relatively simple tasks that they are no longer able to do on their own. Don't be shy. Approach them and ask if there's anything they need help with. Many older people are fit, healthy and independent, so be careful not to be patronising, but mention that you are available to help out should they need it. Jobs like changing a light bulb, mowing the lawn or some basic DIY may be things that you can help with.
 When you are next going shopping or into town, mention it to your neighbour and ask if there's anything they'd like you to fetch while you're there. If you know they find it difficult to leave the house, you might offer to run a few errands for them. Having someone to help with the weekly grocery run may be highly appreciated.
 There are a number of benefits specifically available to older people, such as the pension credits, tax rebates or benefits and various other allowances. Check with your local authorities and national government for more details. Some of the forms for these can be long, in fine print and involved, and your neighbour may appreciate help with the process of filling these in.
 Notice whether or not your neighbour has any regular visitors. If their family lives far away and they don't leave the house much, they may appreciate someone popping round once every so often for some company. You might offer to cook them dinner once a week, or simply pop in for a cup of tea.
 If you have not seen your neighbour for a while, pay particular attention to some simple signs. Do the lights come on at night? Do the curtains get drawn? Is the garden tended? There may be an accumulation of mail under their door, or more milk bottles than normal on their doorstep. If you have any reason to suspect that your neighbour might be in need of help, knock on the door to check that they are all right.
 If you are seriously concerned for your neighbour's well-being, or suspect that they may not be able to look after themselves, ask them if they are all right. If you suspect that they need help but they are unresponsive to your offers, then seek advice from your local council. They may be able to send round a non-threatening visitor like a community warden to make sure that everything is all right. Find the number for your local council online or in the phone book.
 It really makes them happy.

