 Wait to prune mint until after it's fully flowered. Using a pair of shears, cut about one third of the length off the end of each stem.Mint is a relatively hearty, fast growing herb, so do not be afraid to prune--your plant will be fine.


Pruning can actually encourage growth. This is not a destructive thing to do to your mint plant.
If you don't have shears or don't like to use them, you can also prune mint with your fingertips. This process will take a bit longer, but is just as effective. With your fingertips, pinch off about one third of the length of the stem. Use your fingernails when pinching the stems to create a clean break.It may be easier to use your fingertips if you're pruning a small amount of mint indoors. You might also want to use scissors or a sharp knife.;
, As you're trimming your mint plant, consider what shape you'd like your plant to be in. You want to shape the mint in a way that grows in the confines of its pot without getting out of control. Mint can grow fast, and in many directions, so you want to trim your plan into a shape that's compatible with the pot.Shape the plant so it does not have too many leaves and shoots pouring over the plant.
Focus on trimming around the plant. Make sure the plant isn't sprawling too far over the side of the pot.
 After a big harvest, it's important to store your mint properly so that it can be used for months to come. There are various ways to store mint, the most popular being drying mint. There are several methods to dry mint, including baking it on the oven, hanging it to air-dry, and dehydrating it.


You can freeze mint. Pick through your mint leaves and remove any damaged leaves. Pat dry the mint leaves with a towel. Cut up the mint leaves and remove the stems. Place about 1 to 2 teaspoons of leaves in various compartments of an ice cube tray, fill with water, and place in the freezer. Once the cubes are frozen, place them in an airtight container or bag and leave them in the freezer. Frozen mint will keep for three months.
You can also vacuum seal mint. Once again, pick through mint to remove damaged leaves and pat the plant dry. Place the mint in a bag and label it with the date. Use a vacuum sealer, which can buy online, to vacuum seal the bag. Each vacuum sealer operates slightly differently, so you'll have to follow manufacturer's instructions.
 Avoid harvesting if the plant is not growing very well due to very cold weather or other bad conditions.