 One of the first steps to reselling gold is to know exactly what you have.


For panned gold or other raw nuggets, early valuation is critical. Some gold has impurities, and other factors will affect the final sale price as well. Experts recommend taking raw gold to an assay or gold valuation expert for a good opinion.
For scrap gold, it's important to look at the karat value of the gold, as well as the quality and how the items are crafted. Identify gold-plated items to realistically understand how much gold you are holding.
Consider numismatic value. Utah state leaders have changed the rules on valuing gold coins over time. Sellers and buyers need to understand whether a gold coin is valued at its weight, or whether it has a specific collectible value that may alter the strategy for someone holding one of these chimerical assets.;
, Gold is traded at a price per ounce that is common throughout the American and international markets. This price can change, so make sure to check on the current values before going ahead with a gold sale.
 The state of Utah may have specific rules regarding the sale of gold. It's important to know these when approaching a gold buyer within the state.


Understand federal law as it relates to the sale of gold as well. Federal U.S. tax law maintains various tax rates for gold that may be surprising to the average consumer.
Consider state tax regulations for gold. Although experts point out that Utah leadership has lightened some of the tax rules on gold, some tax burden can still apply. Understand the situation with regard to your particular tax status and gold holdings.
Know rules about mining. If you find gold in a river or other natural area, it may be helpful to know about how the state regulates this kind of activity to avoid legal liabilities.
 When satisfied that you want to make the transaction, you need to get access to state gold shops willing to accommodate this kind of sale.


Ask gold purchasers about their company history and credibility with heavy metals. Some of the best shops will be able to provide concrete information about how they deal with gold, including testimonials from previous customers, and other information, such as membership with the Better Business Bureau, that can help you feel like you are going to get a good deal and have a smooth transaction.
Understand state laws on pawn shops. Pawn shops are some of the most common gold dealers in the state of Utah. However, for those who are worried about privacy in dealing with large quantities of gold, local pawn shops explain that they are required to participate in certain record-keeping standards that are mostly related to preventing the fencing of goods by criminals. If this has an impact on the privacy of a gold sale, you may want to research alternative buyers or talk further with pawn shop owners to come to an understanding on how that sale will be treated.

