 If you are growing purple or green cauliflower varieties, you do not need to blanch the plants. Some white varieties, including Snow Crown and Early Snowball, are "self-blanching."In these plants, the leaves should grow over the edible white section naturally, and only need to be blanched manually if this fails to occur.
 The edible head, or "curd," of the cauliflower plant, typically reaches this stage four or more weeks after planting.But check every one or two days as different varieties develop at different rates. Once the white curd is approximately the size of a chicken egg, or about 2–3 inches (5–7.5 cm) in diameter, move on to the next step.
 If possible, blanch during dry weather and warm, sunny conditions when there is little or no moisture on the curd.Too much moisture trapped on the curd can cause rot or fungal infection.
 Take the largest, outer leaves and bend them over the curd. Shade the curd from most of the sun, especially directly above the curd, but allow small gaps between the leaves for air circulation, to prevent moisture. Curve them around the plant in a rounded ball shape. Tuck the leaf tips underneath leaves on the opposite side when possible, to help keep them in position.


Bunching them together in a vertical position, rather than using the correct rounded shape, can cause rainwater to collect between them and rot the plant.Don't worry if the leaves snap partway through while bending.
 Use soft twine, large rubber bands, or gardening tape to hold the leaves over the developing, white curd. Keep this relatively loose to allow for growth, but tight enough that the leaves won't easily slip out.


Avoid the use of wire or other sharp material, which may cut through the leaves.
 You may need to tie a cauliflower plant again if the leaves slip out, which may occur as the curd grows. You may need to keep checking less developed plants for curd growth as well, and blanch those once they reach the correct size.
 While the exact conditions for harvesting depends on the cauliflower variety, as a general rule the plant is harvested once the curd reaches 6 inches (15 cm) in diameter.Cut the stalk beneath some of the outer leaves, taking care not to bruise the curd. Soak in lightly salted water for 30 minutes to drive out insects, then store in a closed container in the refrigerator.Growth may take anywhere from four days to 21 days after the curd first appears. The warmer the weather, the faster it should grow.

