 Your elderly loved one might enjoy spending time with others around their age. Hanging out with same-aged peers ensures that your loved one has others who can relate to their unique experiences. Find out where seniors congregate in your area, and arrange to have your friend participate in activities.


You might search for events or organizations at your local recreational centers. You might also search for Meetups especially for seniors. Fun activities might include knitting groups, computer classes, bingo, and gardening groups.;
, Learning a new skill or activity can be an enriching way for your loved one to socialize with other people. You can help your loved one learn a new skill by encouraging them to take class, such as a pottery, painting, or woodworking class. Or, you could teach them a new card game, or even get their grandkids involved (if they have any) to teach them how to play a video game., Volunteer work can be a great way for your loved one to connect with other people and to have a purpose. Consider your loved one’s passions and ask if they’d like to do some volunteer work in that area.

For example, if your loved one is passionate about animals, then you might ask if they’d like to volunteer at a local animal shelter. Or, if your loved one used to work in the healthcare field, then you might ask if they’d like to volunteer at a local hospital or for an organization like Hospice.
 If the senior in your life is religious or spiritual, encourage them to keep up their practice by taking them to their places of worship. Staying connected with what grounds them is important to their mental well-being. It also provides an opportunity for socialization.


Instead of dropping off the loved one, consider attending the service with them. This may help the two of you become closer., Talking with others about the hardship can help your loved one feel better. After all, no one else can really understand what they’re going through like those who are on the same journey themselves. Your elderly loved one may feel anxious about going; offering to accompany them may help to ease this fear.


Support groups are available for a variety of conditions, including dementia, arthritis, MS, cancer, depression, and grief. You will likely be able to find a support group in your area that covers the hardship your loved one is experiencing.Ask your loved one’s doctor, a religious leader, or social worker for recommendations. Mental Health America also has an extensive list of resources that may help you to find a support group for your loved one: http://www.mentalhealthamerica.net/find-support-groups


, One of the most beneficial ways you can help your senior get engaged is by encouraging social interaction that also involves exercise. Physical activity can prevent or delay disease in the elderly. Staying active also helps relieve stress and improve their moods.Suggest that your elderly loved one join an exercise group with other seniors. Or, you might take the initiative to make sure your senior gets exercise by going for walks together.
 For many, eating a meal alone is immensely depressing. Instead of allowing your loved one to do that, take them to places in which they can eat with others. Breaking bread with fellow seniors allows them to interact and gives them something to look forward to.


Take your relative to dinners at churches and senior centers, and coordinate to share meals with neighbors, family, and friends., Most seniors can never have enough company. They enjoy sharing stories about their youth and other life experiences. Make an effort to visit your elderly loved one often, and get them talking. You might also bring along fun activities like coloring books or host events at their homes if they are unable to get out much.


Ask your loved one, "What kinds of things did you do when you were younger?" to get the conversation started. They may even give you some pointers on fun activities they'd enjoy during future visits.

