 The great thing about bouldering is that each person will tackle the same problem in a different way, according to their personal strengths.


In fact, bouldering is one of the few sports where men and women can complete on an even footing, as things like flexibility and balance are just as important as physical strength. Try to figure out what your greatest strength is and use it in your bouldering.
However, as you progress with your climbing, it is also important to spend time working on your weaknesses, otherwise your overall performance will be affected. Avoid only sticking to problems that suit you and try to challenge yourself every once in a while.
 If you just can't seem to complete a particular problem, it's easy to become frustrated and resort to throwing yourself at it or just giving up altogether.


However, both of these approaches are unlikely to help you improve -- remember that bouldering is just as much a mental activity as a physical one. Therefore, it's important to take a deep breath, stay calm and take all the time you need.
Examine the problem again and try to figure out if there's a hand hold or foot hold you might have missed, or an alternative way of tackling the problem.
It's also important to realize that failure is a part of bouldering -- reaching your physical and mental limit is all part of the fun. If you were able to complete every problem on your first try bouldering would get boring pretty quickly.
 Watching more experienced climbers tackle a tough bouldering problem can be a great way to learn new skills and help you to understand some of the best ways to approach specific moves.


You'll also find that most climbers are happy to offer advice and guidance on how to complete a problem that you've been struggling with, so don't be afraid to ask!
However, you should also bear in mind that everyone approaches bouldering problems differently. There is never a single "correct" method of doing something, so what works for another person may not work for you.
 Arguably, balance is the single most important factor in being a good boulderer.


You should be aware of your center of gravity at all times and shift your weight when necessary in order to maintain your equilibrium. Try to move in slow, controlled, flowing movements, keeping your weight centered on both legs as much as possible.
Avoid what is known in the climbing world as "sewing machine leg" -- where one leg shakes uncontrollably as it bears your entire weight, while the other scrambles for a hold. When this happens, it's an indication that you need to pay closer attention to body positioning.
 Once you get bitten by the bouldering bug, you'll probably want to hit the climbing gym everyday, but this is a recipe for a strained muscle or a pulled tendon.


Bouldering is a strenuous activity and your body needs time to recover between sessions -- at least 48 hours if the session was particularly intense.Always remember to stretch after a bouldering session -- this will help to minimize muscle stiffness and pain the following day.







