 Reformatting the memory of your PSP will clear all saved information, including your account, save files, and downloaded games from your PSP. This will not delete or deactivate your account, but will delete files you may not be aware of that are taking up space on your PSP.You can re-link your account to your PSP again following reformatting by signing in to your account and saving your account information the next time you log on to your PSP.
Games that you have purchased through the PSP Store will also be safe, even after reformatting your PSP. This data is linked to your PSP account, and can be downloaded again after you have finished reformatting.
 Press the home button, located on most PSPs in the lower left corner of the device, and then use the directional pad to navigate left until you reach the System Settings. Press down on the directional pad to enter the System Settings folder., In the System Settings folder, you will find an option toward the bottom of the list that says "Format Memory Stick".Highlight this with your cursor and press the "X" button to open format options., To prevent accidental reformatting, there will be a confirmation message asking you if you are sure you would like to format your PSP's memory stick. Confirm with the "X" button, and your memory should be cleared in the next 5-10 seconds., Now that your PSP is finished formatting, you can return to where you found the system settings, to the left of the Home screen. With the System Settings entry, you should also see "Playstation Network".Select this and use your account information to log in to your account.

The "Playstation Network" option is not displayed on the PSP-E1000 series.If this is the case with your device, search for the "Account" or "Playstation Network" options under the entries "Network" or "Settings", following the same process as described to link your account.
Once you have logged into your account, you should be able to re-download games and files that are also linked to your account.
Be sure you check for updates. Especially if you have an older model of PSP, reformatting might have removed recent software updates.Check to make sure your software is fully up to date before attempting to play media.
 All unnecessary and unused files should now be removed from your device, leaving you with more space to download and watch YouTube videos. Using the method describing the process for downloading from PSP2B.com, you should now have more space to download your media.