 There will always be people out there who think your child’s anxiety is somehow your fault. While their comments can be infuriating, it’s best not to shoot off a snippy response to them. Instead, prepare some neutral replies ahead of time, so you won’t have to scramble for something to say.Shut down the conversation with a reply like, “Noah has gotten much more outgoing lately, and I’m really proud of him,” or, “That’s a family decision, so I’d prefer not to discuss it.”
If someone tries to advise you on how to “fix” your child’s anxiety, you can reply with something non-committal like “Oh, that’s interesting,” or, “Hmm, I’ll have to look into that.”
Remember, your child should also be learning how to handle negative criticism themselves, so that they can deal with such situations if you are not around. Try to come up with some scripts that your child can use in these situations.
 If someone tells you that your child’s anxiety would go away if you just pushed them harder, correct them. Let them know that anxiety is a disorder that can be caused by genetic and neurochemical factors outside a person’s control., As disappointing as it can be, no matter how hard you try, some people just won’t understand your anxious child. Instead of letting these people get you down, be proud of your child’s strengths, and continue to help them overcome their fears in a way that works for them., If your child struggles with an anxiety disorder, they may get teased about it at school or in the community. It may be wise to proactively help your child recognize bullying and brainstorm ways to stop it.


Bullying involves aggressive behaviors like name-calling, making threats, starting rumors, and hitting or punching. Bullying may also involve kids making hurtful jokes or excluding certain children.
If your child encounters a bully, they should reach out to a trusted adult at the school like a teacher or counselor. It may also help for them to stay in groups in between classes and walk confidently with their chin up and shoulders back.