 While identical twins look alike, they often have different tastes. This can result in a different wardrobe. Consider wardrobe options when trying to identify twins.


Pay attention to color. Twins do not always like the same colors. Rose may love the color yellow, while Grace finds it appalling. Therefore, if you see a twin in a yellow shirt, you can probably assume it's Rose.Twins may also dress differently. One twin may enjoy dressing up, while another prefers slightly more casual attire.
One twin may also prefer a certain style of clothing. One twin may be known for a fondness of sundresses or cardigans, for example, while another can usually be seen in a particular style of jeans.;
, Identical twins are never completely identical. There are always small physical differences that you can use to tell one twin from another. Look for things like birthmarks, freckles, moles, and other distinguishing features. These can be used to tell twins apart.If you're just meeting a set of twins, ask a mutual friend about physical differences. Minor differences are hard to notice at first. Someone who's known the twins for awhile may be aware of a birthmark, mole, or freckle you can use to distinguish between them.
 If you've found any distinguishing characteristics between twins, try to associate these differences with a twin's name. This can help you quickly tell the twins apart without having to scramble to think.One twin may have curly hair, for example, while the other has straight hair. Try to repeat to yourself, "Addison, curly, Molly, straight, Addison, curly, Molly straight." This will help solidify the connection. The next time you see one of the twins, you'll be able to quickly differentiate based on hair type.
 Beyond wardrobe, there may be other slight differences in style you can use to tell twins apart. Things like makeup, jewelry, and accessories are helpful tools.


One twin may be known for having a fondness for a certain type of accessory. For example, one twin may have a fondness for hats. A twin may also like a certain brand of clothing. For example, a twin may be known to shop at Abercrombie and Finch a lot.
If the twins in question wear makeup, they may wear slightly different shades. One twin's makeup may usually be more dramatic, while another's is more toned down. One twin may prefer pink lipstick, while the other prefers red.

