 Decide what kinds of stringed instruments you want to create. A luthier may custom build a variety of stringed instruments spanning from violins and violas to mandolins and guitars. What instrument are you inspired to build? And what is your motivation for learning this craft?


Recognize terms. Learn the names of the parts of the instruments you're working with, nobody wants to resort to a luthier who doesn't understand their own job.





;
, This is more important for guitars and basses due to the variety of shapes, scales, woods, etc. There are types of materials which affect the ambiance, tone, and durability of the instrument. First, you must know what types of wood to use for each diverse part of the guitar. For example, the fretboard requires a wood that is hard enough to keep frets in for years. Indian Rosewood and Ebony are divine choices of quality wood to use for the fretboard because they last. There are a wide array of woods to select from all over the world and most woods you are going to use are going to be most likely imported. Do some research on the suitability and sufficiency of commonly used woods for guitar making. There are many wood combinations to choose from, and you may discover a new combination which will produce the most appealing of sounds for acoustics and do well for electrics!, Contemplate purchasing a kit or individual parts to see if you truly enjoy the craft. You can also purchase a cheap guitar and try to customize it., Making instruments generally requires a knowledge of all the various means of selecting, shaping, and finishing wood, especially when you build carved top guitars and many acoustics. Luthier schools are definitely the best way to go instead of a youtube video.]

, You will need to gain years of experience in the craft of making stringed instruments. If you are fortunate, you can find an apprenticeship with an already established Luthier (or two, or three.) However, actually going out there and building them even n your own is a good way to start.






Money. This is not a profession which pays well quickly, you cannot expect to earn a living wage during apprenticeship and likely will need another job before pursuing this as your main source of income. Having this experience on your hands may help you obtain a music related job. Most of your money will be put into purchasing woods if you already have the tools and many people would rather pass up buying your guitar for something made inside established factories.






Connections to established Luthiers with whom to apprentice. Understand that what you know in the business is far less important than who you know. People will be a huge asset to you. Begin cultivating those friendships as soon and as diligently as possible, they will help in the long run to get popularity and get your builds sold.







