 Make a plan to give up one kind of non-vegan food per week. Not only will this make for an easier lifestyle adjustment, but it will also help your body make the transition as smoothly as possible. Any sudden, drastic change in your diet would likely wreak havoc on your body, especially if you go from being an omnivore to being a vegan.


Listen to your body and be easy on yourself. Don't force yourself to completely change everything at once without guidance. You need to know how to properly substitute for certain elements such as protein and fats before thinking that a head of lettuce is all you need for the rest of your life. Start by removing meat, then eggs and cheese, then all dairy products, and then worry about diligence when it comes to ingredients lists (some get pretty sneaky).
 It's much trickier for vegans than for vegetarians. You already know that you can't eat cheese because cows are exploited in order to generate the milk to make cheese, but did you know that even most cheese alternatives contain casein, a milk protein? Do your homework and read ingredient labels to prevent accidental consumption of non-vegan food.


You'll soon find that vegan websites will endorse certain brand name products. Knowing what to look for in the aisles will cut down on turning grocery shopping into a tedious chore.
 It's a good source of both protein and calcium, and you can prepare it in a variety of ways. It takes a little getting used to, especially if you've never eaten much tofu before, but give it a chance.


Tofu, along with soy or rice milk and other non-meat alternatives, can be your best friends in the vegan world. Name a product, there's a tofu version of it. And it doesn't taste bad either!

, Most prepared foods are going to be off-limits, so whether you like it or not, you're going to have to learn to cook. It'll give you a greater connection with your food, as it can be exciting and very rewarding (your friends and family will dig it, too). Recognize that the taste and experience of your food is just as important as the practicality of implementing it into your lifestyle. Be creative and choose a variety of produce and products to avoid monotony and boredom.


There are many vegan cookbooks and free online recipes nowadays to provide you with inspiration. Investing of your best energies and mental capabilities to the daily task of cooking vegan meals can enhance your enjoyment and satisfaction of re-training your taste buds to savor new, even strange flavors. Who knew this path was going to be so exciting?

