 If you don’t have studio lights (which by the way you really don’t need), try to find a good natural light source like a window. You don’t want direct sunlight as it causes harsh shadows, so try to find a window where there is enough diffused light to create a little drama. Try to avoid flash unless it’s just too dark. If you can’t get enough light without it, place a piece of wax paper over the flash to help diffuse the light. This will help you avoid reflections off your piece and keep the colors more true to life. Now decide what you want your picture to say about your piece. If you really need to showcase the details in your image, you will want to shoot really close to your subject and make sure the light is illuminating those areas you want to focus on. If you want to tell a story with your image, or make a more dramatic picture, consider backlighting. Place your child facing toward the light and shoot from behind. This will create a silhouette and can make for a more interesting photo.;
, Get rid of all other distracting elements so you can so your image will focus on your child, or the story you are trying to tell about him/her. You can easily create a backdrop by using a black or white sheet. If you want a little more excitement, find a cute roll of patterned wrapping paper and use that as a backdrop. If you don’t want a backdrop, and want something which shows how it is naturally displayed, just try to crop in close so that you aren’t seeing the couch, or whatever other distractions there might be in the background. If you have a camera which will allow you to change the aperture, or select the style setting, you can help the background become less distracting by shooting wide open, or on a low number aperture. In many point and shoots, this is likely your portrait setting. What this setting will do is narrow your focusing area so that you will have a more shallow area of focus, leaving your ceramic crisp and your background blurry.
 The rule of thirds is a good baseline for doing this. Basically what that means is if you took a photograph and drew a tic-tac-toe grid on it from end to end you want all important elements of the photo to fall along one of those lines, or intersecting points. What that really means is, don’t always put your subject in the middle of your frame.

