 So make sure it looks good. No frizzy hair, no out of place hair, and definitely no greasy hair. Buy Moroccan Oil to control frizz, make hair soft, and add tons of shine.


Shampoo/condition everyday (or every other day, at the VERY least). Use a good shampoo such as Bumble and Bumble, Redken, Garnier Fructis, Herbal Essences, etc. Use a conditioner that complements your shampoo, or you can even use a 2-in-1 shampoo + conditioner, if you're a busy bee!
Style! Make sure that you always have an adorable style! Never wear the same style for more than two days in a row. Try French braids, buns, headbands, hairbands, or side curls! Ala cute! (As the French say!)
Tools! You MUST own a flatiron, a curling iron, and a blow dryer. Or get a 3-in-1! A crimper is optional. It makes for amazing 'dos and styles. But don't use these tools everyday; too much heat can damage/dry out your hair. Same goes for dying!
Cute hair accessories are a must! Headbands, barrettes, cute clips, scrunchies, and beads are all accessories that will look absolutely adorable! Make sure that they go with your outfit, though. Don't be a clasher!;
, Tops can make you look hot, or not. They are one of the leading parts of your outfit. Tops represent you, so make sure you're picking the right one! if you live in a cold, snowy area, you might consider layers. If you live in the sun, you might consider v-necks with a plaid jacket. (SO cute!) V-necks are flirty and relaxed. they come in plain or print. You should probably wear an undershirt under them (because they can get pretty low). Abercrombie & Fitch and Victoria's Secret Pink have some stylish v-necks that will make you look twice your age! Tanks and camisoles are good choices for working out or sleepwear. T-shirts are OK, but they can't be big and bulky. Long sleeved shirts are good too! Try some tops with embroidering or beads to really spice up your look!

, Your pants/skirts/shorts MUST go with your top. Like tops, it all depends on the weather. Shorts are for sports and sunny days. Don't wear soccer or basketball shorts to school, only wear them for casual lounge wear and games. Short shorts are cute for the summer, carnivals, beaches, and weekend wear. You can wear them to school too! But... you gotta have the legs to wear shorts! Your legs have to be tone and strong and not hairy, big turn-off! Jeans are great, but you need styles that flatter your figure. Skirts, dresses, and minis are good also. Make sure they look glam, girl!

, Don't wear the same article of clothing for two weeks after you wear it, especially with tops. Also, follow the one month rule.
 But you can repeat articles of clothing, as long as you follow the two week rule.
 Outfits MUST come complete with: jewelry, purses, belts, and scarves/hats/gloves if the weather is frosty! If you have your ears pierced, try wearing diamond studs or pink loops with hearts... maybe even funky beads with tiny elephants! Spice it up a little!

, It must hold: a cell phone, a compact mirror, a mini brush, some extra hair stuff, and lip gloss. Gum and mints are a must because they make your breath smell good! Bring at least two flavors of lip gloss everywhere you go. Have a collection of lip gloss, maybe from Lip Smacker, because they have so many types and flavors and collections!

, Shoes complete your outfit. You must have at least one of the following shoes: Uggs, sandals, flip flops, riding boots, flats, and an everyday shoe. Don't wear your everyday shoe absolutely everyday, but wear it most of the time. Your everyday shoe should not be sneakers. (Unless you're jogging or doing anything sporty!)

, Of course, you should dress for success everyday, but there are a few days where you need to really work it. Mondays and Fridays are the days that you should reserve your best outfits for. However, remember to wear adorable things every single day.
 Your outfit needs to looks effortless, or else no one will envy you. You need effortless beauty.
 Always be the first to try them. Subscribe to style magazines such as Seventeen and Teen Vogue.
 For example, if you have a really eye-catching top, just wear simple bottoms, shoes, and accessories.

