 No matter how you intend to pick up a snake, you should always ensure that it is not venomous. A venomous snake can strike quickly, and if you're anything short of a professional you could fall victim to its dangerous bite., Whether you're using a snake hook or snake tongs, you should have the tool ready and on-hand before you approach the snake. You should also have a temporary container ready and close by so that you can gently place the snake inside once you catch it.


Some snakes are fast-moving and will not stay on a snake hook for more than a few seconds. If you cannot safely catch the snake and deposit it (gently) into the temporary container, you may want to consider using tongs, or leaving it to a professional.If you feel comfortable using an intact pillowcase as a transport container, that should suffice. If the snake is outdoors, or is too large or aggressive for a pillow case, you may want to use something sturdier like an empty garbage can.
Be cautious if using snake tongs. These tools can be difficult for an inexperienced catcher to use, and could result in the snake being injured or even killed.
 If you're using a hook, carefully slip the hook underneath the snake's body. If using snake tongs, you should be able to simply grasp the snake using the tongs. No matter which tool you use, you should move quickly and carefully for both your own safety and the snake's.For smaller snakes, grab or lift the snake around the middle of its body or lower. For larger snakes, grab or lift the snake approximately 1/3 of the way down its body from the head.
You should never grab a snake by the neck, as this could cause serious injury and may make the snake struggle and bite you.
 If you're trying to move the snake a short distance, you may be able to simply carry it to the desired location. Otherwise, you should put the snake into a container to transport it or await for professional animal control personnel.


For smaller snakes, an intact pillowcase may suffice. Otherwise, use a deep bucket or, even better, a sturdy (and empty) garbage can.