 Think tunic dresses and sundresses, but avoid cocktail dresses or professional dresses. The more casual the dress, the more casual your blazer will look with it., A fitted shirt in a plain color creates the most versatile option, and you can either dress it up with accessories or leave it plain. Graphic t-shirts also work well and look even more casual than plain shirts.
 For a flirty, feminine twist, wear your blazer with nothing but a camisole on underneath. A plain camisole creates an especially casual ambiance, but a camisole with lace or bead detailing can add personality while still keeping the look casual. Match your top with a casual bottom, like jeans or shorts.
 A soft, flowing blouse in a bold print or color creates a chic contrast against a rigid, structured blazer. Just make sure to keep your bottom casual. Khakis and dress pants can easily make this style look too formal or professional.


A dark wash in a classic cut can work well with a blazer to create a business casual look, but for an everyday casual option, go for a lighter wash.






Skinny jeans can look especially chic, but boot-cut jeans and flares can still work well if they flatter your body shape better.






Distressed washes and trendy embellishments also bring out the blazer's casual potential.Image:Make a Blazer Casual Step 14Bullet3.jpg


, Denim shorts look especially casual, but designer shorts and Bermuda shorts may have a slightly more sophisticated air. Shorts work especially when you wear your blazer with camisoles, tank tops, and t-shirts.Image:Make a Blazer Casual Step 15.jpg
, If you have the legs for it, then a mini-skirt makes a highly stylish alternative. Play with a variety of styles, from faded denim and cargo to pleats and ruffles. To keep things casual, try pairing it with a plain tank top or graphic t-shirt.Image:Make a Blazer Casual Step 16.jpg
, Black and patterned leggings can have an edgy sense of style, but you should avoid sheer pantyhose, since these will likely detract from the sense of casualness. Wear your leggings beneath long knit sweaters, tunic dresses, and skirts before topping it all off with your blazer.
 Just about anything goes, from gladiator flats to knee-high boots, depending on the rest of your outfit. You may want to avoid shoes that look too professional, however, so leave the black pumps you wear to the office at home. Wear your

