 An Irishman will not be caught saying, "coulda, woulda, shoulda." Each sound (unless dropped via a phonemic process) should be given attention. Your tongue and lips will be getting a workout.


If you do have pauses, use "em" to fill them. Stay away from "uh" or "um"; "em" should be your filler. If you can throw this in naturally and without thinking, your Irishness will be upped ten-fold. It's used all the time -- so when you're thinking of how to pronounce something, you know how to fill the silence.
 Often yes/no questions are straightforward and to the point -- as a result, we answer "yes" or "no." Seems pretty logical, right? Nope. That's not how it works in the land of Saints and Scholars. When asked, repeat the noun and verb.


For example, "Are you going to Jane's party tonight?" --"I am."
"Does Ireland have unicorns?" --"It doesn't."

, The after perfect (AFP), which is one of the most characteristic features of Irish English, has given rise to a certain amount of debate and a great deal of confusion. It is used to denote recency in two situations:


In between the two verbs of the past continuous (again, denotes a recent action): 'Why did you go to the shop?' -- "I was after running-out of potatoes." (Do not confuse it with the English use of "seeking" or "searching for". You are not "after buying potatoes" - otherwise you wouldn't be going to the shop).
In between the two verbs of the present continuous (used as an exclamation): "I'm after performing on the West End!"

, The Irish accent is full of words and phrases unfamiliar to other dialects of English. No one else may know what you're talking about, but sacrifices must be made to be authentic. Soon you'll be cod acting like a bucklepper!Cheers: Not only is this used while clinking glasses, it's used in normal conversation, and consistently. It can be used to thank people and to say hello and goodbye. Work it in often; the Irish certainly do.

Lad: This term describes any male, though usually it's reserved for ones you're closer to. "Lads" can refer to a group of males and females, for the record.

C'mere: Literally, this is the same in any other dialect -- "come here." But in Irish English, it's an opener that means, "listen" or even just "hey," to grab your attention. To begin any innocuous sentence, start it with "C'mere."

Right: This sort of serves as an alternative to "c'mere." It's multi-purpose and mainly serves to clarify. As in, "Right, we're meeting at 7 o'clock by the watch tower then?"

Most British colloquialisms are also acceptable. Avoid "Top of the mornin' to ya!" and "Blarney!" unless you want to be that guy.
 The Irish accent is generally thought of as more 'musical' than American English. It has a definite lilt to it that isn't seen in other variations of the Lingua Franca. Practice phrases a bit more 'sing-songy' than you would in your native dialect.


A good place to start is slightly higher than your natural tone. Get a little lower in the middle of the phrase, and then move back up slightly.




Runners: Runners usually refers to Jogging shoes, or Tennis Shoes.

Jumper: Jumper is really plain and simple; a sweater.

Yoke: This one is kind of confusing. Yoke is like when you are trying to say what something is, but you don't know the word for it. ex.: "You know the yoke that you use to clean the dust off the stand?" It kind of means something like Thingamajig, or Thingamabob. However it also is a colloquialism for Ecstasy tablets.

Boot: This simply refers to the trunk of a car. "Put the food in the boot."

Footpath: A sidewalk.

Ride: A very attractive person of either sex.

Gum Boil/ Mouth Ulcer: A canker sore.

