 The round cake needs to be flat on both sides.,, This will create two semi-circles., To help you get this exact, use toothpicks as markers, placed before cutting the cake. Once this is done, you now have four wing pieces., The straight edges will be facing out. At this point, you'll already start to see the formation of a butterfly shape., Pull the top wings up and the bottom wings down and you'll see an ideal butterfly shape, ready for frosting., As with the cake above, the cake needs to be decorated in place, as you won't be able to move it again., This seals in the crumbs that will be starting to fall out after cutting the wing shapes. Frost down all of the sides of the wings, keeping this layer very thin.

To set this layer, place it in the freezer for 15-20 minutes. This will make it much easier to add the whipped frosting.
 Add the layer generously first, then spread neatly with the frosting spatula.,

Place three colors into pastry cones or piping bags; these can be made easily from paper or cellophane if you don't own any. For the colors, choose according to the kind of butterfly you're trying to make or just use colors the cake recipient likes. Pastels are one possibility, neon colors another, and realistic colors too (look online for butterfly images to get the real colors).
Pipe an amount of the first color on the base of the top wing. Use the spatula to spread a line of this across to the center of the wing. use the knife tip to drag the color into a point near the wing joint. Repeat with the next color just above it, then finish with another color on top. Three lines of color should fit across the top wing.
Repeat on the opposite top wing.
Repeat on the lower two wings. Exactly the same process, only slightly smaller blobs of frosting/icing will be needed.
Accent the wing streaks using a piped line around the edges.
 This part is entirely up to your own creativity and can be as complex or simple as you like. Suggestions include:

Sprinkles or edible glitter
Coated almonds - add one per wing streak in the same color as the streak, or a different color
Sanding sugar for a sparkle.
 Simply lay a long striped candy stick down the middle wing joints to form the butterfly's body.