 Examine other sites' layouts, how they have displayed their photos and information, how easy the site is to navigate, what software or service was used to build the site, etc.


Note what elements you have seen on other websites that you would or would not like to have on your site.
 Ask yourself what you want your photography website to accomplish for you. Examples include getting you freelance work, landing you a specific job at a company, sharing your photos with friends, etc.


Try to limit yourself to a few goals. Your website may become ineffective if it has too many purposes to serve.
Designate 1 of your website's goals as the most important for you. Plan your website with achieving that goal in mind.
If you take different kinds of photography, such as wedding photography and nature photography, you may want to have a separate website or portfolio for each type. You can also have separate websites that showcase similar photography to network with different online groups or to serve separate, distinct goals.
 Decide how to design your site to target your intended customers or visitors. If you are only showing your website to family and friends, for example, it can be simpler and reflect a more casual style than the design of a photography portfolio you want a major company to see.
 If you want wedding magazines to see your work, choose wedding photographs for your site, for example.
 You may need to limit yourself to free services and templates or themes to design your website and spend money for hosting your site on a Web server.
 You may need to spend several hours learning the coding skills required to build your own website. If you do not have the time or desire to build your site from scratch, you can concentrate on finding a service, software, or someone else to make your site for you.
 Options include using photo-sharing websites such as Flickr or Photobucket, blogging websites such as WordPress, Blogger or Typead, or using software or another service to make your website.
,, You can also decide to share your photographs with only certain people if you have their email addresses.

