 If you are adopting a foreign-born baby, your baby automatically acquires U.S. citizenship after recent changes to the law.In the case of foreign-born adopted children, the application form is the same as for other children but the supporting documentation and procedures might differ slightly. Begin by filling out the application form (Form SS-5), available here. This form is a fillable PDF and can be filled online before printing or printed out and filled in ink. The forms are also available at SSA offices and can be filled out on the day of application.
 The difference between other applications and applications for foreign-born adopted children is that although foreign-born adopted children now acquire U.S. citizenship automatically, they do not have proof of U.S. citizenship traditionally used for SS card applications. In this case, you can take the immigration documents issued to you by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for your adopted baby. Submit the application with the DHS documents and the SSA will issue your baby an SS number. Note that at this stage, your baby's record with the SSA will not show that she is a U.S. citizen, and you will require a proof of citizenship document to update her record later., Just as in the case of other children, you will need to prove your baby's age to the SSA office. You can use your child's foreign birth certificate to prove her age., Just as in the case of other children, you will need to prove your baby's identity to the SSA office. Acceptable identity documents, all of which must be originals or certified by the issuing agency, include:The adoption record;
A United States DHS immigration document;
Doctor, clinic or hospital records;
Daycare center or school records;
A religious record (e.g. a Baptismal record).
 The Child Citizenship Act 2000 grants a foreign-born adopted child automatic citizenship without a citizenship document. However, you can apply for a proof of citizenship document for your foreign-born adopted baby (e.g. a Certificate of Citizenship from DHS or a U.S. passport from the Department of State). Either one of these documents can be used to prove your baby's U.S. citizenship. Take one of these documents with you again to the SSA office to update their records so that the SSA records now show that your child is a U.S. citizen.

