 When a doctor diagnoses your child with allergies, it may take some adjustment to get used to changes in their routine. Your child may not take the changes seriously enough or could become overly worried about staying safe. Providing a consistent message appropriate to your child’s development can keep them safe while making them comfortable with their allergies.Remain calm and matter-of-fact when discussing your child’s allergies with them. Keep the focus on consistent safety routines so that your child understands that the allergies may be serious, but are manageable.
For example, “Hey Sam, I got this new product I’d like to try tonight for dinner. Could you please do me a huge favor and make sure it doesn’t have any peanuts in it? That way, all of us can enjoy this delicious curry.”
Another example would be, “Hey Molly, can you please remember to tell Mrs. Grasser that you are allergic to Meg’s dog and aren’t being mean if you avoid it? You can give her your medication so that you don’t forget to take it while you’re having fun at your sleepover with Meg.”;
, Take time to reinforce your understanding and willingness to help your child cope with allergies. Make sure they know their family and friends will love and support them unconditionally. Let your child know that you are always there to talk and help however you can.Repeat your willingness to help and support often. This consistency can help your child better handle allergies and any possible situations they may present. For example, say, “I know how it upsets you to have to stay indoors when the pollen is high, Leia. We love you very much and will support you in any way we can. Even if you just want to cry, your dad and I are always here for you.”
Another example would be: “Hey Luke, the pollen is high today and it may make your allergies worse. What if I take you and a friend or two to the movies. I’ll get you popcorn and some snacks.”, Praise your child for trying to navigate their allergies. This can help your child see not only that the allergy is manageable, but also that feeling good is more important than potential consequences of exposing themselves to allergens.


For example, “I know how good that birthday cake looked, Annie. I’m really proud of you for celebrating your sister’s birthday and being a champ when you ate your special cake. You do such an awesome job at staying away from flour!”

, Allergies can cause a child stress, especially around their peers. Any signs of impatience from others may make this worse. Reminding yourself that your child needs help managing their allergies can help you stay patient and understanding.Inhale deeply if you feel like you’re going to scold or give negative feedback to your child about dealing with their allergies. This can relax you and your child and make managing allergies easier.
 If your child has anxiety or fear with their allergies, consider providing a diary or journal to express those emotions. Assure your child you’ll only read it if they want you to and that you’re always happy to talk about any worries they may have. This can help relieve any anxiety or show them ways they positively and safely handled their allergies.