 The MSRP is $150 in the United States. You can buy it for less online, but be warned that if you buy it used it may not include the transfer cable, which is very important. You can usually find one on eBay.;
, This is a bit tricky. Get a pair of craft scissors (they're heavier duty than regular scissors) or a box cutter. See on the back where it shows the scissor line? Cut along there.
 CAREFULLY peel back the top of the container. This will take some effort, but hold the base firmly. The hard drive is not made of eggshells, but it is a fragile electronic device. Treat it as such.
 When you can safely do so, pull it out and set it aside. This contains the hard drive and the transfer cable. Left in the container will be a CD-ROM and a booklet.
 The tape will not give easily. Go ahead and rip it. You will need this CD-ROM only once.
 Disconnect all wired controllers and turn off all wireless controllers if they are on, signing out the associated profiles, if any. Leave just one controller connected.
 Do not worry about being disconnected from Xbox LIVE. If you have a network adapter plugged in, remove this.
 Sever all other connections in the safest way, first signing out the profile, if any.
 It should start automatically. If it does not, access the drive as you normally would.
 If this is OK with you, press A (the green button) to continue.
 Remove the protective strip from the bottom. Pull it firmly, but not quickly, as you do not want to leave any residue behind.
 Hold the transfer cable so that you can read the writing on the back of it. Plug the hard drive into the transfer cable; there is only one way that it can plug in, and holding them as described, you'll be in the right place.
 Microsoft advises against using either of the two on the front. The most likely reason is that the USB port in the back is soldered directly onto the Xbox 360 motherboard, where the two in the front are connected to the motherboard by a wire and the connection is not quite as direct (though all three are equal in gaming).
 The time estimate you are given will depend on how much data needs to be transferred. Press A to begin the transfer.
 You cannot use your Xbox 360 during this process.
, As it suggests, this will restart your console.
 You no longer have any profiles. There will be no data. Your 360 will be new again.
,, In front of the hard drive is a little button, kind of hard to see. Push that down and lift up on the hard drive. If this is your first time removing it, it might jam. Do not force it, but firmly lift straight up, pushing the button. Holding the button is not necessary, but press it again if it resists.
, It should click into place.
, Your console will "find" an update; it won't tell you what it is, but this is most likely the license transfer that allows you to continue using your DRM-protected DLC on the new hard drive. This update starts with an estimated time of 5 minutes and warns that the console "may" restart. It will. Once it does, everything should work as before, but you will have a heck of a lot more free space.

