 It can be hard to provide support from a distance. Figuring out your partner's language of love can help you figure out the best way to help him or her feel secure. A person's language of love is how that person best feels supported and cared for. People respond best to different types of support and comfort.Some people prefer words of affirmation to feel loved. Statements like, "I miss you" and "I love you" are helpful. If your partner seems to rely on words, try writing long letters and e-mails expressing how much you care.
For some, actions are more important than words. People may feel supported if their partner shows they care through kind gestures, or sends gifts. If your partner prefers actions, you can send him or her care packages, make video messages, or periodically send gifts.
Unfortunately, some languages of love are harder to cater to from a distance. Some people prefer physical touch and quality time to feel secure. This presents a challenge during deployment. However, you can try to help by telling your partner how much you miss his or her touch, and how you wish your partner was with you just to watch television together on a rainy night.
 If you're able to send care packages to where your partner is deployed, do so. A care package is a great gesture that can help your partner feel secure.Include photos, treats, and small sentimental objects. Be creative. If your partner has a sense of humor, include a funny card or note.
It can also be cute to send "coupons" for when your partner gets back. Something like, "Free for one good back rub" or "Free for a fancy dinner out." This can help give your partner something to look forward to when he or she returns.
Make sure you check military regulations before sending out a care package. During deployment, there may be certain items that are banned.
 During deployment, you and your partner may be communicating through e-mail and text messages a lot of the time. Without verbal cues to help a person read emotions, miscommunication can be a problem. It's easy to misread text, reading benign words as angry. Work on finding ways to make sure your partner is able to understand you when face-to-face communication is not possible.Pause before you send an e-mail or text. Read your words and think about any ways they may be misinterpreted. Could you read anger into this message? Frustration? Jealousy? If so, see if there's a way to reword or add an emoticon to make it clear this is a friendly message. For example, "I couldn't sleep without you last night" could be read as resentment, as in, "I'm disappointed you're not here." Instead, you could write, "I miss and love you so much that I couldn't sleep without you last night. <3"
On your own end, remember you can never be 100% certain of intent when communication comes in writing. If you receive something from your partner you worry is angry or upset, try to remind yourself how common miscommunication is during these situations. Take some time to calm down, and then return the message asking, politely, for clarification if you feel you need it. For example, "I miss sleeping next to you too. Just to be clear, as I know it's easy to misread e-mails, you're not mad I'm gone, right? Just checking. :)"

, Hearing about one another's daily lives will help you and your partner feel close. Share day-to-day happenings when you have the chance, even things that feel silly or trivial. Talk about your trip to the grocery store or who you ran into at the gym. This will make your partner feel like he or she is there with you., E-mails, phone calls, and texts are a nice way to stay in touch. However, try to get a little creative as well. Your partner will feel valued if you think of fun, unconventional ways to communicate during deployment.Make a scrapbook for when your partner gets back, detailing what happened when he was away. Scan images of the scrapbook and send them to your partner.
E-mail your partner snippets of songs or clips from movies that have sentimental meaning to the two of you.
Use smell as a memory. Smell is strongly linked to memory, so sending your partner a small container of a shampoo you use can provide him or her a small reminder of you.
Read the same book together from a distance. This will help the two of you feel close, and give you something to discuss when your partner returns.

