 This will require a trip to the Nether and visiting a structure called a Nether fortress to collect an item called a blaze rod, which drops from a blaze in the fortress. It is ideal that you take multiple of these as they will be very important in brewing.;
, To create a Nether portal to reach the blazes, you need 14 blocks of obsidian to create a 4x5 square. You may leave out the four corners, meaning you'd need only 10 obsidian to create it. After creation you must immediately light it with a flint and steel, which can be made from a piece of flint and an iron ingot which you may have found early on.
 This will transport you the Nether Dimension. It may take a long time to find the fortress depending on how far it is from your portal. Once you have found the fortress, find the blaze spawners, which look like a black miniature cage with a blaze spinning inside. Kill as many blazes as you want; blaze rods are absolutely important and will be used as fuel in brewing. 20 blaze rods will last at least 1200 potion creations or upgrades.
 Finally add the blaze rod to the very middle to create a brewing stand.
 You now have two  ingredients to brew, the fuel and blaze powder to use for strength potions.
 You do not need to always get your Nether wart from the fortress, you may grow Nether wart by placing harvested Nether wart on soul sand. You then need to seek out glowstone dust, which you may find by breaking glowstone in the Nether; fortunately there is an abundant supply almost everywhere in the Nether.
 You may also kill witches which drop 0-6 redstone at a time.)
Fermented Spider Eyes (Created by placing a brown mushroom, spider eye, and sugar in a crafting table.)
Sugar (Crafted by placing a sugarcane in a crafting table; sugarcane is found in shorelines along rivers, beaches, and lakes.)
Glistering Melon (Crafted by surrounding a melon with golden nuggets in a crafting table.)
Spider Eye (Dropped by spiders, cave spiders, and witches.)
Ghast Tear (Dropped by ghasts in the Nether.)
Golden Carrot (Crafted by surrounding a carrot with golden nuggets.)
Pufferfish (Obtained by fishing.)
Rabbit's Foot (Rare drop from a rabbit.)
Dragon's Breath (Optional, dropped by the endgame boss known as the Ender Dragon.)
Gunpowder (Dropped by creepers when killed; can also be dropped by witches.)
Magma Cream (Dropped by magma cubes in the Nether.)

,, Or you may place your stand in a secure place and use hopper systems to automate it. The choice is up to you., It is also better to have two separate chests to differentiate the place to store the ingredients and potions. Add a crafting table because brewers need to craft frequently to get their desired materials., Adding an enchantment table and book shelves makes the place more mysterious and bright, since enchantment tables emit light.


Redstone torches are sure to give ambience of a mysterious brewing room, so are item frames with enchanted books and a stick to look like a wand.
 There are 4 base potions needed to brew potions. You simply have to fuel the stand with powder, add the 3 water bottles to their respective positions and add a Nether Wart to make an Awkward Potion, glowstone dust to make a Thick Potion, or redstone to make a Mundane Potion, and a fermented spider eye to make a Potion of Weakness.,
For a Regeneration Potion, add a glistering melon.
For a Water Breathing Potion, add a pufferfish.
For Fire Resistance Potion, add a magma cream.
For a Leaping Potion, add a rabbit's foot.
For a Night Vision Potion, add a golden carrot
For a Swiftness Potion, add sugar.

For an Invisibility Potion, which counters night vision, add a fermented spider eye to a Night Vision Potion.
For a Weakness Potion, add a fermented spider eye to a water bottle.
For Harming Potions, add a fermented spider eye to either a Healing Potion or Poison Potion.
For a Slowness Potion, add a fermented spider eye to either a Potion of Swiftness or Leaping.
 For example if you add it to a Harming Potion, if it upgrades to a Harming Potion II using glowstone dust it will do more damage.
Add redstone to increase the time of effect of a potion.
Add gunpowder to transform the potion into a Splash Potion, which is effective since it is thrown instead of drank, making it easy to use it in combat.
Lingering Potions are made by combining Dragon's Breath and Splash Potions. Lingering Potions can be thrown and will stay and give the effect it provides to anyone in range of the area of effect; it will stay for a long time, making it useful for PVP and giving buffs to your team when playing UHC's or Survival Games. It is also used to create tipped arrows.
