 Load up on packaged foods that you can munch on during the flight, or devour a large meal that you know will hold you over until you land. That way, you’ll be less tempted to make a stop at the food court, where the options tend to be quite pricey. If your appetite gets the best of you, seek out a vending machine or snack kiosk instead of a restaurant.Items like chips, granola bars, mixed nuts and candy make perfect snacks for flying.Airports can get away with charging exorbitant prices for food because they know many travelers have no other alternative.;
, Fill up a small portable container that you can bring on the flight with you or stash in your bag. This will prevent you from getting thirsty and having to order a drink on the plane. If you’re unable to have a beverage on standby, be sure to stop at a water fountain and drink your fill before you board.Consider carrying an empty bottle or two that you can refill once you’ve made it to your terminal.In some cases, you may only be permitted to pack a certain number of fluid ounces in your carry-on. If you exceed the regulated amount, you may be forced to simply throw your drinks away.
 The thought of facing a long flight with no means of entertainment can be cause for dread. Slip a book, magazine or newspaper into your carry-on so that you’ll have something to occupy yourself while you’re in the air. Travelers who are unprepared for boredom often find themselves forking over big bucks for novels in the airport bookstore.Take this opportunity to catch up on paperwork or journaling that you’ve been putting off.
You might also consider downloading eBooks to your smartphone or eReader device. This will present you with a wealth of literature right at your fingertips., While you’re at it, don’t forget about other practical necessities, such as earplugs, cold medicine, tissues and hand sanitizer. You can expect to pay more for these in airport convenience stores than you normally would. Basically, plan on reserving room for anything that you might end up having to purchase should you find yourself without it.Write out a checklist and go over it while you pack to make sure you’re not leaving behind anything important.

