 A diagnosis should be a lengthy process, if the doctor diagnosed the condition in one visit then seek a second opinion.;
,, These help with concentration, focus, distraction , hyperactivity and behavior problems as they help to normalize the chemical imbalance in the ADHD child's brain.
, The medication should start to work fairly quickly after the child takes it. About an hour after the child has taken it you will see the best effects. Due to this it's a good idea to time the morning dose about an hour before school starts.


Some medications are short acting and others are long acting. Long acting medications should last about 12 hours and should need only be taken once a day. Short acting medications last about 4 hours and will need to be taken again at about lunch time to help kids get through the second half of their school day.
Long acting meds are good because they only need to be taken once a day, but they don't have as good coverage as short acting. Short acting meds need to be taken more often but often produce a more stable result.
 Some parents see the meds as only helping with school and have difficulty seeing that kids struggle at home too and can't enjoy free time or socialize as well as they could on meds.
, These side effects usually only last a few days. Many parents take their kids off the meds straight away when they appear rather than giving it a few days to let the body adjust. Once these few days are up, the side effects are rarely ever seen again, even after a long break from medication.
 Try not to give the final dose for the day any closer than 4 hours before bedtime. These side effects may last a while but will eventually go away as well. If they are not causing any serious problems then there is nothing to worry about.
 It means that the dosage is too high and needs to be reduced.
 There are many available. If your child seems to have a lot of problems with a medication or no benefit. Don't give up, try a different medication. It may take up to a year of experimenting to get the medication and dosage right, but it will be well worth the struggle as it can produce a lifetime of positive effects.
 These medications are usually used if there is serious aggression, ODD, conduct disorder or severe behavior problems. Then are usually taken with stimulants as they have no effect on concentration, just on behavior.

