 If you have not already selected a leash and collar your cocker spaniel, you can purchase them at your local pet store. The leash should be either four or six feet in length. A regular snap or buckle collar will be suitable. Body harnesses, choke collars, and pinch collars are not suitable for training your cocker spaniel to walk on a leash.Make sure that the leash is non-retractable. Retractable leashes can actually encourage your dog to pull and not walk beside you.
 This is important if your cocker spaniel is a puppy and is not used to having anything on his neck. This step will probably not be necessary for an adult cocker spaniel. Place the collar around your puppy’s neck when he is distracted by something else, such as eating or playing. Keep the collar on him even if he tries to take it off. If you take it off when he tries to take it off himself, you will actually be encouraging him to get his collar off.Remove the collar when he is distracted by eating or playing. If you are also crate training your puppy, remove the collar before you put him back in his crate., Your dog may not be immediately comfortable with his leash being attached to his collar, especially if he’s a puppy. If this is the case, start with attaching something small to his collar, such as a piece of string or a shoelace. Just like with the collar, attach and remove the leash (or other small object) when your puppy is distracted with something else.Whether your cocker spaniel is a puppy or an adult, do not leave him unattended when you have attached the leash. The leash could get caught on something, which could potentially cause serious injury to your dog., The goal is to walk your dog on the leash without him pulling. If he goes ahead of you and starts to pull on the leash, immediately stop walking (‘red light’). When your dog realizes that you have stopped, he will likely turn around and start walking back towards you. Once he has reached your side again, command him to sit. Once he is sitting, reward him with a treat and begin walking again (‘green light’).Continue walking with your dog. If he pulls again, practice the ‘red light’ and ‘green light’ actions. It will probably take several walking sessions before your cocker spaniel learns not to pull on the leash. Provide him with treats each time that he walks beside you and does not pull.Do not reward him if he pulls to sniff something or go to the bathroom.Make sure to keep the leash loose while you are walking with your dog, even when he is walking right beside you. Your dog’s natural instinct will be to pull if you are holding the leash too tightly.Avoid pulling on the leash yourself to guide him to where you want him to go.