 Downloading pirated entertainment is like taking a walk through a dangerous neighborhood: something bad doesn't happen every time you do it, but you stand a greater chance of being robbed whenever you're there. With one click of your mouse on the wrong site, online criminals can gain access to your entire computer, including bank accounts and social security numbers.A single downloaded movie or CD can result in thousands of dollars of damage.
Peer-to-peer (P2P) file sharing sites are riddled with spyware, malware, and viruses.
 The most popular entertainment sites, such as Usenet, charges a monthly fee for its service. If you don’t pay for the premium services, you’re likely to get caught by the Copyright Alert System.You can usually get a free trial subscription to most pirated entertainment sites, but it will end after a short period of time.
If you buy a digital copy of something legally, you’ll likely be able to automatically transfer it across your different entertainment platforms, such as your laptop, tablet, and phone. If you download it illegally, you have to repeat this process for each platform.
 Making unauthorized copies of a movie or CD is a felony, and if convicted you could face up to 5 years of jail time and a fine of up to $250,000. These charges are the same regardless of whether the pirated entertainment is digital or in the form of physical CDs and DVDs.Even if you don’t illegally download entertainment, you can be convicted of criminal behavior for joining a file-sharing network (or Peer-to-Peer network, also known as P2P).
It’s never okay to download unauthorized music from pirate sites (web or FTP) or peer-to-peer systems.
 If you’re downloading pirated entertainment, you’re taking money directly from the musicians, directors, writers and artists who have invested their time and talent into making this product. You’re also stealing from the production company, the distributors, and everyone who’s worked on it.If you want to support artists without contributing to the music industry corporations, consider using a site like BandCamp, which allows you to directly support artists.
No one really knows the impact that downloaded video has upon the economy, but estimates range between $58,000 and $200,000 annually is lost to pirated entertainment.