 Think of it like a credit card. How happy would the person you’re talking to be if you gave them money for their guidance or opinion? They’d probably feel pretty good about themselves. They’d feel just as good if you gave them the credit.


Thank the person for their recommendation or advice. If your friend recommends a restaurant, tell the people you're with, "X suggested we come here. Isn't it great?"
Always give credit for success when it's warranted. If you did well on a project at work, you might say something like: "I have a great team working with me; they make it all happen."

, It takes selflessness and an ability to recognize the strengths of others to do this. Doing so makes your conversation partner more engaged and feel good about speaking with you, because she knows you'll also be saying good things about her.Some examples of compliments include:


"Doesn’t Gina look stunning in that dress? Just incredible. And, it actually pales in comparison to her wit!"
"I think Evelyn's thoughts on the global warming issue are incredibly insightful and full of potential solutions. Why don’t we go join her? I think you’ll find her fascinating."

, Listening, really listening, is an art. It requires you to let go of yourself and your thoughts, and focus solely on what the other person is saying. This effort allows you to truly melt away. Your need to talk about yourself dissipates, then disappears.


Make a pact with yourself that you won't speak unless your conversation partner puts the ball in your court. Then make another pact: you'll put the ball right back to her and go back to listening.
 This means fully concentrating on what the other person is saying and requires you respond to the speaker by paraphrasing or restating his main point(s). You can also add a little something when you finish paraphrasing by using different phrases: which means that; so then; that would require; you would then; etc., and then add your thoughts on what happens next.
Non-verbal cues like nodding your head, smiling, and other facial/physical expressions let the other person know you're engaged and have feelings about everything he's saying.., Additional questions that give your conversation partner more time to talk about her subject are also key, and there are several different types, including:Closed questions. These are often “yes or no” questions. They're answered in one way or the other, and the line of questioning stops there.
Open-ended questions. These give your conversation partner ample room to expand on what she's already been talking about and gives you a more well-rounded knowledge of her subject. These questions often start with phrases like: "How do you see..." or "What/why do you think..."

, It depends on the situation and topic you've been talking about. Think of it as either a personal or general validation.You (Personal): "Wow, it takes a lot of courage to look at yourself so openly and admit things like that."
You (General): "That is one of the most insightful analyses of the issue I’ve ever come across."



