 Since you don’t have a lot of time, focus on the bits that you think will most likely be on the test or that will get you the most points. Read the bolded words in the text and their definitions. If there aren’t any bolded words, then skim for other important information to review – dates, events, etc.If you are taking a math test, review the formulas during your skimming session. Make sure you understand how to solve problems using the formulas., For definitions or math formulas, flash cards are a great way to review. Flip through them as quickly as possible and try to say the definitions or complete the formulae without looking at the back., Repeating information out loud is very helpful for remembering it. If you made flash cards, repeat the information on them out loud, since you will most likely not be able to use them during the test., This is a great way to get you focused on what you need to remember for the test. Keep in mind the big points that are covered in the questions, and write them down., If your teacher has given you a study guide, this is great news! Read it carefully. If you have time, read it again. And again. If it is a study guide with questions, hopefully you already answered the questions. Most likely, the material in the study guide is what will be on the test., Whether using the chapter review questions or a study guide, try focusing on the most important questions and repeating the answers to yourself quickly., A good last minute memorization technique is to use one of these devices for the answers of your review questions. Musically inclined students may find it helpful to make up a rhyme or song to memorize information. A mnemonic device is any memory association tool you use to help yourself remember something; the most common kind is a name mnemonic such as ROY G BIV for the colors of the rainbow (Red Orange Yellow Green Blue Indigo Violet) , Depending on the subject, make a quick list of important dates, characters, plot points, or formulae. Anything that you can take from memory will be a helpful review in five minutes.