 Do you need the ability to play CDs? Do you want to hook up an MP3 player? The type of media that you wish to play will be crucial in helping you decide the best kind of adaptor to buy., There are several types of accessories and adaptors available to allow you to listen to a more varied media collection.The most popular are:

, This is likely the most universal adaptor since most cars are equipped with FM radios. The transmitter identifies an FM frequency that is not being used (at least near your) and casts music from your device over that frequency. The car radio can then pick up the waves and play the music just like any other radio station.The downside is that they are prone to interference.If you choose to use the FM transmitter, you will have to set your radio to the same station the the adaptor is transmitting rather than plugging it into the radio directly.
Though models vary depending on your accessories package, Corollas before 1999 may only have an FM stereo., If you want to avoid the interference of random FM waves but have a very old sound system with only a tape deck, a cassette tape adapter will be your best friend. These adaptors are made to fit into a cassette player on one end and plug into another device at the other end. The music from your device can then be played straight through your tape deck as if it were a cassette.From 1999 to 2009 the base model Corolla was equipped with a cassette deck., Like the cassette adaptor, the CD adaptor is made to go into a CD player and allow you to play non-CD media. This also avoids the interference of FM waves. You will usually have a need for this if your car’s sound system was built after cassettes when out of style and before MP3 players were popular.


In 2009, the base model Corolla was upgraded to a CD player., If you have a place to plug in other media, you only need an auxiliary cord or USB cord that fits your stereo and your media device. These cords became popular when car stereos were not equipped to play media from all devices, but manufacturer’s wanted to provide options to their clientele. It is the most ideal adaptor if your stereo is equipped with an auxiliary (aux) port.Also starting in 2009, the base model Corolla was equipped with an auxiliary audio jack., All of these adaptors are readily available and fairly inexpensive. You can usually find them at any store that with an electronics section.
 You will need to plug the cord of the adaptor into your media device, whether it’s a CD player, MP3 player, or other device. Then, insert the adaptor into your radio. Once your media is plugged into your radio, sit back and listen.

