 As your loved one ages, you may notice some normal changes such as taking longer to complete some tasks or being forgetful. However, some changes may be harmful to your relative's safety. Your loved one may need help if you notice any of the following problems as they may be signs of dementia, depression, or other medical problems:Unopened or unpaid mail and bills
Poor personal hygiene
Odors (e.g. spoiled food, dirty home, piled up trash, etc.) in their home
Signs of safety risks (e.g. burned pots, smoke stains)
Signs that medications are not being taken or not taken properly
Missed appointments
Getting lost in places they know well
Noticeable change in weight (gain or loss)
Difficulty walking, standing up, or sitting down
Extreme thirst
Excessive tiredness
Isolation and spending more time alone
Burns or injury marks
Any uncharacteristic behavior;
, Your loved one may express concerns or problems to you. If the problems are not brought to you, you can start the conversation by asking some questions. When you ask the question, listen to your loved one's response. Ask your loved one for a proposed solution to the problem. By including your loved one in the decision making, you will not be threatening their independence.If you notice that the laundry basket is overflowing, you may say, "It looks like you are a little backed up on your laundry? Do you need any help?"
Ask questions to get to the root of the problem. Do not assume that you know the reason for the behavior.
Unless the problem is an immediate threat to your loved one's safety, do not immediately try to jump in and fix it. Try to have a few conversations first.
 If you are noticing some changes, other family members are probably noticing them as well. Talking to other people can also provide multiple perspectives and solutions.This is especially important if you do not see your loved one regularly or you live in a different city.
It is helpful to talk to people who know your family member and people who do not. An outside person can offer an objective opinion because they do not have any emotional ties to your loved one.
 After speaking with your loved one, family, and friends, you still may need help making some decisions. Speak with a primary care physician, gerontologist, or a senior care specialist. They can offer professional insight and help you come up with solutions. Remember that you do not have to make these decisions alone.Be prepared to answer questions about your loved one's cognitive functioning (e.g. memory and decision making skills) and Activities of Daily Living/ADLs (e.g. eating, using the bathroom, getting dressed, bathing, etc.)
Remember that you do not have to make these decisions alone. Get support and input from multiple sources before you take action.

