 When writing a cover letter, you can apply the same tactics for addressing the letter as you would with a business letter.


Include your address on the upper right or left hand side. Do not include your name, just your address.
Include an email address, personal website address, and/or phone number on the next line.
Skip a line.
Provide the date with the month written out. "April 22, 2016"
Skip another line.
Include your salutation. "Dear ___," or "To whom it may concern,"

, It is okay to start a cover letter with something simple, such as “I am writing to apply for X position.” However, if you want to try something a little different to open a cover letter, then you might start with a brief summary of your greatest accomplishments. Offering a brief summary of what you have accomplished can grab the attention of the hiring manager and increase your chance of getting an interview.For example, you might start with, “In the past five years, I have doubled my sales and expanded my territory to three neighboring states.” You could then go on to talk more about your professional experience, education, special training, and other qualifications for the job.
 If you are writing a cover letter, then letting your excitement come through on paper can also help to increase your chances of getting an interview. The hiring manager may be impressed by your dedication to your job.For example, you could say something like, “I was excited to see this job posting because I have always been a big fan of your company.” You could then go on to explain what you like about the company, why you are so passionate about your work, and how you think you would fit in.
 Keywords may be helpful if you know that you will be up against lots of other people for a job. Mentioning keywords early in your letter can increase the chances that your application will be noticed, especially if those keywords indicate that you might be a good fit for the job.Some good keywords to mention include those that appear in the job posting, such as specific skills or experience that you possess. For example, you might begin with something like, “In my five years as a sales manager, I have given regular presentations, developed successful sales strategies, and written numerous sales scripts for my employees.”
You can also mention the names of any person or persons who referred you to this position. This might catch the attention of the hiring manager and ensure that you get an interview. For example, you might write something like, “I heard about this position from our department chair, Dr. Smith.”

