 Remember to be open and honest, but to keep a level-head. These inmates are not objects for amusement; they are human beings. If you choose to contact them, you should treat them with courtesy and respect regardless of what they are incarcerated for.Treat your inmate pen pal with as much kindness and courtesy as you would anyone else in your life.
 Give your inmate pen pal something to respond to by asking them questions in your first letter. This will help break the ice a bit and hopefully make them feel more comfortable corresponding with you.Try asking them about their hobbies, interests, favorite music, favorite books, etc.
Steer clear of more serious questions until later in the relationship, especially questions about their possible criminal offenses (what they are incarcerated for).
 Don't freak out if you do not get a reply right away. Remember that mail is slow for prison inmates and most prisons only give inmates mail on certain dates in the month. The inmates are very happy to receive contact from the outside world. Just because you do not get an immediate response does not mean they don't want to talk to you.Since prisoners’ email must be thoroughly screened before being distributed, it can often take much longer than regular mail.
 If you decide you would like to send a gift to a prisoner, be sure to find out the prison's policy on prisoners receiving gifts. This varies from prison to prison, but most prison systems have websites that you can search that will provide you with all of the necessary information regarding what is and is not permitted.Try to watch your language in your letters and anything else you send to the jail. Prisons frown on overt inflammatory language, and some strictly forbid it.
Do not send unapproved gifts, information about other inmates, or any other unauthorized items. This would create problems for the prisoners.
Check with the inmate you are writing to and verify with the prison’s official guidelines before sending any items.
Make sure you follow any special mailing guidelines that may be required for inmate mail. Again, this information should be listed on the prison’s website.
 Birthdays can be a lonely time, so try sending a card or a special birthday letter. Remembering a prisoner on their birthday can have a great impact. You can find their birth date on their personal ad, if they have one.


Try sending a greeting card. Greeting cards can be a great way to make someone feel special; you can find so many friendship cards to send a "hello." This can take the pressure off of you worrying about what to write, especially in the beginning.
 This way a prisoner has a face to put with your name. Some prisoners are looking for a relationship, but others are just looking for a friend and providing a picture can be a nice sign of friendship.Of course, only send a picture if you feel comfortable doing so.
Make sure any photos you send are appropriate (no nudity or lewd content), otherwise they'll get confiscated.
 Be a friend to your pen pal and possibly a mentor later on. A good pen pal can help inmates overcome addictions, find family and friends, and be a positive line to the outside world. Your inmate pen pal will have a better chance of creating a productive, successful life once they are released if they have more positive, supportive influences in their life.Listen to them talk about their problems if they want to, but encourage them in the right direction.

