 Search online to see if there are any LGBT community center or pride events in your area. Even if there's nothing that official, you can use sites like meetup.com to search for LGBT-friendly events.



lgbtcenters.org has a database of community centers in the United States.
If you are not fully out, attend events in neighboring towns where you are less likely to run into someone you know.;
, This doesn't need to be someone you know well, or that you're attracted to. A coworker, friend of a friend, former classmate — any local, out lesbian can introduce you to the LGBT community in your area, or recommend lesbian-friendly places to hang out., If you're lucky enough to live in a place where LGBT people can gather openly, take advantage of it. This is a nerve wracking step for many newly out or semi-closeted lesbians, but gather up your confidence and get out there. If your town doesn't have a lesbian-specific bar, visit the gay bar to see if it attracts a wider LGBT clientele.


If you're not interested in a party or hookup scene, show up on a weekday evening. The atmosphere will be more relaxed and friendly conversation will be easier.
Straight bars are rarely a good place to look for same-sex dates. Only about 11% of U.S. lesbians in a relationship met their partner in a bar or restaurant, which might be related to the small and shrinking number of lesbian bars., Look for bands with a large lesbian fan base performing in your area. Note that this doesn't just mean bands with LGBT musicians (although it helps).If you think that lead singer is attractive, you're probably not alone.
 You don't need to attend a rainbow-themed roller derby club to meet other lesbians. The more time you spend in social activities, the better the chance of meeting people who catch your interest. Whether it's attending classes at a community center or joining a sports team, picking up a hobby is a great way to meet like-minded people. Even just starting conversations at the gym or getting to know progressive coworkers can help you make friends, and potentially something more.


Small towns may only have one or two locations where LGBT people are comfortable meeting openly. In that case, it may be easier to make your first connections with that community online or through LGBT events.
 Misconstrued signals are a perennial problem for lesbians trying to date in straight spaces, especially for people who fall more on the femme side of the spectrum. If you don't want to spend an evening becoming a straight girl's new friend, you'll have to muster up some confidence and make it obvious what you're there for. Make a casual reference to an ex-girlfriend or a comment about how you'd love to date that hot, female celebrity.If you don't want to risk a homophobic encounter, try something more subtle before you out yourself. Mention an LGBT event you attended, and see whether she reacts positively.
 Volunteering at activist meetings and charity events is a great way to become involved in the LGBT community. You get to work for organizations that represent your values, and meet other lesbians at the same time.


In the United States, look into GLAAD, Gay for Good, Equality Federation, and the National Organization for Women.
The international organizations ILGA, Out Right Action International, and IGLYO (for youth) can direct you to country-specific resources., It is much more difficult to date another lesbian if your sexuality is a secret. Besides the scarcity of comfortable opportunities to signal your intent, many lesbians in LGBT-friendly areas are not interested in a closeted relationship.If you've been thinking of coming out already, maybe that should be your priority before jumping into the dating pool. If coming out would risk your safety or the health of important relationships in your life, or if you're just not ready, think carefully about the level of public disclosure you are willing to make.A few options include:


Coming out to close friends who are unlikely to spread the word back to your family and coworkers.
Traveling to neighboring towns where you can be open in public with a lower chance of seeing someone you know.
Discreet online dating, as described below. This can be a great way to expand your comfort zone.

