 Virginia circuit courts have concurrent jurisdiction with general district courts for claims from $4,500 to $25,000 and exclusive jurisdiction over claims exceeding $25,000.


Circuit courts are the only trial courts in Virginia with general jurisdiction. This means they have concurrent jurisdiction with the general district court over claims of between $4,500 and $25,000.Since general district courts don't have jury trials, if your claim was $10,000 but you wanted a jury trial, you would file in circuit court.Circuit courts also have exclusive original jurisdiction over all civil claims exceeding $25,000 that arise under state law, as well as divorce proceedings, wills and trusts, and adoption proceedings.The circuit court also hears appeals from a decision of the general district court., Especially if you're contemplating a jury trial, an attorney can help you navigate the sometimes complicated rules of evidence and civil procedure.
 If the statute of limitations for your type of case has passed, it's too late for you to file a lawsuit.


For example, if you're filing a lawsuit based on a written contract, you must file suit within five years of the date the contract was breached., Virginia's court system makes a number of civil forms available on its website for you to download and use.


The forms include instructions for filling them out and filing them as well as general instructions about the format for pleadings in circuit court.Not all counties provide their own forms, so you must check the local rules and make sure you have all the paperwork and are filing everything correctly., If you have any documents or other items such as photographs that support your claim, attach them to your complaint.


For example, if you slipped and fell on a shop floor, your medical bills might constitute proof of injury as well as the expenses you incurred as a result.
 You might consider signing your complaint in the presence of a notary so your signature is authenticated, especially if you are testifying to matters of fact.


After you've signed your complaint, make sure you make at least enough copies of everything you're filing that you have a complete copy to send to the person you're suing and a complete copy for your own records, because the court will keep the originals.
 Take your original and copies to the clerk of the appropriate circuit court and file them to begin your lawsuit.


You'll have to pay filing fees when you file your complaint, which typically are several hundred dollars depending on the type of case.If you can't afford the filing fees, you can file a form asking the court to waive them., After you've filed your complaint you must arrange to have it served on the person you're suing so they have notice of the lawsuit.


You can have the sheriff's department or a private process serving company serve the complaint, or you can mail it using certified mail., If a responsive pleading isn't filed in 21 days, you may win your lawsuit by default., If the other side responds and disputes your claim, you must participate in discovery and other pre-trial activities.


The discovery process gives you the opportunity to ask questions and request documents from the other side, as well as interview any witnesses. During this time, you can find evidence to support your own case as well as learning more about how the other side is planning its defense.