 Ohana has short, light-brown, curly hair. If you have short, curly hair in the same color of Ohana's, then great! But if you don't, don't worry about it. You can dye, perm, or do whatever you wish with your hair, but you don't need to go overboard to get hair that looks like Ohana's.;
, Ohana wears two daisy-flowers on either side of her head. It's cute - and something you can imitate! If you're not a flowery person, you can use hair ribbons, bows, different flowers, clips, and so forth. There's an endless possibility to what you can use.
 Ohana has lovely big anime eyes, right? If you would like to make your eyes seem bigger, then use eyeliner. Look over wikiHow on how to make your eyes look bigger. You can also buy contacts, but this isn't required.
 Ohana doesn't wear much make-up, if any at all, so try to keep it natural! If you must use make-up, then just simple things like lip-gloss, eye shadow, concealer where needed, eyeliner and such. But please don't cover yourself in make-up! Anime girls have perfect skin, it's how they're drawn and created. Perfect 100% skin is impossible in the real world. Just care for your skin as best as you possibly can.
 Shower daily, wash your hair every other day, use deodorants, perfumes, keep your nails clean and trimmed, shave your legs and armpits and such.
 Ohana wears a lot of yellow in the anime, such as her yellow scarf. Yellow is a good option if you want to dress more like Ohana.


Keep it simple. When you see her wearing her own clothes, you don't see her wear anything revealing or trashy. She mostly wears a blue hoodie.
 When she's going out, in trains, buses and such, she's wearing white headphones. You can buy some headphones if you like, but they're expensive, so try some cute earphones if you can't afford big headphones. Of course, plug it into your device, and enjoy the music!

, A big noticeable trait is that Ohana is energetic and bubbly, especially when she's with Ko and her friends. So, smile! When the going gets rough, don't bottle it up. Tell somebody you trust. Always think of happy thoughts!


A big part of Ohana's personality is that she's energetic. Try to be energetic, too.
 See the glass as half full, not half empty. Think positive!

, Look at everything Ohana's been through! Being forced to live on her own when her mom chooses to run away with one of her many boyfriends, and go live with a grandmother that doesn't think of her as her granddaughter. She runs into a girl scared of her, a girl who constantly tells her to die, and a seemingly pervert. And to top it all off, she's away from Ko, her best friend. To think that she could stay strong, optimistic and smiling through all that, really must be something! So try to be strong, no matter what life throws at you.
 Try practicing random acts of kindness. Focus on giving, and not taking.


A lot of Ohana's attempts to help backfire or are unappreciated. Remember, not everything you try to do will turn out right, or exactly the way you want it.
 Because Ohana's mother barely raised her, she did everything herself and became independent at a young age. Be your own best friend and rely on yourself.


This doesn't mean to drop all of your friends. Over the course of Hanasaku Iroha, Ohana slowly learns that you don't have to rely on yourself for absolutely everything and that it's okay to need help. It's okay to ask for help when you need it.
 But stay true to yourself. If this is not you then don't change to be like her, you'll just end up losing yourself.

