 Weeds not only take up space in your yard, they also compete for water and nutrients in the soil. When you pull up weeds, be sure that you dig deep enough to remove the entire root system, as pulling out the surface sprouts will not effectively kill the weed.If you must use chemical herbicides on your weeds, use spot applications instead of a broad, whole-yard application. Spraying the entire yard can harm many of the organisms that live in the soil and could potentially pollute your local groundwater system., While it may seem to the untrained eye that grass is simply grass, there are, in fact, many different types of grass. Each variety has its own advantages, depending on the climate and region in which you live.Perennial Ryegrass is somewhat drought tolerant, easy to establish across the lawn, and can compete well with weeds that sprout up in the yard.Tall Fescue grass is very drought tolerant and has the deepest root system of all turf grasses, running anywhere from three to six feet deep. Tall Fescue doesn't necessarily use less water, but it does use water the same way a deep-root plant would use water. It also stays green during drought, which is advantageous if you live in a drought-prone climate.Fine Fescue grass has a low fertilizer requirement and a high drought tolerance. It can actually go dormant during dry periods when water is absent, and will quickly come back to a healthy shade of green once water is returns.Bentgrass grows well during cool weather, and much like Fine Fescue it can also go dormant during droughts. Bentgrass does not require very much fertilizer, either.Kentucky Bluegrass grows best in cool, humid, semi-arid, and temperate climates. This grass variety is moderately drought-tolerant., Whether you have a large yard that is difficult to manage or you simply want a little more diversity in your yard's landscape, there are plenty of options for non-turf alternatives. Some drought-stricken communities may even offer incentives to homeowners who opt for non-turf alternatives, so it may be worth checking online or with your local department of natural resources to see if your region offers these incentives.


Ground cover makes a fine substitute for turf in some yards. Ground cover, like drought-resistant plants, are ideal for low-traffic parts of the yard. Planting ground cover in slanted parts of the yard that tend to lose a lot of water may also help conserve some water and promote a greener yard.Perennials, shrubs, and trees are all excellent alternatives to grass. Many of these plants have drought-resistant varieties that can help control erosion and water loss.Hardscapes, like decking or pavement (including stepping stones), can help cut back on how much you need to water your yard. Hardscapes also create recreation space, as a deck or patio makes an excellent place to sit outside for picnics, meals, or simple downtime.