 Rules help create a safe and open discussion during your lesson. Tell your learners to:


Listen and speak appropriately during your lesson. This might mean raising their hand, speaking only when called, and using appropriate language when talking.
Respect other students. Some students may be reluctant to share information or ask questions that might sound "silly" to others. Respecting each other means being non-judgemental towards one another.
Maintain confidentiality during the lesson. Personal experiences and information might be shared during the lesson and students should be told not to share these stories or information to others outside of the class.
 Let your students know that you are here to discuss facts and opinions about sexual health -- not to expose or push students to talk about their own or any sexual experiences.


Refrain from talking about your own sexual experiences if it doesn't enrich or benefit the lesson and your learners. In some situations, especially if you have a very close or casual relationship with your learners, sharing stories and experiences can help relax students and even open them up to express their own opinions and questions. However, it's best to avoid this unless you have a very good and mutual understanding with your learners. In some situations, sharing explicit personal information about yourself can make learners feel uncomfortable.
 A great educator is not only someone who is able to relay information to their learners, but is also one who is able to listen and inspire their learners. There are many ways you can encourage your students:


Refrain from taking a one-sided point of view on a issue. Instead, express an open attitude and willingness to listen and discuss any and all issues relating to sexual health.
Show that you value a learner's opinion or what they have to say. Use validating responses or phrases like, "That's an interesting comment you've made" or "I think what you said is very important" or "I understand your concern".
Ask for your learners' opinions on an issue. After explaining an issue or concept, open the discussion by asking if anyone has questions, concerns, or comments they'd like to make. Ask what they think about what you've just taught them.
Be flexible when teaching your lesson. Sometimes learners will have burning questions that they can't keep until the end to ask. Encourage and allow students to ask questions or make comments whenever they arise, even if they might steer the discussion towards an unintended topic in your lesson plan. However, always use judgement: not every question is worth answering right then and there.
 Every learner will enter a sex education course or classroom with different ideas on how sex or sexual health works. A good way to ease into the beginning of a lesson is to ask your students to share what they know about a certain topic.


This activity encourages students to actively participate in discussions.
Knowing what the students already know can help give you an idea how to go about the lesson. You will have a better sense of what issues to focus more on and any misinformation you will need to correct.
 In any setting, there will be learners who are shy or feel uncomfortable asking their questions in front of a large group. Give opportunities to these learners by:


Providing resources to them. Direct students to reputable resources where they can find their own answers to their questions such as websites, books, or information from sexual health organizations.
Giving them a point of contact to discuss their concerns with their own sexual health. It can be a guidance counsellor, a sexual health professional or service, or even you.
Let learners submit questions anonymously. A helpful activity to try in class is to have all your students write down their questions or concerns on a piece of paper and submit it to your anonymously. You can then answer these questions in front of the class or incorporate the questions in a future lesson.

