 You will need a trainer or mentor to help you learn the correct habits to take care of your vocal chords so that you don't accidentally damage them. They can help you decide what songs to sing, teach you scales and the basics of music, and give you private lessons to identify your areas of weakness and strength.To find a teacher, you can look online to websites like ClassicalSinger.com or NATS.org which host searchable directories as well as magazines, online communities, your music teacher at school, or the parents of any friends who are also taking voice lessons.
Your teacher does not have to be accredited, a professional singer, or cool. Instead, look at a teacher's history and see how their students have fared.
Even if you believe that you have not and will never injure your voice, there may be tiny things you do that you are unaware of that could have serious consequences later. A teacher can identify and stop you from doing those things so that you can have a long and successful career., While there are some people who brag about teaching themselves and not knowing about the mechanics, if you want a career in music, then you will need to understand notes, melody, harmony, keys, scales, measures, beats, majors, and minors as well as many, many other things.While this may feel daunting at first, it is necessary so that you can both improve yourself to stand out from the competition as well as to show other people that you are serious.


Consider songs as mini plays where you, the singer, are playing a part. Ask yourself who you're supposed to be, why you're singing, how you're supposed to feel, and who you're singing to.You will need to spend many hours practicing the basics likes scales both at home and in your lessons.
 You should try to make yourself known locally. School plays with singing parts and solos in your school or church choir are a great, free way to try to seek the spotlight that contribute to your community. Have someone record your performance to distribute it online to family, friends, and social media followers later.
 If you feel ready for bigger audiences, auditioning for a broadcasted TV show like America's Got Talent is one way of getting your name and face out there. There are also national and local casting calls going on all the time. Try 2016auditions.com, kidscasting.com, and castingcallhub.com for roles involving singing and dancing. There are also prestigious regional competitions for singers that you can find more information about at NATS.org.When you show up to audition, be sure to be dressed nicely, have your song materials preselected, be aware of what you're auditioning for (especially if it is a musical play with a story and specific songs), and be sure to have a good attitude.
Auditioning is a skill itself: you will probably need to audition many times to learn what kinds of questions and suggestions you will receive, as well as how to handle yourself. Don't be discouraged if you don't get the role the first, second, or even tenth time., Especially if you're looking for work as a singer-songwriter or singing as a pop star, try looking for local places like coffee houses and restaurants that hire singers for live entertainment.This will help get your name and face out there to get more and bigger jobs. It will also help you all to recover costs for training and advertising.


Use websites like Craigslist, Gigsalad, Backstage.com, YapTracker, and ReverbNation to find singing jobs that you can take.Some, but not all, of these are free to use.
Some jobs, often called "gigs," will help you to build a fanbase but don't pay well, like playing at a friend's house for a birthday party, and others will pay well but not build you much of a fanbase, like singing for a wedding. Many gigs call in between as well. Try to consider what your goals are with taking a job: is it most important to make more fans, or to be paid well, or have you reached the point that you should aim for both?Be prepared to be persistent. Some places will not agree to book you the first, second, or even ninth time you call!Be careful when accepting jobs: have your parents or a legal guardian look at the job posting with you and contact the individual hosting it for you. These are people that you do not know, and it is important that even if you are eager to start making a name for yourself that you be safe.

