 If you're ready to take your guitar skills onto the stage, it's common to support the guitar using a guitar strap. Many different styles and arrangements are available, from wrap-around mariachi-style straps to tight banjo-style straps, but the most common varieties are relatively basic and easy to use. Look for a strap of good quality cloth or leather with an adjustable length to allow you the freedom to find a height that works best for you.









Make sure your guitar is outfitted with strap pegs before you buy a strap, or consider having them installed at the guitar shop. You'll need at least one strap peg at the base of most guitars to make a strap work. Most guitars will come with them pre-installed.
 Attaching the strap will vary, depending on whether or not you've got one or two strap pegs. Many acoustic guitars will only have one peg, while electric guitars commonly have two. Always start by slipping the base peg through the tab on the end of the strap, then installing the peg closer to the neck.









To strap an acoustic guitar with one peg, you'll sometimes need to insert the skinny end of the strap around the head, under the strings where they attach to the tuning pegs. Some straps won't come with this, but you can use a shoestring inserted through the peg-hole on the skinny end of the strap to make do in a pinch. If your acoustic comes with two pegs already, just attach the strap to both pegs at the top and bottom of the guitar body and you're set.To strap an electric guitar, insert the pegs through the tabs on each end of the strap and you're should be ready to rock. Some straps will come with a variety of different tabs to allow for a variety of lengths. Start tight and loosen up if necessary.
 Most straps can be adjusted by sliding the buckle up or down the length of the strap to make it longer or shorter. Sling the strap over the shoulder of your fretting hand and feel where the guitar falls. If it feels comfortable, you're all set. If not, remove the guitar and adjust the strap until it feels right. Ideally, you want the bottom of the guitar to be about even with your hip on your dominant side.









Err on the side of keeping the strap short. You don’t want to have the guitar too low or you’ll struggle to play with your strumming hand. Likewise, if the guitar is too high, it can be tiring to hold your arms up that high to play.
The length of the guitar strap will have a lot to do with your playing style. Some players want the guitar as high as possible to allow easy access to the fretboard, while rockers want the guitar as low as possible, because it looks awesome. There's no right way.
 The best guitar strap assemblies will come with a strap-enforcement peg or clip on the base of the guitar, which will help to hold the strap onto the guitar. There’s nothing worse than a guitar that slips off the strap pegs and falls to the ground in the middle of a performance. These are usually simple plastic clips that will fit over the peg and keep the end of the strap from slipping off.
 If you're plugging in, a good trick of the trade is to loop your guitar cable through the strap to keep it out of your way. Insert the cable between the base peg and the strap, from the back to the front of the guitar and plug it in.









This is especially useful if you've got an input jack on the bottom of your guitar and it gets loose over time. You can keep the cable from slipping out and falling all the way to the ground.

