 The best way of getting yourself out there is by following other people who roleplay. There is a large community of people who roleplay on Instagram. You might even be able to get some popularity by following other users who roleplay as the same character as you.


Use the search function and enter variations of your character's name.
If you have friends in the real world who are involved with Instagram roleplaying, follow them., The best way to build a network of followers is to post pictures. Instagram is mainly focused on pictures. Use photos of your character in the form that you are comfortable with. Post photos regularly to get the most out of your profile. The more pictures you have, the more likely you are to get noticed.


Some people feel comfortable dressing up as the character. Others may feel more comfortable editing photos of their character in the form of a meme.
 Memes are photos or posts that are centered around a photo and relatable text. They are typically used for comedic purposes and are currently a trending fad on the internet. You can create a meme by editing a photo to include white text. Use a simple photo editing software to add the text to an image.


A popular start to a meme is "When ...." For example, "When your dog is living better than you" or "When you see a comma in your bank account."
Decide if memes are a good fit for your Instagram account. Check out similar Instagram users to see if other roleplaying accounts utilize memes.
 Another way to gain followers is by using hashtags. Hashtags, or the pound sign, are used to reach a larger network of internet users. The hashtag gets stored with all relatable content that also uses this hashtag. You could also include a description that gives your followers more information.
 Follow other users who have a similar roleplaying account. Once you see a post that you like, you can upload the same post onto your own account. Add your own description and then credit the user who originally posted the image.


You can credit other users by adding the at symbol (@) before their username.