 Do your research on famous artists of the past and present. By taking a look at their work, you can try to determine how it lays the foundations for contemporary illustration. When researching famous illustrators:Take note of how they use composition, color, and line to bring their art to life.
Determine the tone and lines of your favorite artists and try to emulate them by using the same colors or line styles.
Research the materials that they used and try to replicate the process by using the same materials.
Famous historical illustrators include people like Jean André Castaigne, Edwin Austin Abbey, and Rose O'Neill.Some successful contemporary illustrators include Pat Perry, Dagna Majewska, and Mouni Feddag.;
, Visiting art museums and galleries will enable you to view other artist's illustrations in person, which is a different experience than seeing a picture in a book or online. Do a search online to find open art galleries near you. You may want to specify your search so that you can find illustrators that use the same medium or draw the same subject matter as you.


Take note of their style and technique and find things that you like in other people's art.
Things that you can notice in person that may not be obvious in a photo may include things like the texture of the drawing.
 Graphic novels tell a story by using sequential art and text. Unlike comic books, graphic novels tell a complete and often time more complex story. Pick up a graphic novel at a comic book store and take note of the various styles that exist. Art books, on the other hand, allow you to view a variety of different pieces of art from artists that you appreciate in a textbook format. These are good to get if you're unfamiliar with an artist's work or you can't make it a museum.


The primary types of graphic novel include, manga, superhero stories, personal narratives, and non-fiction.Some of the most popular graphic novels include titles like Uncle Scrooge, Persepolis, and Maus.Some popular contemporary art books include "Every Person in New York," "Beastly Verse," and "Beloved Dog."