 If the company doesn't already exist, you must get together with the other potential co-owners of the property and create an LLC through which you all will purchase and manage the property.Search the business name database of the state in which the property is located to find a name for your LLC. It cannot be identical or similar to the name of a company already registered with the state. These databases typically are available online at the website for your state's secretary of state.
Once you've found an available name, you should reserve it to ensure its availability while you complete the organization process. You'll have to pay a fee to reserve your name.
You'll have to get together with the other members of your LLC to draft your Articles of Organization and Operating Agreement for your LLC. You typically can find forms online to create these documents, or you can hire a business attorney to draft them for you.
 Different states have different registration requirements that you must follow, but generally you must file your Articles of Organization with the state's Secretary of State office and fill out required forms.You must pay fees to register your LLC, and fill out forms identifying your registered agent for service of process in the state.
Even if you or other members of the LLC don't live in the state where the property is located, your registered agent must be a resident of that state.
You typically don't have to file your Operating Agreement with the Secretary of State, but you should create one anyway. This document defines the roles of each member of the LLC, ownership interests, and distribution of profits.
 If financing is required, any mortgage applications must be completed in the name of the LLC rather that in the names of any individual members, so that the LLC becomes the record owner of the property.You must get an employer identification number (EIN) from the IRS so that you can file taxes for your LLC. The EIN also allows you to purchase property, enter contracts, and open bank accounts in the name of the LLC.
Even if you don't have any employees, the state typically requires an EIN – rather than the Social Security number of a member – be used to file property taxes and other state taxes on behalf of the LLC.
 Once your LLC is legally formed, it becomes its own legal entity and can enter into contracts, purchase land, and work with builders or contractors to develop the land according to the company's plans.The property will be owned by the LLC, rather than by any of the members of the LLC.
The benefit of this is that you can add members at any time without having to disturb any property ownership documents.
Members of the LLC who no longer want to own the property or be a part of the project can simply leave the LLC. Since their name isn't on any property documents, no transfer of ownership interests takes place.

