  No matter if it is your first time or your hundredth the first thing to do is rid yourself of all of the daily stresses.  Go to the room / location you are going to call spirit.  Close your eyes. Take some slow deep breaths. Clear you mind.  Once you are calm and clear it is time to "Call the corners.";
, If in a group of family, friends, or clan, take a step to the outside of the circle of people. This way when the circle is cast you will be making sure everyone inside is protected and blessed by spirit.

At this point it you can trace a pentagram in the air, or bring Thor's hammer down, or whatever your personal belief omen is, create it now.
Then take both hands and cross them over your body, allowing the Spirit to come into you and the circle. If you choose at this time you may light an incense, representing the Air Spirit.
 (If alone one or two steps is fine.)

, Again, you can trace a pentagram in the air, or bring Thor's hammer down, or what ever your personal belief omen is create it now. Then take both hands and cross them over your body, allowing Spirit to come in to you and the circle. If you choose at this time you may light a fire such as a candle, fireplace or cauldron. This is to representing the Fire Spirit.
 Again, if in a group, stay on the outside edge. (If alone one or two steps is fine.)

, Say the following:


"I call upon the Watch Towers of the West, Scared Brothers and Blessed Elemental Spirit of Water, I command you to come forth, attend this rite and protect this circle."
Trace a pentagram in the air, or bring Thor's hammer down, or whatever your personal belief omen is and create it now.
Then take both hands and cross them over your body, allowing the Spirit to come into you and the circle. If you choose at this time, you may start a water-fountain running or just have a cup of water here. This is to represent the Water Spirit.
 If in a group, stay on the outside edge. (If alone, one or two steps is fine.)

,
Trace a pentagram in the air, or bring Thor's hammer down, or whatever your personal belief omen is, create it now.
Then take both hands and cross them over your body, allowing Spirit to come in to you and the circle.
If you have chosen to have something representing the previous elements then have something here to represent Earth, such as a polished ball of dirt. A land animal carved from stone or a crystal or rock. This is representing the Earth Spirit.
 Once again Raise your hands to the open “Y” position and say. “As above, so below. I call upon the Spirits of Light, Love and Joy to come forth, attend this rite and protect this circle.” At this point if you wish to have Spirit bless the food and drink offerings do so now. Then proceed with why you have called Spirit to you at this time. Once you are done you MUST Release Spirit.
, Start in the East. Each time raise your hands to the “Y” position and say:


“Scared Sisters and Blessed Elemental Spirit of Air, Thank you for attending this rite. Go if you must, but please Stay if you will.” Walk in a clockwise motion to the South, again if in a group stay on the outside edge.
“Scared Brothers and Blessed Elemental Spirit of Water, Thank you for attending this rite. Go if you must, but please Stay if you will.” Walk in a clockwise motion to the West.
“Scared Brothers and Blessed Elemental Spirit of Water, Thank you for attending this rite. Go if you must, but please Stay if you will.” Walk in a clockwise motion to the North.
“Scared Couples and Blessed Elemental Spirit of Earth, Thank you for attending this rite. Go if you must, but please Stay if you will.” Walk to the center of the circle.
“Spirits of Light, Love and Joy, Thank you for attending this rite. Go if you must, but please Stay if you will. This circle is open, but never broken. Mary Meet and Mary part, and Mary Meet again.”

