 Your body can tell a girl that you’re interested before you say a word and can help you be a better flirt throughout your conversation. There are just a few tricks that you need to know to show the girl that you’re interested through your body language.


Maintain eye contact. Look right into the girl's eyes when you're talking and don't check your phone or look around to see what your buddies are doing. You should show the girl that you're giving her your full attention, but glance away occasionally so things don't get too intense.
Keep your arms at your sides or use them to gesture. Don't cross them over your chest or you'll look closed off.
Lean toward her when you speak. Whether you're sitting or standing, lean in a bit to get closer to the girl. Just don't get too close or you'll be one of those "close talkers" and may come on too strong.
Don't forget to smile. Let her catch you smiling at her even when you're not saying anything from time to time. It's easier to flirt if you keep up a positive vibe.
Don't slouch. Stand tall and proud and you'll look more confident.;
, Subtlety is the key to being a good flirt. You need to know the difference between saying you’re interested and implying that you’re interested. Saying you’re interested is too obvious and leaves nothing to the imagination. Being subtle and implying you’re interested will intrigue the girl and will keep the conversation going.


Find subtle ways to compliment the girl. Instead of saying you love her outfit, say, "You must have spent hours putting that together."
Find subtle ways to show you'd like to spend more time with her. If she says she loves to swim, don't say that you'd love to see her in a bikini. Instead, say, "I happen to love girls who love to swim. Especially in the summer."
Find subtle ways to let her know she's special. Instead of saying, "You look hot," tell her, "A girl like you must not have any trouble getting guys."

, You don’t have to give the girl the third degree to show that you actually want to get to know her. Finding a way to ask her questions about her interests or background is a great way to be flirty and to show that you’re interested. Here are some things you can ask:


While you're joking around, ask her what she likes to do for fun. This will show that you want to get to know her.
If your siblings come up, ask her if she has any. Girls love talking about their siblings.
Ask her if she has any pets. If she does, ask her if she likes to cuddle with them.
Ask her opinion on something silly or small. Say something that will make her laugh, like "What do you think about men who wear pink?"

, Once you’re comfortable enough with the girl, you can start to tease her a bit. You might click instantly and be comfortable teasing her within the first minute of talking, or it could take a bit longer to ease into tease-mode. Once it feels right, don’t be afraid to show your playful side by teasing the girl while you’re flirting.


Tease her about her interests. If she says she likes reality TV, ask her if she'd rather be home watching The Bachelor.
Tease her about her appearance. Make sure to do this in a complimentary way. If she's wearing obviously fake gold costume jewelry, ask her if it's real gold.
Tease her about her laugh. If she has a really cute laugh, ask her if she hangs around funny people like you just so she can laugh more often.

