 Set up in advance as much as you can. Make sure your laptop is charged and all other equipment is working. If you are relying on IT personnel to set up, try to talk to them in advance so you know what you need to bring with you.Have another version of your presentation saved on an external hard drive. Put it in your bag and have it with you at all times. In addition, bring a printed copy of the presentation in case the technology fails.
 Get your audience on your side. Ask if they can hear you, and move appropriately if not. If you have one, tell a joke or two while IT sets up the projector or while the rest of the group files in, or ask about the location, the crowd (where are they from, etc.), or their previous exposure to your topic. Just be yourself and the audience will naturally gravitate towards you, as they like the "candid" feeling before the talk begins.


Even if you must go directly on stage, you can still begin with 1-2 lines of introduction and a quick joke. Keep it light, then turn your attention completely to your presentation once you're ready.
Scan your audience for a few friendly faces, usually the people who make eye-contact and seem ready for your presentation. As you talk, turn your attention towards them frequently, as they will help you stay engaged with the audience.
 You should stand with both feet shoulder-length apart and firmly planted. You shouldn't hunch, and your arms should be comfortable by your side or gathered in front of you, depending on what feels comfortable and appropriate. Some people stand on one leg, cross their arms, or hunch over their note cards, to feel more comfortable on stage. This, however, makes you seem informal and takes some of the importance out of your presentation.


Think of your best "Superman pose." Your back is straight, your head is held high, and your shoulders are slightly back.
 Some people get really quiet when they speak out loud because they're shy, while other people speak too quickly because of excitement or nerves. When you talk, err on the side of being a bit too loud, because that is often the perfect volume for the people sitting in the back rows.


If you notice people straining to hear you, feel free to pause and ask if "they can hear you in the back." The technical crew may be able to turn up the speakers, or you could step forward and/or speak louder.
If you think your voice may be wobbly, start with a little cough.
When possible, test out the microphone and your speaking volume in advance with the tech crew or a friend.
 That said, you don't want to treat your audience like idiots. Imagine you are addressing your grandparents who are a bit hard of hearing. You'd likely speak a little louder and slower, but you'd still be respectful of their intelligence and ability to follow your words.
 When people perceive that you are looking at them they are more likely to pay attention. As you speak, look to all the parts of the audience. You don't have to make eye contact with every single person, but glancing over each section of the crowd will make everyone feel like you are talking to them and keep them engaged.If you're nervous about eye contact, keep looking back to your friendly faces. If you know someone in the crowd, direct the majority of your speech to them. Look up and around every 1-2 minutes or so to include the rest of the crowd.
 Unless it is a major point or an important quote, never read directly from your slides or poster. Instead, let the audience view it casually, using the pictures to reinforce your presentation-- not the other way around. Direct the audience to specific images or visuals as they come up in your speech, only showing the images that are vital for your current point. No one comes to an oral presentation to read -- they come to hear you speak. Your speech should offer the majority of the information and intrigue.The patron saint of oral presentations, Al Gore's An Inconvenient Truth perfectly blends smart visuals into a compelling, authoritative speech. Note how he references his visuals, but rarely gives the presentation over to them. He is still the expert and main focus.
 If you offer Q&A time and no one asks a question, there is a good chance everyone is too shy to get the ball rolling. If you have the time, you might want to say something along the lines of-- "frequently, people will ask me about..." and give a short, to the point answer.


If you still don't have any questions, thank them for their time and offer to stick around for 4-5 minutes for individual questions.