 You can select any two colors, but the yarn type and weight should be the same for both colors.


The first yarn color will be labeled as A and the second will be labeled as B.
Fine, light, and worsted weight yarns work especially well for this pattern, but you can experiment with different types of yarn to produce different effects
If using a fine yarn, use an E (3.5 mm) hook. For light yarns, use a G (4.0 mm) hook. For worsted weight yarns, use an I or J (5.5 or 6.0 mm) hook.;
, Tie yarn A to your crochet hook using a standard slipknot.


To make a slip knot:

Create a loop by crossing the attached end of the yarn over the loose end.
Pull the attached side through the loop, creating a second loop in the process.
Tighten the first loop around the second.
Insert the hook into the second loop, then tighten the second loop onto the hook.
 Work a foundation row of 34 chain stitches.


To make a chain stitch:

Yarn over the hook.
Pull the yarn-over through the loop already on your hook.
 Work one double crochet into the third chain currently from the hook.


When counting chains, do not include the loop currently on your hook.
To work a double crochet stitch:

Yarn over the hook.
Insert the hook into the stitch.
Yarn over the hook. Pull this yarn-over and the hook back to the front, drawing up a loop in the process.
Yarn over the hook. Draw this yarn-over through the first two loops already on your hook.
Yarn over the hook again. Draw this yarn-over through the final two loops on your hook.
 You will need to double crochet into the next 13 chains, but the number of double crochets will vary in each one.


Double crochet once into each of the next six chains.
Double crochet three times into the chain after that.
Double crochet once into each of the next six chains, as well.
 Double crochet once into all of the next three chains.To double crochet decrease over three stitches:

Yarn over the hook.
Insert the hook into the back loop of the first of the three stitches.
Yarn over the hook again. Pull the loop through to the front of the stitch.
Yarn over and pull the yarn-over through the first two loops on the hook.
Repeat the process in the back loop of the second stitch. Yarn over and insert the hook into the second of the three stitches, then yarn over and pull the loop to the front. Yarn over once more and pull it through the first two loops on your hook.
Repeat the process in the back loop of the third stitch. Yarn over the hook and insert it into the last of the three stitches, then yarn over and pull the loop through to the front of the stitch. Yarn over again and pull it through the first two loops on the hook.
Yarn over one last time, and pull it through the remaining four loops on your hook.
 Double crochet into the next 13 chains, varying the amount as follows.


Double crochet once into each of the next six stitches.
Double crochet three times into the chain that comes next.
Double crochet once into each of the six stitches that follow that.
 Double crochet once over both of the next two chains to make another double crochet decrease.


To double crochet decrease over two stitches:

Yarn over the hook.
Insert the hook into the back loop of the first stitch.
Yarn over the hook again, then pull it through to the front of the stitch to form a loop.
Yarn over again and pull that yarn-over through the first two loops on your hook.
Repeat the procedure into the next stitch. Yarn over the hook and insert it into the back loop of the second stitch. Yarn over again and pull the loop to the front. Yarn over once more and pull it through the first two loops.
Yarn over one last time and pull it through the remaining three loops on your hook.
 Work two chain stitches from the loop on your hook.


These chain stitches act as a "turning chain." In other words, they set the row height for your next row.
After completing this turning chain, the first row is finished. Turn the work before continuing to the next row.
 Skip the two chain stitches and the first double crochet of the previous row. Then, double crochet once into each of the next seven stitches.


Work each double crochet into the back loops only.
 You will need to double crochet into the back loops of the next seven stitches, but the amount will vary for each stitch.


Double crochet three times into the back loop of the next stitch.
Double crochet once into the back loops of each of the following six stitches.
 Work a double crochet decrease over the next three stitches.
 You will need to double crochet into the back loops of each of the next 13 stitches, but the number of double crochets made into each stitch will vary.


Double crochet once into each of the next six stitches.
Double crochet three times into the stitch that follows.
Double crochet once into each of the following six stitches, too.
 Work a double crochet decrease over the next and final two stitches in the row.


This completes the second row. Turn the work, but do not create a turning chain for the next row yet.
 Switch to your second yarn color before beginning the third row.Loosely loop yarn B around the tip of the hook, just above the loop already on your hook. Leave a 4-inch (10-cm) tail of yarn B.
Pull the yarn B yarn-over through the yarn A loop on your hook. A should be removed from the hook, leaving a loop of B in its place.
Cut yarn A, leaving a 4-inch (10-cm) tail to weave in later.
 Work two chain stitches from the loop on your hook.


This creates a turning chain and sets the height for your next row.
 Follow the same set of instructions used to complete the second row for each remaining row of the scarf.


For each row:

Skip the first double crochet stitch.
Double crochet once into each of the next seven stitches.
Double crochet three times into the stitch that follows.
Double crochet once into each of the next six stitches.
Decrease over three stitches.
Double crochet once into the following six stitches.
Double crochet three times into the stitch after that.
Double crochet once into each of the following six stitches.
Decrease over two stitches.


At the end of each row, chain two to create a turning chain for the next row, then turn the work over before beginning the next row.
Repeat as often as needed until the scarf reaches a length of 72 inches (183 cm) or your desired length.
 Change colors, alternating back and forth between A and B, following the same technique used to change colors the first time.


Always change colors before completing the turning chain. Do not change after creating the turning chain.
Make sure that your scarf ends with two rows of yarn B.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 4-inch (10-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to bind off the end.


At this point, it's a good idea to weave this tail and all other tails into the back of the scarf.
If desired, you can leave the scarf in its current state and wear it as is. The decorative fringe is recommended, but not strictly necessary.
 Cut 60 pieces of yarn, each measuring 12 inches (30.5 cm) long.Of these 60 pieces, 30 should be from yarn A and 30 should be from yarn B.
 Divide the pieces of fringe into 20 groups, each consisting of three strands.


Each group should contain three strands of the same color. Do not mix colors within each group.
 Evenly arrange 10 groups along each edge. Tie each group onto an appropriate stitch along the corresponding edge.


Insert all three strands through the stitch. Center them over the stitch, then tie them into a standard knot over the outer edge of the stitch.
You have three options concerning the positioning of your fringe:

Arrange all A fringe on the A edge and all B fringe on the B edge.
Arrange all A fringe on the B edge and all B fringe on the A edge.
Switch back and forth between groups of A fringe and groups of B fringe on both edges.
 Use scissors to carefully trim the fringe so that the strands lie even with one another.


After you complete this step, the scarf is complete.
 Fold the scarf in half so that the two ends are brought together.


Do not allow the scarf to twist as you fold it.
The "wrong" side of the scarf should face outward.
Make sure that the peaks and valleys of each chevron stripe match evenly when placed together.
 Work a slip stitch into each set of stitches along the ends of the scarf. Continue from one side to the other.To slip stitch two stitches together:

Insert the hook into the opposite stitch.
Yarn over the hook once.
Pull the yarn-over through the loops on your hook.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 4-inch (10-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to bind off the end.


Weave this tail and all other tails into the back of the scarf using a tapestry needle.
After completing this step, the scarf is finished.

