 Consider presenting the item to your baby when they're around 6 months old. This is when your baby is starting to really develop social skills and might form an attachment. You may notice your baby making more eye contact with people or becoming a bit clingier. These are signs that your baby might like having their own stuffed animal or comfort item.You might find that your baby has already chosen a favorite stuffed animal or comfort item at an early age, although it's rare for newborns to attach to an object.;
, To help your baby accept the stuffed animal or attach to the comfort item, consider keeping it close to you before you offer it. This way, it will smell like you, which will comfort your baby. To impart your scent on the stuffed animal or comfort item, you can:Sleep with it the night before you give it to your baby
Keep it next to you as you snuggle with your baby
Hold it against you while you nurse or feed your baby

, Offer the stuffed animal to your baby and give them a chance to check it out. If your child seems disinterested in it, play peekaboo with it or talk to the stuffed animal. Your baby might become curious about the stuffed animal and begin showing an interest.You could also snuggle with the stuffed animal and your baby when you read together or just cuddle.
 Your baby might love the new comfort item. But if your baby doesn't show much interest, don't force them to connect. Some babies want a comfort item or stuffed animal while other babies don't pay them much attention. Just let your baby decide what they want. They may end up choosing a different stuffed animal or might wait a few months before becoming attached to one.Some babies that self-soothe might not want a comfort item or stuffed animal. These babies may prefer rubbing their hands through their hair or sucking a thumb or pacifier.
 Practice safe sleep habits by waiting until your baby is at least 12 months old before leaving stuffed animals in their crib. You should also avoid letting them sleep with any soft loveys, blankets, or bumpers, since these could increase the risk of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS), suffocation, or strangulation.Don't forget to remove any pillows or soft crib bumpers as well. Wait to introduce pillows until your baby is at least 2 years old.

