 It's the grey app with gears on it that you'll likely find on the Home Screen.;
, This option is in the bar on the left side of the screen, close to the bottom of the iPad's screen.


Depending on your iPad's orientation and screen size, you may first have to scroll down.
 It's at the top of the "Messages" page; the switch should turn green, thereby indicating that the Apple Messages feature is enabled.


If this switch is already green, Apple Messages are already enabled.
 Unless your iPad has cellular data, you'll need to be connected to the Internet to send a message to a fellow Apple user. To do this:


Open Settings if you closed it.
Tap Wi-F at the top of the options bar on the left side of the screen.
Look for a blue checkmark to the left of a network's name, or slide Wi-Fi right if it's disabled.
 This app is green with a white speech bubble icon on it.
 You should see the names of people who have messaged you (if applicable) on the left side of your iPad's screen. Selecting one will open a conversation with them.


If you don't see any contacts here, tap the "New Message" icon, which resembles a square with a pencil on it, and type in a contact's name, phone number, or Apple email address.
You can also tap the + icon in the far-right side of the "To" field to select a contact's name.
 It's the white bar at the bottom of the screen. You should see an on-screen keyboard pop up.
 You'll use the on-screen keyboard to do so.


You can also tap the camera icon in the left side of the text field to select a photo or video from your iPad's camera roll. Tapping a photo or video will add it to your message, at which point you may keep typing.
 It's the white arrow on a blue background in the right-hand corner of the text field. Doing so will send your message; when it arrives in your recipient's Mac, iPhone, iPad, or iPod, you'll see a "Delivered" stamp below the message.


If you don't immediately see "Delivered" below the stamp, don't worry--your message may not be delivered until your recipient connects to Wi-Fi.

