 Eating a meal before you begin to drink will cause your body to absorb the alcohol more slowly. Be sure you eat some real food and not just snacks (e.g. chips, dip, pretzels, etc.).High protein foods (e.g. meat, cheese, peanuts) are particularly good to eat when you are drinking.Alcohol causes you to become dehydrated. Avoid eating salty food while drinking., Before you leave your house, make sure you have a designated driver for the evening. If you do not have a driver, call a taxi or use a service like Uber or Lyft to get home safely. If you are drinking with friends, spend the night at your friend's house instead of driving home. If you notice that someone else has had too much to drink, figure out a way for the person to get home safely.Alcohol slows down your reaction time, changes your vision, and makes it more difficult for you to process information.This increases your chances of getting into a wreck when you are driving.
If you plan to drive home, have a drink with your meal and do not consume more than one glass of wine, beer, mixed drink, or shot in an hour.Again, it is best not to drink if you plan to drive.
 Your body does not immediately respond to alcohol. When you drink too fast, your body does not have a chance to catch up.For example, if you take three shots back to back, you may feel fine initially and then become lightheaded when you walk to the bathroom 30 minutes later.


Try not to have more than one drink (i.e. 5 ounces of wine, 12 ounces or beer, one mixed drink, or 1.5 ounces of hard liquor) per hour.
Alternating drinks is another method you can use to pace yourself. Drink one cup of water or non-alcoholic beverage, for every alcoholic drink that you have.
 Women should not drink more than one drink per day and men should not drink more than two drinks per day. A single drink is 12 ounces of beer, 8 ounces of malt liquor, 5 ounces of wine, or 1.5 ounces of liquor. You should also avoid binge drinking. Binge drinking is drinking 5 or more drinks on a single occasion if you are a man and drinking 4 or more drinks on a single occasion if you are a woman.If you or anyone you know has a drinking problem call 1-800-662-HELP to get some help.
Excessive drinking is associated with many health problems including cancer, high blood pressure, and unintentional injuries.
If you are pregnant, do not drink. Alcohol can be harmful to your fetus.

