 If you and your parents are happy with your grades, keep up the good work! If you feel your grades need improvement, make it known that you are working to improve them. Your parents will be far more likely to grant you more independence if they aren't worried about your school performance.Try to stay positive; feeling discouraged and defeated will only interfere with your progress.Ask your teachers for help as soon as you notice you are falling behind. Don't wait until you are so far behind that you are struggling, or it will be harder to catch up. Ask your parents if they would be willing to hire a local college student to help you with your most challenging subject.Bring a digital pen to class. Smart pens transfer your notes to digital form while you write, and record lectures so you can listen to them later at home.;
, Travel is an excellent way to experiment with independence. Check with your guidance counselor to see what opportunities are available through your school, or research commercial options online.Clubs and teams often travel together as a group. The debate team usually travels out of state for tournaments, and sports teams travel for state finals.
If your school or club organizes a trip for a charity organization, they will invite the students who have some experience with volunteer work.
Studying abroad as an exchange student is a wonderful way to establish your independence. With a good GPA and well-rounded transcript, you may qualify for a scholarship to help cover the costs.Consider a language-immersion program through an organization like API. You'll be living in another country while you study the native language., Learn all you can about jobs that you might enjoy, and what skills and education they require. Research schools you would like to attend, and what you need to do to earn scholarships and grants. Your parents will be more willing to give you more freedom if they know that you are thinking about the future.Don't avoid making a decision because you worry that you will limit yourself. You will be free to make changes to your plans later, as you encounter new opportunities.Discuss career options with your parents. Be honest with them, and speak to them as an adult.Visualize your future. Imagine yourself having a certain type of job, or studying a particular subject, and see if it feels right for you. Studies show that visualization helps to achieve goals., As tempting as it is to post things impulsively, try to be careful about what you post to the internet. A good online reputation is a definite asset. As you gain more freedom and independence as a teen, be careful that your current actions don't negatively affect your future.Prospective employers will almost certainly research your social media presence and take that into account when deciding whether to hire you.
The more competitive schools may want to see your social media accounts, as well. Even if you don't think anyone will directly check your accounts, it's better to play it safe.
Anything you post to the internet is out there forever, and you may not even be aware that it's visible to the public. Consider googling yourself, and do a little damage control if necessary.

