 The Mediterranean diet has been studied many times and it has been proven to have a positive impact on memory and cognitive function.This diet also helps improve your overall health, supports heart health, and helps control diabetes, obesity, high blood pressure, and arthritis.


This diet has also been proven to help reduce LDL, which is the bad cholesterol that causes many health problems.;
, The Mediterranean diet is filled with mostly plant based foods. Two of the most important are vegetables and fruits. In the Mediterranean diet, you should try to eat seven to 10 1/2 a cup servings of fruits and vegetables each day. In order to get this much each day, you have to eat more than one serving of each at every meal.


This means that that the majority of each of your meals should be filled with fruits and vegetables, so include two to three in each meal as well as part of your snacks., Another part of the Mediterranean diet is whole grains. You should change as many of your grains to whole grains as possible. Try switching your cereals, breads, and pastas to help increase your memory health. Try foods and flours with wheat, rye, and buckwheat.


You can also switch to other whole grains, such as brown rice, quinoa, beans, legumes, and millet., Nuts and seeds are high in antioxidants and healthy fats, which can help improve your memory. Try to incorporate more nuts into your diet, including cashews, pistachios, sesame seeds, walnuts, and almonds. You can eat them raw as snacks or incorporate them into salads or other recipes.


You can also use peanut butter or tahini as a spread for your whole grain bread or as a dip for vegetables and fruits. Make sure you get all natural kinds without hydrogenated oils., When following the Mediterranean diet to improve your memory, you need to reduce your salt intake, which can increase blood pressure and damage the brain.

The best way to do this is to use herbs and spices to flavor your food instead of salt. Add fresh herbs to recipes when possible or sprinkle spices into your dishes. Dried herbs are also helpful, but make sure to adjust the amount you add compared to fresh herbs.
Make sure you avoid spices with tons of sodium, including garlic salt or spice mixes. Many of these mixes have a ton of salt in them. Look for the no sodium added versions.
 The Mediterranean diet requires you to eat little to no red meat or pork. Instead, you need to eat fish and other seafood at least three times per week to help improve your memory. You can also eat poultry three times a week as well.


If you really want to eat red meat or pork, make sure you limit your it to once or twice a week maximum and that it is lean and in small portions., The Mediterranean diet calls for switching out unhealthy fats, such as butter or hydrogenated oil, for healthier fats. This includes olive and canola oils as well as those found in found in avocados, various other vegetables and fruits, and nuts.


You can also get additional healthy fats from omega-3 fats, which are found in salmon, walnuts, tuna, flaxseeds, mackerel, sardines, leafy green vegetables, and grass-fed meats., The Mediterranean diet also includes dairy products such as milk, cheese, and yogurt to help improve your memory. You can also eat eggs. Eat these in moderation so as to not to get too much saturated fats, which are not great for you.


Look for grass-fed, hormone free, and antibiotic free eggs. Also choose skim milk, low fat cheese, and fat free yogurt to avoid too much fat. 