 Read to your child as often as possible. Doing so teaches your child that reading is fun and also introduces your child to the way that written words sound when spoken aloud. Reading to your child is also a great bonding experience and will encourage them to love books.


You can begin reading to your child from infancy onward. Use picture books, textured cloth books and books of lullabies for babies and toddlers. Once they get a bit older, you can introduce alphabet books and rhyming books.
Engage your child by asking him questions about both the content of the book and its pictures. Asking your child questions about the book you are reading together makes the whole experience more interactive and encourages the child to actually comprehend what he is seeing and reading.
With babies, you should try pointing at certain pictures and asking questions such as "Do you see the tractor?" while pointing at the tractor. This will help his vocabulary, while allowing him to interact with the reading process. As he progresses, point at animals like cats or sheep and ask him to make those animals' noises - like "meow" or "baa". This shows that your baby is understanding what they see, while also providing great entertainment!, Even if your child displays an interest in reading from a young age, he will quickly lose interest if reading is not demonstrated or encouraged in the home. Children learn by example, so pick up a book and show your child that reading is something that adults enjoy too.Even if you're very busy, try to let your child see you reading for at least a couple of minutes everyday. You don't have to read a classic novel to set a good example. Read a newspaper, a cookbook, a thriller…it’s up to you!

, Looking at picture books is a great way to build vocabulary and to help children understand what is going on in a story. Before reading a new book, just flip through the pages, commenting on the pictures. Show your child how to spot context clues that will help them to read.Try asking questions that they can answer from looking at the pictures. For example, if there's a color word, ask them to guess what the word is from the picture.
Praise correct responses, and ask more questions to encourage them if they're frustrated.
 When choosing materials to help your children learn to read, include a mixture of phonics books that they can eventually read all by themselves, slightly more advanced stories that you'll read together and just-for-fun materials of their choice, like comic books and magazines.


Using various types of materials and activities helps make learning to read an enjoyable activity, not a chore.
Do you have a childhood favorite that you want to share with your kids? If there's a book that you've read over and over again, your love for it can be contagious., A little creativity goes a long way when it comes to teaching kids to read. If your child is stimulated by the learning process, you will find it easier to hold their attention and they will learn much faster as a result. Think outside the box and turn learning to read into a fun activity.


Put on a show. You can make reading stories fun and help improve reading comprehension through role playing. Tell your kids that after reading the book together, you'll decide which characters each of you will play. You can write a short script together, create props and dress up in costumes or masks.Try making letters out of Play-Doh, writing in the sand at the beach, drawing on the carpet or using pipe cleaners to create words.