 If you are sick, or your community has an outbreak of pandemic flu, wear a mask when you will be around other people. This helps you not to spread germs if you are sick. If you are not sick but have to get out in an area with pandemic flu, wear a mask to protect yourself from airborne germs.If you have to go to the doctor or hospital, wear a mask to protect yourself from other infected people.
 If the threat of pandemic flu arises, stock up on key items so if an outbreak occurs in your area, you won’t have to leave your house. Pandemic flu commonly spreads in crowded areas, like stores. Have two weeks worth of food and water set aside.Buy a store of non-perishable foods, like canned foods or boxed items. Keep them stored away and don’t eat them unless necessary.
Stock up on other items, like toilet paper, cleaning products, tissues, pet food, and essential household items. Also stock up on any medical supplies and medications you may need. Think ahead so you won’t have to expose yourself to the pandemic flu., If you own a business, supervise employees, or work in a school, encourage employees and students to stay at home during a flu pandemic if they have flu symptoms. Try to help reduce the spread of the pandemic in your business or school., If someone in your home contracts pandemic flu, everyone is at risk. However, you can take certain measures to ensure you keep your home safe. Someone should be the caregiver in your home and take care of any sick people. Keep everything separate, like clothes, towels, bedding, utensils, pens, and other objects you touch regularly. Don’t share things with each other during this time.Clean everything people in your house touch regularly. This includes doorknobs, light switches, computers, cell phones, toys, remote controls, toilets, faucets, and other surfaces.
Wash dishes in extremely hot water with soap, or wash them in the dishwasher.
Wash clothes in hot water. Wash your hands after touching dirty clothes.
Wear disposable gloves when you are in contact with a sick person, especially if you are going to touch bodily fluids, like snot or mucus.
 When there is a threat of a pandemic flu, you should avoid crowded places. This includes stores, public gatherings, and any other form of unnecessary socializing. This helps keep you from contracting it, and if you have pandemic flu, it keeps you from spreading the virus.It is especially important to limit exposure of children, elderly, and those with compromised immune systems.
 If there is a pandemic flu, government and health organizations will issue bulletins. They will identify outbreak areas and outline prevention and protection protocol. Your community may also issue bulletins during outbreaks. Make sure to stay aware and up-to-date on the pandemic and emergency procedures., If you get pandemic flu, the first thing you should do is go see your doctor. Your doctor will diagnose the flu and look for potential complications. She will offer treatment options, which may include an antiviral medication. Antiviral medications may reduce the severity and length of time that you are sick and they can also reduce your contagiousness. Some people at high risk of complications may be offered antivirals to help prevent them from getting the flu.Your doctor may also advise you to:Take medication to reduce fevers, like acetaminophen and ibuprofen.
Wear a face mask so you don't spread the flu to others around you.
Drink plenty of fluids and rest if you catch the flu.

