;
, Advertisements on the website are part of what allows the organization to acquire money for the rice., If you join up, you can keep a score over time of how you're going and how much you've donated and there are leaderboard incentives to become a part of the site. If you'd rather just play and donate anonymously, that's fine too.
 Assuming you've chosen the vocabulary quiz, it's as simple as clicking on the choice of word that you think is right:

Look for the English vocabulary quiz.






Start clicking on what you think the answer is. You'll either be correct or not. If correct, the bowl of rice gains 10 grains for each correct answer.






If not correct, the bowl doesn't gain any grains but don't worry––the question will return for you to get it right this time. Indeed, your desire to add grains of rice to the bowl should help you to remember the meaning of the word from this point forth!







, The grains of rice you've added will be evident from your total under the rice bowl. To keep a check on your overall total over all the days you've played, click on the tab "My Account" and the drop down tab "View Profile". This will show your profile page, which also includes the total of grains you've earned.


Don't worry too much about the levels to begin with. The site automatically adjusts the levels as you go. A correct question increases your level, a wrong question takes you back to an easier level. You can also manually manipulate the level using the button "Change level" at the base of the quiz.
 It doesn't have to be spelling or vocabulary. The site has expanded considerably since it began in 2007 to include other fields of knowledge and includes languages beyond English, geography questions (flags of the world, identifying countries on the map and world capitals), math, humanities and chemistry. The categories can be found here: http://freerice.com/category.

Simply click on the "Subjects" tab in the bar at the top of the page and select the quizzes that interest you most. This can be a good way to sustain interest in a single visit, as your attention tends to flag after a while of choosing the vocabulary answers.






As with the vocabulary quiz, each correct answer will earn you 10 grains of rice in the bowl.
 Visit http://freerice.com/about or http://freerice.com/group/rankings/players to find out who is donating the most rice at any current time. This is a great incentive to catch up!


You'll also notice that it's possible to join groups who are donating through this way too––see http://freerice.com/groups for a list of groups. If a group interests you, simply click on it. You'll be taken to the group page and you can click "join" after you've learned some more about the group.






At the base of a group page, you'll be able to see the statistics for how many grains of rice have been given in any particular year. If you've participated in that count, feel proud about your meaningful contribution!






You can also make your own group if you'd like. Simply click on "Groups" in the bar at the top of the page and then "Create Group" in the drop down menu. Naturally, you need to join as an individual first.
 Try to remember to return every day that you're on the computer. Even just 10 grains is better than none and it all soon adds up.
 Encourage family members to join. This site is great for children who are learning spelling, vocabulary, math and more and it's equally good for people of all ages who could do with improving these aspects of their knowledge. Indeed, the site prides itself on having knowledge testing suited to beginners through to "levels that will challenge the most scholarly professors. In between are levels suitable for students of all ages, business people, homemakers, doctors, truck drivers, retired people." Tell your friends and co-workers to give the site a go too; the more people donating and learning, the better.

The site can be shared through Facebook and Twitter by clicking on the buttons to the side.







