


Imagine that someone is delivering the eulogy for your funeral. What do you hope that person could say about your life and your accomplishments?





;
, Do not be afraid to get wild and creative with this initial list. The idea behind the exercise is simply to brainstorm; you can narrow down the list to a more productive one later on.


Let yourself daydream. Come up with half a dozen or more “ideal” images of the future. Even if the work you are doing in those images seems silly or unrealistic, mark the idea down. It could provide you with some insight on ideas that are more achievable while still being fulfilling.






Ask yourself what others thank you for. If you want to do work that is fulfilling, ask yourself why your loved ones, peers, and colleagues are grateful for you. The actions you naturally take that enrich the lives of others can provide you with clues on how you can figure out career paths that are enjoyable for you and meaningful to others.






Look for patterns in your past. Think about the tasks you have enjoyed doing in the past, even if they are not tasks you do often or are not things that you would usually include among your list of passions. As long as you found some fulfillment in the work before, mark it down as an option of something you might be fulfilled working on in the future.
 Once you create your initial list, take a closer look at it. Begin knocking things off that do not seem realistic or appealing and prepare to focus in on the options that may actually lead you to fulfilling work.


Exercise a little realism. At this stage, you need to seriously ask yourself whether or not something you would like to do can be accomplished. Be honest with yourself about your limitations. For instance, if you would like to create a sanctuary for feral cats but have a severe allergy to cat dander, you might want to consider crossing that option of your list.
Balance your values and talents.One thing to think about points at which your values and talents intersect. You might love art, but your artistic skills might be mediocre at best. As such, a career path in which you survive solely on your artwork could be a bad idea. On the other hand, you might also love taking care of children and may have a talent for interacting with kids. You can aim for work that involves taking care of children, and as a bonus, consider options that would also allow you to occasionally exercise your love for art.
Get advice from those who know you. Ask the people around you where they believe your talents lie. Obtain a range of options and compare these to the ideas you came up with on your own.
 Consider which barriers are impossible to tear down and which can be removed with enough effort.


Get comfortable with the idea of taking risks.Your own fears are probably a greater barrier than anything else. Understand that the risks you take should be calculated rather than being blind and reckless, but get used to the idea of taking them.






Set the disappointment of others aside. Maybe your parents have their heart set on you taking over the family business, and telling them that you plan to do otherwise might lead to some disappointment. If you want to find work that is personally fulfilling, though, you need to accept that those you care about may not understand or be as happy about it as you are.
 Figuring out how to balance reality with desire can be difficult, but no matter what else you do, you have to commit yourself to the process.
 If you want to find fulfilling work, you need to take the first step into the world or uncertainty. Try not to over-think things and drive yourself to the point of anxiety. Instead, take a deep breath and plunge right in.


“Thinking” is one thing, but “doing” is an entirely different beast. If you really want to find fulfilling work, you need to reach a point at which you choose to progress from thought to action.
 You might have a specific job in mind, but if you're like most people, you will start the process with a general goal in mind instead of a specific position. As such, you need to figure out the steps you need to take to achieve that goal as effectively as possible.


Research ideas. Check out general career search websites, social media websites like LinkedIn, and blogs or other websites related to the field you are interested in pursuing. Look at the job titles, positions, and job descriptions of people who actually have jobs within the field. Doing so can help you set a more definite goal about the work you want to do.






Research people who have had similar careers. Once you have a general idea about what you want to do, do some digging to research people who have accomplished similar goals in the past. Take a look at where they got and the steps they took to get there.






Find mentors. It's never too early to begin networking. After you figure out what career path you want to travel, look for others who are on the same path but further along. Follow any blogs, books, or other resources they put out, and see if you can get to know that person on a one-on-one level.
 If you are still uncertain about what your final goals are, pursue a few paths at a time. Instead of focusing all your energy into becoming a high achiever in one field, become an achiever in multiple fields and multiple passions.


This is when freelance work, part-time work, and volunteer work really shine. Take on small side jobs that can satisfy multiple interests, especially if you cannot narrow your interests down to just one.
The downside of this tactic is that it brings with it less job security. If you are not prepared to balance your time accordingly and adhere to a strict budget that includes a hefty savings for when times get tough, you might want to stick with one full-time job after all.
 Instead of treating your current circumstances as a bother, look for ways to grow even in less than ideal conditions.


Settle temporarily when needed. You might know what you want to do but have yet to find a job opportunity that will allow you to do it. If this is the case, settle for something less than perfect until the right opportunity comes along. Do not look at your present job as something you will be stuck doing indefinitely; instead, look at it as one more necessary step you need to take to secure a happy future.
Have an attitude of gratitude. Even if your current job does not bring you much fulfillment, you should still take time to appreciate the things in your life that you can be thankful for. The more time you spend focusing on the positives instead of the negatives, the easier it will be to tolerate your current job before you can move along to something better.
 If your life in unbalanced and unhappiness reigns, you will not have the energy to do your search for fulfilling work any justice.
 Living your dream is a decent enough goal, but if you reach a point at which you can no longer afford food and shelter, you might find your dream quickly turning into a nightmare. Make sure that you can provide for your own basic needs.


Live simply. Re-prioritize your life. Maybe you have always lived comfortably, have never needed to worry about your budget, and have been able to take a vacation twice a year for every year of your life. Many of the comforts and luxuries you have enjoyed up until now are just that—luxuries. If you find the perfect job or know the path you need to take to reach it, but it does not provide you with enough financial support to live the life you've been enjoying, ask yourself if your luxuries are more important or if the type of fulfillment you presently seek will make you happier. If the latter is your answer, simplify the way you live.
 The path to fulfilling work is a bumpy one, and it is often easy to give into despair. Supportive family, friends, and colleagues make the process easier because they can cheer you on when you can no longer cheer yourself on.


Family and friends often make the strongest support groups, but in some cases, well-intentioned loved ones can push you away from what you love and toward work that will be less fulfilling but more secure. If this is the case, you should try to find other colleagues or peers who can be more supportive. Having less of an investment in your happiness on a personal level may make those who do not know you quite as well less likely to worry over the risks you'll be taking.
 Ask yourself if you love what you do enough to lose track of time when you get started. If not, determine whether or not you can introduce tasks into the work that would accomplish that effect.


Being able to get lost in what you're doing is a good indication that you find the work itself to be fulfilling and engaging.
In your current job, whatever it might be, try to find tasks that challenge you. Make sure that you can accomplish them without failing as long as you put the effort in, though.
 Do not expect to get things right on the first try. Let yourself move from one position to the next, tweaking your steps slightly as needed until you find the right fit.


The career of Vincent Van Gogh provides a good example of what this looks like. He started as an art dealer before moving on to teaching. From there, he worked as a bookseller, then as an evangelical preacher. He did not discover painting until he was in his late twenties.
 If you realize somewhere down the line that the career path you are walking is completely wrong, do not be afraid to step off and try something entirely new. Return to the beginning of the process and figure out another passion to pursue.
 The important thing to remember is that the entire experience of finding fulfilling work is little more than a life-long experiment. With this in mind, enjoy the present journey instead of becoming anxious about reaching the end of the trek.

