 Use your hands to mix about 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) salt and 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) ground black pepper into the ground beef.


You can vary the amount of salt and pepper you use according to your own sense of taste. If desired, you could also add other spices and seasonings to change the flavor of the burger completely. For a quick change of pace, use 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of a pre-mixed hamburger spice blend.;
, For standard, 1/4 lb (115 g) patties, separate the ground beef into four equal balls or portions.


The exact amount can depend on the size burger you want. For instance, if you prefer super-thin, diet-friendly patties, you could divide the meat into as many as eight portions, creating 1/8 lb (60 g) patties. On the other hand, if you want giant patties, you could split the full amount into two portions, creating 1/2 lb (225 g) patties.
 Use an actual burger mold, a round cookie cutter, a plastic lid, or another round container that is the right shape and size.Lay a sheet of plastic wrap over that mold.


The plastic wrap will prevent the patty from sticking to the sides of the hamburger press.
If using an actual press, choose one that will work for the size burger you chose based on weight. If using another item, like a can lid, instead of an actual press, choose a lid that look just a little bit bigger than the size of the hamburger bun you anticipate using.
 Place one separated portion of ground beef into the lined mold and flatten it into the mold using your hands. Carefully remove it from the mold by lifting it out with the plastic wrap.


Make sure that the beef is compactly pressed into the mold to help the burger patty hold together more firmly.
If necessary, add more meat or remove excess based on how much excess space is left in your mold.
If the mold does not work for you at all, you can form each separate portion into a ball and use your hand to flatten it into the shape of a patty. It may not be perfectly round, but this will usually do the trick well enough as long as you aren't trying to impress anyone with perfectly formed patties.
 If you want the burger patties to be even flatter, you can press them down using the bottom side of a clean baking sheet.


More specifically, lay the burger patties out on a clean counter, cutting board, or inverted baking sheet and cover them with plastic wrap or parchment paper. Press down on the beef patties using the bottom of a second baking sheet until they flatten to your desired thickness.
 The indentation should be no deeper than 1/2 inch (1.25 cm).


This small indentation or “well” is important, especially for normal beef patties and thick beef patties, since it can prevent the patties from becoming too plump in their centers during the cooking process.
 Ideally, you should wrap the patties in an airtight plastic bag or in plastic wrap and allow them to chill in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour before you cook them.

