 Hostels and Backpacker Inns are not cheap (and motels don’t exist!). You may want to consider camping to avoid blowing all of your budget on lodging. Even in the middle of winter, Oahu nights are warm enough to sleep in with a 0 degree sleeping bag or a blanket. The island has a campground on the North East coast that sells camping permits. To find local hosts who might be open to letting you stay with them for free or under certain conditions, meet people on Couchsurfing.com.;
, While traveling Oahu, if you do not have an extra 10 dollars to spend on laundromat service, you may want to consider going to the ocean. Better even, the bathrooms and showers at the beach are open 24/7. They are a great place to do your laundry. Be mindful of what soaps you use, as the drain often leads to the ocean, and many tropical fish inhabit the shoreline.
 China Town is by far the scariest area to sleep in. Street dwellers claim to have had the straps of their backpacks cut off in the middle of the night and to have been repeatedly robbed during their sleep in this area.
 The weather is easy on a year-round basis. For backpackers it can be safer to get out of the city center if you do not want to be bothered. If you are in HawaiiI, you might as well enjoy the unique natural beauty the island has to offer. It is possible to sleep in the woods or on isolated beaches and get away with it for a few weeks.


Just remember that in certain areas, it is not technically legal, so you may want to take an extra while making sure you find a spot that is well hidden from the public eye.
 The federal government is said to have given money to the state of Hawaii to fix its homeless problem. However, the visible changes since seem to have amplified the oppression of these people rather than helped them.


The appearance of the ‘’Don’t Sleep/Don’t Lay’’ law downtown, combined with the threat of $150 + fines and/or imprisonment forbidding shopping carts or tents in most public parks which border tourist attraction, contribute to the difficulty in the daily life of a homeless person in Oahu. Parks and beaches close during sleeping hours (10pm-6-am/ 10pm-4am), which leaves many homeless people resorting to stay up in 24h fast-food places, or to being kicked out for sleeping on the tables, waiting for the sunrise. (This is not dissimilar to the law which imposed a strict curfew on all Oahu residents from years 1962 to 1964.)

, The presence of crystal-meth and mental illness in Honolulu bring handfuls of people to set decrepit installments which act as improvised permanent housing. Structures made of cardboard boxes and shopping carts under dirty, noisy, terrifying overpasses, are a very common sight. The homeless turn into silhouettes roaming with flashlights between the airport and the city at night, searching the grass for what goods may have fallen. Tents can be seen on public sidewalks, and some even sleep on the street without even a blanket, or perhaps only a parasol.
 If you only but just pose your eyes momentarily on the luxurious existence of people enjoying expensive cocktails in resorts, it might place a blow of sadness in the pit of your stomach. You may need to carve mountains out of trash in your mind to stay afloat in your morale with your choice to rough it out in such a touristic spot. You might find yourself second-guessing your style. Just remember: the road less traveled will teach you a lot more about yourself than the one that is paved in gold.
 As a last resort: River of Life (101 N Pauahi street) is a soup kitchen which serves three meals a day for free. At meal times, there will be a small line up on the intersection of N. Pauhi and Manakea steets. The organizers are volunteers and accept employed and un-employed people a-like. Even if you are not a local, a meal will be served to just about anyone who sets foot into their dining room, just as long as you are polite. (Vegetarians may not always be pleased with the meal options.)


You may want to visit a few temples on the outskirts of the city which offer free feasts according to their celebrations.
 Despite being the gracious host to a few important resources, don't count on River of Life to keep an eye on your luggage. Half the people who frequent the place have carriages full of accumulated objects, and the organism wants nothing to do with it. If you are backpacking, you undoubtedly have bags full of minimal camping gear, hygienic, and personal belongings. Some people hide their things at the top of Banyon trees, but these are an easy climb. If you are on good terms with someone, you can possibly leave your bag with them. However, there is so much theft that it's best to avoid trusting anyone off the street. The best option is to travel with a minimal backpack and be near your things at all times.
 Food trucks are mostly on the gourmet side, but it is a hit and miss with a general minimum of 12$ per dish. China Town is probably your best bet in the daylight if you want to purchase cheap groceries or meals from vendors. Honolulu’s enlarging platform for tourism resulted in the hiking up of many restaurant and accommodation costs. However, the appearance of a 5cent per-can remittance at recycling centres has helped not only in cleaning up the city, but in giving people in a hard spot a chance to make ends meet.


It is not uncommon for homeless individuals to mark out areas among themselves and to dedicate considerable portions of their daily schedules to attain this less-than-minimal profit. If you find yourself near a recycling center, you may want to consider putting in a few hours into collecting cans for a bit of extra cash.
 Unlike most things in Honululu, the bus service is affordable. Some consider the investment in a bus pass ($60) a good solution, if it means sleeping away from harassment from civilians and fines from the police. Beaches such as Sandy Beach or Halei’wa are located in areas where it is easy to set up a subtle camping spot. . You can find local fruit stands on the North Coast which will be cheaper than eating out in the downtown areas. The bus can take you around the island for as little $2.50 a day if you time your connections properly.
 Oahu is full of free activities. Be creative with the way you spend your time. Go to free museums, read a book on the beach, write to friends, visit the power plant, go hiking, find hidden trails, discover the library, explore abandoned buildings, find buddhist temples... Who knows, you might even find joy in writing an article about your experiences in Honolulu.

