 If any of the following methods actually work, but you've marked every answer "B," the test administrator or teacher is still going to throw out your test. Every Scantron test is examined by a person and run through the testing machine. To do this correctly, you need to both pass the eye test, making your test look as authentic as possible, and fool the machine into failing to mark wrong answers.


Avoid obviously-dumb cheating pitfalls, like only marking one column of answers or making your blurry answer bubbles super-obvious and on every question. If you try to do this on every question, you're going to fail, no question about it.
If the worst you can do is guess on every answer, guess randomly. Make your test look as if you've given it an honest effort.;
, Theoretically, greasing your answers with Chapstick will confuse the machine and cause it to fail marking anything on the test form. Reportedly, this works up to 25% of the time, though some test administrators report that it's an unsuccessful method of fooling the machine.Use only the lightest dab of Chapstick, and only on the answers you think are wrong. If you turn in a form smeared within an inch of its life with grease, you're going to get in trouble.
Some cheaters think that this is a dated method, once successful but more recently eradicated by more sophisticated machines. In fact, it might cause questions answered correctly to be marked as incorrect., Some cheaters think blurring the pencil mark somewhere between fully-marked and blank will confuse the machine. To try this, draw a small dot in the middle of an answer, and then shade lightly around in the other answer bubbles. Smear everything with your fingers.


The idea is to shade the circle dark enough the teacher will not question it, but light enough that the machine will be confused. Supposedly, this can work around 20% of the time, though you've still got to make it look authentic., Some cheaters think that, rather than filling in the answer bubbles fully, lines will confuse the machine, causing it to fail to register incorrect answers. Horizontal or diagonal lines might confuse the sensor, causing it to fail in scanning correctly.


This is perhaps the most unreliable method of all. On almost every Scantron instruction sheet, there's an obvious step instruction you explicitly to fill in the answers "full and dark." Teachers and state graders still look at the forms and will toss out forms filled out incorrectly completed. If you do this, you risk a complete failure and disciplinary action.


