 If you have access to a computer with a scanner, photo-editing software, and a printer, you can scan a parent's signature into the computer and print it onto the document that needs to be signed. Before you can scan anything, though, you'll need to choose a parent and find a piece of paper with that parent's signature.
 Place the authentic signature into your computer's scanner and save the image as a PDF. Before you click save, however, you'll need to crop the signature to an accurate size. You can play around with the size by enlarging or shrinking as needed, and doing a test print of just the signature to see how it comes out on paper.Choose a name for the saved PDF that will be easy for you to identify but will not be obvious to your parents, should they see your desktop or documents folder.
 If you're using Adobe, you'll need to go to the "Configure Graphic" tab and choose the "Imported Graphic" button. This should make the File button visible. Click File to finish configuring the graphic so that it can be inserted into a document.If you are not using Adobe, you can skip this step.


Navigate to the "Select Picture" dialogue box and open the PDF you saved of your parent's signature. Then go back to "Configure Signature Appearance". You can make some fine-tuning edits to the signature under "Text Properties," or deselect all the boxes under "Configure Text" to create a more accurate digital image of your parent's signature.
 The easiest way to print the now-scanned signature onto the un-signed document is to also scan the document and insert the signature into that image. Otherwise, you can make copies of the document and put them into the printer, but it will take a lot of trial and error to align the scanned signature in the proper place on the document.


Once the document is signed, you can import the signature. Either edit it in with the editing software, or use the digital signature function, depending on the software you have at your disposal.
If the signature looks good and is in the right place, print it out and see how it looks on paper. Make any adjustments you need to on the computer and re-print as necessary.
 Return your parent's signature to wherever you found it. You should also remember to destroy any printed copies of the "signed" document that you will not be using.

