 Dairy goats come in both full size and mini varieties. Full size breeds include Nubians, Lamanchas, Saanens, Toggenburgs and Alpines, while mini breeds include Nigerian dwarf and Nigerian Dwarf crosses. Each breed has its own characteristic temperament, appearance, and milk production.;
, It is always good to have a local mentor who can help you pick out and prepare for your new goats.
 You will need items such as: wood,tin,nails,lights for safety precautions, gates, doors, T-posts, Corner posts, staples, a very good gutter system. Fencing options such as Hog wire , Electric wire, Stock panel, Chain-link. Goats are extremely good at escaping from enclosures so fences should be at least four feet tall and/or electrified. Goats can be tethered instead of fenced but this is generally not recommended due to safety considerations.
 There are a wide variety of buildings not even for that specific purpose. The most common lean-to shelters might be even and old chicken coop and run,an old horse barn, garages,sheds really goats aren't all that particular in reality. Flooring for the shed could be wood,concrete, dirt, sand, or gravel.
 The bedding can be anything that can soak up urine and feces is acceptable and also easy to clean. such as: peat moss,chopped oat straw,long straw,wheat straw,wood shavings.
 A goat obviously needs to be bred to produce kids--and milk.
 Leasing a buck offers many advantages such as: good breeding lines in some cases,good kids with good potential milk records.
 A doe will usually be in standing heat for about a full 24 hours, but will also come back into heat in about 21 days if the breeding session is missed.
 Doelings are sexually mature at three to four months old but should not be bred then but it should be postponed until she is at least seven months old or weighs about 70-80 pounds. Bucklings are sexually mature at two to three months old. Gestation in goats is five months. If you live in a cold climate, be sure to time the breeding so that kidding occurs during one of the warmer spring months.

