 Gasoline from cars, buses, planes, etc. and CO2 from the coal used in trains also plays a tremendous part in warming the Earth (Global Warming). Simply walking/ taking a bike to school or work. If that's not an option, or if you live where the seasons change, carpool with some buddies. Get your neighbors to carpool to school or work with you. In other parts of the world, it's 5 people to a car everyday. In America, guess how many? 1. One person gets their own car. If every person is driving to the same place, you can only imagine how much we are polluting.;
, Those are those decomposable bags that you probably see for sale in Walmart or Walgreens. They can be used over and over and reduce plastic and paper intake used for making those bags at grocery stores. With these bags being decomposable, they are easily recyclable. Feel free to throw them in the recycling bin only AFTER they can no longer hold groceries because there's a hole in the bottom!

, Getting a product's full use out of it will help reduce the need for more. If you continue to use plastic bags at a grocery store, use them as garbage bags! In the bathroom or kitchen sink, they are free with your grocery purchase.
 This couldn't be more simpler. Nowadays, everyone has two trash cans: A trash-trash can, and a recyclable trash can. Put plastics (shampoo bottles, soap bottles), aluminum (cans, beer cans), and glass (beer bottles) into the recycling bin.
 Old food can go into a bucket in your kitchen, and daily (or once a week) you can empty this is a compost pile in your backyard! Banana peels, orange rinds, left-over rice pasta, all can go into the compost pile! Coffee grounds included, any bones (chicken, ribs, etc.) excluded. Negative: It can smell. Positive: It will give you a wonderful garden come spring!

, Picking up trash around coastlines can keep it from getting in the waters and keep animals safe. Some birds make use it in their nest, and end up killing their baby birds because one of them was picking at a plastic bag. It keeps the ocean clean!

, For more up-front ways to keep oceans safe, petition to use more natural resources on ocean front properties like hotels and businesses. Waste from these places can be flushed into the ocean.

