 High school students should achieve high grades, high test scores, and try to work or volunteer in some capacity with animals. Working at an animal clinic is an ideal way to gain experience with animal care, watch medical treatment, and to determine if the job is really what you want to do.;
, Although technically you may graduate in any discipline, those who have degrees in any of the following may have a competitive edge when applying to veterinary school: biology, chemistry, zoology, biochemistry, animal biology, and other similar hard sciences.
 There are 28 veterinary colleges in the United States that meet the standards set forth by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA). There are no veterinary schools in Arizona, so you must be prepared to attend a school in another state.


When applying to veterinary schools, you must have taken all prerequisite classes, which are usually completed while earning your undergraduate degree, and submit test scores, which include the GRE, VCAT, or MCAT. Every school has different requirements, so you must make sure you fulfill the requirements before you apply.
 Interns are typically paid very little but you gain valuable knowledge and experience that can help you secure employment in the future. Many schools begin preparing their students for internships before they graduate.
 Inquire about its internship program. Interns will spend 12 months working the various veterinary specialties, such as surgery, neurology, dermatology, oncology, and medicine. There are also opportunities to work with exotic animals at the Southwest Wildlife Rehabilitation Center.
 This is one of the first training periods for veterinarians after an internship. To become board-certified in a specialty, you must complete 3 to 4 years of training in your specialty and then pass the board exams. The AVMA currently has 39 recognized specialties.
 To become a veterinarian in Arizona, you must be licensed to practice in the state. You must also pass the national North American Veterinary Licensing Exam, which is a multiple-choice test with 360 questions that cover all aspects of veterinary medicine.

