 You will need to apply Promescent at least ten minutes before you engage in sexual intercourse. The numbing effects will last for up to an hour. Applying Promescent hours or seconds before you have sex will not work.;
, If you are using the standard metered-dose bottle, you will need to prepare it. Remove the small plastic piece over the nozzle. Unlock the child-resistant cap. Turn the bottle sideways and shake for ten seconds. Right the bottle and slowly press the spray pump. Do this up to twenty times, waiting about two seconds between pumps. When the formula releases, stop.
 For your first time, you might want to start with one or two sprays. The directions suggest three sprays for a first try, but many users find this numbs them too much. It is unsafe to use more than 10 sprays per dose.Each spray releases 10 mg of desensitizing lidocaine.
 Your frenulum is likely the most sensitive spot on your penis. It is the small ridge of tissue under the head of your penis, on the underside of your penis.
 Spray Promescent directly onto your penis, or spray onto the tips of your fingers and rub the formula onto your penis. Repeat up to three times using the same method. While the recommended dosage is three, many users find one or two sprays are all they need. Apply to the frenulum, or other spots you consider sensitive.


Make sure to rub in after each spray.
Wash your hands immediately afterward. Traces of Promescent on your hands could put you or your partner at risk of eye injury., Spend ten minutes without touching or washing your genitals. Your skin will absorb the Promescent in this time. Waiting for this absorption to take place will allow you to maintain good sensation. It also minimizes any transfer of the anesthetic to your partner.After ten minutes have passed, wash your genitals with soap and water. Trace amounts may cause numbness in your partner if you don't wash.
Don't be afraid of washing. The active ingredients will all have been absorbed after ten minutes.
Soaking your genitals will cause the Promescent to leach out, however. Do not take a bath after applying Promescent. Instead, wipe yourself clean with a wet washcloth.
Once the Promescent is absorbed and the genitals are washed, products such as condoms or lubricant are safe to use.
 Most users experience 2-3 times longer intercourse the first time they use Promescent. Some users report improved results after three uses of the product. During your first use, notice if you feel too numb or not numb enough. Ask your partner if it made him or her feel numb at all.


Re-apply if you wish. If you feel effects are not strong enough, or have worn off, you can repeat your application. Do not use more than 10 sprays in total.
If you used ten sprays for your first round of intercourse, do not re-apply.
If you use more than ten sprays of Promescent, you may experience numbness, loss of erection, and irritation.
In cases of overuse, wash your penis with soap and water immediately. Visit a doctor if symptoms persist.
 Depending on how your first experience went, you may wish to spray more, less, or on different parts of your penis. If the numb frenulum didn't work for you, try spraying along the shaft, or on the glans. Repeat use will help you determine the right dose and the right method of application for you.

