 Too much time in front of a screen isn't just a time waster. It can cause physical and emotional distress. Understand how too much time on the computer can affect you. Adequately knowing the risks provides motivation to quit.


Spending more than 4 hours a day in front of a screen can increase the risk for heart disease, even if they engage in adequate amounts of exercise throughout the week.Some studies show that excessive screen time damages brain tissues and ultimately impairs the brain's ability to function. The frontal lobe, which determines success in many areas of life, is most susceptible to damage.Carpal tunnel syndrome is a well-known health risk of heavy computer users.
If you have pre-existing mental health issues, especially hypochondria and obsessive compulsive disorder, the onslaught of information readily available online can fuel unwanted thoughts. For example, hypochondriacs often turn to WebMD to self-diagnose benign symptoms as serious medical problems.While rare, some people develop Internet or Computer Addiction. Excessive use of the internet or the computer becomes addictive, causing emotional symptoms like depression, anxiety, and a feeling of isolation and physical side effects like back aches, headaches, weight loss, and weight gain. If you worry you might be suffering from an addiction to your computer or the internet, seek psychiatric care.;
, In order to understand where and how you're spending too much time on your computer or laptop, keep track of the websites you visit and anything else you do in front of the screen. Which websites are causing the problem?#Figure out how much time you spend online.


Do you use the internet primarily for social media? Are you a Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram user? Do you find yourself mindlessly scrolling a newsfeed? Try to figure out why you're drawn to social media sites and how you might be able to cut back.
Many people use the internet for watching television, movies, and videos. Do you spend a lot of time on Netflix and YouTube? Is watching things your primary form of relaxation? Is there anything else you can do to unwind besides indulging in online viewing?
Are you a news junkie? Do you read the New York Times, Huffington Post, and other news-related websites to stay up-to-date with the world? If so, could you subscribe to a few magazines or read a newspaper in lieu of getting your news solely through the screen.
Do you play any games? Many people use their computer primarily on their laptop, whether online with other players or solo. How many hours do you spend on computer games each night?
Track your computer time for a week, making a comprehensive list of all the sites you visit and anything else you do with your computer. Try to figure out what websites, applications, and games take up the most time.
 Many people are shocked when they actually calculate how much time they're spending on their computer. Figure out approximately how many hours a day you spend in front of the screen. This can be great motivation to quit.


You can use pen and paper to create a computer log for yourself. Write down the websites you visit, games you play, etc., and keep track of start and end times for your computer activity. Total the hours at the end of the day.
If you have trouble keeping track of information yourself, there is a time management and analytics app called RescueTime. It breaks down how much active time you spend on your computer and what websites, games, and applications you're focus the most attention.