 A decorative tea cloth, pillowcase, or cloth placemat usually works well.


The width of the cloth must at least measure the width of the machine. The length of the cloth must equal the height of the machine times two, plus the depth of the machine (height + height + depth). Your cloth can be a little larger, but do not use a smaller piece of material.
You can verify the size of your cloth by simply draping it over the machine so that it covers the machine from front to back. Note that the left and right sides will not be covered.;
, Drape the fabric over the sewing machine with the right side facing you, so that it covers the machine from the front to the back. Fold any excess length underneath the fabric, facing the sewing machine, and pin it in place.


Note that the fabric should come all the way down to the bottom of the machine.
Take the sewing fabric off the sewing machine and examine your newly pinned edges. The new edges should be parallel with each other and perpendicular to the sides of the machine. If necessary, readjust your marked hem so that any uneven portion aligns itself to the longest part of your new hemline.
When done, the length should come to a value equal to twice the machine height plus the machine depth (height + height + depth).
 With the wrong side of the fabric facing up, transfer the fabric to your sewing machine. Make a straight stitch over the top of both hemmed edges to hold them in place. Remove the pins when done.


You do not need to trim away the excess hem fabric. Since this cover is so lightweight to begin with, the excess material at the bottom of the hem should not cause a problem.
Since you do not need to cut away any of the excess cloth, there will be no raw edge to stitch over, making this step quick and simple.
 Choose ribbon that coordinates well with the cloth and cut four pieces that are each 14 inches (35.5 cm) long.


Choose thick, sturdy ribbon. Cotton twill tape also works well.
 Fold one end of each ribbon down 1/4 inch (0.6 cm). Fold the same end down in the same direction a second time, making this fold 1/4 inch (0.6 cm), as well. Sew this end down with a straight stitch.


Repeat this step with each piece of ribbon.
You only need to sew one end of each ribbon, not both ends. The other end will be sewn to the inside of the sewing machine cover, so you should not unravel and the raw end will not be visible from the outside.
 Fold the raw end of each ribbon over by 1/2 inch (1.25 cm). Pin this end of each ribbon to the underside of the cloth so that the pieces form ties along the side of the machine when the cover is draped over it.


To figure out where the pieces of ribbon should go, begin by calculating half the height of the sewing machine (height * 1/2).
Use your tape measure to measure out this new length from the bottom of one long side of your cloth. Pin one ribbon there.
Measure out this new length from the top of the same side of your cloth. Pin a second ribbon there.
Repeat this process to pin the other two pieces of ribbon to the other long side of the cloth.
 With the cloth wrong-side up, transfer it over to your sewing machine. Sew a straight stitch over the folded end of each ribbon, securing the ribbon to the cloth.


Remove the pins when done.
 Drape the cover over your sewing machine so that it covers the machine from front to back. Tie the ribbons into bows at the right and left sides of the machine, making the bows tight enough to hold the cover in place.


This step completes your sewing machine cover.

