 Document your work in photographs as you go. This is how you will sell yourself as a designer as your career progresses. Keep in mind that you want to showcase your versatility, while also demonstrating that you have a unique voice and point of view. There should be a variety of pieces in your portfolio, but they should all scream “you.”Take quality photographs. Don’t just lay the dress you made on your bed and take a poorly lit picture with your phone. Put your garments on live models, make sure they are well lit (if you don’t have the resources to do this inside, go outside on slightly overcast day—this will give you even lighting), use a decent camera, and pay attention to details like hair, makeup, and accessories. The way you present your work plays a huge roll in the impact it creates., Are there independent clothing boutiques in your area that sell clothes with an aesthetic similar to yours? Are there websites that sell clothes that remind you of your own? Try to find designers doing work that reminds you of yours, or of what you would like your designs to evolve into. Observe their tactics.
 Some websites will fabricate your designs for you, if they or their users are sufficiently impressed. Look into websites like Gamz and Fabricly if you think you have a killer design that you’re not up to sewing on your own.If you are more of a graphic designer, but think your work would look great on clothing, look into sites like RedBubble, that can print your artwork on a variety of different products.
 If you want to sell your clothes, the world must know about your genius. Almost anyone can design a beautiful website these days; use a platform like Squarespace to create a site to display your portfolio. Keep it simple and elegant. You want to the focus to be on your clothing design, not your web design.
 Develop a social media presence. Get on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Tumblr, the works. You need to get eyes on your work, above and beyond all else. Worry about selling things later. Right now, you need to create a buzz.