 A variety of websites provide access to internet testing tools, your internet service provider (ISP) likely has some tools on their portal, but two popular testing sites are from Speakeasyand DSLReports. The following steps use the tools available from DSLreports, as they provide a comprehensive set of diagnostic tools.


Navigate to www.dslreports.com.
Select Tools from the top toolbar menu.;
, If other users are on your home network, the speed test report may be impacted by the shared use of network resources.


Speak with the other users of your network. Ask them to get off the network until you have completed testing for connectivity issues.
If you are experiencing problems with your connectivity, you may want to connect your computer directly to your internet modem with an ethernet cable to run these tests, instead of via your wireless network, to further isolate the problem.
 Speed test will tell you the download and upload speed you are actually getting between your computer and the test site, which you can compare to the speed you have contracted for with your ISP.


Click on the start button. On the right side of the Speed Test box there is a start button, this will start the speed test.
Select the connection type. On the test page, select the type of connection you have from the list of Gigabit/Fiber, Cable, DSL, Satellite, WISP, or other.
Run the test. The test will run, testing download speed, upload speed and reporting latency.
 The ping test checks the time it takes a packet of data to travel from your computer, to a remote server and back to your computer. This particular test will test multiple servers simultaneously reporting back to you an overall grade of the performance. Normal latency varies by the type of connection from 5 - 40ms for cable modem, 10 - 70ms for DSL, 100 to 220ms for dial-up and 200 - 600 for cellular. The distance to the remote server also adds to latency, you can estimate an additional 1ms in latency for every 60 miles (100km) the data travels.

 From the tools page, select Start, in the Ping Test (Real Time) box. This will advance you to a page indicating that all of the listed servers will be ping-ed twice per second and every thirty (30) seconds a report on your connection from A to F will be provided.
Click Start. A radar plot will show along with a chart of the various server locations, their IP address and the real time statistics about the connection latency.
View the report. As the test is running, your connection’s grade will appear on the left column, with a new grade every 30 seconds. When the test is complete you will be given the option to test again or share your results.
 While not an actual test the “What is my IP address” tool reports the public IP address where your computer is can be found. This is not the actual IP address of your computer because of the proxy services your router provides. This tool also lists the common IP addresses of the components of your network, which is helpful if you need use the Windows utilities to help find the source of your network or internet latency.


Run What is my IP address. Click start within the What is my IP address box. This will advance you to a page that displays your IP address as well as any other addresses relevant to your computer.
Record your IP address. If you plan on doing additional diagnostic tests on your network / internet connection write down the IP address displayed, as well as any of the common IP addresses from the list below.

