 Infant constipation is a very common problem and if other methods fail an enema may be necessary to help them. Your infant likely has constipation if she has hard stools or difficulty pooping.Talk to your pediatrician before you give your infant an enema using a bulb syringe. Sometimes enemas can cause irritation or fissures of your child’s anus, resulting in pain and stool holding.Breast feeding is less likely to cause constipation and digestive issues than formula feeding. A small amount of magnesium in a bottle can help a baby have a bowel movement.
You can also try gentle tummy rubs on your infant before trying an enema.
 To give your child an enema, you will need to have the following supplies:


A clean bulb syringe
Olive oil
A diaper
Warm water

, You will want your hands to be clean before doing this procedure. This process can be messy once your child has a bowel movement, so you will need to wash your hands again afterwards.Make sure you wash your hands for at least 20 seconds using soap.
Lather up your hands, including between your fingers, under your nails, and the backs of your hands.
Rinse your hands well and dry them with a clean paper towel.
 To fill the syringe, squeeze the air out of it first, then place the tip of the syringe in a bowl containing the water.Release your thumb slowly and the syringe will fill up. Make sure the water isn't too hot. It should feel lukewarm to slightly warm to touch. You should use no more than three tablespoons of water at a time.
 This will make it more comfortable for your infant during the enema. Take a teaspoon of olive oil and rub it on your finger.
Coat the end of the syringe with a thin layer of oil.
 Only insert it about a half inch.Avoid squeezing the syringe or you will lose the water inside too early.
This process can be unpleasant, so you may want to ask someone to help you distract your infant so he does not pay attention to his discomfort.
 The water will enter your child's bowel and help to loosen stool. Your infant should have a bowel movement within a couple of minutes of the enema..


Wait a few minutes for your child to have a bowel movement. To make this process less messy, you can put a diaper on her.
Repeat this process, if necessary.
 Clean it with hot soapy water and let it dry overnight.Be sure to rinse it thoroughly to avoid soap buildup. Squeeze the syringe several times in soapy water to clean it.
Never use an enema bulb syringe for another purpose besides enemas.

