 This ensures that each person feels their choices and habits are respected in the kitchen. Some vegans won't cook food in the same pan that's held an animal product.


Know each person's quirks about mealtimes before living together. Allow enough time and space during mealtimes to avoid confrontation over meal preparation.;
, Often a meat based diet will cost more than a vegan diet, while purchasing specific vegan alternatives to animal products can lead to a more expensive diet.


Avoid heated discussions about food expenditures by creating an understanding that will allow both parties to purchase the foods they enjoy the most. Predetermine who will pay for what products, if income isn't shared.
Consider organic alternatives for more costly products. For example, expensive vegan margarine is nearly identical to conventional margarine except for the added preservatives.
 Instead of preparing 2 separate meals, consider making meals that can incorporate animal products after the basic ingredients are combined. For example, many ethnic dishes use meat as condiments instead of making them the center of the dish.


Reach vegan and carnivore compromises that allow the vegan to cook the main meal first, then incorporate meat into the dish when it's almost finished.
 Many vegans will not purchase skin care items, shampoos and cleaners made with animal-based ingredients. If you will share these items, ensure that both parties agree on what items to buy.


Learn about inexpensive household product alternatives that can work for both carnivore and vegan roommates. Homemade cleaning products made with baking soda or vinegar serve as alternatives to more expensive, commercially-made items.
 Instead of condemning a vegan or carnivore lifestyle, make a conscious choice to support each person's choices.


Meet halfway and decide to accept individual choices to maintain household harmony. This can also broaden each person's world by exposing both parties to new ideas they might not have considered before living together.

