 Search for Bitmoji in the App Store (typically found on your home screen), tap Get, then tap Install., Tap Open in the App Store after the installation is complete, or tap the Bitmoji icon (a green chat bubble with a winking face) on the home screen., You have a few options:

Select Log in with Snapchat to connect Bitmoji to your Snapchat account, then follow the prompts to allow Snapchat to use Bitmoji.
Click Sign Up with Email to create an account that’s not connected to a social media network.
 You can customize every aspect of your character’s appearance, including facial shape and features, hair, makeup, accessories, and outfits.

You’ll begin by choosing a gender and selecting either Bitmoji or Bitstrips-style characteristics. You can get a little more detailed with Bitstrips-style (for example, you can change the hair length with this style), but Bitmoji-style is more cartoonish.
Your Bitmoji character preview will update as you select features.
When you decide on a feature, tap the right arrow to go to the next screen.
When you’re finished, tap the checkmark at the top of the screen.
 It’s the large button at the bottom of your device’s screen., It’s the gray gear icon typically located on your home screen. This is where you can enable the Bitmoji keyboard, a feature that lets you quickly add Bitmoji to apps like Messages, Facebook Messenger, and WhatsApp.,,,,,, The switch will turn green, and a pop-up will appear., The Bitmoji keyboard is now enabled., You can insert Bitmoji into most apps, including Messages, Facebook Messenger, and Snapchat.,, It’s at the bottom left corner of the keyboard. A list of keyboards will appear., The Bitmoji keyboard will appear.

Swipe left or right to view your Bitmoji character in various scenes.
You can search for a Bitmoji for an action (e.g. dancing, hug), emotion (e.g. happy, sorry), greeting (e.g. happy birthday), and many other choices.
 This copies it to your iPhone or iPad’s clipboard., To do this, tap and hold the text box, then select Paste when it appears. The Bitmoji will appear in the message., If you use Snapchat, you’ll want to set it up so you can add fun Bitmoji to your snaps.Open Snapchat.
Tap the ghost at the top-left corner.
Tap the gear icon and select Bitmoji.
Tap Link Bitmoji, then follow the on-screen instructions to connect your character to Snapchat.
 If you decide you want your character to look different, launch the Bitmoji app and tap the Edit icon (a person’s head with a pencil). You can select a different style (Bitmoji or Bitstrips), new features, and a different outfit.