 It's important that everything about your new cello look, feel, and especially sound appealing to you. If you only test one and assume that it's the perfect fit, you might miss something better. As you go along, do not pay attention to or ask about the price or brand of the instruments (yet!). Instead, ask your accompanying expert what they think of the sound, and try to pick a few that you'd like to physically test later after giving them all a thorough inspection.Have your teacher or selected expert inspect the cellos as well.
 Although it might be tempting to treat buying a cello the way you might buy clothes (finding the perfect brand name and sticking with it) this is probably not the best way to go about it. Although there are perhaps some brands that should be avoided, most that you'll find in a store should be generally reliable. Talk with experts you trust, and ask other cellists (who you may know through orchestra or lessons) about which brands they might recommend, but try to experiment with a range of cellos across different brands.
 The size of the cello that you will need is based primarily on height: cellists who are 5 feet or taller should generally be able to use a full-size cello, and those from 4 - 4½ feet tall should seek a half sized cello. Those who are in the middle between those two sizes will probably be more comfortable with the smaller cello.Due to the cost of a cello, you may wish to take into account whether or not there is a high likelihood you will continue to grow; most girls reach physical maturity around 15 years old, and boys around 16 or 17, and until then you may continue to grow.To determine if a cello is the correct size for you, sit in a chair from which you can comfortably rest your feet on the floor. Make sure your back is straight. Pull the endpin out a foot in length and allow the instrument to rest at a 45 degree angle against your chest. The top of it should come to the middle of your chest, with the peg for the C string situated near your left ear., Most shops will have a quiet area for you to test a cello out in, but some will also allow you to take it out of the store to test in other areas. If they do allow the latter, take advantage of this and test the cello in spaces you will commonly play--your home, wherever you take lessons or practice, the orchestra or band hall--to conduct additional tests.


You should be on the lookout for good tone and playability that is consistent whether the instrument is directly underneath your ear or all the way across a very large room. Unfortunately, there is no science to this step; you will have to make the choice based on your own instinct and your mentor's advice.One sign of a quality cello is the presence of the occasional wolf note, wherein the vibrations between the instrument and the string itself cancel each other out so quickly and repeatedly that the note stutters as it's made.

