 That is, show up on time and do what you're saying you're going to do. Take up responsibility around the house. It's all these little things that will help you build good will with your parents, so they might be more inclined to say "yes" in the future.One way to build trust is to tell your parents the truth. When you don't, your parents may find out, and then they will be less likely to trust you.
Another way to build trust is to do what you say you will. That means you come home on time. You are where you say you're going to be. When you say you'll do your homework, you actually do it. All of these small things add up to building trust.
 Your parents will let you know if you've betrayed their trust. Generally, it means that you've done something wrong in a situation where they believed you would act as you said you would without them checking up on you. For instance, if they trust you to go to your friend's house and instead, you've gone to a party, that's a betrayal o trust.When you realize you've screwed up, say "I'm very sorry that I've betrayed your trust. I know that it's worse than just breaking a rule because you've given me extra leeway. How can I begin to make it up to you?"

, Your needs are what you have to have to live, which includes things like shelter, clothing, and food. It also includes things basic to your happiness, such as the support of your family and friends. Wants are what goes on top of that. Wants may include that new jacket you've been eyeing or going out with your friends on the weekends, when you often see them during the week.Just because something is a want or desire doesn't mean you shouldn't have it. However, you need to think about what you find most important in your wants. Maybe going out with a friend one weekend is more important to you than going to a dance the next. By figuring out what you want most, you're in a better position to talk to your parents.
When trying to decide what's most important, think about what would make you saddest to miss or not to have. That's what's most important to you.
 Just like your parents have to pick their battles when it comes to what you do, you need to decide what you're going to try to persuade your parents to give you. That is, if you push your parents on everything, your parents are more likely to push back and tell you "no." Try to pick just one or a couple of things that you really want, and then when you go to your parents with a request, you won't have already asked for ten things this week. It will help your parents know that you really do feel this subject or request is important.For instance, you could say, "I've been thinking hard about what's most important to me. While I understand that you don't want me going over to my friend's house, could we possibly go out to coffee? You can drop me off there if that makes you feel better about the situation."

