 Henna is an all-natural hair dye with none of the harsh chemicals that commercial dyes have. Since henna is natural, there isn’t a vast shade selection to choose from. Essentially, henna makes it possible to achieve various shades of red through very dark brown to black.Each brand’s line is different, but generally there is a dark brown option, an auburn option, a chestnut brown option and a near-black option.


Brunettes and dark blondes will get the best results from henna.
Do not use henna on your hair if you’ve used commercial hair dye in the last two months., Unfortunately, henna cannot lighten your hair or lift color. It can only add pigment. For instance, you can’t use henna to go from brunette to blonde. Henna also can’t even out your current hair color. If you currently have roots or two-toned highlights, these will still be visible after you color your hair with henna.


The henna will alter the color of these lighter sections, but overall the darkest hair will still be darker than the highlights., Henna is very messy and it will stain everything, including your skin. Wear an old t-shirt and keep several old towels nearby. Cover all work surfaces and the floor with newspaper. You must wear gloves or you will end up with stained hands and nails for several days.Apply Ultra balm or petroleum jelly around your hairline, on the back of your neck and around your ears to protect these areas from accidental staining., Sectioning your hair into manageable bunches will ensure that you get even coverage during the application process. Divide your hair into four or more sections. Use a hair clip to pin up each of these sections. Make sure the clip is secure. Keep several additional hair clips nearby, in case you need additional ones after you begin., Your product will come with instructions – read them carefully. If your henna is in block form, break it into chunks and put it into a bain-marie or heatproof bowl situated over a saucepan of hot water. For best results, you’ll need to keep the henna warm throughout the entire process.


Boil the recommended amount of water and pour it over the henna.
Stir the mixture. It will have the consistency of melted chocolate or mud. , Start with the sections at the back of your head and work your way toward the front. Release one section at a time and apply the paste to your hair. Start at your roots and work down to the tips.Be sure to saturate your hair completely with the paste.Clip the completed section back up and move on to the next section.


Continue until you’ve finished all of the sections.
Be sure to keep your henna paste hot throughout the process.
 A shower cap will work, too. Make sure all of your hair is covered securely with your chosen kind of wrap. For extra security, wrap a towel around everything, on top of the plastic. If you like, you can use a heated towel, since henna works best when kept warm., Try to make it up to two hours, if you can. Since henna is chemical-free, the processing time is going to be much longer than that of a commercial hair dye. One hour is usually the minimum. When you’re ready, rinse the paste out of your hair with lukewarm water.


If you’re having trouble getting it all out, use a very small amount of shampoo to help you complete the job.
Results should last four to six weeks. At that point, you may need to touch some areas up with a new application.

