 Firm clean ground with some contours and plenty of open space is your best choice for learning the ropes of this sport. Grass and weeds can jam the tracks of your vehicle, and soft, sandy soil will cause trouble with the gears that drive them.;
, A brand new remote controlled tank will need powering before it's ready to move. The transmitter takes ordinary batteries. Some tanks have a rechargeable battery pack, while others use AA batteries. The rechargeable variety comes with a special charger, or an adapter so you can plug it into a wall outlet.


Read the instructions before charging a battery pack. Overcharged batteries may explode.
If you ordered your tank from another country, double check the intended charge voltage. Plugging it into an outlet with a different voltage could destroy the battery and cause a fire.
 Always turn on the handheld controls before the tank itself. If the transmitter is not active when the tank is turned on, there is a chance that the tank will not respond properly.If the tank still won't respond, check the transmitter instructions for a "sync" or "bind" setup. This is not necessary for transmitters that use quartz crystals.
 If yours is the only RC vehicle in the area, you can skip this step. However, if there are multiple vehicles around, each one must use a different frequency to avoid interfering with each other. Some models have a setting to easily switch between different frequencies, but many require you to switch out the crystals in the tank and the transmitter in order to adjust this.


Most models operate in the 27 Mhz range (divided into 12 bands) or the 40 Mhz range (divided into 8 bands)., This will allow you to get the feel for the controls. Start in a straight line to develop a sense of the vehicle's speed, which can be deceptively fast. Get an idea for how quickly it can stop and reverse.
 The most common type of RC tank control uses a single joystick for movement.In a typical Tri Pact system, you move the stick diagonally to lock one of the treads, causing the tank to turn.You may not be able to move forward or reverse at the same time as turning.


Even most transmitters with two joysticks use this system. One joystick controls movement, while the other controls the gun turret or other features.
 There are a wide range of other control systems. Here are the next most common:


A simple two-joystick control uses one joystick for forward/reverse, and a second one for turning left/right.More advanced two-joystick controls operate the left and right treads independently. To turn left, move the right joystick further forward than the left.
Transmitters with buttons instead of a joystick are usually arranged in a simple forward/reverse/left/right layout.
 When finished driving, turn off the tank's receiver, then turn off the transmitter. Clean the tank's tracks and gears before storing, and remove rechargeable batteries.
 Also called electronic speed control, tanks with this feature move at different speed increments depending on how far you push the joystick. Try moving the joystick partway when maneuvering over difficult ground.


The simpler MAG speed control system has just two possible speeds. These may be toggled the same way, or by switch., Most hobby-grade tanks have a turret that can rotate anywhere from about 160ยบ to the full 360ยบ, depending on the model. Some can raise or lower the cannon as well. The transmitter may have a separate joystick for the turret, or two buttons for clockwise and counterclockwise rotation.


If you can't get a particular feature to respond, skip down to troubleshooting instructions.
 Cheaper tanks may not have this option. Larger tanks often do come with controls for firing the cannon, and sometimes the machine gun as well. This uses one of these three systems:


Some tanks just make a noise and may recoil when the cannon is fired.
Infrared weapons shoot an invisible beam that other infrared tanks can detect as "damage" for tank battles. These work best in dim light, and in fairly open areas (to avoid unpredictable bouncing.)Some tanks fire Airsoft BBs. These can cause injury and damage to objects, and may not be appropriate for children.
 Some RC tanks have minor features to add realism or fun. The most common are a smoke chamber, which usually operates automatically once it is stocked. If your tank makes firing and engine noises, there may be a volume control on the bottom of the tank., Test any of the non-movement buttons or joysticks while the tank is stationary, then again while it is moving. If the turret or cannon only respond while the tank is still, you have a simple 2-channel transmitter/receiver. These are much easier to operate, but moving will disable all other features. If the features do work while moving, or if you can't get them to work at all, you most likely have an advanced 4+ channel model.Look up specific instructions for your transmitter if possible, or experiment as follows:


If there are small levers next to a joystick, toggling them may enable extra commands from that joystick.In other systems, you may need to learn specific combinations of both joysticks in order to operate the weapons.A rapid flick of a joystick may send a different instruction than a steady push.

