 You should have a minimum of 4' wide for the decks. You would need to make a full size template of the quarter-pipe so that you can use it to mark all of your end supports the same size. 1/4" plywood works very well for this.


You can hold the pieces together with duct tape, but it's better to cut scab plates out of 3/4" ply where the seams join together and use 3/4" wood screws to hold the pieces together.
Rip one sheet of ply in half the long way, well actually rip it to 23 and 3/4" so you can get two rips from one sheet.
Cut two feet off of one of the rips and scab it to the full length piece. That should give you a 2 feet (0.6 m) by 10 feet (3.0 m) rectangle.
Now scab together a 5 foot (1.5 m) square and hook it to the rectangle so that it looks like a giant boot.
Drive a nail in the top corner of the 5 by 5 square that is not connected to the rectangle.
Using that nail as a pivot, mark the radius from the top corner (where the 5x5 meets the rectangle) to the bottom corner directly below the nail.
Cut this radius out using a jigsaw.(**Caution--use the plywood method for drawing the radius only if you have material to waste. Tip: put a nail or screw at the bottom of your radius, extend your tape measure to the desired length of your radius, use you tape measure as a pencil guide when drawing your radius**);
, To make the end panels, use two layers of 3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm) plywood which you will laminate together. To laminate the layers, pour wood glue into a paint tray and use a roller to roll a thin even layer of glue over the entire surface of the bottom layer of ply. Lay the top layer down over the glue, turning the grain 90 degrees. Line up the edges. Screw the two layers together with 1 1/4" coarse thread wood screws. When the glue is set (overnight) use your template to mark out the end panels. Cut them out with a circular saw and or a jigsaw.
 These can be single layer 3/4" ply, scabbed together using 2 by material. Keep scab plates about two inches in from the edges.
 Use a stop block setup to make sure that they are all cut to identical lengths.
 Nail the other end to the intermediate panel using the same spacing. Stagger the 2x4s between intermediate panels (so that you can nail/screw them). Use as many intermediate panels as necessary to get the overall length you want, and then use the other end panel at the opposite end. You will have to taper the bottom 2x4 to a profile that will fit to the ground.
 Now you need to get this framing anchored to the ground so that it won't tip over. Depending on your situation, you can anchor the back side of the platform to a building, or support beams poured with footings. Consult a professional on how to do this. Sandwich the intermediates with framing and run a carriage bolt through.
 3⁄8 inch (1.0 cm) CDX plywood should be flexible enough. You will have to run two layers, in the same direction. Break the seams by running a full course across the length, then run a 2 foot (0.6 m) rip with the grain running the same way on top. Be sure to stagger the end joints as well for added strength. Screw it to the 2x4s.

