 Set your oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (204 degrees Celsius) and let it preheat for about ten minutes. Place an oven rack in the lower third of the oven.If you’re baking two sheets of bacon, place the oven racks in the bottom half of the oven. This will help the bacon cook evenly.;
, Line the entire sheet, including the sides. This will prevent bacon grease from sticking to the surface and it will be easier to clean up. Choose a baking sheet with a lip that’s at least half an inch tall (1.27 cm) to keep bacon grease from dripping off the pan. Bacon is a greasy food, so there’s no need to spray the foil with cooking spray.


If you like crispier bacon, place a foil-wrapped cooling rack on the baking sheet. In this case, glass and ceramic pans can also be used.
You can use parchment paper instead of foil. Use a large sheet that covers the bottom and sides of the pan., Leave some space between each strip as crowded bacon will not get crispy.If you have too much bacon for one baking sheet, use two baking sheets or cook the bacon in batches. Otherwise, you risk cooking unappetizing, grease-saturated bacon.


A standard 21”x15” baking sheet will fit about a pound of bacon. If you have smaller sheets, you may need more than one to cook a pound of bacon.
 Check the bacon periodically to monitor the cooking process and adjust the cooking time based on your own tastes.Your cooking time may also change depending on your oven as some ovens run slightly hotter or cooler than normal. Remove the bacon from the oven when it’s almost perfect. The bacon will continue to cook and get firm even as it cools.


If the pieces become submerged in grease, pour the excess grease off into a ceramic bowl.Don’t pour off hot grease into plastic or glass bowls. Plastic bowls may melt and glass bowls may crack.
 Take the bacon off the baking sheet. Use cooking tongs or a fork to protect yourself from the hot bacon. Place it on a plate lined with two paper towels to soak up excess oil.Clean the baking sheet once it’s cooled completely. Remove and discard any foil or parchment paper and inspect the pan for grease stains.


If you see grease, wash the pan with soap and water. If you used a cooling rack to cook the bacon, soak the cooling rack in warm water to loosen up stubborn debris.
Dispose of excess baking grease properly. Once the grease cools, save it in your refrigerator or throw it away in the trash. If you pour it down the sink you will clog your drain., The meat in this section is generally more expensive than the packaged meats. However, the meat behind the deli counter is usually fresher and of higher quality than the packaged meats.


When you buy bacon at the deli counter, you can ask the butcher to cut it as thick as you like it.
 This cut comes from the pork belly meat that’s closest to the bone. This bacon is lean and meaty with almost thirty percent less fat than regular bacon.However, this cut of bacon is generally the most expensive.


If you buy prepackaged bacon, look for the center-cut options. Many brands of prepackaged bacon also carry center-cut bacon.
 The staff behind your meat counter will be able to tell you about the best bacon they have. Always be polite and try to remember their names whenever you visit the grocery store. If you build a good relationship with them they may even set aside the best cuts of bacon for you.
 Mix together 1/3 cup maple syrup and ½ cup brown sugar. After placing the bacon on your pan, use a pastry brush to coat each slice with the sugar mixture. Continue baking the bacon normally until it reaches the desired level of crispiness.Cook the candied bacon on a rack for maximum crispiness. Make sure to protect the rack from the sugar mixture with foil or parchment paper.
Candied bacon is delicious by itself but is also an excellent addition to sandwiches and breakfast platters.
 Many delicious dishes can be wrapped in bacon and baked in the oven. For example, make bacon-wrapped cookies by wrapping balls of cookie dough in a piece of bacon before cooking.Cheese stuffed jalapenos, meatballs, and chicken breasts can also be wrapped in bacon. Keep in mind that the bacon will need fifteen to twenty minutes to cook.


Experiment by wrapping both sweet foods and salty foods in bacon. Bacon is good with almost anything!

, Bake a tray or two of bacon in advance. Then, store the cooked bacon in your refrigerator for seven to ten days.Add bacon to your sandwiches throughout the week or crumble up a few pieces to add to a salad for a flavor boost.


Cover the bacon before you store it by using plastic wrap or a storage container with a lid.

