 Before getting started, make sure you have all your necessary ingredients together in one place. For this simple recipe, you only need five essential components: two bunches of fresh arugula leaves, a lemon, a chunk of fresh Parmesan cheese, a bottle of extra virgin olive oil and your trusty salt and pepper grinders. That’s it!


Make sure you buy all your ingredients fresh (except for the Parmesan cheese, which should ideally be aged). This will ensure that the salad turns out as delicious as possible.;
, Find a large salad bowl or mixing bowl that you can put the salad together in. Since none of the ingredients need any special preparation, everything can be done in a single bowl. Make sure the bowl is large enough to comfortably hold both bunches of arugula as you’re mixing the salad.Another thing that makes this recipe great is that you won’t have to do a lot of dishes when you’re done!

, Run each bunch of arugula under a stream of cool water. Don’t wash the leaves too forcefully, or you could damage them and leave them wilted. After you’ve rinsed both bunches, press them gently between layers of paper towels to dry them.Always wash produce to eliminate germs and keep you from getting sick.Make sure there’s no excess water remaining on the arugula, as this might dilute the flavors of the dressing or cause the salad to become soggy.
 Take a small handful of arugula and tear it into bite-sized sections along the stem. The pieces don’t have to be perfectly consistent—as long as they’re small enough to be manageable with a fork, they’ll work just fine. Once you’re done with one handful, grab another. Repeat until both bunches of arugula are prepped and ready for the salad.


Cutting or tearing herbs helps release more of their natural flavors.Arugula is similar to romaine lettuce in that has stalky leaves that give it a nice crunch. This also makes it easier to prepare, since you don’t have to bother removing the stems.
 Open a bottle of extra virgin olive oil and slowly drizzle about ¼ cup over the top of the arugula. After the salad has been tossed, the olive oil will lightly coat the arugula leaves, making its crisp folds velvety soft. Try not to oversaturate the arugula, as too much oil can cause it to become limp and soupy.For best results, use the prescribed amount of olive oil and add more after you toss the salad if you need it.
Extra virgin olive oil should be your first choice, as it has a smoother, more complex taste.
 Take a large lemon and cut it in half. Then, using a manual juice press, squeeze the juice of one half of the lemon over the arugula leaves. The acidity of the fresh citrus will help brighten up the deep, earthy flavor of the arugula.If you don’t have a juice press, simply squeeze the lemon by hand.
Let the lemon sit until it reaches room temperature, then roll it along the counter top with your palm. This will loosen up the peel and membranes inside so that it gives more juice., Run the chunk of Parmesan along the vents of a cheese grater to your desired size. You can also use a veggie peeler to shave thin slices off the Parmesan. Add as much or as little cheese as you want; for a more flavorful salad, it’s recommended that you grate 2–3 tablespoons (29.6–44.4 ml).Asiago or Romano cheese could also be used in place of Parmesan, as they have a similar taste.Avoid pre-grated, packaged cheeses. Since this recipe puts special emphasis on the freshness of its ingredients, it’s best to grate the Parmesan yourself just before you serve the salad.
 Grab your pepper grinder and use a few twists to lightly dust the completed salad. Around one teaspoon of pepper will lend a hint of spice to the salad without overpowering it or clashing with the natural pepper infusion of the arugula.You might use a dash of sea salt as well, but keep in mind that the acidic lemon juice and Parmesan cheese will already provide much of the salad’s saltiness.
As with the rest of the ingredients, it’s more important to season to taste than it is to use a specific amount.
 Now all that’s left is to bring it all together. Toss the salad from the bottom using quick circular motions with your salad spoons or tongs, or just jump in there with both hands. Mix until the ingredients are evenly dispersed throughout the salad. It’s now ready for you to enjoy!This salad can be put together in under 10 minutes, and serves 3-4.
 For a more substantial salad, top the basic ingredients with slices of grilled chicken, shrimp or marinated tofu. This will provide an infusion of healthy protein and complement the flavor of the arugula perfectly. This type of salad is hearty enough to be savored as a meal in itself.Mild forms of protein will work best, as they’ll allow the flavors of the primary ingredients to come through.
 Cut cherry tomatoes into halves and add them to the salad. Cherry tomatoes are sweet and slightly acidic—both flavor profiles go well with the arugula’s bitterness, as well as the sharpness of the fresh Parmesan. They also create a pleasant color contrast that enhances the presentation of the dish.Cherry tomatoes come in reds, yellows, oranges and other heirloom shades. These will stand out brilliantly from the deep green arugula.
 Sprinkle some roasted pine nuts into the salad before tossing it, or use them to top it off as a garnish. Pine nuts are another sweet, earthy additive that can balance out the stronger ingredients like arugula and black pepper. In addition, they contain many nutritious minerals and fatty acids, making them a welcome part of any healthy diet.Many people are allergic to tree nuts such as pine nuts. Be aware of whether you have a possible pine nut allergy before coming into contact with them or using them to cook., If the light, minimalist salad is a little underdressed for your liking, finish it off with a couple teaspoons of balsamic vinegar. Vinegar will up the saltiness, so it should be used modestly so as not to throw off the flavor of the salad when combined with the lemon juice. For a salad that doesn’t quite pop, a little balsamic vinegar may be just what’s missing.If you decide to bring balsamic vinegar into the mix, you have the option of dressing the salad with a more traditional vinaigrette before adding the lemon, Parmesan and black pepper.,