 For this look, you'll need to part your hair deep to one side so that your bangs cascade down the front of your face at an elegant angle. Making your hair glossy and sleek is the final element and the key behind the glam of this style.Wash your hair with your standard shampoo and towel dry, leaving it a little damp.
Use a comb to create a deep part along the side of your head. It should roughly line up above one of your ears.
Run a dime-sized amount of smoothing cream in your hands and run it through your hair. Comb it all the way through using your fingers or an actual comb.
Use a blow dryer to dry your hair straight. If necessary, use a small flat iron to get your hair as straight as possible.
Sweep your bangs straight across your forehead if they're short. If they're long, angle them in a gentle downward slide from the part down to the opposite side of your forehead. You can do this with the tail end of a comb.
Spray with light hairspray for extra hold, if necessary.;
, Parting your hair deep to one side can still create a classy look even if you decide not to slick it back. Best of all, this style works for formal and informal occasions alike.


Run a nickel-sized dab of texturizing mousse throughout clean, towel-dry hair. Coat your hair as evenly and thoroughly as possible.
Use a comb to give yourself a deep side part to one side of your face.
Allow your hair to air dry completely.
Dampen your fingertips with a small dab of styling gel. Comb your fingertips through your dried hair to give it more texture and hold.
 Straightening your pixie cut when you keep a center or mild side part can create a no-fuss, orderly look that can be both trendy and mature. Make sure your hair has plenty of volume to prevent it from looking lifeless and flat.


Wash your hair and towel dry the excess moisture. Part your hair down the center or just barely to one side.
Run a little volumizing mousse into your hair using your fingertips. Make sure to spread the mousse throughout your hair completely.
Dry straight using a blow dryer and a soft bristled brush. Curl the brush slightly in and underhanded, upward motion to add a bit of volume.
Use a thin flat iron to straighten out any pieces that need a little extra help. Gently curl the flat iron as you work to prevent it from flattening your hair completely.
Add a spritz of volumizing hairspray or gentle comb-through of light mousse to give your hair a bit more lift.
 For a really wild look, turn pieces of your hair forward, inward, and up, styling your pixie so that it lifts toward the center of your head as a mohawk would.


Part clean, dry hair down the center of your head.
Use a curling iron with a diameter of 1-inch (2.5-cm) to randomly curl your hair in small sections. For the moment, all the curls should twist downward.
Rub a strong styling paste or mousse onto your hands. Run your hands through your hair, lifting the curly locks upward and toward the center of your hair as you work.
Use your fingertips to gently pull the front layers forward so that a few of the strands fall over your forehead.
 With the help of hair gel, you can slick your entire pixie back, bangs and all, to create a tough and tomboyish look.Wash your hair and keep it fairly damp, only towel drying it to wring out excess moisture.
Rub a generous amount of hair gel onto one hand. Run this hand through your hair as you blow dry it using your other hand. You should run the gel through your hair moving from front to back so that the bangs and the hair along the sides of your head are pulled back and away from the face.
With your hair dry, add more gel as needed to slick the hair back even more. This style exposes as much of your face as possible, and all the hair should be slicked back in the same direction.
 If you want something a little punk rock but don't want to go for the extreme faux-mohawk, you can create subtle upward spikes all along and throughout your hair.Towel dry freshly washed hair.
Arrange your damp hair using your fingers. The bangs should be pulled to the front and brushed gently off to one side. the hair around your temple should lie forward, and the rest should be smoothed out toward the nape at the back of your head.
Dry your hair completely. You can air dry it or use a blow dryer.
Apply a dollop of strong mouse or gel to your fingertips. When your hair is dry, begin to carefully pick at the layers at the top of your head, pulling small sections up into subtle and separate spikes. Leave the bangs, sides, and back alone.
Mist with hairspray to provide extra hold, if necessary.
 This style blends sophistication with boldness. Brush your hair back and give yourself a deep part to one side, but instead of letting your bangs drape across your forehead elegantly, sculpt them out to one side.Part towel dry hair deeply to one side of the head. Run a light styling mousse throughout your hair using your fingers.
Blow dry your hair, using your fingers to gently scrunch and tousle it in the back, making it appear somewhat messy.
As you get to the front, brush your bangs as straight as possible while drying them. Dry them at a downward angle pointing in the side opposite your part.
With your hair completely dry, use extra-hold mousse or a light gel to accentuate the angle of your bangs. Pull the tips completely out to the side, creating a sculpted look.
 Ruffling your short locks with your fingers can create a cute bedhead look that is both casual and playful.


Start with clean, towel-dried hair for this style.
Mist your hair with texturizing spray, covering all sides with only a light spritz.
Use a blow dryer to dry your hair. As it dries, use a soft bristled brush to curve the front and top layers in a single direction.
After your hair dries, warm up a dollop of pomade between your fingers. Use your pomade-covered fingers to accentuate and hold the curve of your bangs and top, front layer to the side.
Keep the rest of your hair tucked behind your ears.
 A small curling iron can be used to add tiny little waves or curls throughout your pixie cut, creating a youthful style.


Part clean, dry hair so that it just barely falls to one side.
Use a curling iron with a diameter of 1-inch (12.5-cm) to create random curls throughout your hair. The curls should twist downward, but the twists can curl and spiral in different ways. Symmetry is not necessary.
Rub a styling paste or mousse onto your hands before running your hands through your hair, messing the curls up slightly as you work.
 For something flirty and romantic, keep the majority of your pixie cut straight while dramatically curling the tips of deeply-parted side bangs.


Wash and dry your hair, keeping the layers as straight as possible.
Use a comb to give yourself a deep side part above the ear on one side of your head. Comb the rest of your hair over to the opposite side of your head.
Use a small curling iron with a 1-inch (2.5-cm) barrel to curl the tips of your hair outward. The tips of your bangs should curl dramatically upward and outward toward the side of your head opposite the part. The tips of your hair toward the back of your head should simply curl up and outward in their natural direction.
Spray your hair with a strong hairspray to keep the curls in place.
 There are a wide variety of headbands, ranging from thin to thick and decorative to plain. Choose a look that suits the mood and occasion and slip it into your styled pixie cut for added flair.


For a more sophisticated or mature look, opt for a thin headband with little adornment.
A thin headband with a touch of sparkle or gemstones can work well when you want to dress your hair up, however.
Thick headbands tend to look overly casual when you wear a plain one, but if you look for a headband in a fun print or one with a decorative embellishment, it can give your style a playful, flirty twist.
Go for vintage style by using a scarf as a headband. Fold or roll a fashion scarf into a thin band. Tie it around your head so that it stretches across the top of your head, not the forehead.
 Next to headbands, hair clips and bobby pins are a pixie cut's best friends. Dress down with playful or plain options or dress up with something sparkly.


Brightly colored or patterned hair clips can be fun and playful. You can also try hair clips with attached embellishments, like hair bows, flowers, or jewelry charms for a little more visual interest. Doing so is a great way to dress up an otherwise plain hair style.
If you want a more sophisticated option, consider using a bobby pins with a little sparkle or a fancy hair clip covered in tiny gems or pearls.
 Hats look great on many women with pixie cuts because they help draw attention to and elongate your exposed neck, making it look more delicate and feminine.


The best hat types will vary depending on the face of your shape, but a few options include the beret, the boater, the bucket hat, the fedora, the newsboy cap, the cloche, and the trilby. Try out a few different types to determine which you prefer best.

