 For this prank, you'll have to be able to swipe your sister's phone for a while. When she's distracted, break into her phone and switch all of the contact names in her phone.


For example, if your sister has a partner, switch their name to yours in her contact list. You'll now be able to read all of her secret texts to her significant other!
If you change her password, write it down so you won't forget it and she won't have to go to the store and pay to get her phone unlocked.
Alternatively, you can delete all of the names in her contact list and replace them with mystery names: Guess Who #1, Guess Who #2, etc. It will take her ages to sort it all out!

, If you know your sister's passwords, you're in a great position to have a bit of fun. Hack into her accounts—Facebook, email, Twitter, etc.--and change her passwords to something new. She'll be totally frustrated, and if you can keep a straight face, you can watch her type away furiously trying to figure out what happened!


Consider changing all of the passwords to something like “Mysisteristhebesthumanbeing”. She'll never guess it.
 While you've got her phone, take a few minutes to record a new outgoing message for her sister's voice-mail.


Choose something totally embarrassing: for example, do your best imitation of her voice when you record “Hi, you've reached Kaitlyn, president of the Justin Bieber fan club. I'm too busy following Justin on Twitter to take your call, so leave a message at the beep.”
When you are done, set her phone to silent so that she won't hear calls. When her friends call, they'll be sent to voice-mail and will hear her new embarrassing message., If your sister texts a lot, this is a great prank. Once again, you'll have to swipe her phone, and then spend some time analyzing her texts. Look for words or phrases she uses a lot, like “I'm on my way”. Then, program her phone to auto-replace that phrase with something embarrassing or random.


For example, whenever she tries to text “On my way,” it will now fill in “I love Justin Bieber forever!”.
Alternatively, you can choose something random and annoyingly long, like a full paragraph from a book.

