 If the computer doesn’t turn on, see Troubleshooting a PC Laptop That Won’t Turn On or Troubleshooting a PC Desktop That Won’t Turn On. If the computer turns on but gives you an error message instead of booting into Windows, continue with this method.
 If, for some reason, it does not automatically start, you can start it from your recovery drive (or installation DVD).


Insert your recovery drive (if you made one) or the installation DVD, then reboot the computer. When it boots from the drive, select “Troubleshoot,” then “Advanced Options,” and finally, “Startup Repair.”
If the Startup Repair is successful, the computer will restart and boot normally.
If you see the message “Startup Repair couldn’t repair your PC,” click “Advanced Options,” then select “Reset this PC.” To make sure your personal files are not erased, click “Keep my files.” Enter your account password when prompted, click “Continue,” then “Reset.”

, If Startup Repair does not start automatically, reboot the computer. As soon as the computer turns back on, rapidly tap the F8 key on the keyboard until you see the “Advanced Boot Options” screen. Select “Startup Repair,” then press ↵ Enter.


Startup repair will run and attempt to correct startup issues. When the process is complete, you’ll see a message that says “Restart your computer to complete the repairs.” Click “Finish.” If the repair was successful, the computer will boot normally.
If you did not see Startup Repair listed as an option, you’ll need to boot from your recovery or installation CD/DVD. If you don’t have one, borrow one from a friend or call a technician.
 If the previous steps did not work, it’s possible that you’ll need to perform a system recovery, which is a complete reinstallation of Windows. This process will delete your personal files. Before you risk your personal data, call the manufacturer to inquire about additional steps that may be specific to your system. Some computers have proprietary system disks or tools that can only be obtained from the manufacturer.
 Only do this if you understand that your personal files will be erased.


If you’re using Windows 10, you might boot into the “Troubleshoot” screen automatically. If not, insert your installation DVD and reboot the computer. When the computer boots to the boot menu, select “Troubleshoot,” then chose “Reset Your PC.” From the Reset options, choose “Restore Factory Settings.”

, Select “System Image Recovery” (sometimes called “Complete PC Restore,” or “System Recovery”) to reinstall the operating system.

