 Since this is infield a 12 inch (30.5 cm) should be just fine. A broken in glove is best.;
, This is your starting position. From here, you can move to cover first or second base, and you're filling the space in between so that you can get any balls hit there.


If you have a left handed batter, take a small step closer to 1st, not more than a few steps though.
If there is a runner on first, step a little to second base. More than likely you will get a throw, and it's faster to run to second when you're closer to the base.
 Prepare for every possible situation. Know where to throw the ball if it comes to you, and what base to cover if it doesn't. Talk to your teammates so that you all know where to play the ball.
 Always know where the runners are. Try to get the lead runner. They have a better chance of scoring, and getting them out first will make it easier to get future runners. If you are not sure where to play, throw to first. That is your best bet.
 This gives you a chance to warn the catcher or the player if the runner tries to steal. This can help them respond faster when the runner starts running.
 Stay on your toes, ready to move any direction at any moment. Always keep an eye on the batter and the ball. Be ready for anything that comes your way.
 Playing is all about having fun. Don't give off negative attitude. It boosts your spirit and friendship with the other team and also makes the rest of the players on yours and the others team happier and spirit lifted. Encourage your teammates and always thank the other team for a good game.
 More than likely you will receive a throw. Don't worry, shortstop will cover your position!

, Shortstop can't cover, so you have to run!

, If you cover first, the catcher,first baseman, or third baseman can throw the ball to you to get the batter out.
 Shortstop can't cover second because the have to back up third base.
 Most of the time shortstop covers second base. If there's nowhere else you're supposed to be, back her up.
 If it is hit far out in left field you cover second base. If it is far out in right field, then you are to run and be the cut off. Short stop will cover second base.
 If there is a runner, they will go on a bad throw from the catcher. If you back up the throw you could possibly throw the runner out.
 You have to remember to watch the runner and back up the throw in case the runner does run to second. Alert the pitcher when they have the ball if the runner on first is attempting to go to second because they may not be paying attention and they could throw it to second or first and possibly get the runner out.
 Just start backing up the pitcher once there is a runner on second.
 In this scenario, you don't have to tag the runner. There will be other events where you have to tag the runner.
 Think of an imaginary line from the pitcher to the actual second base. Don't intrude when a grounder or pop fly is hit to them and they won't intrude when a grounder or pop fly is hit to you.

