 Preferably one that doesn’t already have Animal Crossing data on it.;
, When you first load up the game on the Gamecube, it will create a saved data for your town on the memory card in Slot 1. That memory card then contains your entire town in it.
 It is advised that you label your memory cards (e.g., AC Town 1), or have identifiably different cards in order to keep straight which cards have which data.


When Animal Crossing was first released for Gamecube, for example, every copy came with an Animal Crossing-specific memory card.
 Preferably one that doesn’t already have Animal Crossing data on it.


The Gamecube will always default to reading the card in Slot 1 for information unless you specifically instruct it otherwise.
 Since this new card won’t have any Animal Crossing data on it, then Animal Crossing will launch the same way it does as if you’re first starting the game, and you will be able to create a brand-new town.
 This new town will be stored on the second memory card. Again, it is advised that you clearly label your memory cards so that you will know which card has which town, and you can easily switch between towns whenever you want.


Whenever you want to play in Town #1, simply put memory card #1 into your Gamecube’s Slot 1.
Whenever you want to play in Town #2, simply put memory card #2 into your Gamecube’s Slot 1.
 If you have two different towns, you have the opportunity to visit them. You’ll need memory card #1 in Slot 1 and memory card #2 in Slot 2.


Say your character in Town #1 wants to visit Town #2, you just need to have both memory card #1 and memory card #2 in your Gamecube at the same time.
 This would be the game in Slot 1.
 Once you’re in the game and in control of your character, walk to the train station, located in the north section of town.
 You can do so by pressing “A.” In this dialogue, he’ll ask you if you want to take a trip. Say yes.


If there is no memory card with Animal Crossing data on it in Slot 2, then this will not work.
If you’ve set everything up correctly, your character will board the train, and shortly arrive in your second town.
 You can achieve this by putting memory card #2 in Slot 1 (the main slot) and memory card #1 in Slot 2. Loading the game will then cause you to load your second main character and his or her town.


Just look for the train station and travel to whatever town’s data is placed in Slot 2 of the Gamecube.
 There are a few advantages to managing two different towns and visiting them in Animal Crossing for Gamecube.


For instance, you have the chance to check two completely different sets of items stored in the Nook shop each day. Since the shop randomly stocks its furniture, it is highly unlikely that the Nook shop in both towns will have any overlap in items.
Each town will most likely have a different fruit, and non-native fruits sell for 500 bells a piece (as opposed to 100 bells for native fruits) at the shop.
 With two towns, you have more opportunity to do things in general. You can complete favors for animals in the town you’re visiting, go bug-hunting or fishing, and any number of things that you can already do in your own town.

