 Most dogs need to be bathed about once a month. They may need to be bathed more or less frequently depending on their breed and your veterinarian’s recommendations.Bathing too frequently can strip the skin of its natural oils and cause irritation.


You will need to bathe them more frequently if they've rolled in something smelly or muddy.
 You have your choice of bathing your dog indoors in a bathtub or outdoors with a hose. The weather in your area might limit your choice, but bathing your dog outside will be less messy than bathing them indoors.


You can also take your dog to the veterinarian to be bathed if they have a bathing area available, or you can take them to the groomer.
 Dog’s skin is different than ours and hot water can burn them more easily. Make sure the water is a lukewarm temperature before you begin wetting your dog’s coat., Get your dog’s entire coat wet. Be careful to not get water directly in their eyes, nose, or ears.If your dog is prone to ear infections, you can put a dry cotton ball in their ears to prevent water from entering the ear canal. Water that is trapped in the canal can cause an ear infection quickly., Take the dog shampoo and put a small amount into your hands. Now you can begin to work the shampoo into a lather in your dog’s coat. You want to get shampoo worked into their entire coat, especially in areas that get dirty easily like their paws and stomachs. Be very careful washing the fur around their faces. Shampoos can be irritating to your dog’s eyes so do not get it directly in their eyes. It may be easier to use a damp washcloth to wipe their faces so you can avoid getting shampoo in their eyes., After you have washed each part of their coat, you’ll use lukewarm water to rinse out the shampoo from their fur.


Make sure you avoid getting water directly in their eyes, ears, and nose again. You might have to rinse them a few times to make sure that all of the shampoo is washed out of their fur.
 You can use either a cotton towel or a blow dryer to dry your dog off after their bath. Some people swear by blow drying their dog’s coat, while others prefer to use towels.The choice is yours, but remember to use the blow dryer on a low or no heat setting if this is the option that you choose.


If you use a towel, rub your dog’s fur gently. You do not want to pull the hair and create tangles by rubbing vigorously.

