 You can stay in touch with others by starting a message thread with them on your cellphone or online through a messenger service. You may send them a text message to check in and say “Hi” or “It’s been awhile! How are you doing?” They may then respond and this will create a message thread where you can both chat when you start to lose touch and want to reconnect.You may start a message thread with more than one person if you are trying to stay in touch with a group of friends. Having a group message can make it easier to contact everyone at once and plan group hang outs or get togethers when you all start to lose touch.;
, You may also find it useful to stay connected to others through email. Put a reminder in your calendar on your computer or your phone to email certain people once a week or once a month. Having an alert set in your computer or phone can help you remember to send a check in email on a regular basis and stay in touch with others.You may try putting reminders in your calendar to contact people for the entire year so you never forget to send out check in emails.
You may also star or flag certain email conversations to remind yourself to respond to them and pay attention to them. This could help prevent you from losing touch with certain people.
 If you prefer talking to people over the phone rather than by text or email, make sure you remind yourself to do check in calls on a regular basis. You may put a reminder in your phone once a week or once a month so you do not forget to phone certain people and stay in touch with them.You and the person you are contacting may agree on a set night of the week for the phone date so you are both prepared for the call. For example, you and a friend may agree to talk every Thursday night at 8 pm. Or you and a loved one may set aside Saturday mornings for a catch up call so you do not lose touch.
 You can also use social media to stay connected with others, especially as it so popular and used by many people all over the world. You may use photo sharing platforms like Instagram to stay in touch as well as Snapchat. Or you may check in with friends around the world through Facebook or Twitter. Visit their social media pages to see what they are up to and comment or like their posts so you can stay in touch.You may also send the person personal messages, images, or videos through social media to let them know you want to stay in touch and remain a part of their life. They may then reciprocate and this could lead to a conversation over social media that keeps you both connected and involved in each other’s lives.
 A birthday is a good yearly reason to check in with someone you have not spoken to in awhile. Put people’s birthdays in your calendar on your phone or your computer so you are aware of their special day and can use it as an opportunity to contact them.On their birthday, you may give them a birthday call or send them a birthday message as a way to celebrate them and stay in touch with them. You may also make contacting them every year on their birthday part of an annual tradition, giving you both a chance to catch up.

