 Be prepared to gain insight on the style of playing. Don't feel as if you are copying the way professionals play this piece - you will inevitably play passages similar to how they play them. Note: If you do this frequently, you may depend on this method, in other words, playing by ear. This is not professional and is looked down on.;
, (That's right. Do it before you even lay your hands on the keys.) This is very easy to do. Just listen to it and think about how it sounds.
 Learn how to place your hands correctly and learn about the chords you are playing. Once you can play the notes, moving your hands one octave up becomes easier.
 As with any piece, you must play so the melody is obvious to the audience.
 Take advantage of this. Put some meaning into the main theme (when this applies)!!!!

, This means not using 5th fingers on each hand during practice. Steady hand motion will result in perfect octave performance (i.e., the 5th fingers will follow the 1st fingers if the 1st and only the 1st fingers on each hand are practiced). DO NOT practice these at full speed. Your arms will surely become tense very quickly. Practice with a metronome with the notes on the 1st fingers initially. One word for the entire second movement (excluding the prestissimo): dolce!

, This can be very challenging to play at full speed and there is a lot of room for error. Don't practice the dynamics when learning the notes in this section. It will delay your progress. When you can play this part to tempo, incorporate the dynamics.
 Again, hands separately. It will be important to practice your scales and thirds in both hands while preparing to play the third movement since there are a few pages of continuous runs in both hands. It is extremely important to practice these very slowly until you can play them absolutely perfectly. Practicing the runs with both hands simultaneously may be beneficial here.
 Buying the Music Minus One disc should help you find out when to come in and practice good timing and flexibility. Be sure to apply your own style of playing here!

