 If you’re worried about scratching up your floor, lift the front end of your machine so a partner can lay a dropcloth, blanket, or similar material underneath. Then do the same with the back, if possible. Once you’re ready, slowly pull the machine away from the wall. Stop once you’re able to reach the drain hose in back. Don’t pull it out so far that you end up yanking any hoses out of the wall.If the machine’s too heavy for you to move, open the lid. Use a pitcher or similar container to ladle water out into your bucket. Empty as much water as you like this way, or just until the machine’s light enough for you to move.
If you’re working by yourself and the machine’s still too heavy even after you’ve ladled out as much water as you can, ask a partner to help you.
 Uncouple the drain hose where it meets the drainage pipe inside your wall. Be careful to keep that end of the hose raised higher than the machine itself as you do. Expect gravity to start pumping water out of the hose before you’re ready if you lower it.You’ll need to do this even if you ladled all the water out of the machine’s inner drum. There is still water underneath that, which you can’t reach through the top of the machine., Avoid spills by feeding the hose’s open end inside the bucket before setting the bucket on the floor. As the hose lowers, water will start pumping out on its own, so keep an eye on the bucket’s water level as it rises. Once it fills as much as you’d like, simply raise the hose’s open end above the machine to stop the flow. Drain the bucket and repeat until no more water comes out.Although it may be tempting to use the largest bucket possible and fill it all the way up, remember the distance you have to carry it. Only empty as much at a time that you can safely carry without sloshing any over the sides.
Alternately, you can simply aim the hose’s open end over a floor drain or into a bathtub if there’s one within its reach.
 To completely drain your machine, lower the hose to floor level. The rim of your bucket or bathtub is probably too high for this, so switch to a gallon-size jug or bottle. Lay it on its side and cover its mouth with the hose’s open end. Drain the bottle as it fills up, and repeat until the job is done.If the hose’s open end is larger than the bottle’s mouth, try using a funnel to reduce spills.

