 As soon as you notice the symptoms of anaphylaxis in the cat, bring the cat to the vet’s office right away. You may need to help the cat breathe if it appears to have difficulty breathing properly on its own. You can put your mouth over the cat’s mouth and blow air into its airway during the drive to the vet’s office.If you find it too difficult to blow air into the cat’s mouth, try to get it to the vet as soon as you can. The vet can then address the cat’s breathing issues with the proper equipment.
Keep in mind anaphylaxis usually occurs in cats right after they are given a vaccine at the vet, so in some cases, you will not need to travel to the vet for help with this issue.;
, If possible, call the vet in transit to let them know you are going to be arriving shortly with the cat. The vet can then prepare the necessary equipment to perform emergency medical care on the cat.For example, you may call the vet and say, “My cat is experiencing anaphylaxis and requires immediate medical care. We are on our way to your office right now.”

, The vet will need to make sure the cat’s airway is open and will give the cat oxygen. The oxygen will ensure the cat can breath properly again. This procedure is called emergency life support.The vet will also give the cat intravenous fluids to increase the cat’s blood pressure.
Most cats recover soon after receiving emergency life support.
 The vet will give the cat epinephrine, diphenhydramine, and corticosteroids. These medications will help to reduce swelling and ensure the cat’s heart functions properly.The vet may also give the cat pet-safe antihistamines. The antihistamines will help to reduce the symptoms of anaphylaxis.
 The vet will likely keep the cat in their care until it recovers. Most cats who experience anaphylaxis recover well without any side effects. You should schedule a follow up appointment with the vet within a few weeks so they can check that the cat is recovering with no issues.The vet should also make note that the cat is allergic to certain foods, vaccines, medications, or substances to prevent anaphylaxis from happening again in the future.
 If your cat gets anaphylaxis due to insect bites, ask your vet about a prescription epi-pen for the cat. The epi-pen is a small syringe and needle with one dose of epinephrine. Keep the epi-pen on hand during trips or hikes so you can give it to the cat, if needed.If you do give the cat the epi-pen, make sure you then bring it to the vet for observation.
 If you know the cat is allergic to certain antibiotics or medications, try to avoid giving the cat these substances. If the cat is allergic to certain foods, do not give the cat these foods. This will help to prevent the cat from going into anaphylaxis.You may keep a notebook of all of the substances the cat is allergic to. Share the list with the cat’s vet so they know what to watch out for and avoid when treating the cat.
 Most cats have anaphylaxis right after getting a vaccine because they are allergic to an antibiotic in the vaccine. Having the vet administer all vaccines on the cat will ensure they are on hand if the cat develops anaphylaxis. They can then treat the issue quickly and efficiently.