 Make sure all your rollers are in place in their case, and then plug it in to allow them to heat up. Some rollers have a light on the outside that show when they are fully heated; otherwise, wait 5-10 minutes for the rollers to heat before inserting them into your hair.
 While you wait for the rollers to heat up, make sure your hair is ready to be curled. Just like with a curling iron, your hair must be totally dry to be used in hot rollers. Blow dry your hair to remove any moisture, and brush it out to remove any tangles. You can add mouse to your hair prior to drying it to give it added volume.
 Starting with the hair located in the front of your head just above your forehead, section off a piece 2”-3” thick. Wrap this section around the hair, leaving 1”-2” inches of the ends left out while you roll it up. When the hot roller gets to your scalp, tuck the end piece underneath to help hold it in place. Clamp the roller cover over the top of the roll, and you’re ready to move onto the next section.
 Working from the top down, section off your hair into 2”-3” sections and continue to roll them into the curlers using the aforementioned steps. If your hair is very thick, you may need to use smaller sections of hair. Clamp each roller into place until you have finished rolling up all of your hair into the curlers.
 Hot rollers take a bit of time to work their magic on your hair, so sit back and relax for 20-30 minutes until the rollers are cool. This is a great time to finish getting ready for the day, or to accomplish other routine tasks while you wait.
 One by one working from the top down, remove the clamps and then the rolls from your hair. Refrain from unravelling the curls much, as they may lose their bounce and volume if you touch them too much. Continue until you have removed all of the hot rollers from your head.
 Before touching the curls at all, mist them with some hairspray to help keep them in place. Then, using your fingers only (not a brush) comb through your hair to break up the curls and help them to look more natural. If necessary you can add a final touch of hairspray, and you’re finished!







