 To start treating a mildew-infected carpet or rug, remove as much of the mold from between the tightly-packed fibers as possible by sweeping or beating the carpet with a broom. Make sure to wear a dust mask and, if possible, perform this task outside away from children and pets; inhaling mildew can be hazardous to your health.


For a deeper clean, you can also use a hand brush rather than a broom. Carpets and rugs are typically tougher than the fabrics listed above, so you can get away with using slightly stiffer bristles, but your should still take care not to scrub too hard or you may damage the carpet fibers.
 Next, use a vacuum cleaner to suck up all of the of the mold you've just dislodged in the last step. Any standard hose attachment should work, but for extra cleaning power, you may want to use a vacuum head with mechanical rollers or brushes.


It's a good idea to empty your vacuum after using it to treat mildew. If you don't, mildew spores can be blown into the air the next time you vacuum.To reduce the health dangers of inhalation, empty your vacuum outdoors in a well-ventilated area.
 Soak a sponge or a small rag in a mixture of soap and warm water. Wring the soap or rag out, then dab at the formerly mildew-y spot to let the cleaning solution soak in somewhat. Don't scrub or grind the sponge or rag into the carpet, as this can force mildew spores deep into the fibers.


Avoid using excess water. If you soak your carpet, you'll be creating the sort of moist conditions that led to the growth of the mildew in the first place. Your goal here is to gently clean the carpet fibers, not give them a bath.
 After you apply soap and water, to remove any excess moisture, give the affected section of carpet another quick vacuuming. It will probably be impossible to remove all of the moisture, but the more water you're able to suck out of the carpet before you leave it to dry, the better.
 Mildew, like many molds, thrives in dank, dark, wet conditions. By removing these conditions, you can make it less likely for mildew to set in. For example, if you have a dehumidifier, running it after you apply your soapy water can help decrease the ambient moisture in the air while the carpet dries. The less moisture in the air, the less likely mildew will be able to survive in the long run.


Dehumidifiers can be expensive. The best time to buy them is towards the end of summer or fall, when they are the cheapest. Remember to take advantage of sales and coupons as well.
If you live in a dry place, you can open up some windows. If you live in a humid place, keep the windows closed and turn on a fan. This won't decrease the ambient moisture, but it will give the carpet much-needed ventilation.
 If you're having a hard time removing mildew from your carpet with conventional methods, it may be necessary to take drastic measures and remove the carpet itself for a professional cleaning or disposal. For wall-to-wall carpeting, this may require special tools like a pry bar and/or carpet knife. See our article on taking out carpet for detailed instructions for this task. In most cases, you will want to wear a dust mask for safety.


For rugs, on the other hand, you should be able to roll up the rug and hang it outside in a well-ventilated area without much difficulty. Here, you can give the rug a deep cleaning without fear of encouraging further mold growth.
Be sure to check any padding under the carpet for the presence of mold. Dispose of any padding with signs of mold growth—leaving it can encourage mildew growth on future carpets that are laid over it., Even once you remove troublesome mildew from your carpet, its dank odor may remain. There are a number of ways to deal with this. The simplest is to buy a bottle of carpet shampoo and follow the manufacturer's instructions for use. Usually, you'll need to scrub the shampoo into the carpet, let it sit, and then vacuum it up, though this isn't always the case.


An alternative homemade solution is to put a little white vinegar in a spray bottle, spritz the affected area, wait 10 minutes for it to set, then sprinkle baking soda on top and vacuum when the solution is done reacting. See below for more information on this home remedy.