 It’s pretty easy to make a homemade turkey call out of a pill bottle. Any prescription bill bottle should work.First, draw a half circle on the pill bottle’s lid. Leave about an inch around the outer edge of plastic. Next, cut out the half circle. A razor blade should work to cut it out.Use a hack saw to cut off the pill bottle’s bottom. Sand off the rougher points with sandpaper. Be very careful whenever using cutting instruments.
Take a latex glove and cut one of the fingers off to use it as your reed. Slit it up the middle to the tip of the finger. Stretch the cut glove finger over the hole, and fasten it to the bottle with a rubber band.
Leave a gap between the bottom edge of the hole and the latex to make the turkey call. You can change the size of the gap to alter the sound. Cut off any excess latex. Press your bottom lip across the part of the bottle without latex. Chirp, purr or gobble into it.
 Turkey calls can also be made with cans. Take an empty tin can.


Cut down the side of the can and then around its bottom to create a single long metal strip.
Discard the can bottom or save it for other turkey calls. This metal strip will be the frame for your call. Lay the strip flat, and draw at least one frame on it.
The frame should be 2 inches long by 1 inch wide. Trace it on the metal. Cut out the inside of the frame. Cut along the outline.
 This is the musical instrument portion of the homemade call, which causes the reed to vibrate and make the sound.


Take a latex glove and draw a 2 inch by 1 inch rectangle on the glove. You could mark out more than one rectangle to make different calls. Take a razor knife, and cut out the rectangles. Cut through both glove layers.
Open your metal frame, and put your latex reeds in it by laying them in the frame.
Ensure they are all the way forward against the bend and close the frame tightly to hold the latex. Bend the top frame tab to lock the frame.
 Cut three pieces of 3 inch long waterproof tape. Layer them.


You will then have one piece of tape that is three layers thick. Take the piece you carved out of the frame’s interior, and lay it in the center of the tape.
Use a razor knife to trace around the cut out to cut a hole in the tape the size of the opening in your frame.
After you’ve cut the hole, lay the frame with the latex in it on the tape. Line it up so the frame’s opening is over the hole. Pull the latex tightly.
 Stick it to the tape around the frame. You want the reed to be tight but not overstretched.


Fold the tape over, and press it together. Make sure that it doesn't have gaps or the sound will be off.
Trace the basic shapes. After the turkey call is folded over, trace the basic call shape onto the tape.
It should match your mouth shape so you can seal the call against the roof of your mouth.
 This is probably one of the easiest calls that you can make at home. The key to this is to obtain very dry wood.Old furniture can provide a good source of wood, especially if it’s made of oak or mahogany.
You could also get some from a landfill or thrift store. Get a band saw to cut the wood with the grain. Cut it into strips that are ¼ inch thick.
Print out a homemade box call pattern sheet from the internet, and cut out the patterns.
 You should trace the patterns onto the blocks of wood and then cut them, following the pattern shapes.


It’s pretty easy to construct the box once you’ve cut the wood. You should have 6 pieces of wood when you are done using the box call pattern sheet.Shape the paddle’s bottom into a rounded bottom using a belt sander. Then, glue the ends and sides of the box together and put them into a box shape.
Assemble the paddle on the top of the call. Use a wood screw and a small spring to provide tension to the paddle.
 Find a good piece of slate. A slate tile or shingle are potential sources. Cut the slate with a diamond-tipped saw.


The slate section should measure about 8 inches (20.3 cm) by 12 inches (30.5 cm) and be 1/8 inch (0.3 cm) thick.
Grind the slate section. Rub on a section of sidewalk that you've doused with water.
Move the slate in circles until its fairly smooth. Rub the slate section with fine sandpaper until it's very smooth.
 The chamber should be fashioned out of a polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe. Cut 2 inches (5 cm) off a 3-inch (7.6 cm) diameter pipe.


Set the end of the sound chamber against the slate section. Trace the round outline onto the slate with a pencil.
Use tin snips to cut the slate until you have a round piece that fits over the end of the sound chamber.
Attach the round piece of slate to the end of the sound chamber. Use liquid ceramic glue or silicone glue.
 Make the handle from a 3/8 inch (1 cm) wood dowel. Cut an 8-inch (20.3cm) section, then whittle 1 end until it's sharp.


Shove the handle length-wise through the center of a dried, shelled corn cob. The cob should measure 6 inches (15 cm) in length.
Use wood glue if the handle is a bit loose within the corn cob. The corn cob is the striker.
Use the slate call to mimic wild turkey sounds. Hold the striker by the handle in 1 hand and the slate/sound chamber in your other hand.
 Perform this action with even circular motions.


Tune the slate turkey call. Do this until you're satisfied with the sound.
Trim the handle slightly, as that will impact the sound of the turkey call, and it's important to get it just right.
You could shorten or hollow out the top of the corn cob or shorten the sound chamber.
 Smooth the ends of a 3/4-inch (2 cm) PVC pipe coupler with sandpaper. Make a lip rest.


Use the end of the PVC coupler to trace a circle onto a margarine tub's plastic lid with a pencil. Cut out the plastic circle and then cut it in half to make 2 rests. You'll need just 1 lip rest for this project.
Glue the lip rest to one half of the end of the pipe coupler. Use a hot glue gun. Sandpaper any rough spots, if necessary.
Wrap the tube turkey call with black or camouflage tape. Cut a 2-inch by 2-inch (5 cm by 5cm) square from a latex glove to create a diaphragm.
 Drape it over the other half of the PVC end that the lip rest is attached to.


Hold the latex diaphragm in place with a rubber band. Press your lower lip against the diaphragm and your upper lip against the lip rest.
The correct position is similar to drinking from a bottle. Impersonate turkey calls by speaking into the tube turkey call. Your breath and jaw movements make the sounds that mimic turkey vocalizations.
For example, saying "shuck" into the tube call will sound like a wild turkey's yelp.

