 Being assertive does not mean you are aggressive or mean. One of the main characteristics of being assertive is being positive and proactive about your opinions and beliefs. When dealing with your coworkers, always approach situations with a calm and positive manner when expressing your opinions.


For example, if you are upset about a performance review, approach your boss or supervisor with a calm and level head. Think about what you want to address about the review ahead of time and express your concerns in a positive, relaxed manner. Your boss will be more likely to take you seriously if you don’t accuse or act out. Start the exchange with phrases such as, "I would like to discuss my recent review with you. I feel there are some inconsistencies and I would like to address them."
Avoid yelling, showing anger, or avoiding the situation. Being overly aggressive will not make your boss take you seriously and avoiding the situation by calling out from work will only reflect negatively on you.Look your boss or supervisor in the eye when you approach him/her, avoid crossing your arms or taking a defensive position, don't raise your voice, and avoid fidgeting when you discuss the situation.
 One of the best ways to be assertive is to have faith in your opinions and idea. If you don’t believe in yourself, you will never want to speak up with your ideas or suggestions. Try to express more of your ideas every day at the office, or at least when a proper time arises.


During a meeting, if you have a great idea for your boss about a future project you’d like to initiate or a story you would like to write, speak up in a positive, calm manner. Have faith in your ideas and capabilities.
Just make sure your ideas are fully thought out and prepared., Another part of being assertive is making informed comments, decisions, and suggestions. To do this, you need to actively listen to those around you. When a coworker is expressing opinions or beliefs, don’t interrupt or belittle those comments. Instead, try to consider your coworker’s point of view and take it in.


This means really listening to your coworkers and trying to understand where your coworker is coming from.
Once you do this, you can make an informed decision about what your own opinions about a situation., When you are learning to be assertive, you need to tap into what you want, feel, and need. This should be reflected in your statements. Instead of placing blame or being vague, use statements that begin with ‘I’ or that have that as a main component.


For example, don’t tell a coworker, “What if we changed distributors or vendors to save money on office supplies?” Instead, say “I believe we should change vendors to save money on office supplies.”, When you are expressing your opinions, do so with confidence. This will make you seem more assertive and like you know exactly what you are talking about. Make sure you aren’t being arrogant, where you seem full of yourself.


For example, go into your next meeting with great ideas that you say in a calm, even tone with an air of confidence and a positive or neutral facial expression. Your boss and coworkers will be more likely to take you seriously., One of the main reasons you may not be assertive at work is because you are stressed about the situation. You may stress about the outcomes of a situation where you have an opportunity to be assertive to the point that you lose that opportunity. Try to avoid that by stressing less about a situation.


For example, if you are working on a project with some coworkers and you have a great idea for the project, you should suggest your idea in a positive, calm manner. Don’t overthink it and stress yourself out., If you believe that you are being taken advantage of at work, you should speak up and assert your opinion on the matter. No one but you can make sense of how you are being treated. If you think a coworker, supervisor, or boss is treating you unfairly, calmly and rationally discuss the behavior.


Try to have specific examples of the unfair treatment or abuse. This will make your case more solid and grounded in real life examples.
Try to avoid screaming or acting irrationally in the face of these acts. This will only make you look bad. Always approach situations as assertive instead of aggressive.