 After you have washed your hair, apply a deep conditioner and tuck your hair under a shower cap. Wait 15 to 30 minutes before washing the deep conditioner out., Fill a spray bottle two-thirds of the way with water, and one-third of the way with a leave-in conditioner. Close the bottle and shake it to mix everything up. Spray the mixture into your hair until it is damp, then apply a rich, conditioning cream.
 Heat up 1 to 2 tablespoons (14.8 to 29.6 ml) of oil (like coconut oil or olive oil) and comb it through your hair. Cover your hair with a plastic shower cap and wait 20 to 30 minutes. Once the time is up, rinse the oil out, then wash your hair with shampoo and conditioner.


If you have very thick or very long hair, you may need to use more oil.
To make the mask even more effective, sit under the hot sun or a dryer. The heat will help your hair absorb the oil better.
 Place 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of honey and 1 tablespoon of coconut oil into a microwave-safe dish. Heat them in the microwave until the coconut oil melts, and stir to combine. Comb the mask through your hair, then tuck your hair under a plastic shower cap. Wait 30 to 40 minutes, then rinse the mask out using warm water and shampoo.If you don't have any coconut oil, you can use olive oil instead.
Honey is wonderful for hair because it helps seal in moisture.
 In a small bowl, mix 1 teaspoon of olive oil, 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of honey, and ¼ cup (65 grams) of plain, Greek yogurt. Apply the mask to your damp hair, then tuck your hair under a plastic shower cap. Wait 15 to 20 minutes, then wash the mask out with warm water and shampoo., In a small bowl, mash together a ripe avocado and 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of olive oil. For extra nourishment and hydration, add 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of honey. Apply the mask to damp hair, then tuck your hair under a plastic shower cap. Wait 15 to 60 minutes, then wash the mask out., In a blender, combine 1 ripe banana, 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of honey, and 1 tablespoon of olive oil. Keep blending until the mixture is smooth and there are no banana clumps. Comb the mixture through your hair and massage it into your scalp. Cover your hair with a plastic shower cap and wait 15 minutes. Wash the mask out once the time is up.The banana in this mask will help restore your hair's elasticity and prevent breakage.

