 Pocket camcorders are compact, lightweight digital video cameras that are easy to use. Pocket camcorders are a great option if you’re looking for something inexpensive that can capture videos of moments like family vacations and birthdays.One downside to pocket camcorders is the low lens quality, so if you’re looking to shoot professional-grade videos, they’re probably not for you.;
, Action cameras are compact digital video cameras that allow you to shoot hands-free, high-definition videos. Most action cameras come with attachable components that let you mount them on bikes, helmets, and other outdoor gear, making them a great option if you want to record yourself doing different outdoor activities. Action cameras are durable, and many models are built to withstand impacts and water damage., Professional digital video cameras are much more expensive than their smaller, simpler counterparts, but if you’re a professional videographer, it may be worth the investment. Professional video cameras are able to capture videos with great quality that are suited for things like broadcasts, documentaries, and music videos. They come with a wide range of manual controls that let you tweak and perfect your shots. If you’re not familiar with using the manual controls on a digital video camera, a professional video camera might not be for you., Cinema cameras can record high-quality footage fit for the big screen, but they come with a high price tag and a complex set of controls. Be prepared to invest a lot of money in accessories and camera gear, and you’ll likely need a camera crew to help you record with your cinema camera., Once you know what style digital video camera you want, try out a few different models to see which one you prefer. Make sure the camera you choose is comfortable to hold. Check to see if it’s too heavy for you. If it’s a large camera with a lot of accessories, know that you’ll have to carry a lot with you whenever you travel with it. Make sure all the camcorder’s buttons and features are easy to access., A flip-out LCD is a screen attached to a digital video camera where you can watch your videos as you shoot them and review them after you’re done. LCDs are usually 2 ½ to 4 inches (63.5-101.6mm) wide, but some camera models offer larger screens.Flip-out LCDs are a useful feature if you want to see how your shots look as you shoot them, but it may not be necessary if you’re using something like an action camera that is hands-free.
 Image stabilizers are either optical or electric, with both types working to stabilize the videos you shoot so they don’t look shaky when you view them. An image stabilizer is useful if you plan on shooting a lot of videos using your hands, but it might not be a necessary feature if you own a tripod or other camera-steadying device., If you’re planning on capturing subjects from far away, you want a digital video camera with a zoom feature. Most camcorders come with digital zoom, but not all of them come with optical zoom. Optical zoom allows you to zoom in on people and objects when you’re shooting without sacrificing video quality. If you’re getting a camcorder for personal use, you might not need optical zoom, but if you’re looking to shoot professional-style videos, the optical zoom feature is definitely something to consider.

Some optical zoom lenses can magnify objects better than others. The higher the number given for an optical zoom lens, the better zoom it has. For example, a 50x optical zoom lens can magnify an object more than a 10x optical zoom lens., All digital video cameras come with a built-in microphone, but sometimes the sound quality is low, depending on the model. For professional videographers, it can be helpful to have a camera with a jack for an external microphone.Using a high-quality external microphone will help you shoot videos with better sound, saving you time during the editing process.
 A tripod will hold your camera in place so you can take beautiful shots that aren’t shaky. If your digital video camera doesn’t have an image stabilizer built into it, a tripod is even more necessary.

When shopping around for a tripod, look for tripods made out of aluminum. They’re cheaper and more sturdy than tripods made out of other materials like carbon fiber., The memory card that comes with your digital video camera probably won’t be enough to store all your videos, especially if you plan on shooting a lot of footage. Get some extra memory cards and store them in your camera case for when you need them. Before you buy new memory cards, check that they’re compatible with your camera., You can find video camera bags ranging in style and price online or at any camera store. Keeping your camera in a bag when you’re not using it will protect it from the elements and make it easier to travel with.

If you’re worried your camera is too heavy or bulky to carry around, look for a camera bag with shoulder straps that will make it easier to carry., Look in the manual that came with your camera or check the battery itself to see what kind of battery your camera uses. You can order spare batteries online or go to a camera store and ask if they sell the battery type you’re looking for. Having extra batteries around when you’re filming will prevent your camera from shutting off in the middle of a shoot.Make sure your spare batteries are fully charged before tossing them in your camera bag. Most camera battery chargers have a light on them that indicates when a battery is fully charged.

