 Honesty is always the best policy, and many times the politest way to make a girl leave you alone is to just be clear and direct with her. Use any knowledge you have about her to help guide what level of interaction your conversation may require.You may be able to simply tell her that you are not interested in a polite and friendly manner. Many people would appreciate your honesty.
Some people may appreciate a more in depth conversation. If she has expressed her feelings for you, it might help her to be able to discuss the situation a bit, as long as you’re comfortable., Don’t dance around the subject or prolong the conversation with unrelated topics. Be clear that you aren’t interested in her romantically.


Don’t use language like, “I don’t think I can” or “I can’t” in your discussion. Passive language can make your motivations unclear and suggest that you may have wanted to pursue a relationship under other circumstances.It’s okay to mention that the conversation isn’t easy, that may even help her to feel better, but don’t do so in a manner that suggests you wish things could be different. Saying something like, “this isn’t easy for me to talk about” demonstrates that you care, without going too far., Just because you aren’t interested in her romantically does not mean she isn’t a person with feelings. Dating isn’t easy for many people and it may have been difficult for her to approach you to begin with.


Be mindful of your tone of voice. You want to sound calm, friendly and sure, but don’t leave her with a false impression.
Don’t become defensive if she gets upset. Try to understand where she’s coming from and what is upsetting her.Don’t be dismissive of what she has to say. Treat her with the same courtesy that you would hope to be treated with.
 She clearly sees something positive in you, or she wouldn’t be interested in you romantically. That’s a significant compliment; don’t take it lightly.If she has expressed feelings for you or asked you out, tell her that you’re flattered by her interest.
Be mindful of her feelings. Remain clear about your relationship, but friendly and pleasant in your demeanor.

