 Job growth in the investigation career is about average, but you may face tough competition from high numbers of retirees from the police and military. The median annual wage of an investigator is roughly $44,500 in the US, and £17,500 in the UK., Most private investigators rely entirely on clients for their income, so you must have the budgeting resolve to save up for dry months. The effect on your domestic life may be even more severe: when you do have work, you may be called to a 12 hour session at the drop of a hat. Expect to give up many evenings, weekends, and holidays, so you can conduct surveillance during your target's free time. Finally, you must be able to handle physical and emotional stress, including from the occasional dangerous situation.


Some specialties involve less surveillance and somewhat better hours. Keep reading for more information.
 Roughly 50% of private investigators are former policemen and 20% are former military.You'll need similar chops if you don't want to work your way up from the bottom, but there are several other routes into the field:Law-related work
Investigative journalism
Insurance claims adjustment
Debt collection

, Most US states and many other countries require a license before you can work as a private investigator. You can usually waive the experience requirement if you spent at least a few years in one of the careers listed above. Typically, you will need to pass an exam, and sometimes a short training course.In the US, contact your state or city Department of Public Safety to find out more.
 Private investigators can examine everything from arson to identity theft. If you can, draw on particular experience or skills to specialize in one or more areas. This can lead to more full-time employment opportunities, or create a reputation that attracts clients. Here are a few common specialties:Surveillance jobs most commonly involve worker's compensation, unfaithful spouses, recurring theft, missing person searches, or vandalism.If you have a background in law, law firms may hire you to assist with trial work, including acquiring information and presenting to juries.
Computer skill can make you desirable as a computer forensics investigator, recovering and analyzing deleted emails and other digital data.
Accounting experience prepares you for corporate jobs involving fraud, embezzlement, asset recovery, and other financial transactions.
 For starters, you'll need reliable transportation and a decently fast computer. You can't track someone down with the local library computers and the city bus. You'll probably also want a good camera, recording equipment, and — depending on the job — camouflage clothes.


Guns are not as common as you might think in most types of PI work. If your region allows PIs to carry weapons, and you're willing to accept more dangerous jobs, consider firearm training and a weapons permit.
 Depending on your exact experience, you may be able to land a full time job in one of the specialties listed above. Working for a detective agency is another option, and the on-the-job training it provides can be invaluable even if you have law enforcement training. Seek clients among insurance companies and attorneys as well as private individuals.


Although one in four PIs are self-employed, we don't recommend starting a business until you have at least a few years of experience., As a PI, you're toeing the line when it comes to the tactics you're employing to catch your perp. Just because you're a PI doesn't mean you can break the law. Stay safe (and employed) and get familiar with the laws.


Pretexting (the act of pretending to be someone else to obtain information) is generally viewed as only unethical. However, it is illegal in the US if you pretend to be a government official or use your identity to obtain phone or bank records.
Wiretapping is generally illegal.
Surveillance is typically legal (especially if the police have been notified).
Breaking and entering is definitely not legal.
Citizen arrest laws vary by area.
 There are about fifteen professional certifications that you can earn to prove your qualifications in various subfields of investigation. These typically require at least two years of experience and passing an exam. A few examples of organizations that offer certification are the National Association of Legal Investigators, ASIS International, and the National Association of Fraud Examiners.As long as you keep your training up to date, you can use the certification and title to attract clients.


A "certificate" is not a professional "certification." Certificates are generally awarded for short training courses. The training can be useful, but it does not carry the same cachet.

