 Know the purpose of your networking event, and think of it from the angle of everyone involved. For example, if the purpose is for everyone to get more leads or referrals, then consider the best approach to take so that everyone gets what they need.;
, By scope, we mean size and industry. How many people will you include in the event? Are you looking to create more of a sit-down environment where people would take turns going around the circle, explaining what they do and what kind of new clients they are in the market for? Or do you envision a large group gathering, with freestyle networking and a massive exchange of business cards. Perhaps a speed networking event is more your style. Are you considering regular monthly gatherings, or just a one-off event? Any of these types of networking events can be highly successful, but when you’ve set the scope, it will help you plan the details accordingly.
 If you’re planning a mid-size to large event, you’ll want to give folks a heads-up so they can save the date on their calendar.
 Now that you’ve decided on the purpose, style and scope of your event, the next step is to book a venue, and you’ll want to do this as early as possible.
 It may seem obvious, but you’d be surprised how many people start planning an event with the best of intentions, but then it turns out to be a “secret meeting.” In other words, nobody knew about the meeting except for you and a couple of close contacts.
 Remember, this is a networking event, not an entertaining event. People are here to meet and greet and find new business contacts, not to pig out. Keep the refreshments light and easy to eat (a good rule of thumb is: nothing that requires a fork or sticks in your teeth).
 It’s a good idea to let your attendees know what to expect. For example, if you’re planning a small event in someone’s home, you might let the participants know how many people are coming, so they can plan to bring enough business cards plus any flyers, brochures, samples, etc. that they would like to share.
 Here is one possibility: 7:00-7:15pm Meet and greet, 7:15-7:20pm Welcome and introduction, 7:20-8:30pm Each participant gets the floor for 5-7 minutes, round robin style 8:30-9:00pm Freestyle networking.
 The key to any successful event is mingling throughout the group. Whenever you bring together a group of people, there will nearly always be those who mingle easily, working their way through the room and making connections and building rapport, while others are feeling a bit nervous or insecure in a room where they don’t know anyone.
 Don’t fall into the trap that so many event coordinators find themselves in – just because you’ve coordinated the event, it doesn’t mean you should avoid promoting yourself.
 “Out of sight, out of mind” is just human nature, so it’s important to have some kind of takeaway for your participants, otherwise all the time and hard work you’ve put into the event may be for nothing.
 You may think your event was a raving success, but perception is everything, so it’s a good idea to get some feedback from other participants as well.
 Follow up with any leads or connections you made, and encourage your fellow participants to do the same. There is a saying, “the fortune is in the followup.” Call your leads and tell them you enjoyed meeting them. Find ways you can help each other’s business. Send referrals and ask for referrals. Be specific about what you need.

