 If you are cooking or cleaning the house, get your dog to tag along with you. If you are lounging on the couch watching TV, have your dog jump on up and snuggle with you. You can even talk to your dog during these moments as that will help you both to bond too., You can tailor your outdoor experience depending on your dog's breed. A small dog can participate in a hike if carried in an open pack whereas a large dog can probably trot alongside you. Dogs enjoy the outdoors because there are so many new smells and sensations. Paying attention to what your dog finds fascinating will also help you to view the same old path in a new light.Keep safety in mind when venturing outside with your dog. Make sure to apply repellent to your dog's fur if you are hiking somewhere with ticks or other pests. Offer water frequently to your dog and watch out for overheating or dehydration, often signaled by a slight shaking or excessive panting.
To keep your dog interested in the outdoors feel free to try out new places. Don't get stuck in a routine that may be boring to you both.
 Try to discover what types of play your dog enjoys the most. Some like to play fetch whereas others prefer hide and seek. Be creative and mix up your play time to experiment with new activities. Just be careful that your play does not bring out feelings of aggression within your dog, as tug of war can sometimes do.When you are playing and bonding with your dog, make a point to put your cell phone away.
To keep your play sessions fresh you may want to rotate out toys every week or so. There are even subscription services online that, for a fee, will send you fresh toys at set intervals. To find a service like this search online for "pet toy delivery."

, Hit your favorite dog friendly restaurant or café. Go to a festival or public park with your dog in tow. Take a walk in your local pet-friendly outdoor shopping area. Try to incorporate your dog into your regular social activities. You will find that it is much easier than you think.With all of this running around just make sure to offer your dog ample water.
 Dogs do well with a schedule, however, it is sometimes useful to mix things up a little. This is especially the case if your dog appears bored. So, do your same routine with a slight variation. Go to a different dog park. Change your walking path. Introduce a new toy. Your dog will then trust you to get them safely through this new experience., You can praise your dog by offering verbal encouragement or even treats. Just keep the positive reinforcement coming. This shows your dog that their good behavior is noticed and that they are an important part of your family. A confident dog is a happy dog. It is easy to offer praise when you first get a pet, but make sure that you keep this up over time too.Offer up positive encouragement for minor actions as well. If your dog waits patiently at the door or doesn’t beg at dinner there is nothing wrong with offering a quick treat. Couple this with a smile and a happy, “Good job!”Remember that treats don’t have to break the bank. Most dogs will be satisfied with a few frozen peas or a small piece of cheese., Your dog is also bound to mess up and when this happens it is your job to stay calm and instruct them in the proper behaviors. When your dog misbehaves it is enough to simply say, “No,” in a firm voice. Do not, under any circumstances, use physical force to correct your dog.