 There are a few ways to position your arms when you're floating on your back. If you're an absolute beginner, you can bend your arms at the elbows and place your palms under your head as if you were doing a sit-up, and then bend your elbows back to force your body to tilt upwards even more. Here are some other things to try as you position your arms:


If you're more comfortable in the water, you can move your arms straight behind your head, mimicking the diving position, which will change your center of buoyancy and will balance out the weight of your legs more.
You can also move your arms straight out or even keep them just a few inches away from your sides.
Whatever you do with your arms, make sure that your palms are always facing the ceiling or sky.
 This will help you tilt your body upward. Just arch your upper back a few inches upward.
 As you arch your back, lift up your chest more so it's out of the water.
 You should also actively lift your stomach until your mid-section breaks the surface of the water.
 Bend your knees to open up your legs a bit. If your legs are completely straight, you'll be more likely to sink.
 After you bend your knees, let your legs dangle down on either side, with at least a few feet of space between them. Your legs won't naturally float to the top of the water. For many adults, the legs are heavier than the arms and upper body, so the legs may naturally float downward. This may be different for small children, who don't have muscular legs.
 If you do feel your body floating downward near your legs, just take small kicks with your legs to keep your body afloat. You can float on your back and then take the kicks whenever you feel your body shifting downward, or just continually lightly kick your legs to avoid the downward shift.
 As you continue to float on your back, listen to your body and see if it's sinking in any place. Continue to kick your feet if you're sinking down near the feet and legs, and gently move your hands and arms in the water if you feel that your upper body is getting out of position. You can also try lifting your chin higher or arching your back a bit more to make your body more buoyant.


If you get out of floating position, just align your body with the surface of the water and try again. Learning to float on your back takes time.

