 Paragon has been released to play on two different consoles, PS4 or PC. Download the game on your platform of choice.


For the PS4 edition, you will have to download Paragon through the PSN store.
For the PC edition, you will have to first download the EPIC Games launcher through the Paragon website. Then within the launcher itself there will be an option for you to download Paragon.;
, To start playing you must make an account with EPIC Games or have a PSN ID.


You can either go to Epic Games directly and sign up, or to the Paragon Website. They both have links in the upper right hand corner that you can use to register.
For PS4 once you download the game through the PSN Store, your account will be linked to your PSN ID.
Surprise though! If you’d like you can link both your Epic Games account and your PSN, and you’ll be able to link accounts to use them on both PlayStation and PC.
 For those who aren’t used to the MOBA genre, or those who just want to test out characters, playing by yourself is one of the best options. You can get a feel for a game and the way the map works, as well as the abilities of the character you’d like to use.


Remember making mistakes are okay with A; it’s just you and the computers. If you decide you’d rather explore the map to get a feel, that's okay
What you do in this mode may not be okay to do in other game modes; being with you and only you takes a multiplayer experience and turns it singular. When you start playing with others for real, it’ll become a team game.
 Though you are still playing with AI in this game mode, this is for players who are starting to feel more comfortable with themselves and are ready to play in a team setting with real people online to defeat an enemy team made of AI. Play this game mode if you're feeling ready to communicate and play with others, or if you're feeling like making others frustrated with the lack of understanding of mechanics.
 So you’ve trained yourself, and you’ve trained with others, now it’s time to not only play with others, but fight against them too. Nothing changes between this game mode and the other ones besides the fact you are going to be expected to know how to play the game, and how the mechanics work, as well as communicate with your teammates, and understand that humans are a lot harder to face than AI.
 Choosing the role you like is important; there are 5 main roles in Paragon.



Carries - Farming farming farming. The goal of a carry is to not die, and to carry the team late game. Most of their damage comes from their basic attacks, and they usually stick in the safe lane

Offlane - Heroes that can play well solo. They have a lot of survivability and movement abilities, and are a big threat to the other team's experience early game.

Jungler - Heroes that gain exp and card exp from killing neutral minions in the jungle, or the spaces in between in each lane. Taking buffs is the way, and ganking lanes is their game.

Support - Heroes that can help in team fights and assistant heroes. They usually stick to the carry and help them get to late game. Starting in safe lane like the carry, their number one goal is to keep their carry alive.

Midlaner - Heroes that have heavy ability damaging moves, mages, and those with large boosts. Their auto attacks are usually weak but they pack a punch with their abilities.
 Paragon currently has 28 heroes available, with more being released at a rate of one every 3 weeks. There is a type for everybody: Supports, Carries, Midlaners, Offlaners, and Junglers, as well as melee heroes and ranged heroes. Picking heroes depends on your knowledge of the game.


Difficulties range from Easy, Advance, Intermediate, to Expert.
Heroes are categorized by their Basic Attack Power, Ability Power, Durability, and Mobility.
They are also often categorized by their traits, which are not a hard set of rules, but a guideline for those are beginning; Assassin’s, Attackers, Burst, Controllers, Durable, Elusive, Ganker, Guardian, Initiator, Marauder, Sieger, Wild, and Zoners.
 Now that you know the roles and the heroes you can choose you can get to know the abilities of the heroes you want to play.


Each hero has 4 abilities three basic and one ultimate, and you assign ability points to every time you level up.
Putting the points into the abilities make them stronger, basic abilities can be upgraded 3 times for a total of 4 levels, and ultimates can be leveled up two times for a total of three.
Some abilities are passive; others are active it depends on the heroes.
Some abilities are toggle-able, targeted, or area.
 Decks are the type of cards you bring into a match that can be purchased in game with card points that can buy equipment, upgrade abilities, and the prime helix. You can have 40 cards in a deck.


You can buy cards with reputation through the home screen
Leveling heroes and your account can give you cards
Community events
Weekly quests

, In game with the deck you bring into the game, you will be able to purchase the cards you have put into your deck with card points that you gain from card experience.



Equipment Cards - Equipment cards simply put are your items. There are 6 slots for equipment cards, and you may upgrade equipment cards with upgrade cards. Most equipment cards have 3 upgrade slots.


Passive - Passive slots for equipment cards are two. These type of cards do not have an active ability assigned to them.

Active - Paragon’s active cards are cards that have an active ability (e.g. a health potion card that heals you). Each hero has 4 active slots to put active cards in.



Upgrade - These are cards that have specific stats and can only upgrade equipment cards with that stat.

Prime Helix - These cards activate for the entire ally team giving them a strong buff; they are activated by destroying the Prime Helix Guardian in the Jungle. The prime helix is the strongest neutral creep in the game.
 Lanes are important in Paragon. Your choosing a lane all depends on the role of the hero you chose, as each lane is slightly different from one another. Some heroes don't even play in lanes; they kill neutral minions in the jungle.



Midlane - This is usually a solo lane, and the lane where your mages and ability carries go, or heroes who use primarily strong abilities to harass the enemy .







Offlane or the left lane - This lane is primarily for the heroes that are able to do well on their own. This lane is shorter than the safe lane, and can be harder to farm close to you tower in comparison.







Safelane or the right lane - This is usually a two-person lane that inhabits the carry and the support class. The lane is ideal for farming close to your tower, or for hard pressuring your opponent and taking their tower.







The Jungle - The jungle is where heroes who are built to farm neutral minions go. You farm camps, and within camps you gain different type of buffs from different coloured camps, each colour having a buff associated with it, and different effects with that buff.
 Experience is essential and important to you in the world of Paragon. It helps you level up abilities, and also allows you to gain card points so you can buy cards, to buy equipment, upgrade it, and so on.


Card Experience - Card experience of CXP is used by you to gain card points that allow for the purchase of cards. It is given from killing minions, structures, as well as the amber link.

Hero Experience - Hero experience or XP is used to raised Hero Level, which allows you to upgrade abilities and so on. There are give ways to gain normal experience: killing a hero, assisting in killing a hero, killing/being around a minion death, destroying structures, as well as neutral monsters within the jungle.

Amber Links - This is a mechanism in game that generates CXP every time an ally kills a white minion or a green guardian. Amber links are emptied every 2 minutes and each team member equally gains the experience. The enemy can steal CXP from it.
 Killing the enemy is the most important step to Paragon. If you're not killing enemy minions, and getting experience from them, you will be killing enemy heroes. Killing enemy heroes will give you the most experience, and can determine how hard you can push into their base, as well as if you will win the game or not.
 Though farming and killing heroes is important, destroying structures is the only true way you can win. With certain structures destroyed, you can force your way into enemy territory as well as avoid more damage, or even allow you to gain special ‘super minions’ to help your team.



Towers - There are two towers in each lane. They attack minions of the opposing team, and can do a considerable amount of damage to you and your team. Towers are essential to destroy as they give experience, card power, as well as pushes the lane and their destruction are key to victory.

Inhibitors - Inhibitors are the last protection before the core can be destroyed, they produce minions, consisting of ranged melee and siege. There are three of them per team, and if they're destroyed, your team will gain a “super minion” they have higher health and cause more damage.

The Core - The primary objective in the map; you cannot target it until one of the inhibitors on the enemies side is destroyed. With the destruction of the core, your team wins.
 The final key for you to play Paragon well is to play with your team. Listening and working together can be beneficial for all. Don’t expect others to know what you are thinking, or understand your strategy; you have to tell them, Paragon is a team/online game and to get the most out of it you need to work together.