 Use the same appraisal sites you used when buying the car to set a reasonable price, using Craigslist and local ads to find nearby buyers. If you don't care how quickly the car sells, start the price on the high end. If you want it gone quickly, keep it on the lower end and note that you're firm on the price.Even if you say you're firm on the price, people will still be looking to negotiate.
The phrase OBO ("or best offer") is used to indicate that you're willing to negotiate on the price, which is a good way to convince people to call you.
If the car is high value or a rare find, you might be able to make more money at an auction than a direct sale. Know, of course, that all auctions are a bit of a gamble: you might get way more than you hoped, but you could also get far less.
 This is why you must set your price point early on. If the cost of the repairs makes the care more expensive than you can sell it for, the repairs are obviously not worth it. However, if you can get a cheap car with relatively cheap fixes, you'll be able to charge more than it cost for the repairs. While buying a car that needs repairs can be a roll of the dice, smart buyers can turn big profits on small issues that the original seller was too lazy to fix.


Be sure to check online if the car has any common issues or problems. Can you do anything to convince potential buyers the problem has been handled?
What repairs can you do yourself? Older cars tend to have pages of advice on home repairs online, and more of them are in the range of a home mechanic than you might imagine., A clean car is much easier to sell, especially for a higher price. Furthermore, vacuuming and cleaning the windows costs you nothing, despite potentially making the difference between cash in hand and a missed sale. Be sure to:


Wipe down all surfaces with a clean cloth.
Vacuum all surfaces, including under and around the mats.
Rinse and wash off the exterior, including hubcaps. For higher-priced cars, consider a coat of wax to give it a clean sheen., If they know the problems beforehand and still show up, they can't use them to drive the price down. If they find issues you didn't mention, however, they suddenly have a few bargaining chips. Being honest upfront may seem like it is admitting to a bad sale, but it only brings in buyers who will be serious about the purchase. While you may be able to skate some smaller issues past a buyer without them noticing, people will generally pay more to a seller they find honest and trustworthy.


Be sure to provide plenty of pictures, especially of problem areas you noted (like a ripped seat). This inspires confidence and can help people stop worrying about potential defects., Unless these were done recently by the seller, this is a cheap way to clean the car up and raise the price. Be sure to note these services in your ad, as buyers will be happy to hear that they don't have to worry about these little hassles and are generally willing to pay a bit more.


Be sure to note the registration status as well. If it is almost up, people will have to pay $100 or more in order to re-register it, and they may factor that into their bargaining.
Be aware of state-specific requirements, like California's smog tests. If you can get this done ahead of time you can usually charge more than the test's cost, as you'll have eliminated the hassle of making them pay for a smog test.

