 Tobacco contains many, many chemicals, the most addictive of which is nicotine. Nicotine has been shown to be as addictive a drug as heroin or cocaine.Low levels of nicotine consumption create a slightly euphoric feeling due to the release of dopamine and the minor adrenaline rush that accompanies the act of smoking. Nicotine also increases the resting heart rate, lowers skin temperatures, and reduces blood flow in the body's extremities.Smoking is known to cause cancer, as well as strokes, coronary heart disease, blood clots, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). It has also been shown to harm virtually every organ in the body.Smoking is highly addictive. Many people recognize the harmful effects smoking causes on the body, but are incapable of quitting., Many self-avowed social smokers claim that they are not addicted, and can quit any time they want. However, on a chemical level, even social smokers' brains become sensitized to nicotine. Brain scans have shown an increase in the development and density of dendrites in the parts of the brain associated with addiction.Studies have shown that even beginner smokers experience a drastic reduction in the number of days they can go through without experiencing cravings, which suggests that even casual/social smoking is often the beginning of full-fledged addiction., If you still consider yourself a social/casual smoker without any real risk of addiction, you may already be addicted. Psychologists and medical professionals have compiled a checklist that addresses smoking habits which may be useful in assessing your own smoking habits. Any "yes" answers to any of the following questions suggests to medical professionals that addiction has already started:


Have you ever tried to quit but could not?Do you find yourself smoking because it is difficult to quit?Do you now or have you ever felt like you were addicted to tobacco/nicotine?Do you ever experience strong, irresistible cravings to smoke?Have you ever felt that you desperately needed a cigarette?Do you find it difficult to refrain from smoking in places or situations where you know you're not supposed to smoke?When you haven't smoked for a few days, do you find it difficult to concentrate?After not smoking for a while, do you feel more irritable?After not smoking for a while, do you feel an urgent need to smoke?When you haven't smoked for a few days, do you ever feel nervous, restless, or anxious?, If you're concerned about your level or frequency of smoking, or if you've tried to quit several times and haven't been successful, you may want to consider talking to your doctor. A medical professional will be able to help you develop a treatment plan to manage both the physical and behavioral aspects of your addiction/dependence, and such treatment plans are often highly successful.