 Make sure that the subtitle file has the exact same name as the video file. For example, if the video file is called “MyMovie.mp4”, the subtitle file should be called “MyMovie” plus the extension, which may be .srt, .ssa, or some other subtitle format. Both of these files should be in the same location on your computer.;
, There are a large variety of video conversion and encoding programs available online, and most can hardcode subtitles without too much difficulty. One of the most powerful and popular solutions is to use TEncoder, which is an open-source video encoder available for free download.
 Click the Add File button at the top of the TEncoder window to select the movie file that you want to add subtitles to.
 Below the file list, you will find several conversions options that need to be set before you can continue. Most of these options can be left to their default settings. You can change each of the options to suit the needs of your project, but to simply add subtitles to your video, nothing needs to be changed.


If you want to change the format of the converted file, choose a new format from the Video Codec list. If you want to keep it the same format, select Copy from them list.
If you want to lower the quality of the video to speed up the encoding process, choose a lower Video Bitrate. Setting this lower than the default can result in a noticeable reduction in quality.
 In the Other Options section, check the box labeled “Enabled subtitles”. Your subtitle file MUST be in the same folder as the video, and MUST have the same filename, otherwise the subtitles won’t load.
 If you want the final video to have a higher quality, then check the box labeled “Do two passes”. This will essentially run the encoding process twice, resulting in a higher quality file. The encoding process will take about twice as long as normal.
 Once you have your options all configured, click the Encode button to start the process. This can take a significant amount of time if you have a slow computer, so start the encoding when you know you won’t need to use your computer for a few hours.Longer videos and higher quality processing will take much longer than lower quality settings.

