 It is necessary that you don't drink a lot of water at a time even if you're very thirsty.


Prophet Muhammad (Sallallaho Alaihi Wasallam) said: "Do not drink directly from a water pitcher (or any water container)". (Hadith Bukhari)
Drinking water is healthy but drinking it in an improper way is not. So the main thing is that you drink water according to your daily requirement (1.5-2 liters/day).
Science proves that when a person drinks too much water in a short period of time, the kidneys cannot flush it out fast enough and the blood becomes waterlogged which can, strangely, become a cause of death. ;
,


Prophet Muhammad (Sallallaho Alaihi Wasallam) said:"When commencing to drink first recite Bismillah." (Hadith Tirmidhi).
By this act, we actually praise The Almighty Allah who gave us water to drink without which nobody can survive on earth.
 Like most of other daily routine works are said to be performed with right hand, drinking water is also among them.


Prophet Muhammad (Sallallaho Alaihi Wasallam) said, "Never eat and drink with the left hand because Shaytaan (Satan) eats with the left hand." (Hadith Muslim)

, Everyone is in a hurry for something, but that should not stop us from taking a moment to sit down and drink it in a healthy way.


Prophet Muhammad (Sallallaho Alaihi Wasallam) said: "Sit down and drink." (Hadith Muslim) and also said: "None of you should drink while standing; and if anyone forgets, he must vomit." Science has proved that drinking water whilst standing or walking can cause Gastrointestinal Tract (GIT) damage, kidney damage, arthritis, nerve tension and other disorders. , It is prohibited to drink water in a single gulp, an act that we normally do when we are extremely thirsty.


Prophet Muhammad (Sallallaho Alaihi Wasallam) said, "Do not drink water only in one breath, but drink it in two or three breaths."
Scientific studies show that there are many harmful effects in drinking water in one gulp. It can cause choking of esophagus. It especially weakens the muscles and nerves. It is also detrimental for the liver and stomach. , This is an important etiquette of drinking water.


Abdullah Bin Abbas (Radi Allahu anhuma) narrates the Prophet of Allah (Sallallaho Alaihi Wasallam) said, "Do not blow from your mouth into food and water." (Rawahe Tibrani).
Science shows that exhaling CO2 into a glass of water causes it to react and form carbonic acid that can disturb our internal environment causing a pH change. This, in worse condition, can lead to 'Acidosis' (a condition where the blood has too much acid, or a very low base, and often causes decreased blood pH). ,


Prophet Muhammad (Sallallaho Alaihi Wasallam) said: "Recite 'Bismillah' before drinking and say 'Alhamdulillah' after drinking." This act is performed to praise The Almighty Allah for blessing us with water; colorless, odorless, tasteless yet the most important drink on the whole earth.

