 Also, try to be good at the things she is good at, but it's fine if you find that you don't have the talent she has in some areas. Some of the activities Mackenzie is good at are the following:



Ballet (Dork Diaries Book One)

Speaking French (Dork Diaries Book One)

Dancing/Choreography (Book Three)

Ice Skating (Book Four)

Swimming (Book Six)

Skiing (Book Seven)

Dodgeball and Other Sports (Book Eight)

Drawing (Book Nine)

Take interest in all these things and take lessons for any activities that you might need help in, such as dancing, ballet, and ice skating.
 Therefore, in order to be able to gossip and chat easily with your friends, you will need your own cell phone (if you don't already have one). Try to avoid cruddy cell phones.


Some suggested cell phone brands are:

iPhone
Galaxy
Titan
HTC
Nokia
Huawei


Some good service providers are:

Verizon
Sprint
T-Mobile
At&t
Metro PCS


If you can't afford a cell phone, or if your parents won't let you buy one, use a different device. Your parents will most likely let you buy any device that isn't a cell phone. Then, download Skype, Facebook, Twitter, Musically, Youtube, or other social networking apps your friends use. You can have a Mackenzie whining episode in front of your friends if your parents won't let you have a cell phone. Or, you can tell them that your parents are super overprotective of you and won't let you have one.
If you do have a cell phone (or a camera or small device), keep it on you at all times. If something embarrassing happens to someone (specifically, your enemies) you need to be able to document it with pictures or videos. Having dirt on someone is a great way to get what you want. However, if you are going to blackmail someone, do not take it too far, as this could get you in serious trouble.
 The walls of her room are painted in different shades of pink. She also has a laptop, a flat-screen television, and a canopy bed. She also owns an enormous closet and has a bathroom attached to her bedroom. You don't have to splurge your money when remodeling your room. There are many inexpensive options available.


Have yummy-scented items in your bathroom. Consider getting some strawberry scented soap and cupcake body spray.
 It isn't only about the material items and the look―you also have to have confidence in yourself and know you're beautiful while loving yourself! How do you expect people to love you if you can't even love yourself?

, Befriend all the cool and popular people at school. While avoiding conversations with geeky or unpopular people at school, act neutral towards them without any signs of disdain or arrogance towards them so that they can't say you're snobby or mean towards them. However, do not be too nice to them or the popular people will dump you! Reserve your compliments for your close friends or family.


Do not be mean or cruel to anyone, no matter how much you dislike that person. Everyone wants to be friends with Mackenzie. Although it isn't guaranteed that everyone will want to be your friend, make sure you are nice and neutral to those that aren't your friends so no one can accuse you of being mean.
Becoming popular at school is hard. But there are some strategies you can use to put yourself in the popular circles (it is recommended that you spent a few days scoping out the people in the school and the groups you want to be a part of if you don't already know the people):

Walk up to a smaller group of populars (when a break in their conversation occurs), point out a weird, gross looking girl (especially one you have seen them fighting with or insulting), and ask them, "what's her deal?", or "why is she wearing that?" This strategy works because it establishes a common enemy, and populars are often big gossipers. If you point out the right girl, they will tell you all the things they don't like about her. Then, just keep a conversation going, and agree with what they have to say.
If you get lucky and get to talk to or work with a group of populars (like in a group project), say things that they will agree with or bring up juicy topics. Let them state their opinion first, and agree to what they say. Just to be safe, do not discuss religion or politics (unless you are absolutely sure they will agree with you).
When you talk to populars, always agree with them, compliment them, and ask them questions (everyone likes it when others are interested in their lives.)
Some interesting conversation topics:

Celebrities and celebrity relationships
Makeup, and how much makeup is too much
Weird things that parents hate
Stories about adorable dogs/siblings
Curling/Straightening your hair―hairstyles
How nail polish chips off your nails right after you paint them



Make sure that your conversation topics leave room for people to add their own comments so that they can do so (this prevents you from just awkwardly standing there after saying something).

Do not just walk up to a group of populars and interrupt their conversation. This will make them automatically dislike you.

Do not walk up to a popular circle and stand there in the group. This is super creepy because the girls don't know you.

Do not only talk to the "queen bee". Talk to other girls when she is distracted or away. Make them feel special. You need their support, too.
The "queen bee" of a popular group is usually the one that talks the most. If you see people looking up to you, saying things you have said before, or imitating your style, you are on your way to becoming queen bee. The best thing to do from here is to talk more.
 A lot of people admire Mackenzie, so act like you're a model and strut through the hallways as if you're at a Paris fashion show. To be sashay like Mackenzie, flip your hair like you know you're gorgeous, and smile prettily. However, do not overdo it or people will either laugh at you or think you're arrogant and snobby.
 Mackenzie does well in her French class and likes to be especially and genuinely nice to her teachers. She gets good grades and is perfect in her schoolwork and projects. Although there is no such thing as perfect, strive to do well in your schoolwork and projects and give it your all. If you get good grades, you might be liked by the teachers and become a good role-model. However, do not talk about your grades with your friends, or talk about assignments without them asking you first. It's a cruel world out there, and you may be labeled as a nerd or a know-it-all.


Being smart is also part of being Mackenzie, especially when she comes up with schemes to get her way. However, most of the time, Nikki is the main character and Mackenzie is basically the "bad guy". Therefore, don't think about this if you want to make schemes against your enemy.
 Make sure your friends are not too different from you, and share some of your interests. They should have cell phones so you can communicate with them. Hang out by your locker before school and during passing periods (if possible).


If you don't have lockers, find somewhere else to hang out together.
 Don't sit with any nerds, dorks, or total losers. Watch who you sit with and avoid food fights. If someone gets food on you, shout at them, and strut very quickly towards the bathroom with two of your friends on both sides so that you can clean up.
 Since you're acting like Mackenzie, twirl your hair, bat your eyelashes, act sweet and nice to him and say "Oh Hon!" If you want to, crack good jokes to get him laughing. However, if you're not acting the way you truly would act, he might see straight through you and dislike you.
 If the outside of your locker isn't allowed to be decorated, however, just stick to decorating the inside. Paste cute stickers (make sure they can be easily removed) and pictures of the guy you like, but make sure you don't have too many so that you have room for other things.


If you don't have any time to decorate your locker during school, quickly do it before and/or after school.
 Also, have a few pairs of necessary shoes, such as high-heels, flip-flops, ballet flats, or wedges. Also, have hairbrush and an extra purse. You could also put fancy lotions in your locker. However, don't forget about your school items. Have books for studying and reading in your locker so that you can grab one in case you forgot to study for a test―you can quickly study before class starts.

