 Wear clothes that fit well and don't look trashy or overly showy. Don't seem like you're doing all this for her, make it natural and normal.;
, Girls in general like a guy who'll look after himself, but not a guy who's convinced he has to be someone he's not in order to be likable. Nerd girls in particular have little tolerance for guys who aren't honest and down-to-earth.
 You'll need to respect her schedule.
 Ask her a lot about herself, and reveal things about yourself, too. This is called "flirting." It's not that difficult, so don't approach it as if it were. Don't make any comments about her body. All girls hate that.


Treat her like a friend, and you'll probably get... a friend. So what's the difference between flirting and normal talking? Flirting is the process by which you exchange information about each other. Someone talking to a friend might say: "Which of the Alpha abilities do you think is the coolest?" Flirting would sound more like: "If you could have a superpower, what would it be and what would you do with it?" because it helps you learn about the other person's personality.
Insecurity won't get you anywhere. Fact: You talked to this girl for thirty seconds and she did not run away screaming. Unless you're secretly a lazy slob whose hobby is punching cats in the face, chances are, you're worth talking to. Act like you know it. Self-respect and confidence are very attractive--to everyone, not just nerds.
 It really makes a girl feel good when a guy notices and remembers something about her, and uses it to make their time together more fun. Who knows--your unique idea might turn Tuesday into Tiramisu Night.
 A lot. Guys tend to bond by doing things together; girls tend to bond by talking. It helps if you can find a date that will incorporate both.
 Ask her casually, nerdy girls like a guy who can be her lover, and her friend. There are many different types of nerds. Take her somewhere based on what she likes, and what she is interested in. Try a romantic dinner or a polar coaster ride., At the end of the first date, don't rush straight to "Will you be my girlfriend?" Instead, say something like, "I really enjoy spending time with you. We should do this again soon!", and she'll probably say something similar back.


If you're feeling really good about how your date went, amp it up to, "I really had fun tonight. Want to go back to Tiramisu and Tea again next Tuesday? I hear they do good tortes, trifles, and turnovers as well."
Pay attention to what she says, and how she says it! It could indicate how much she likes you.

