 You can do so by entering https://apps.facebook.com/my-polls/ into your browser's URL bar.


If you aren't logged into Facebook, you'll be prompted to enter your email address and password in the upper-right corner of the page to continue.;
, It's a green button in the middle of the page.
 Your poll's title should succinctly express the context for your poll.


For example: a poll asking for people's favorite animals might be named "Pick Your Favorite Animal" (or just "Favorite Animal?").
 It's below the title field.
 This will allow the "Poll" app to access your Facebook page.
 It's near the middle of the page, to the left of the blue Next: Preview button.
 You'll do so in the "Question" field at the top of the window.


For the above example, you would type "What's your favorite animal?" here.
 To do so, click the bar below the "Question Type" heading, then click one of the following options:



Text Box - Poll participants will manually type in an answer.

Multiple Choice - One answer - Poll participants will select one answer from a list of multiple answers.

Multiple Choice - Multiple answers - Poll participants will select one or more answers from a list of multiple answers.

Drop-down list - Poll participants will click a box and then select one answer from a list.

Ranking - Poll participants will select each item in order of how items apply to them or the question.

Scale of 1 to 5 - Poll participants will choose a number from 1 through 5 ("poor" through "excellent", by default).
For the animal example, you'd likely choose a drop-down list, a multiple-choice (one answer) list, or a text box.
 The format of your answer will depend on the question type you chose:



Text Box - Click the box under "Data type" to select the type of input you'll accept, from a single line of text to email addresses and phone numbers.

Multiple Choice/Drop-down list/Ranking - Enter the text to display next to a checkbox in the field below the "Answers" heading. Click Add Answer to add another option, or click Add "Other" to add a text field.

Scale of 1 to 5 - Select a scale ranking by clicking the box next to "1" or "5" and then typing in a label.
You can also click the red circle to the right of some answers to delete them.
 To do so, click the box to the left of one or both of the following options if necessary:



This is a mandatory question - Poll participants will not be able to proceed with the poll until they answer this question.

Randomize answers order - Changes the order of questions each time the poll is taken. Doesn't apply to certain answer types (e.g., scale of 1 to 5).
 It's a green button in the bottom-right corner of the "New question" window. Doing so will add your question to the poll.
 You can add more questions by clicking the + Add Question button and filling out another form, or you can edit the existing questions by using the buttons above each question:


Click the pencil icon to edit an existing question.
Click the two papers icon to copy the question.
Click the up or down arrows to move the question up or down in the poll order.
Click the red circle to delete the question.
 It's to the right of the + Add Question button.
 If everything looks as you want it to, you're ready to proceed to publishing.


If you want to fix something, click the Back: Edit Questions button in the top-left side of the poll box.
 This blue button is in the top-right side of the poll box.
 It's to the right of the "Sharing Tools" text. Doing so will bring up a window with a Facebook post where you can add clarifying text to your poll.


On some browsers, this option may be labeled as "Add to your page."

, This button is in the bottom-right corner of the post window. Your poll will immediately post to your Facebook page.


If you'd like to attach a message to the post, first click the text field at the top of the window and type in the message.
The text box is a good place to inform users that they'll need to click out of the advertisement that plays when they initially click on the poll link in order to see the poll itself.

