 Some dieters weigh themselves as frequently as every day. Others weigh themselves once every week or every couple of weeks. Research shows that weighing oneself daily is best for weight loss, but you need to look at the the pros and cons of each option to decide what works for you personally.Some dieters find daily weigh ins can help motivate them and keep them strict about restricting calories. If you feel compelled to cheat and eat fast food, for example, thinking of how this will reflect your morning weight may give you pause. This also means you can quickly address any weight gain and adjust your diet and exercise accordingly.
However, daily fluctuations in weight are common. Things like water and salt intake can cause a temporary 1 to 2 pound increase in weight overnight, which may cause unnecessary frustration. Some people find the scale actually diminishes motivation, as these minor changes affect their mood negatively.
You can experiment weighing yourself every day versus weighing yourself every week or two weeks. See which method results in you feeling better about yourself and your diet. Pick the method that you feel will sustain you the most emotionally throughout the difficult process of weight loss.;
, If you're going to be weighing yourself regularly, the conditions should be consistent. If you weight yourself in shoes one day, and barefoot the next, this will cause a change in weight. The time of day can also affect your weight.Keep your clothing options consistent. If you're going to be weighing yourself every morning, for example, make sure to always do so with just pajamas on or, even better, when naked.
Your weight may change by a pound or two throughout the day due to normal bodily changes. You will weigh less in the morning, for example, as your stomach will be empty. It's important to weigh yourself at roughly the same time each day to get an accurate sense of whether you're gaining or losing weight.
 You want to make sure other factors aren't affecting your weight. It's easy to get discouraged if the numbers spike up unexpectedly, so learn common factors that cause inaccuracy in scales. Try to avoid weighing yourself when these factors are at play.Take water weight into account. If you have a glass of water before hopping on the scale, you can "gain" as much as a pound. Water weight can work the other way as well. If you weigh yourself after a big workout, you may find you've "lost" two pounds, only to get discouraged to find them back again the next morning.
Alcohol also causes dehydration, leading to fluid retention. This translates to holding onto water weight after a night of drinking.
Restaurant foods are often high in salt, which can lead to increased water weight and a misleading number on the scale.
Menstruation can cause a temporary rise in weight before your period. If you know your cycle, it may be a good idea to refrain from weighing yourself right before your period., Scales give you a good estimate of your rough weight. However, the typical bathroom scale isn't 100% accurate. There may be minor differences between one scale and the next. In order to accurately gauge if you're losing weight, stick to using the same scale., This is generally considered the ideal time to weigh yourself. Your stomach will be empty, so you won't have a misleading number due to recently having consumed food or water. As water weight can also cause the number on the scale to change, don't even have a glass of water before hopping on the scale in the morning., If you're not weighing yourself every day, settle on a specific time to weigh yourself each week. Remember, small changes can affect weight. Consistency will help you get a sense of whether your weight is generally going up or down.For example, if you usually have dinner out on Friday, your weight may creep up a bit Saturday morning. If you usually have a vigorous workout Thursday night, your weight may be down slightly Friday morning.
Try to pick a timeframe when there's nothing unusual about your schedule. If things are pretty routine Monday to Wednesday, try weighing yourself every Wednesday morning, for example.
 It's important to weigh yourself while dieting. Weighing yourself can help you track what works and what doesn't and keep your motivation strong. However, many people have anxiety about the scale. If you're having trouble stepping on the scale, find ways to ease your stress.It can help to show yourself how easily weight changes. Weigh yourself once, have a large glass of water, and then weigh yourself again. You'll be surprised how much weight you gained just in water.
Doing things like this can show you how much weight fluctuates. This will allow you to cut yourself some slack if you gain a pound or so one week. Remember, this could be due to a number of factors and your weight will eventually go down if you stick to your diet and exercise plan.
 You can't expect big changes fast. Healthy weight loss is usually in the form of 1 to 2 pounds of week. Track your weight in a journal and pay attention to how it changes slowly over time.You may not lose weight every week, and some weeks you may be frustrated to find you've gained some. During these weeks, remind yourself how far you've come.
For example, think something like, "Yes, I went from 169 to 171 this week, but remember when I used to be 206? I've come a long way."

, You never want to step on a scale after drinking water. A glass of water can cause your weight to shoot up over a pound. Try not to drink anything before stepping on the scale., Alcohol and food you would get from a restaurant can cause incredible inaccuracies with the scale. While it's virtually impossible to gain weight due to a single night's indulgences, the scale may say otherwise. Water retention occurs if you've had salty food or alcohol. If you have a cheat night where you go out with friends, don't torture yourself by stepping on the scale in the morning. Wait a few days to weigh yourself again., As the scale can fluctuate due to random factors, embrace other weight loss clues. This will help you feel good about yourself, even when the number on the scale is not moving as fast you want.Pay attention to how your clothes fit. If your clothes are getting looser, this is a good sign you're losing weight even if the scale is saying otherwise — remember that muscle weighs more than fat.
Take your measurements. Even if the number on the scale isn't creeping downward as fast as you want, you'll be happy to see your waist decreasing in size.
Pay attention to how your body has changed. You may be able to run or walk farther as you get more fit.

