 Job postings or ads will provide you with essential information about the company, the job duties, and the type of person they employer is seeking. If you read the entire ad closely, you should be able to determine the majority of the qualifications a candidate will need to get an interview.


Remember to consider the whole posting. For example, an ad for a customer service representative might explain that the job involves answering a high volume of calls daily. It may list only “call center experience” under the qualifications heading, but if you read the entire ad, you’ll understand that experience taking calls of high volume is an implied necessity. You’ll know, if you have this experience, to include it on your resume.;
, As you read an ad, mark the skills that seem especially important for the job. This exercise will help you understand the type of person the employer is looking for and think through your own experience as it relates to these skills.


Remember, as in the example above, that necessary skills can be stated or implied throughout a job posting, not just in the qualifications section. Read the whole ad, and highlight all skills that seem essential for securing an interview.
 Many job postings break desired qualifications into “must have” and “preferred” skills and experience. By listing these separately, companies state minimum qualifications needed to secure an interview while also listing skills that are likely to move you ahead of other candidates. If you do not list “preferred” skills as well as required ones, you put yourself at a disadvantage.
 Hard skills are teachable and quantifiable, like knowing how to navigate a customer database or being able to communicate in a foreign language. Soft skills, on the other hand, are more subjective and related to your personality traits; examples include problem-solving abilities, communication skills, and good time management. Most companies are looking for a good balance of both hard and soft skills from qualified candidates.
 Once you’ve read a job ad and highlighted the important hard and soft skills (considering both the required and the preferred ones), think about your own experience and abilities. Consider which of your skills are strong matches for the skills this particular employer is seeking.


In the call center example above, if you have been a customer service representative in a company with very high call volume, you can list “excellent customer service skills,” “solid call center skills,” “high call volume management” and “outstanding problem solving skills.”

, Many job seekers zero in on the hard skills required for a job and forget to consider the relevant soft skills. Match the desired qualifications in the job ad to your own, and look for skills like problem solving, time management, and oral and written communication.
 If you do not have all of the required and preferred skills for a particular job, that’s okay. You might not be the most qualified candidate, but do not put false skills on your resume. Spin your skills in the most positive way that you can, and then hope for the best.
 Read the job ad again, and think carefully about what the most essential skills are. Choose three to five of these that you possess, and use them at the very beginning of your resume to grab the reader’s attention. This lets readers see very quickly that you are a good candidate for the position.


You can place these essential skills immediately beneath the resume heading, in one line. For the customer service representative example, you might have: “High Call Volume Management / Call Center Customer Service / Call Escalation”

, After your heading and essential skills, you should have a short paragraph briefly highlighting your basic skills and experience. This is called the summary statement. Make sure that you tailor it to the job you are applying for; include relevant skills, and remove anything that seems not to be applicable.
 Underneath the summary statement, create a skills section. This should also be tailored for the particular job you are applying to. Aim to include a list of five to ten skills, and no more than fifteen.


Be as concise as possible, using only one to three words for each skill. Keeping each skill as short as possible is important; it allows recruiters to review the list quickly. Remember that you’ll also have an experience section, which will back up your list and provide further details.
In general, it’s best to use a bullet format with multiple columns. Use a professional resume template. Adding two or three columns will keep your resume short and professional looking.
 Below your skills list should be your experience section, the bulk of your resume length. Make sure, in this section, that you back up the skills you have listed with more detail.
 You should not be sending identical resumes to different companies for different jobs. Taking the extra time to review your resume and add and delete skills to keep it relevant for a particular job is essential to securing as many interviews as possible.

