 Clean, trim, and file your nails. Push back your cuticles and apply some cuticle oil. Lastly, wipe your nails down with some rubbing alcohol or nail polish remover. This will get rid of any oils that might prevent the polish from sticking.;
, Start by applying the base coat to just the tips of your nails, then apply more base coat over your entire nail.
 This will help the gradient layer show up better.If you can't find any white polish, find the lightest color from your gradient, and use that instead.


If you do not wish to have a gradient butterfly wing, apply a coat of bright polish, then click here to learn how to do the details., The next few steps will get very messy. Covering the skin around your nails will make cleaning up easier. Simply apply some petroleum jelly, white school glue, or liquid latex to the skin around your nails. If you are using glue or latex, be sure to let it dry before moving on.
 Get one of those triangle-shaped sponges you use to apply foundation with. Choose two to three colors of nail polish. Paint one stripe of each color onto the sponge. Make sure that they are all touching. Most people use flat polish, but you can try metallic or pearlescent instead.


Choose different shades of the same color for an ombre effect.
 Orient the stripes horizontally, then press the sponge against your nail. Gently roll it across your nail. Don't worry if you get polish on your skin., This will help soften the lines between the colors and blend them together., Allow the polish to dry for about 1 minute first, then reapply the polish to the sponge. Roll the sponge across your nail once more, then tap your nail with the sponge to blend the colors., Let the polish dry for about 2 minutes, then apply a top coat. Let the top coat dry completely before moving on.If you used flat polish for the gradient, consider using clear glitter polish instead a clear top coat. This will give your butterfly wings extra sparkle., Find a thin, pointed, stripper brush and dip it into flat, black polish. Paint a line going from the bottom center of your nail up to center side.It does not matter if you angle the line towards the left or right side of your nail. It needs to be the same on each nail, however.
The line can be straight or slightly curved., Using the same striper brush, outline your entire nail using black polish. Try to get as close to your cuticle as you can. Once again, don't worry if the polish gets onto your skin.For a twist, paint only above the line that you drew in the previous step. Leave the nail below the line unpainted., Start from the angled line that you grew and finish at the tip/edge of your nail. Try to space these lines as evenly as you can. The lines will be a little slanted.Because of how small your pinky is, consider doing only 2 to 3 lines.
For a more realistic wing, make the curved lines thicker at the top of your nail and thinner on the sides.
 Starting on the leftmost outline of you nail, draw a small, upward-curved line towards the first vertical line. Draw another small curve towards the next line, and the next. Think of it like connecting the spokes on a web.Try to make these curves follow the same angle as your horizontal line.
Don't worry if there are gaps between the curves and the top outline of your nail.
 You may have some gaps between the top outline of you nail and the connecting lines. Carefully fill these gaps in with more black polish., You can use a toothpick, a dotter, or a clean striper brush to do this. The dots can all be the same size or they can be different sizes., Because of how long this polish takes, you can work on you other nails as well, just be careful not to accidentally bump or smudge your hard work!

, If you used white school glue or liquid latex, simply peel it off!

, Take a look at your manicure. If there is any unevenness, fix it now. If you ended up getting any nail onto your skin (especially in the crease between your nail and cuticle), wipe it away with a thin brush dipped in nail polish remover.
 You can use a regular top coat or a matte one. If you used glitter polish earlier, use regular, glossy polish. If you use matte, you will dull down the glitter.

