 You need everything in the above section plus a few other things. The entire list includes:


3/4 inch (19.05 mm) 160psi irrigation tubing
A PVC pipe cutter
Four 3/4 inches (19.05 mm) PVC tube connectors
Bungee cord
Uncoated coat hanger wire
A power sander (optional, though preferred)
Several pairs of pliers
A couple of friends (it will be much easier)
A pair of goggles

, Stand up straight and measure the distance from your feet to your chest (or anywhere between your belly button and your chest). This measurement is the diameter of your ideal hoop. You then need to calculate its circumference to know how much tubing you need. (Circumference = Pi (3.14) times Diameter (C=pD))


The average adult hula hoop is 40” in diameter, or 125.6” long. Each piece would then be about 31” long.
Constructing a hula hoop for a child? Then you’ll likely need around 26” in diameter, or 87.9”. Each piece would then be about 22” long.
 This will help you know how the pieces fit back together. It’s sort of like a puzzle, where each one is similar but fits best into a certain other piece. In total you’ll need 8 markings, one for each exposed end.


This can be done with the edge of a knife, scissors, or even with a pen. Don't want to make a permanent mark? Use tape.
 If you’re using a power sander, there’s going to be dust and grime floating up around you everywhere, so be sure to wear goggles or a mask. If you don’t have a power sander, you can do it manually – it just requires a lot of patience and more time.


Take a break from sanding and see how the connector fits into the tube. There should definitely be resistance, but when you’re finished it should snugly fit inside the tubing. Keep sanding until each connector reaches this point.
 This can be done with a blow dryer, hot water on the stove, or an open flame (but an open flame is harder to control and can result in melting). When they become soft and pliable, place the non-sanded ends of the connectors each into a section of tubing, leaving the sanded ends visible and sticking out.


The connectors should be inside the tubing up until about their halfway point. Any further and they won't be able to do their job of connecting.
 You’ll be sort of disassembling it in a second to make it collapsible, but for now you need it in its circular form. The warmed tubing should go over the unsanded ends of the connectors, fitting snugly.
 Here’s how:


Get an 8” long piece of uncoated metal coat hanger. Use it to open the hoop at one of the four exposed points.
Snake the bungee cord through the entire hula hoop until it comes out on the other side.
Pull it taut. Very, very taut. This is where having friends is helpful. You can either pull both ends, or clamp one down to the tubing. Either way, make sure it’s stretched to it’s maximum as this will hold the hoop together when spinning.
Overlap the ends of the cord and wrap the wire around and around it, digging the wire into it.
Using pliers, squeeze the wire against the cord. When secure, cut the ends of the cord off.
 It will take a little effort to pull apart, and that’s good. That means it will keep spinning and stay together. Assemble and disassemble the hoop, making sure it works properly.


If it doesn’t, odds are your bungee cord isn’t tight enough. If it’s too loose, it will collapse on its own when spinning and likely pinch you. Tighten the bungee cord more, reapply the wire, and try again.
When it works, take your hula hoop on the go with you – it’s easy to pack and perfect for traveling.

