 Keep your arms relaxed at your sides.;
, Your feet should now be about a shoulder's width apart.
 Your legs should now be crossing one another.
 Your feet should once again be a shoulder's width apart.
 The speed of the steps will be based on the rhythm of the song your are dancing to.
 The grapevine is used in popular line dances such as the Cowboy Boogie., Keep your arms relaxed at your sides. Step forward about 1-1/2 feet with your right foot.
 At least part of your foot should be touching the ground the entire time.
 This is the last step of the sequence.
 Step forward with your left foot about 1-1/2 feet. Slide your right foot up to meet your left foot. Step forward again with your left foot.
 One of the most popular line dances to use this step is the Cupid Shuffle., Kick your right foot forward a few inches above the ground, then lean forward and step on the ball of that foot, but only for a second.
 Then step down with your left foot.
 The kickball changeis featured in many dances, including Copperhead Road., Place your weight on the ball of your foot and pivot 90-degrees to your left.
 Bring your feet back together.
 Pivot turnsare used in many line dances, including the popular Cupid Shuffle,to change directions or to link other steps.
 Put the above steps together to perform the Cupid Shuffle Line Dance.


Step four steps to the left using either the grapevine or a side shuffle, keeping rhythm with the song. Then make four similar steps to the right.
Complete the kickball change with your left foot, followed by your right foot. Repeat the step with each foot.
Pivot turn to the left, adding extra steps, turns and hip movements in tune to the music.
Repeat the sequence.
 You can also combine the above steps to perform the Electric Slide.


Similar to the Cupid Shuffle, the Electric Slide begins with four grapevine steps to the left followed by four to the right.
After grape-vining to each side, take four shuffle steps back followed by four shuffle steps forward.
Complete a kickball change with each foot.
Pivot turn 90 degrees to the left.



Do one grapevine to the left, followed by a half-step with your knee up, known as a hitch. Complete the action to the right.
Step forward and hitch, then step forward and hitch again.
Take three steps back and hitch.
"Boogie" by shaking your hips as you stand in place.
Pivot step to the left, hitch and repeat.
 Once in place, you can start stepping in time with the other dancers.


If there is no more room on either side of the current lines, form a new line in the front or back.
The rhythm of the line dance will be based on the tempo of the song playing. Step in time with the other dancers to stay on track.
 When practicing the different moves, make an effort to always be moving in a straight line either to the side, front and back. This will be especially important when you are dancing with groups of people.
 While the steps and the counts or each dance are set, your own style will make your dancing stand out. You can choose how to move your hips, upper torso and arms to stand apart from the crowd.


While some line dances have arm movements built in, most of the time you can hold you arms however you're comfortable. Hold your arms steady to your sides or in front of you, or you can even make up your own arm movements, as long as they're not too distracting.
 Line dances can be held at barns, nightclubs, school dances, wedding receptions or even birthday parties.

