 These two concepts are the core of the Google Inbox experience, and understanding how they work will help make Google Inbox much easier to use.



Labels are Google Inbox's way of organizing your incoming email messages. You can apply labels to messages according to the category of your choice, such as "Family", "Work", or any other category you'd like. You can configure labels so that the right incoming messages are sent to the right label automatically.
A bundle is a collection of new messages in your inbox that share the same label. Bundles act as holding places for the new messages in your inbox, preventing your inbox from filling up with individual messages. Bundling is enabled on a label-by-label basis.;
, Google Inbox will create a few labels which it will attempt to automatically sort a lot of your email into. Any labels you've previously created in Gmail will be listed below the pre-made ones.
 This will allow you to add a category to sort new messages into.
 Enter a name for the label that is descriptive enough for you to know at a glance what types of messages it will contain.
 When you receive an email that meets any of the rules you create, it will be sorted into that label. Tap "From" to choose the type of rule.


From - Any email sent from the email address or name you specify will be added to the label.
To - Any email addressed to the email address or name you specify will be added to the label.
Subject - Any subject that matches the subject you enter will be added to the label.
Includes - Any message body that has the keyword(s) you specify will be added to the label.
Excludes - Any message body that doesn't have the keyword(s) you specify will be added to the label.
 You can add multiple rules to each label so that you get exactly the emails you want. Tap "And..." when creating rules to add more. Only emails that meet all of the rules will be included in the label.
 Any future emails that match your rules will be added to the label. Your label rules will not automatically add emails that you had already received before creating the label.
 When creating a new label, it will automatically be set to "bundle" together new messages in that label in your inbox. You can verify this by looking at the "Bundle messages in inbox" slider.


When bundling is turned on for a label, any messages received in that label will be collected together in your inbox. The collection will be labeled with the label's name, and unread messages will be bolded. Expanding the bundle will let you see all of the messages in that bundle that have not yet been marked as Done.
 By default, the bundle will appear at the top of your inbox whenever a new message with that label arrives. If you don't need to check new messages in that label immediately (marketing messages, automated statements, etc.), you can set the bundle to only appear once a day or once a week.


If the bundles is set to appear once a day or once a week, it will not appear as soon as a new email arrives. The bundle will not appear if no new messages were received.
Labels with important and time-sensitive emails should have their bundles set to appear as soon as new messages are received.
 When notifications are turned on, you will receive a notification on your mobile device whenever the bundle appears in your inbox.


If the bundle is set to appear whenever you receive a new message, you will receive a notification when you receive the message. If the bundle is set to appear once daily or weekly and notifications are turned on, you will receive a notification at the time the bundle appears back in your inbox.
You can only change notification settings from your mobile device.
 Your bundled label will appear in your inbox based on the "Show bundle" settings you set earlier. Tapping a bundle in your inbox will expand it and show all of the messages it contains.


You can view all of the messages in a label, and not just the ones bundled in your inbox, by opening the Google Inbox menu and selecting the label from the list.
 If you are finished with all of the messages that are currently in a bundle, you can mark the entire bundle as Done so that all of the messages are removed from the inbox at once.


If you are using the mobile app, swipe the bundle to the right in your inbox.
If you are using the website, click the Checkmark button that appears when you hover over a bundle in your inbox.

