 The Akita Inu's coat is short and stiff and needs to be brushed regularly. About once a week is adequate for most of the year.The breed sheds heavily twice a year, so be prepared to spend extra time grooming your dog during these seasons.
When selecting a brush for your Akita Inu at the pet store, look for one that is appropriate for the dog's double coat. Generally, a slicker brush or a flexible pin brush works well for dogs with a double coat.For most the year (i.e. when the dog is not shedding), pick the same day of the week and time of day to brush your dog. The Akita Inu has an excellent internal clock and will quickly come to recognize brushing as a "fact of life" if you are consistent. This goes double if you can start this regimen when the dog is still a puppy., The Akita Inu's hair contains heavy oils that are necessary for repelling water. Take care not to strip these healthy oils from the coat by bathing too often.Additionally, Akita Inu dogs will lick themselves clean like a cat. This keeps the dog clean and eliminates odors, making frequent bathing unnecessary.
A bath every three to four months is typically adequate. Of course, if your dog plays in the mud or otherwise gets very filthy, a bath is in order, even if it has had one fairly recently.
 The Akita Inu requires regular tooth brushing. Buy a dog toothbrush and toothpaste and clean its teeth twice a week. As best as you are able, brush the dog's teeth just as you would brush your own.Failing to do this can result in periodontal disease, bad breath, and discomfort when your dog eats.
Your local pet store should carry toothbrushes and toothpaste for dogs. If need be, do some trial and error to find a flavor your dog likes. Never use human dental products on a dog. Human toothpaste, in particular, can sicken a dog., These dogs need their nails trimmed once a month. Starting this regimen when the Akita Inu is still a puppy will make it more cooperative when it's time to trim.It is very easy to accidentally cut a dog's nails too short, cutting into the quick. This causes bleeding and discomfort for your dog. To begin with, cut off only very small parts of the nail, until you get a better sense of what you are doing.Pet stores sell special nail cutters for pets with a guard built in that prevents cutting off a large amount by accident.
If you are unable or unwilling to handle this yourself (e.g. because the dog is uncooperative or you are worried about cutting too much), have a professional groomer cut your dog's nails.

