 If you want people to recognize your Barbie look, you've got to wear pink -- it's the classic Barbie color.


Incorporate as much pink into your wardrobe as possible -- pink tees, pink dresses, pink jeans, pink skirts, pink shorts etc. You can wear pink pajamas to bed (or to sleepovers) and get a pink robe for lounging around the house -- and don't forget the fuzzy pink slippers.
However, don't go too overboard by wearing head-to-toe pink. Even Barbie understands the need for a little variation. Try wearing one or two pink items per outfit, for example: a pink top and pink shoes. Then you can accessorize with more pink if you like!

, Barbie is a bit of a style icon -- she's always on board with the latest trends and never leaves the dream house without looking her best!


Look at fashion magazines and fashion blogs to see what's hot this season. Do your best to follow the latest trends while also staying true to your own sense of style and individuality -- that's what being a style icon is all about!
Don't feel like you have to spend a ton of money on clothes just to be stylish. Find some clever ways around your budgetary restraints -- for example, host a clothes swapping party with your friends or shop in vintage and thrift stores for some great bargains.
 Of course, Barbie isn't all about high heels and mini-skirts, she like to get active too! But that doesn't mean sweat pants and oversized tees -- Barbie still looks cute when she plays sport or hangs out at the beach.


Get some cute, colorful workout gear -- patterned bicycle shorts, stylish yet comfortable sports bras and funky running shoes. You could also wear a pink baseball cap if you're running outside!
Barbie loves the beach, so having some pretty swimwear is very important. Go for cute, girly bikinis with frills, bows and beads when you're just hanging out and sunbathing, or choose a functional yet feminine bikini for beach volleyball, swimming, or lifeguard duty.
 Any self-respecting Barbie girl knows that accessories are a vital component of virtually any outfit -- so don't forget!


Hair accessories are a great place to start. Cute pink headbands work nicely, as do sparkly clips, pretty ribbons and flower hair ties. You can also wear cute hats or head scarves.
Jewelry is another big one. If you're going for a sophisticated or vintage Barbie look, you should go with pearl necklaces and diamond earrings. More modern accessories include hoop or dangle earrings, colored bangles and chunky beaded necklaces.
Finally, Barbie always carries a handbag and it usually matches with her outfit, so the larger your handbag collection, the better!

