 Use felt boards to pair objects with their corresponding words. Use brightly colored materials for vocabulary flashcards. Make sweeping, expansive gestures when describing certain vocab words. Pair exaggerated facial expressions with vocab words, too. Try to make every practice moment exciting, so that your child will easily remember what you discussed.For example, if you are discussing how to say the word “sad” in another language with your child, then you might make a point to fake cry and rub your eyes.;
, Get a cheap label-making machine or use tape and a marker. Look over your child’s vocabulary list and find those items in your home. Then, create labels for each item, showing the name in the new language. This will help your child to learn the names of items faster and can help you to learn the language, too.Don’t feel as if you have to label everything at once. Start with a handful of items and continue to add more labels over time.
For example, you could place a label on food items, such as bread or chips. Household locations, such as the kitchen or bathroom, can be labeled as well.
 Spend a few weeks getting a feel for how much homework your child will have each night. Then, set aside a corresponding number of hours each evening just for work. You might create a designated work space as well, such as the kitchen table or an office space. Keep to this schedule as closely as possible and your child will come to expect this time, which will lessen their stress level.It is not uncommon for children in dual language programs to spend at least twice as much time on homework, when compared with traditional students.Make sure to not skip working on your child’s homework, no matter how confusing it might seem. Work with your child to complete a draft and then communicate with the teacher about your concerns., Try to intermix your native language with the new one as you go about your daily tasks around your child. Repeat certain phrases or words until your child seems familiar with them, then move along to a new set.For example, you could describe doing the laundry in your native language and then repeat your statements in the new language immediately afterwards.
 Go to the library and borrow bilingual books. Take these home and then spend a bit of time, perhaps immediately after dinner, reading aloud with your child from the same book. Focus on a single book at a time until translating becomes effortless. You can also buy reading primers and complete the exercises together.Encourage your child to not be embarrassed to read at a lower level than they are accustomed to. Working through children’s literature, in particular, can be a particularly useful way to promote comprehension.
 You can buy DVDs in the new language that your child can watch at home. Or, CDs that they can listen to in the car on the way to/from school. The CDs can be spoken word, but music can be helpful as well. You might also spend some time on the computer with your child, exploring language education websites, such as Early Lingo.Many bilingual education websites, such as ABCmouse, offer brain games that your child can play to improve their language skills.There are also a number of bilingual education apps that work on your iPhone and other handheld devices. For example, Desert Spanish for Kids, is an app that emphasizes Spanish vocabulary retention.