 Thinking of the run in smaller steps instead of one long, daunting course can help you pace yourself and mentally prepare yourself for each mile. You can break it into distinct miles, or you may consider thinking about different parts of the course as separate markers.Each time you reach a marker, feel accomplished for making it that far and encourage yourself to make it to the next marker. Breaking it down also helps you tell yourself, “There are only four markers left” or “You’ve made it through two miles; you’ve only got this last one left.”
Separating the course also helps you develop a plan for your run. If you know your first mile is easy, but the second mile drains you so you can’t run the final third mile, you can take the second section and adjust your pace to recover and save yourself enough energy for the third mile. This also is important if you know a course has hills that may take more energy.
 Make finishing the last mile into a game. Choose targets that are in front of you. This may be other runners, trees, end of a block, a turn in the road - anything that you can set as a goal. Play a mental game with yourself to pass that mark. When you pass that mark, set a new target. This helps keep your mind on the physical target and not on how tired you are.For example, if you are in a race, you can choose runners ahead of you as your targets. Slowly gain on them until you have passed them. Then choose another runner to pass. You can see how many runners you have “collected” by the end, and collecting runners can help you ignore the thoughts that you couldn’t finish the race.
If you are running alone, you can play the same kind of game with marks you can see. See how many street corners you can collect, how many curves you can take, or how many trees you can pass.
 Mentally focusing yourself can help you push through that last mile. Repeating a mantra inside your head can keep you focused on those words and not on your fatigue. Also, putting encouraging, motivating words in your head helps you eliminate all negative words.Remove all negative mantras from your head. Don’t think things like, “I can’t do this,” “I think I’m gonna have to quit,” or “I have no energy.”
Instead, adopt positive mantras. Tell yourself, “I can finish this. You can do this. Only one more mile.” You may also repeat key words to yourself, such as, “Relax. Steady. Pace. Calm. Run. Strong.”

, Sometimes, visualizing the end goal can be extremely motivating. If you still have a mile to go, you may feel the end is too far away. However, coming up with a mental picture of the end of that mile can help you keep your focus on your goal and give yourself an image of what you are shooting for instead of nothing.No matter where you are running, come up with a picture of that ending spot. Add a ribbon across it and imagine yourself running through it with fans cheering. It doesn’t matter that no one will be there; give yourself a mental boost that can get you through that last mile.
 Instead of focusing on your body’s fatigue and how you still have one whole mile left, let your mind focus on something else. Think about your day, what you will do when you get home, what you need to do this week, or what plans you want to make for the weekend. Take the focus off your task of running and zone out so you can make it through.For example, you may think about your post-workout snack or spending time with your partner and kids that evening. You may think about a project for work, or the vacation you are taking in a few months. Whatever you can focus your mind on, think about it.

