 Search websites such as Zillow or Redfin and see what other lots are currently for sale or which have sold in the past six months. Remember to check the same geographic area.You’ll want to start within a one-mile radius and only move out if you can’t find properties., You can estimate the value of the lot by finding what others have paid for comparable lots (called “comps”). However, the properties must be similar. After finding comps on Zillow, make sure to drive by the property so that you can see it for yourself. Consider the following:Accessibility. Look for lots that have the same road access.
Size and shape. Check the acreage. The shape also matters because it limits what can be built on the land, if anything.
Topography. Lots that are on a steep slope or have poor soil are worth less since you can’t build on them.
Location. Is it near amenities such as grocery stores, schools, and hospitals? Also, is it near anything that might decrease its value, such as a pawn shop or public housing?
Water availability. If you want to build a home on land, you need to know the nearest source of water. If a source of water is too far away, then the land will be much less valuable., You might need to go to land assessor’s office to find out the price that was paid for a comparable property. If none of your comps have sold, then at least look at the asking price, which should be listed on Zillow.
 You are unlikely to find a property that has recently sold that matches yours exactly. Instead, they will differ in size, location, etc. Nevertheless, this is the best information you have about market conditions.


If you can’t find a comparable piece of land, then go further back in time to find something similar.Adjust your estimate based on the details of the land. For example, you might have found a lot that is a similar size in the same county. However, the lot you want is on a steep incline and doesn’t have a great view. You should estimate that this lot will sell for much less than its comp.
 Local zoning laws can have a huge impact on the value of a piece of land. Land is generally more valuable when you can develop it. However, zoning laws can restrict how the land can be developed.Stop into your local zoning office to check how the parcel has been zoned.


For example, some land can be developed for commercial purposes or for residential purposes only. Others allow mixed development.
If your comparable properties allow commercial development, then they might be more valuable. You’ll need to lower your estimate if the land is only zoned for residential development.
 You should go to the County Recorder’s Office and find the deed for the land. You want to closely analyze the deed to see if there are any of the following, which can lower the value of the property:


Liens. A lien is a legal right to payment. Someone might have placed a lien on the land if the owner hasn’t paid a debt. In some situations, the lien will stay attached to the property even if you buy it.
Easements. An easement is a legal right to use the property. For example, a neighbor might have a right-of-way over the property. This can decrease the value of the land.
Deed restrictions. There may be restrictions placed on how the land can be developed, which are in addition to zoning restrictions.The deed might have a restriction which makes development impractical.
 Imagine you are creating your property listing on a website. Take pictures of the land and assess how beautiful it is.Is it simply a vacant lot in a rundown part of town? Or is it a gorgeous wheat field with a view of the river?


The more desirable the land, the more likely you can get a higher price for it.
This is a subjective assessment, but it nevertheless is important. If your land is more desirable than your comps, then raise your estimate.
 Flood insurance costs a lot, so you’ll need to include the costs of flood insurance to the value of the land. Land located in a flood zone is generally less desirable because people won’t want to build on it. Visit the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) website to check whether the land is in a flood zone: https://msc.fema.gov/portal.

