 You may want to start by contacting the animal control in your community. When you contact them, you can explain to them why you believe the breeder is unethical and what complaints you have.They may ask you specific questions about the situation to try to gather facts. It's generally the job of animal control to investigate any claims of mistreatment of pets.Animal control may check it out or refer you to someone else to talk to. However, even if animal control goes to investigate, they cannot enter a home or check out the property without the owner's consent, unless they have a warrant.If this doesn’t yield results, then move on to animal organizations.;
, One way you can report unethical breeding is through the Humane Society’s website. They have a form on their website where you can report a puppy mill by providing the basic information for the breeder, including their name, address, website, email, or phone number. You can find the form .You will have to give them basic information about yourself as well.
The Humane Society will look for key signs of unethical breeding. They will start with registration and pedigrees, then talk to the breeders. Ethical breeders are knowledgeable, so they will evaluate the knowledge of the breeder. Next, they will assess where the breeders are breeding and keeping the dogs, if the breeder will even allow them to see it. These things will give them an idea of the ethics of the breeder.
 If animal control or the Humane Society doesn’t help, you may want to try other animal advocate organizations. Many of these organizations have hotlines or contact emails where you can report unethical activity or ask for advice.


You may want to try the American Kennel Club, the ASPCA, or PETA. They may be able to launch their own investigations.
You can also contact the AKC to see if the breeder is a member, though unethical breeders can still be members without the AKC's knowledge of their practices. Alerting the AKC may help them figure out if something unethical is occurring.
These organizations may be able to send people out to investigate.
 There are websites you can submit complaints to about unethical breeding. On these sites, you can state the name of the breeder or kennel and share your story about why they are unethical breeders.Websites such as Complaints Board and Consumer Affairs allows you to post reviews on specific breeders, or make posts about the specific breeder under headings like “dog breeders” or “pet breeders.”
When you write a complaint post, you should provide specific information. Give the name of the breeder or kennel and the location, followed by a detailed description of why you believe they are unethical. Include things like their business practices, the state of the kennel, and the health of the puppies. These key things help distinguish ethical from unethical breeders.

