 Royalty trusts are investment vehicles provided by major banks that provide royalty payments from the extraction of natural resources, like coal and natural gas. The trust itself has no involvement in the mining or production of these materials, but earns regular royalty payments that are then distributed to shareholders. The exact royalty payment depends on the volume of resource sales and the market price of the resources, but investors are seeing high yields, sometime higher than 10 percent.In addition, these investments are taxed like capital gains rather than as income (like dividends) and may qualify you for energy-based tax credits.Before investing, be aware that this is still a volatile investment. Payments are liable to change without warning and, eventually, the natural resource will be depleted, ending payments entirely.
Additionally, shareholders over a certain threshold may be liable for additional state income taxes in the state where the trust is held., Royalties are typically paid to the holders on intellectual property for the use of that property. The property can be anything from literature and music to patents on inventions. These royalties can be earned by creating a valuable idea and licensing that idea out. However, other investors can also purchase the rights to these royalties from their creators. This allows the creator to partially or entirely sell their rights to a property, giving them a lump-sum payout and an investor the rights to receive steady royalty payments.Search for royalty exchange websites online to get started. Notable websites include SongVest and The Royalty Exchange., In traditional venture financing, an investor buys a stake in a company to provide growth capital to its founders. This investor is then entitled to a percentage of the gains experienced when a company is bought or has an initial public offering. However, there is another kind of venture financing where an investor can invest start-up capital in exchange for regular royalty payments that are based on the company's revenue. This doesn't give the investor any ownership in the company, but does guarantee regular payouts (assuming the company survives).This type of investment is rare and will have to be negotiate with the business owner.
 In addition to royalty trusts, there are also royalty companies that exist apart from financial institutions. These entities finance mining operations in exchange for royalty payments on the value of minerals and precious metals mined. These companies can also sell shares in the market, allowing investors to enjoy their royalty benefits. Well-established royalty companies can also provide stable income, as many have diversified their holding in a variety of mining operations, guaranteeing relative stability from market fluctuations.Shares of these companies generally trade at about 20 times royalty. That means that the return on investment would be about 5 percent per year.