 Set up one area of the house that is your writing space. It's easier to maintain a routine and to have others accept it if there is evidence of a "space where mom goes to write". However, even if you don't have your own desk, you can make a small box of materials such as writing paper, pens, pencils, board for leaning on, etc., that is easily accessible at a moment's notice and can be used anywhere.


If you don't have a desk, consider buying a used one online; alternatively, if you lack the space for such an indulgence, designate one area of the house that is pleasant and away from everyone where you can write without feeling bothered by the household activity.;
, Watching the television can easily suck away many hours without you even noticing and it's productive time that you can't redeem. If you use these hours to pursue your writing passion instead, you will be amazed at the additional time available.


Many moms use TV as a form of relaxing. If you can train yourself to use writing as a form of relaxing, you'll be able to remind yourself that it is still restful for you.
 While helping toddlers to understand this will be a little harder, this is precisely the age during which it is important to show your kids that mom takes out time for herself now and then. Not only is this not a selfish thing to do but it is a good lesson for them in time management and in taking care of oneself rather than totally sacrificing one's own needs for others. Your example is a healthy one.


Talk to children of any age about why you enjoy writing, the benefits that come from it, and the importance of having a little quiet time now and then to achieve your objectives.
 Writing before everyone else gets up in the morning can be a sanity saver as it's quiet, peaceful and you'll often feel very energetic because it's the start of the day. This can become a really treasured and special time if you get into the routine. The only thing to accept is that this time is limited and you need to be disciplined so that you don't feel disappointed when the household starts stirring and you need to stop writing for the day. Perhaps set an alarm so that you write within the time and then begin the daily routine before everyone gets up.
 Younger children can sit down and read or draw while you write. Older kids can be encouraged to write with you! Give them a space to sit down and ask them to brainstorm writing ideas. Encourage them to write away and suggest that you will read their writing when it is finished. It is a great opportunity to encourage their love of writing and to help them learn about constructive feedback.


Encourage them to write their own journals, novels, cookbooks, stories or comic books.
 This should be small enough to tuck into your handbag and to tote around anywhere that you go. Take it out when you have spare moments, such as waiting for transport, standing in a queue, eating lunch, keeping yourself awake during a tedious meeting where concentrating isn't essential but looking alert is!


Jot down ideas and thoughts that you know will be helpful in informing more substantial writing later. This is a great discipline for keeping track of great ideas that might otherwise be forgotten.
 Although a computer might be easy for writing on, it's not necessarily the most easily accessible item when parenting children, or when out and about. Moreover, computers cause us to write and think differently from writing on paper. Give yourself the luxury of writing in both paper and digital media, and transfer any handwritten efforts to digital at a later stage. If you need inspiration, consider J.K. Rowling who is renowned for taking a notebook to cafes to write, rather than relying on using a computer all the time.
 Children grow up and so will your writing skills. Over time, both develop in incredibly wonderful and creative ways that you probably never imagined. Achieving a balance between raising your kids, juggling the household, working outside the house (if relevant), and pursuing is a hard task but with good organization and clarity of goals, you can achieve this combination in small and gradual ways. Be tenacious, be focused, and you will continue writing away, even as a busy mom.

