 As a Permanent Resident, your green card will last you 10 years. You are eligible to apply for green card renewal within 6 months of the expiration date listed on your card. You cannot apply more than 6 months in advance, but you can apply after the expiration date (although this is not ideal).


If your green card has already expired, you should start the application immediately.
If you have an older version of a green card without an expiration date, it is most likely no longer valid. You should apply for a replacement immediately using the same process.;
, Form I-90 is the Application to Replace Permanent Resident Card and can be filed either online or on paper. More information can be found at the USCIS government website at http://www.uscis.gov.


To file the application online, go to http://www.uscis.gov/efiling and follow the instructions provided. You must have Adobe installed on your computer to view and fill out the forms. Make sure you read through all the instructions carefully and input accurate, up-to-date information.
Sign the application correctly. USCIS will not accept a stamped or typewritten name as a signature. If you are filling out the application online, you can sign in an electronic format on your computer.Upload evidence documents. There is a section in the Form I-90 titled "Required Evidence," which will include the instructions for what documents to attach to your application. Mail them to the USCIS office, even if you have filled out the rest of your application online.
 The instructions to pay the application fee can be found on the Form I-90. You must pay either with a valid credit or debit card or provide your bank routing and checking account numbers to have money taken directly from your U.S. bank account. The total fee for renewing your green card is $450, which includes a $365 Form I-90 filing fee and an $85 biometric services fee.If you can clearly demonstrate that you are unable to pay the filing fees to renew your green card, you can file a Form I-912, Request for Fee Waiver. You can check the USCIS website to see if you are eligible for a fee waiver. You must file this waiver, as well as the Form I-90, by paper only (not electronically).
 This is optional, but it is helpful to create an account to continually check the status of your case, receive notifications and case updates, respond to requests for evidence, and manage your contact information.You can create an account regardless of if you submit the Form I-90 application online or by paper.
If you submit a paper Form I-90 application, you will receive a USCIS Account Acceptance Notice in the mail with instructions on how to create an online account.
If you choose not to access your USCIS online account, USCIS will still continue processing your application and you will receive notifications and updates about it by mail through the U.S. Postal Service., After USCIS receives your application and ensures it is complete, they will inform you by mail or send you a notification through USCIS online account within 3-5 weeks if you need to attend a biometric services appointment.A biometrics services appointment may be required if the USCIS needs to verify your identity, obtain additional information, or conduct security or background checks before making a decision on your application.
The appointment notice will give you the location of your local or designated USCIS Application Support Center (ASC) and the date and time of your appointment. If you cannot make the date and time of your appointment, you can make a request to be rescheduled by following instructions on the appointment notice.The appointment should only take about 20 minutes and you will likely need to provide fingerprints, take a photograph, and sign your name for electronic capture.You will likely attend your biometrics appointment 5-8 weeks after filing your Form I-90. If you do not show up to your biometric services appointment, USCIS may deny your application.
 After your application is approved, you will receive a new green card (valid for 10 years) through the mail.


For up-to-date information about how long your renewal application will take to process, visit https://egov.uscis.gov/cris/processTimesDisplay.do.

