 Girls like someone that is direct and forward. Show her that you can take charge. This does not mean that you should be pushy or disrespectful. Just be clear about your intentions and your interest in her. This applies to all stages of the relationship.Ask her for her phone number or ask her out on a date. Take action and do not wait for her to make the first move.Start a conversation with her on social media first. Like some of her photos and posts.
When you take initiative, you are showing her that you are confident.
 A gift shows that you are generous and thoughtful. It is even better if you give the gift for no reason at all. Do not wait for a birthday or a holiday. Try to give her something that you know she will like or that you have heard her mention. It does not have to be something big.


If she mentioned a certain flower she likes or her favorite type of dessert, get it for her.
Thoughtful gifts from the heart are often more impressive than grand gestures. If she had a bad day, give her a card and some candy to cheer her up.Write her a poem or bake her some cookies.
 If you ask her out, plan a date that you know she will love instead of asking her what she would like to do. If you have done your homework, you can plan something that you know she will like. This will make her feel special and shows that you are attentive and want to make her happy.


You might say, “I know you love Mexican food. Let’s go to that new restaurant on Friday and then go see that new movie you have been talking about. I will pick you up at 7:00.”
Invite her to the school dance or to go the football game with you.
Ask her if she wants to go the movies with you and your friends.
If you are not allowed to date, ask her to sit with you at a pep rally or school assembly or eat lunch with you.
 Give her genuine compliments that are specific to her. Do not compliment her just for the sake of doing it. She will be able to tell if you are being genuine.You may say, “I like what you did to your hair today” or “That shirt looks great. It really brings out the color of your eyes.”
If she did well on a test or an assignment, tell her congratulations or that she did a great job.
 You do not have to change yourself completely to impress her, but be willing to indulge some of her interests. If she loves a certain TV show or music artist, check them out. If she loves a certain author, read a summary of some of the books so you have something to talk about.Also be open to doing things just because she likes them. Go shopping with her or go see a movie that you normally wouldn’t see.
Do not tell her that you watched a movie or read a book just to impress her. Let her think that you are really interested. Just casually say, “Hey, have you heard One Direction’s new song? It’s really good.”

