 If you want to take your cat outdoors to get exercise or some sunshine, they may end up eating grass. To keep your cat away from grass, contain them to a sidewalk or driveway, a back deck, or a sun porch.You may also take your cat out on a leash.;
, If your cat has become obsessed with eating grass, you may need to remove them from all sources of grass. If your cat is an outdoor cat or is allowed to go outside, you should bring them inside so they can’t eat any grass.You may need to keep your cat away from grass for days or weeks to help break the habit.
 To help keep your cat from eating grass, you may need to modify their behavior. This means trying to use negative reinforcement to train the cat not to eat the grass. Go outside with your cat and try to deter them from eating grass.For example, if the cat starts to eat grass, clap your hands loudly to scare the cat. You may also try shaking something loud, like a can full of pennies, to distract the cat from eating grass.
Eventually, the cat will connect the unpleasant, startling sound with eating grass and stop eating it.
Do not hit, yell, or scold the cat to keep them from eating grass.
 Sometimes your cat may eat grass to get missing nutrients. To help your cat with this problem, you can try changing their diet. Feed your pet a cat food that provides balanced nutrition to ensure they are getting the nutrition they need.The vet may may be able to run blood tests to check for any nutritional deficits.
 If your cat continues to eat grass and gets sick, then you may want to take them to the veterinarian. Grass may make your cat vomit often or have diarrhea. This can lead to health problems, so you want to get your cat checked out.Your cat may have a problem if they eat a lot of grass at once or eats it every day.Your vet will do a physical exam to check for any problems with your cat. If your vet suspects there is an underlying medical condition, they will perform tests to figure out if anything is causing the grass eating.
For example, a cat with OCD may obsessively eat grass, which your vet can treat with medication.