 You have a strong incentive to resolve the dispute outside of court. In some states, such as California, you can be forced to pay double damages for the injury your dog causes.Also, if your livestock injures people, then you could end up paying a huge amount in a jury verdict.
By settling outside of court, you can control how much you end up paying the plaintiff. If you go to trial, then you have no control over how much the jury awards the plaintiff should you lose.
Have your lawyer contact the plaintiff’s attorney to propose settlement negotiations. If you are representing yourself, then call the plaintiff’s lawyer directly.
 You should go into negotiations prepared. Before negotiations begin, decide on what is the most that you would be willing to pay in order to settle the lawsuit.To come to this number, you should consider how much the plaintiff is suing for and how strong the plaintiff’s case is. Talk this over with your attorney.
For example, if the plaintiff has a very strong case, then you might want to settle close to what the plaintiff is asking for. However, if the plaintiff’s case is weak, then you might only settle if the plaintiff accepts 50% of the amount she is asking from the court.
If the plaintiff is unwilling to settle for an amount under your maximum, then you can walk away from negotiations.
 Mediation is a form of “assisted negotiation.” You and the plaintiff will meet with a neutral third party, called the mediator. The mediator’s job is to listen to both you and the plaintiff describe the dispute and then help guide you to a resolution which both parties can agree on.Like negotiation, mediation is voluntary. You can get up and walk away from the negotiation table at any time.
To find a mediator, contact your local courthouse. It may have a list of mediators, or it may run its own mediation program.
 Should you and the plaintiff reach an agreement, then write a settlement agreement and sign it. If you participate in mediation, then the mediator should be able to help you draft a settlement agreement.


You can find settlement agreement templates on the Internet.You can then use them as a guide when drafting your own.
Make sure that any settlement contains a release of liability. This is important for you to have. By agreeing to relieve you of any liability, the plaintiff cannot turn around and sue you again for the same injury.

Sample waiver language would read: “Pursuant to and in consideration of the Parties’ promise to abide by the conditions of this agreement, the Parties and their respective officers, agents, directors, servants, employees, parents, subsidiaries, successors and assigns, hereby release each other from any and all claims arising out of, or related to, the facts alleged in the action.”, You can file a settlement with the court at the same time that the plaintiff asks the court to dismiss the case. By filing the settlement with the court, you can ensure that you will be able to later sue to enforce it.


You can attach the settlement agreement to the plaintiff’s Motion to Dismiss.
Be sure to keep a copy of the settlement agreement for your records.

