 Common words include:


Newb or Newbie- A Beginner. ( So I see you must be a newbie, huh dude?)
Sick - The connotation varies. Sometimes used to describe something that was awesome. Other times it is used to say something was really horrible.
Insane - Way crazier than sick
Sketchy - Definitely a negative word. It can be used to...

Describe a skate spot. (Ex. A rail that was bent and rusty)
Describe a person. (Ex. Some guy trying to get you to come and talk to him in a dark alley)
Describe the landing. (Ex. Someone almost falls when they land a trick. Usually, a person shakes in an abnormal way/does repetitive small kickturns to regain their balance.)


Stoked - Really excited or happy about something.
Pop - Slamming the tail of your board into the ground (what must be done to do most tricks). Can also be used to describe how well your board pops up when the tail is smacked into the ground (Ex. A board that doesn't go very high would be described as having bad pop. Boards that go high would have good pop.)
Nose - The front of a board.
Tail - The back of a board.
Dude - Can be used as a pronoun (Ex. Did you see what that dude just did?). Also, it can be used as an interjection (Ex. (You get slapped) Dude!)
Chick - Girl
Clean - A perfect landing. Clean is the total opposite of sketchy.
Crash - Sleep
Poser - Someone who says that they are better than anyone, when really they can barely do anything.
Rad - Something really cool, like sick
Ill - Sicker than sick
Douche - Someone uncool, a loser.;
, For example:


360 heelflip - Lazer flip
Varial double kickflip - nightmare flip
360 flip - Tre-flip

, It's cool.


Bogart- To hog something, not share (ex. (Don't bogart the chips dude)
Snake- To skip or someone who skips you when skating in order (That dude is a total snake)
Steeze- Style, it comes from "style with ease"( That dude has some steeze)
Grommets- A Grommet or Grom is a kid (usually under the age of 12) who is usually (but not necessarily) new to skateboarding.
ABD- acronym stands for Already Been Done
Max out- To do every trick on (Dude Dustin maxed out that rail so anything u do on it is ABD!)
Chill- To be calm/cool
Chillax- To be calm/cool and relaxed

