 For this method of removal, you need to set the stage by locating the eyelash and washing your hands.


Look in a mirror to see where in your eye the lash is located. You should use your fingers or a Q-Tip to remove only if the eyelash is on the white part and not the colored part of the eye. The colored part is more sensitive and you may want to see an eye doctor instead if the eyelash is there. Wash your hands. Use soap, and dry your hands completely. Washing your hands removes bacteria that you could otherwise get into your eye.
 Stand in front of a mirror as you do so, and keep your eyes open so you can see what you're doing. Don't push it all the way to the corner, just away from the center (pupil) of the eye.
 Make sure that the cotton of the Q-Tip has not loosened, as you don't want any particles coming off into your eye. If try this more than once, use a new Q-Tip for hygiene each time you touch your eye.


Moisten a Q-Tip by immersing the tip in saline solution. Saline solution will not hurt the eye. To get the Q-Tip wet, you can either unscrew the lid of a saline bottle solution, and dip the Q-Tip in, or pour a little into a bowl, and dip the Q-Tip into that.
Touch the Q-Tip gently to the eyelash. Keep your eye open while doing so. You may want to hold your eyelids open with the fingers of one hand while holding the Q-Tip with the other.
Remove the eyelash. Ideally, the eyelash sticks to the Q-Tip and is removed safely and easily. Simply pull the Q-tip directly backward, taking the eyelash with it.
 This method involves either swiping or pulling it out with your fingers. Make sure that your hands are clean and that you keep your eyes open.


Swipe the eyelash with one finger. You may want to hold the eyelids of the affected eye open with the fingers of your non-dominant hand. With one finger of the other hand, gently swipe the eyelash in a light sliding motion. Try not to blink. The eyelash should be dislodged from the eye by the motion of your finger.
Pull the eyelash with two fingers. If a simple swipe doesn't dislodge it, try gently pinning it between two fingers. Your fingers should rest gently on your eye as you pin the eyelash between them. Do not use this method if you have very long fingernails, as you may scratch your eye. Once you have the eyelash caught between two fingers, pull it gently directly outward.

