 Think about the things you enjoy doing. It can be directly related to your subjects in school or an extracurricular activity. Teachers are impressed when students show positive progress in any area. Choose something you enjoy and set a goal to get better at it by the end of the year.For example, you might really enjoy drawing. Make a goal to become a better artist by the end of the year. You can state that goal to your teachers by saying, “Ms. Cowan, I drew this bird, but I my goal is to draw more realistically by the end of the year.”
Alternatively, you may choose a more behavioral goal. If you know that you talk out of turn, you might make it a goal to speak only when you are called on.
 Practice as much as possible. Remember that you are working at something that you enjoy doing, so you should be fairly willing to practice.The more you practice, the better you will become. Be aware that you will probably face some setbacks. Whether you want to be a great essay writer or learn a new instrument, you may have days where you do not feel that you are advancing. Accept the challenges as a part of the learning experience. Consistently remind yourself that you are working toward something that is special to you.For example, if you want to learn to play a difficult song on the piano, you will have to work hard to get it right. Look at your schedule and find the best days and times to practice the song. Expose yourself to any information that will help you progress. Try watching instructional videos, seeking advice from a music teacher, or simply listening to the song in your free time.
 If you can, show your teachers any signs of progress. Maybe your goal is academic. If so, ask your teachers to help you evaluate your progress. If your goal is extracurricular, you might simply report how things are going. Your teacher will be impressed with any visible progress that you make toward your goal.For example, you might say, “Hi Ms. Tapia. Guess what? I scored 12 points in the basketball game yesterday-- that’s six more than the last game!”

, By the end of the year, you should be able to see how far you have come. Compare your abilities in the beginning of the year to your abilities in the end of the year.


You might say, for example, “Ms. Alexander, can I show you my drawings? One is from September, and the other I drew last week.”

