 This will help you decide where best to have your chance encounters.;
, Guys like girls who take care of their appearance without overdoing it. Knowing that you look your best will give you confidence, which is like catnip to men.Make sure to not overdo it with your appearance. You want to look like yourself, not a superficial or idealized version of you.For example, keep your makeup and hair simple. Elaborate hairstyles or makeup send the signal that you’re high maintenance and will turn off a guy quickly.
Wearing a nice, light perfume will also get him to notice and remember you. Scent is closely tied to memory., Guys generally prefer being women who are confident and comfortable in their own skin. By showing your guy that you’re confident, he’ll want to be around you more.Don’t be overly confident, which can come off as pretentious and turn off some guys. Remain calm, cool, and collected in your confidence., Looking at a guy and holding his gaze is not only flirtatious, but also gives him a lingering image of you. Coquettishly lingering on each other gazes will create a connection and make him want to see you more.Don’t let your gaze linger for more than a couple of seconds or else it might look like you’re staring at him. This could turn him off getting to know you more closely.
 If you want him to notice and engage you more, strategically show a little skin. This will catch his attention and make him want to peek at the rest of the package.Don’t overdo it on showing skin or else you might invite the wrong kind of attention or leave the wrong impression. Select a lacy top or a dress with a decent cutout, for example. If you want to show off your legs in a shorter skirt, choose a longer or more voluminous top.
 Ask your guy questions about things he loves to do or his interests to show that you are interested in him. If he talks about things that he loves and are meaningful to him, he’ll subconsciously connect you with those feelings and like you even more.If you can weave these loves and interests into conversations with him, it shows not only that you care, but also that you are picking up on what’s important to him.
 Whenever the two of you talk, make sure to listen closely to what he is saying. You can then reference comments he’s made in later conversations, showing your interest in him.Meaningful conversations are an important part to keeping his interest in you.Compliment him on his interests instead of his looks. It further shows that you see what’s important to him.For example, if he volunteers for Habitat for Humanity, you can say something like “I really admire that you’re so kind and engaged with helping the underprivileged.”

, Any time you talk about something you love or are interested in, it will light up your face and eyes. This makes you more attractive to him and he will likely want to get to know you more deeply.Let him know about your hobbies or interests. Just as it’s important for you to know what his loves and interests are, it’s important for him to know yours.
This also lets your guy know that you are an interesting and dynamic person., Men don’t want women who are clingy and can’t hold their own. By showing that you are independent and have an opinion, you will help keep your conversations- and his interest- going.Don’t dumb yourself down for a guy. Use your brain and show him you’re capable of forming opinions. It’s very attractive to a man that you know your feelings and can positively express them.It’s also important to be independent and not make yourself too available to him. This way you show him you’re in demand with others. It also establishes some intrigue and draws him in to you even more.Don’t let him make all the decisions or else he’ll get bored with you.
 Part of being independent and having an opinion is also showing that your confident in yourself.Guys want to be around a woman who is capable of holding her own in any situation.


Show your personality. Most men can tell when a woman is fake and don’t generally like hanging around them for too long., Even as you get to know your guy more, take the time to look nice. He’ll appreciate that you’ve made the effort and this will also help keep him interested in you.


As you continue to keep up your appearance, also make sure you’re not overdoing it with your look.
 Let your guy see you in action at something you love so that you don’t have to brag to him about it.This can be something as simple as cooking him your specialty dinner or showing him how far you can throw a football. Seeing you do something you love will make him like you more.


You don’t have to make a huge gesture to highlight your special skills. As with everything else, keep it simple so that it’s fun for both of you.
 Even though it’s important to express your opinion to your guy, it’s also necessary to be open to him and his interests. This means that you should be flexible in what you do together and try activities that you may otherwise not be interested in at least once.This shows your guy that you care about his feelings and are genuinely interested in him.
 Everyone loves a person who is positive and fun to be around, and this is especially true of guys who are interested in you. He doesn’t want a reminder of how bad the world or life is.Keep things light and happy as much as possible. Everyone has the occasional bad day and it’s ok to talk about this with him, but don’t dwell on it or he might lose interest.
 After you and your guy have had a chance to get to know each other better, let him know how you feel about it. You don’t have to be entirely blatant about it, but it’s a good idea to let a man know how you’re feeling if you want more than a friendship.


There are different ways to make him realize he’s special to you. For example, in groups, pay special attention to him or maintain steady eye contact. You can also ask him flirtatious questions such as “what qualities do you like in a woman.”Men often aren’t very perceptive about a woman’s feelings for him, so clearly tell him how you feel.Don’t go over the top when you tell him or you might scare him away. Conversely, if you’re too subtle, he likely won’t get the hint., A gentle touch of the shoulder or grazing past his arm ignites a chemical reaction and it will immediately make your guy feel closer and more focused on you.Just remember to keep the touch light and appropriate.


It’s important to keep your touch gentle and on appropriate parts of his body. Touch his hand, shoulder or leg. Likewise, lightly grazing past him and not rubbing your body up against his is appropriate.
 Meeting a guy’s friends is one of the best ways to help seal the deal with him. If his friend are impressed with you, then he will be even more impressed with you.Just as it’s important to be yourself around your guy, it’s also vital to be yourself around his friends. If they get a bad impression of you or think you’re a phony, it will likely harm the progress of your potential relationship.
 If your guy is celebrating his birthday or has an important project due at his job or school, for example, make sure to contact him to either wish a Happy Birthday or good luck with his work. He’ll find the fact that you remembered his special day a sign that you really care about him.This doesn’t have to be an elaborate gesture. You can send a text message or give him a quick call to wish him the best.
 As you get to know one another better and enjoy being together, spend more time with one another. If he sees you often, he’ll think about you more and likely want to pursue something more with you.

