 The term introvert was first coined to describe individuals who find themselves drained of energy after interacting with people for extended periods of time. While some may find hanging out with a group of co-workers over lunch a break, for the introvert, this is far more work than the actual work day. .


Many people confuse being an introvert for being shy and they are not the same thing. Shyness is a behavior tied often to overwhelming anxiety in social settings and many kids outgrow this stage. Introverts may not feel much anxiety about these situations; they simply do not thrive on the social interactions.Being an introvert isn’t a bad thing nor is it any less appealing as being an extrovert. It is simply another personality type with both strengths and weaknesses.;
, Introverts tend to like to make carefully-researched decisions and have a strong attention for details. They also like to gather as much information as possible about a given subject, which makes them good listeners. However, they often work best on their own.Examples of jobs that an introvert may enjoy and thrive in would include research-based roles, writing, design jobs that use a lot of technology without very much interaction with others, and product-testing positions where they can debug and problem solve.
They also tend to like to focus their talents on one subject matter to become an “expert” so finding their niche can help them be happy in the career they choose. You may also find that when they are given the freedom to speak as an expert, they are more open to talking to large groups and participating more.
 While there are probably going to be staff meetings you have to attend, things like team-building exercises may not feel of value to you.For the times you are needed on a team at work, talk to the team leader about ways you can use your strengths to contribute to the group. Many introverts like to be well-prepared for meetings so maybe you can volunteer to work on a PowerPoint for the next meeting while others focus on working together. You are contributing and at the same time doing the work alone.
It may also be helpful to break down the bigger project into smaller tasks that each member can handle on their own instead of feeling like everything needs to be done together. Again, you are working with the team, just not at the same table at the same time.
 Make a list of all your best qualities. Reference it often. You have many strengths and being mindful of them helps to remind you to use them. It may also help develop positive self-talk to stay calm in the event that you find yourself overwhelmed.Keeping your best assets in the forefront also helps with those around you. The fact that you aren’t always at every meeting may not matter as much if the team knows you are the go-to guy or girl for amazing reports and make them all look good.
Know that not every introvert is exactly the same and many times you may not even be 100% an introvert. Take a look at your best qualities and play them up whether or not they “fit” into what an introvert should look like., But, do stretch your comfort zone every now and then. Being a comfortable introvert means recognizing your limitations, and planning ahead for them. Do not be afraid to let your family, friends, supervisor or co-workers know what your limits are. These people may help you to adjust to stressful situations.

For example you might ask for regular communication to be made via email since phone calls are often hard to participate in. This will help them create a better working relationship for both of you.
You may be surprised to know that 33-50% of people are thought to be introverts. Your unusual requests are probably not so unusual.Even if those around you are willing to accommodate some of your introverted habits, it’s still a good idea to challenge yourself every now and then. No matter what, interacting with others is a major—and very rewarding—part of life. So, while you don’t want to push yourself to be extroverted, you also don’t want to isolate yourself from having meaningful connections

, Don’t feel pressured to schedule in too many social activities, which can leave you feeling overwhelmed or drained. We do not all “relax” the same way. You may not be able to take in a social lunch with coworkers in the same way they do. If social settings are tiring for you, take lunch alone so that you can recharge for an afternoon meeting or a group project.Instead of always just saying no to well-meaning co-workers who invite you to lunch, schedule a better time to get together one-on-one to make those connections. Also avoid saying yes to invites and then not showing up, it is better to politely decline in the first place.
 Making a point to participate in any event is a step outside of your comfort zone. Give yourself kudos for joining in and use self-awareness to know your limits and decide when you are done at the event.Beyond leaving early, you may feel more at ease by arriving late to get to see specific times of the event like a wedding without having to invest hours into the event as a whole. You want to share in special events without being miserable.
Make sure for big events like a wedding or funeral, even in the short amount of time you are there, that you check in with the most important guests so they know you were there. Spending 15 minutes at the wedding reception to congratulate the new couple goes a long way to connect with them as friends without draining your whole energy.
 Unfortunately many people may assume you just don’t like people at all, and this is probably far from true. Introverts tend to thrive on true connections with a small number of people. Create time to interact with people in an environment you feel supported in.When invited to a large event that you think will just be too much, you can let the person know that event would be too much and then offer an alternative in a more intimate setting.
 You need this time to recharge and that request is valid. For the most part those close to you will understand this need. There is no reason to feel guilty for taking a break from social interaction, whatever that breaks means to you., Find activities that energize you and schedule time to enjoy them. Regaining the energy you lost dealing with social situations that were not ideal will look different for each person. Learn what helps you restore and rejuvenate and keep a “tool” kit ready when you need a break.It can be useful to find simple ways to refocus when you are at work and can take a few moments alone. Use your lunch break to sit in the car and listen to a book on tape instead of trying to navigate the crowded lunch room, for example.
 A change in scenery may bring focus that you do not find in crowds. Many introverts find that they enjoy spending time outdoors. Not only is it great for mental health, but going outside can boost creativity and focus and provide a unique source of healing.Incorporate solo nature breaks into your day for small moments of peace and reflection.

