 Try attending a Jewish or Christian church service. Listen to the words that the minister, rabbi or pastor is saying and try relating it to your life.


Ministers often deliver a speech, called a sermon, that relates every day life to beliefs in God. See if things the priest is saying connects with you on a personal level. Though you may not know the specifics of the Bible, maybe a sentiment or point the speaker makes will connect with you in a big way (for example, treating your neighbor as you would treat yourself).Don't worry about not being of that faith. Though you may be restricted from partaking in certain practices, like receiving communion (bread wafer that symbolizes Jesus' body),there are no restrictions for listening. In fact, leaders are often excited when non-religious people become curious and interested in the teachings of God.
Church services fall on Sunday and usually last about an hour. Synagogue services fall on Saturday. It is customary for regular patrons to arrive on time and stay throughout, although it is not mandatory for casual attendees.Catholic mass is usually a formal to semi-formal event. Be sure that you dress appropriately. Collared shirts, dress pants, and long dresses are acceptable attire.Also remember to be respectful; no cellphone usage and no chewing gum during church services.
 Maybe someone you know has a well-founded relationship with God. Talk to him or her about why and how faith is so strong.


Ask questions. "Why do you believe in God?" "What makes you sure that God is there?" "Why should I believe in God?" These are all questions that a friend might have a unique insight to.Remember to be respectful and ask questions in a curious but non-aggressive manner.

Pastors aren't only available during conversion or confession. If you attend church on a weekday, chances are you will be able to talk to him before or after a service. Such teachers of God will likely be happy to answer any questions you have about believing in Him.
 Many religions believe that a good relationship with God starts with steady prayer of communication with Him.God will likely not respond verbally to your prayers, but there are other signs that show He is listening.


Prayer is especially important in times of need. Many people have a misconception that prayer is a vehicle for wish fulfillment. Actually, prayer is not asking God to solve all your problems for you; it is asking him to help you deal with your problems/opportunities.You might have a tough decision ahead of you: pursue a job or continue on with your education? Try praying to God for guidance. See what choice you make and observe the outcome. Though things may not end up how you plan, think of this as another opportunity to pray.
 The Bible emphasizes the fact that God works in mysterious ways.Think of God as a teacher, helping you learn important life lessons not by just giving you the answer, but by helping you arrive at that answer yourself. Think back to school and ask yourself, "Did my teachers tell me the answers, or teach me how to understand issues and solve problems?" Think of events in your life as "lessons" more so than "answers."