 You should never go straight into stretches right after you get injured. Whenever you feel like you have shin splints, you first need to rest and let the muscles cool down before you begin to stretch. You don't want to overdo it and end up hurting yourself more.If you think your shin splints might be due to your footwear, you should change your shoes before beginning the stretches. You don't want to hurt your shins more than they already are.;
, Starting the day you get shin splints, you need to ice your shins. The coolness of the ice will help decrease the inflammation of the muscles in your shins and help alleviate the pain. You should ice them four to six times a day for 15 minutes at a time.


Make sure you wrap any ice pack with a cloth or towel. Applying ice directly to your skin can cause frostbite., You need to rest your shins for a few days after your shin splints. You should avoid high impact exercises such as running or jogging. Try exercises such as swimming, spinning, or biking instead. They put much less strain on your shins and will allow them time to heal.


Your stretches can be done at any point after you get shin splints. They are considered low impact exercises., One of the major causes of shin splints is improper shoes. You should replace your shoes every three to six months or every 500 miles. You also need to make sure you have shoes that are right for the shape of your feet and the exercises you perform in them.


For example, you should get shoes specifically made for running if you are a runner. They provide different kinds of support to help you with running., Stand about a foot from the wall with your feet flat on the floor. Slowly lean back, placing your back and butt against the wall. From this position, lift your toes off the ground toward the ceiling. Hold this for 5 seconds. Repeat 10–15 times.


You can increase your holding time the more you do it. This will help increase the endurance and strength of your muscles.
This stretch helps loosen and strengthen the front portion of your lower leg.
If you are not using a wall, make sure the surface you lean against is sturdy., To stretch the bulging top area of your calf, stand facing the wall with one foot shoulder width in front of the other. Keep your back leg straight and bend your front knee. Push against the wall until you feel the stretch through the calf in your back leg. Hold for 30 seconds. Change legs, repeating the same exercise on the other side. Do three sets in total.


This will help loosen your calf muscle and relieve the pain in your shin., To stretch the smaller, lower muscle in your calf, stand with one foot in front of the other. Place your hands on the wall for balance. Bend both knees slightly and lean back into the stretch. Hold for 30 seconds. Slowly come back up and change legs, performing the stretch again. Do three sets total.


This will relax the top muscle and focus the stretch on the lower muscle.
This stretch helps decrease the pain in your shins., Kneel down on the floor. Gently sit back, sitting on your heels. Gently push down to stretch the muscles in the front of your legs. Hold the stretch for 30 seconds. Lean up, releasing the stretch in your muscles. Repeat three times.


You can do this one leg at a time if you are uncomfortable doing it with both at the same time.
Make sure you only stretch as far as you can. You don't want to overextend your muscles and hurt yourself., Stand with your feet shoulder width apart near a step or raised surface. Lift your foot and place the ball of your foot on the step or raised surface. Gently bend your knee and lean forward, pressing your heel down toward the floor. Hold for 10–15 seconds. Do 10–15 reps.


Repeat this exercise on the other side. Do 10–15 additional reps on this side as well., Kneel on one knee and place the other leg in front of your with your foot flat on the floor. Gently lean forward, bending the knee in front of you and pushing your knee gently toward the floor. Hold this stretch for 20-30 seconds. Repeat on the other side.


Make sure you don't push down too hard on your knee. You want to stretch the shin and Achilles tendon, not injure yourself further., To help loosen up the muscles in your shins, you can draw the alphabet with your toes. In a sitting position, point the toes of one of your feet toward the ground. Trace the whole alphabet with your toe, drawing out each letter. Repeat this will your other foot.


Do 4 reps. When you are first recovering, you can do this exercise up to three times a day to help loosen your muscles and promote shin health., Stand straight with your feet shoulder width apart. Step forward with one foot, stepping one foot a normal walking step ahead of the other. Instead of lowering your foot all the way down to the ground, touch just your heel to the ground with your toes flexed toward the ceiling. Gently lower your toes toward the ground, but don't touch the sole of your foot to the ground. Raise your toes back up and return to your beginning stance.


Do 10–15 reps on this side. Next, switch legs and repeat on the other side. Do 10–15 reps on that side as well., Grab a towel or exercise band. Sit on the floor with your legs stretched out in front of you. Wrap the exercise band or towel around the arch of the foot on the leg that is straight out. Using the towel or band, pull your foot toward you. Hold for 10–15 seconds. Repeat two to three times on each foot.


This can also be used to alleviate shin splints., Sit on the floor near a table or stationary object. Using a resistance band, wrap the band around the stable surface, such as a table leg. Loop the other side of the resistance band around the top of one of your feet. Once it is looped, pull your foot toward your knee, pulling against the resistance band. Hold for 10–15 seconds. Do 10–15 reps on one leg. Change feet and repeat the reps. Do three sets in all.


This exercise strengthens your lower leg and helps reduce the recurrence of shin splints.
You can increase your strength by using heavier resistance bands or increasing to 20-30 reps., Stand with your heel together and toes pointed out. Slowly raise up onto your toes. After a few seconds, slowly lower yourself back down. Repeat 10–15 times. This exercise strengthens your calf muscles and helps promote balance.


You can perform another kind of calf raise to strengthen a different set of calf muscles. Start with your big toes touching and your heels far apart. Slowly raise up onto your toes as high as you can go. After a few seconds, lower yourself back down. Repeat 10–15 times., Stand with your feet shoulder width apart. Start walking across the floor, using just your heels to stand on. Continue this for 30 seconds. Switch to regular walking for 30 seconds. Then, repeat the rotation three more times.


This will help strengthen the calf and shin muscles in your legs.