 If it’s just some guy or girl you’ve been talking to at the bar, health club, motor vehicle bureau line, etc., it may be tempting to just make up an excuse to avoid going on a date. After all, you’re not likely to see the person again anytime soon. Then again, if you aren’t going to see him or her again, why not just be honest? A little temporary awkwardness will probably leave both of you feeling better in the end.


Something as simple as "It was nice talking to you, but I'd like to just leave it at that. Thanks," might do the trick.
 You won’t have the time for lots of preparation beforehand, as in readying to break-up with a new boyfriend/girlfriend, so don’t try to come up with a long explanation. Just be clear, concise, and honest about why you don’t want to pursue a relationship with this person.


Stick to the “I” statements again. Focus on why you aren’t suited for a person like him/her. Maybe "I'm sorry, I don't share your passion for , so I know we wouldn't end up a good fit."

, Act like an adult.While the fake phone number might avoid the face-to-face awkwardness, you’re still going to hurt the other person eventually, and probably more than an honest turn-away would. If kindness is truly important to you, it should be important even when you’re out of sight.
If you really have to use the fake boyfriend/girlfriend routine, at least don’t start with it. Try an honest, direct, kind denial of interest first. It will usually do the trick.
 You’ll be inclined to want to keep things light, but if you go too far -- making a silly voice or face, quoting lines from a movie, etc. -- the other person will probably just think you are insulting him or her. Don’t seem like a jerk when you’re trying to be a nice guy/gal.Be careful with sarcasm. It may be obvious sarcasm to you to say "Oh, as if someone like me would ever go out with someone like you" with a fake, highfalutin voice and appropriate smirk at the end, and maybe the other person would usually get the joke as well, but he/she may not pick up on it while reacting to being rejected.

