 When you need to make a popcorn stitch in the row of a pre-established chain, begin by making five double crochets into one established stitch of that row.









If you do not know how to make a double crochet, see the “Tips” section for instructions.;
, Remove the hook from the last stitch, leaving an open loop. Re-insert the hook into the top hoop of the first stitch in the popcorn group, then back through the open loop.









At this point, you will have two loops on your hook: the first loop of the popcorn group and the last loop of the group.
 Slip stitch by pulling the open (end) loop through the loop of the first stitch, which should already be on your hook.









Use your finger to gently poke the popcorn stitch to the right side of the surface.
This step completes the actual popcorn stitch.
 Oftentimes, you will need to repeat the popcorn stitch to create a pattern over your piece. Popcorn stitches are almost always separated by at least one or two chains, though, and are rarely positioned side-by-side.
 Chain stitch a foundation chain using a number of stitches divisible by three.









For instance, your chain might have 12, 15, or 18 chain stitches.
You'll need to begin by making a slipknot on the hooked end of your crochet hook. See the "Tips" section for instructions on how to make a slipknot.
If you have never made a chain stitch, see the “Tips” section for guidance.
 When you reach the end of your foundation chain, make a single crochet into the second stitch currently from the hook. From there, make one single crochet into each stitch of the original chain.









If you do not know how to make a single crochet, see the “Tips” section for precise instructions.
 Make one chain stitch to advance to the next row. Turn the piece, then single crochet once into each of the next two stitches.
 In the next stitch (the third established stitch of your previous row), work five double crochets. Keep the last loop of each stitch on the hook as you work.









This is the start of your actual popcorn stitch.
If you do not know how to make a double crochet, check the “Tips” section of this article for details.
Note that the popcorn stitch technique you will use for this method varies slightly from the basic stitch mentioned in this article since you need to work with the top loops of each double crochet in the popcorn group, instead of only working with the first and last loops.
If you find it difficult to keep all the loops on your hook as you work, simply work the double crochets as normal and remove the hook from the last open loop at the end. Re-insert the hook through all five top loops of each double crochet in the group, as well as the sixth open loop at the end of the group.
 Wrap the yarn around the hook once, then draw it through all six loops currently on your hook.









This step completes the actual popcorn stitch.
See the “Tips” section of this article if you need additional help with the slip stitch.
 Make one single crochet into each of the next three stitches of the previous row.
 Create another popcorn group in the next stitch using the previously described steps. Single crochet once into the next three stitches again. Work across the rest of the row in this pattern until you reach the end of the row.
 Make one chain stitch to advance to the next row. Single crochet once into each stitch of the previous row to even out the stitches.









When you reach the popcorn stitch, work one single crochet into the back side of the center stitch of the popcorn.
 Work another row of popcorn stitches as previously described, followed by another row of single crochets. Repeat this pattern until you reach the end of the piece.
 Make a foundation chain of 13 chain stitches.









You will need to attach the yarn to the crochet hook using a slipknot before you can make your foundation chain. If you have never made a slipknot, see the "Tips" section for instructions.
You should also consult the “Tips” section if you need instructions on making a chain stitch.
 Double crochet once into the fourth chain away from your hook. After that, double crochet one into each established chain until you reach the end of the row.









If you do not know how to make a double crochet, check the “Tips” section of this article for details and instructions.
 Make three chain stitches to advance to the next row. Turn the piece before continuing.
 Skip the first double crochet of your previous row, then double crochet once into each of the next five established stitches.
 Work five double crochets into the next stitch, which should be the seventh stitch of your previous row.









This step starts the actual popcorn stitch.
Note that this popcorn stitch is almost the exact same as the popcorn stitch described in the basic method section.
 Remove the hook from the open loop. Weave the hook into the top of the first loop in your popcorn group, then back into the open loop. Pull the open loop through the first loop to close the popcorn group.









You may need to push the popcorn group to the right side of the material. You can do so using your fingers.
This step completes the actual popcorn stitch.
 Work one double crochet into each remaining stitch until you reach the end of the row.
 Advance to the next row by chaining three times and turning the piece. Make additional rows by working the same stitches used in your previous row. Repeat as often as needed until you reach the end of the piece.








