 If you can’t bring yourself to get rid of your cat, try making him an outside cat. This will limit your exposure to him. You can keep your cat in a cattery or cat house, located in the garden. This allows him freedom to roam outdoors during the day.
 A reduction in the cat dander in the areas of the house where you spend most of your time will aid your allergies. Don't allow the cat to enter your bedroom at any time. Since you sleep here, you will breath in cat dander all night if he/she is hanging around in there. Keep the doors shut to any rooms you don't want cats to enter.


You have to keep this up at all times. Any cat dander can aggravate your allergies. Plus, the more everyone does it, the more it'll become an ingrained habit., To test if your cat is really causing your allergies, send him away to stay with someone else for a month or two. Clean your house very well when he leaves to get rid of all the dander and clean it at least once a week in case any dander remains. Track your allergy symptoms over this time period, noting how they change.


If he is really the problem, you should see a change in your allergies pretty quickly., Although your cat will likely not enjoy it, you should have him bathed once a week. This can be done by a household member who isn't allergic. If you live by yourself, look into paying for a cat groomer to do it. try to wash you cat a maximum of twice a week as washing them creates tangles in their fur and dries out their skin.


Also consider using allergen reducing shampoos. These help cut down on how much dander your cat will shed on a daily basis., To cut down on shedding, brush or comb your cat's fur thoroughly each day for 10 to 15 minutes. Make sure you discard the fur after each grooming. To avoid spreading allergens inside your home, do this outside. If possible, have a non-allergic member of your household do this for you.


Grooming will improve the texture of the cat's coat, which will help remove all sources of allergens from the cat’s spittle, any outdoor pollen and dirt, and anything else the cat has brushed up against.
Although this doesn’t reduce the allergens, it may reduce the spread of them by reducing the amount your cat sheds.