 The most important quality of an exorcist, in any practice, is someone who makes your feel comfortable and safe. When you have a good feeling about someone, that bond and confidence will make it much easier to solve your issues. This trust is essential.


The Church of England, some Catholic groups, spirit or faith healers, and mediums are all good places to start asking questions.
Talk to 2-3 groups, if possible, but know that the sorts of groups willing to perform exorcisms are rare.
 As a spiritual, religious, and/or psychic phenomenon, you'll need the advice and guidance of a spiritual, religious, and/or psychic leader if you are still unable to remove the spirits. The problem is that not all faiths and practices believe in spiritual possession, or have systems in place to handle them. While you should work within your own belief system when possible, know that you may face stiff rejection from more conservative leaders.


Most groups will want to come do a quick investigation of the house before undergoing any sort of exorcism. This is a good way to calm your fears if you're unsure if there is a spirit or not.
 This could be easy to see if you uncover a murder that took place in your living room, but the causes for spiritual possession can be much more nuanced as well, from long-forgotten tragedies to deaths that gripped a soul before they were quite ready to go. Like all adversaries, you and your professional will be better prepared to fight if you know what exactly you're up against.


Knowing the cause of a possession can also help you determine what sort of professional to call, as you could be dealing with religious or secular spirits, depending on your beliefs.
 Note anything you can of value, and keep a small log of all the paranormal behavior you experience to help accurately fight off the psychic intrusion. This doesn't only include the physical details -- oftentimes you can sense or feel out a personality through their actions as well.


Do they feel malevolent or mischievous? Do you feel in danger or just bothered?
What rooms or objects does the spirit gravitate towards? Are there places they ignore?
What brought out the spirits presence? When was it first noticed?

, At the end of the day, the power of most spirits depends on the power that you give them.Fear, especially lingering, constant worry and dread, feeds right into their hand, giving them far more presence and power over you than someone who rightly ignores their cries for attention. You are just as important in this equation as the spirit is, any professional you call. Keep sharp and calm and your problems will soon resolve themselves.