 You can begin searching for a ranch online, where you will find a variety of ranching real estate sites. Real estate sites specializing in ranches usually focus on a particular region, such as California or Texas ranches. Some of the sites allow you to sort listings by location, price range and acreage., Ranches are a significant investment. If you want to keep your money in a safe investment that is a little more fun than a government bond or savings account, a ranch could be a decent investment.In California, you may pay between $5,000,000 and 21,000,000 for a ranch.
In Texas, you might be able to get a ranch for as little as 400,000. You can also easily spend upwards of 5,000,000.
You should only invest in a ranch if you want to spend significant time at the ranch, since ranches can be difficult to value and to sell.
 Some local banks work with agencies such as the USDA to help finance beginner farmers and ranchers. Ask your local bank about the local beginning farmer financing initiative, which is a special lending pool designed for young farmers.You could also look into the “Young & Beginning” program offered by Farm Credit Services. This program helps young farmers get on their feet with real estate loans, insurance, education reimbursements, youth in agriculture loans, as well as college scholarships.
 If you know any property owners, you should contact them directly to work out an arrangement to ranch on their land. Depending on your financial situation and ranching goals, you could work out a cash deal or a work-in arrangement. In other words, you could work to pay for some or all of the land or get a good deal by paying with cash., If you want to make money with a traditional working ranch, try to determine your possible sources of income from ranching, hunting rights, tourism and other sources. If you want to make money, you should look at emerging markets such as sheep farming and carbon offsetting., If you are starting a ranch for personal and lifestyle reasons, you might want to purchase a ranch that is conveniently located and hire a ranch manager to keep the cost of the ranch relatively low. If you start a small ranch, remember that it is a significant investment of time. You will be spending at least twenty hours a week working on your small ranch, in addition to whatever you do for a living.Small ranchers do not typically realize a profit, although there are exceptions.If you are mostly interested in ranching for recreational or lifestyle purposes, you may want to start with a small ranch and a few head of cattle.
A small ranch can be a great way of living an active and outdoor lifestyle, as long as you have other sources of income.
 Go to the local conservation office and ask about the production potential of the land you are looking to purchase. You want to consult with professionals about the soil type, vegetation, annual precipitation and other local ecological conditions that will determine the number of cattle your land can support.


Sellers may tell you the land can support more cattle than is realistic. If you live in the USA, the local Natural Resource Conservation Office will have helpful data to help you determine the potential productivity of the land you hope to purchase.
 Ranches in relatively close proximity to urban centers retain their value and cost a great deal, as well as ranches in high demand regions like Montana or Texas. Although you may want to get away from the city to a remote ranch, you should also consider the time it will take you to get to the ranch for a vacation.If it is a working ranch and you will also have a day job, you should consider the travel time to and from the ranch.

