 A clean rag and some multi-purpose cleaner should do the job just fine. Let the wall dry for a day or so before you cover it.


If you don't have a standard multi-purpose cleaner laying around, some mild soap and water will work, too.;
, Add 2 more inches (5 cm) to the measured height to add some wiggle room when you apply it to the wall. This is especially important for odd-shaped walls and walls with windows..


Measure the width, too. If you’re using panels, this is doubly important. You’ll want to be sure the width of the wall doesn’t leave your last panel at an awkward width – if it does, you may need to make a few cuts for it to line up.
 You have two options here: one giant panel taking up your entire wall or several panels lining up with each other. If you choose the latter, be sure to match up any design on the fabric to maintain an even pattern before cutting the next panel.


Alternatively, cut the fabric into panels so that they meet the width of the wall. For example, if your wall is 60" wide, you'll want five 12" panels. The main advantage of this (if not the only advantage) is that they’re easier to work with and symmetrical. However, there will be seams and lining up that you’ll have to worry about.
 This is the stuff that turns your normal, everyday fabric into something stiffer that’ll pass as wallpaper. Use a sponge or paint roller to apply starch to the top half of the wall. A thin, even layer is best. Try to keep dripping to a minimum.Only do this if you have time to put up your panels afterward. You don't want to do this, have to leave, and come back to a dry wall that needs re-starched.
 This is easiest to do with at least two people – one person can place while the other smoothes out the bubbles.


Leave 1 inch (2.5 cm) of fabric overlapping the ceiling. Temporarily hold the fabric in place with pushpins as it dries.
 Once the top half is done, apply starch to the bottom of the wall and start smoothing the fabric slowly over it in a downward motion. Leave 1 inch (2.5 cm) of fabric overlapping the bottom edge of the wall.


If any windows or doors are set into the wall, leave 1 inch (2.5 cm) of extra fabric around them as well.
If you’re applying multiple panels, make sure the side edges line up just how you like them. It may take a minute to get perfect, but it’s a minute of work now for a lifetime of non-regret later.
 Don’t worry – it’ll soak in and won’t change the look of your wallpaper. When it dries, it will disappear and leave the top stiff, too. Again, apply it evenly in a thin layer.


Brush or smooth away wrinkles and bubbles in the fabric as you go. Any wrinkles or bubbles will be incredibly obvious and may ruin the look you’re going for.
 When it is, trim away the excess fabric from the tops and bottoms of walls and around windows or doors. For the record, it’s easier to create a hard, straight line with a box cutter or razor blade than scissors.


And that's it! Enjoy your newly wallpapered walls.

