 Windows 7 allows you to use a USB thumb drive as a "RAM expansion" using a utility called ReadyBoost. This let's you repurpose old USB drives to help improve your computer's performance.


Attach a USB flash drive or external hard drive to an available USB port on your computer. An "Autoplay" dialog box will appear on the screen as soon as your computer recognizes the device.
Choose the "Speed up my system" option under "General Options" in the Autoplay dialog box.
Click the ReadyBoost tab when the Properties dialog box appears.

Select "Dedicate this device to ReadyBoost" if you want to apply all the available space on your extra storage device to your computer and use it as memory.
Select "Use this device" and adjust the slider to designate the amount of memory you want to apply to ReadyBoost. This option is useful if you want to reserve space on your storage device.


Click Apply then OK to save your settings.
 While ReadyBoost can give you a performance boost, physically upgrading your RAM will provide much greater benefits. The type of RAM you need depends on the type of hardware you have installed in your computer, so this will be a little more involved (and expensive) than using ReadyBoost.



Click here for detailed instructions on installing new RAM.
 Solid state drives are a newer technology that use memory chips instead of spinning disks like a traditional drive. This can lead to massive boosts in performance for tasks that are hard disk dependent, such as booting up your computer. Solid state drives are still pricier than traditional drives, but prices are going down.Click here for detailed instructions on installing a solid state drive.
 If you play a lot of games, installing a new graphics card can take your games to a whole new level. A good graphics card can be pretty pricey, but the performance gains are often worth it if you take games seriously.



Click here for detailed instructions on installing a new graphics card.
 The processor is the "brain" of your computer, and is one of the main factors involved when determining the speed at which things run. Upgrading your processor is one of the more complex upgrades you can perform, and it is also one of the most expensive.



Click here for detailed instructions on installing a new processor.

