 Kittens habitually clean themselves with their tongues, but there are some spots that they have trouble reaching – namely, the head, the back, and the behind. Mother cats usually help kittens clean these spots. Your job, as surrogate mother cat, is to clean your kitten regularly to ensure that she is healthy and hygienic.Wiping with a wet cloth also uses less water than a full bath. This makes it a good way to gradually and safely introduce kittens to water and washing.;
, Many kittens, especially young kittens, are very messy eaters. After the kitten has eaten, massage her entire body with a clean, moist cloth. Pay special attention to the abdomen and genital region – this may encourage her to relieve herself.
 Make sure that the towel is not rough enough to irritate your kitten. If the kitten is particularly dirty, consider dabbing the cloth with a vet-recommended pet shampoo. You can find special kitten shampoos in most pet shops.
 Use a cloth wet with warm water. Always follow the direction of the fur to avoid hurting or irritating your cat. Hold your kitten and talk to her in a soothing voice to make her comfortable. Many kittens are used to being petted on the back, so restrain your cleaning to that area until the kitten is okay with the cloth.If your kitten gets nervous or scared at any time in the cleaning process, stop washing for a moment and hold her close. Continue to talk in the soothing voice. Your kitten may begin to trust you more once she knows that you will respond to her complaints.
 Start from the face and forelegs, move to the back and abdomen, and finish with the hindquarters. Avoid the kitten's eyes, ears, and nose! Unless the kitten's head is extremely dirty, it may be best to avoid the head altogether. Don't worry, however: the kitten will likely clean its head on its own after the bath.
 Kittens have trouble cleaning this area by themselves, and it is where their mother likely helped them the most. This is why cats will often turn around and stick their back ends in your face while you're petting them: it's a sign of trust, like they trusted their mother at a very young age.Consider cleaning your kitten's behind every few days, especially if she does not clean herself. This will help keep your kitten happier and healthier, and it will keep odors away.
If your cat isn't cleaning herself, it can be a sign that she is overweight.
 If there is still more dirt on her coat, you can repeat the process by using another cloth. When your kitten is completely clean, put her in a warm place to cuddle up while she dries out.


Blot the excess water with a dry towel to make sure that your kitten is almost completely dry. If you leave her wet and shivering, she may be at risk of falling ill.

