


Taking a shower every day to every three days is mandatory. If you aren't sweating a whole lot, two days is pushing it, and even if you aren't sweating a lot at the third day, mark you should take care of it regardless.
Brush twice a day, and floss once a day. People don't take this seriously enough and soon come to regret it. If your teeth are more than a tiny bit crooked, you should consider orthodontics. A straight smile makes a big difference.
Wear deodorant every day. Body odor is not an attractive smell, and nobody around you enjoys it. It's a simple routine that can reap large benefits in your friendships and relationships. Most deodorant doesn't smell enough to ever be "Too much". Apply liberally and make sure you get antiperspirant deodorant every time, it'll save you shirts in the long run.
Cultivating a scruffy look, especially at an early age till the time you are hitting middle age can be very successful. This does not count those dirty looking mustaches you see from time to time, shave that if you have it.
Pluck your uni-brow or shave it, either way keep it off your face if you have one. No exceptions.
Wash your face every day. This helps to clear up both red acne and blackheads. However, if you are a teenager a little acne is totally normal. If you're having trouble with blackheads, get anything with "Salicylic Acid" in it in a 1%-3% concentration and follow the directions on the bottle. If you're having trouble with mostly red acne, grab a tube of Benzoyl Peroxide 8-10%. Both of these are very cheap (Ten bucks and under) and last weeks. They are the same ingredients as "Proactive" which runs for prices much, much higher.
Using cologne to your advantage is a smart move, but don't overdo it. Wear nice clothes. The style of clothes that you wear doesn't matter, because you're expressing your personality. Whatever you choose to wear, though, should be clean and ironed (if appropriate). Also, do not wear pants in such a manner that reveal your underwear. This is not sexy to people who possess a mature and respectable sense of fashion. If you are going to wear jeans, make sure they are not too baggy. This, too, does not look good.
 This is a very good way to be. What this means is have your finances in place, be able to provide for more than yourself and don't get yourself involved in petty arguments.