 The most important thing to remember is that you need to make a positive impression on the auditioning panel. You need to be able to go in and make yourself memorable. You cannot afford to assume that you are going to get a part simply because you were in a previous show, or that you have acting experience with another theater.;
, Many times, selecting actors for a given role is subjective. There are several factors that play into who is chosen for the part. The most important part is the audition itself, so you do want to get that right, but there are other things as well. Many times, the director already has an idea about what kind of person they are looking for (although a great audition can change their mind). The director also considers how each of the characters fit with those they will be performing with. For instance, if they are part of a family, the director has to consider how the family looks together. Sometimes, you may get passed over for a part even though there was nothing wrong with your audition. For one reason or another, you just may not have fit in with the director’s vision.
 When you get to the audition, there will be a registration table. You will have to fill out an audition form. That form will ask you for contact information, previous theater experience, and if there are any times and dates you will not be available for rehearsals. Your photo will be attached to this form so the director can see your information when you go in for the actual audition. You will be given a small section of script that you will perform before the director and the producers. Going before a panel of strangers can be a little intimidating for some children and even adults. Letting them know what to expect will really help them to be able to relax.
 Don’t just read. Put feeling into what you say, react to what would be going on around you, and get into character.
 Yes, there are times when simply being a cute little kid is enough, but for the most part, directors are looking for true actors. So many people stand before the director and simply read the lines they were given that when someone really tries to act out the part, they make a big impression. You need to stand out from the crowd if you want to be cast.
 Directors often see many, many people, and it can be hard to remember each and every person that came in. You must ensure that the director remembers who you are if you want to be cast, and having a photo ready can help with that.
 With a simple internet search, you can find out a lot about what the performance is about, what other companies have done, and how you need to act for your wanted part.
 Remember, you need to act, not just read. Take some time to get familiar with the part you are given to audition with as soon as you can. The more prepared you are, the better your chances of getting a part.
 How would that person react in a certain situation? What mood is the person in your part of the script? Who is the person talking to? While you may not get your interpretation completely perfect, thinking of things from this perspective increases your chances of getting the part.
 If you need more time to prepare when your number is called, ask for a little more time. Most likely, the director will give you a few more minutes. It's better to request a little more time to ensure a good audition than to rush into it too soon.
 Speaking quickly shows nervousness, and unless your character is actually nervous in that part of the script, you won't be acting correctly. Shove your own emotions down and convey the emotion the script wants you to. Remember, the director will want your character to seem like a real person, and part of that is acting how that character is supposed to act.
 If you have a small child auditioning, and that child cannot read well, having the kid read from a script is nearly impossible. Try teaching your child a short poem or nursery rhyme so the child will have something to present.
 A good actor will work through a mistake without letting the audience know something went wrong. Keep your poise, hold your character together, and act as if the mistake was intentional.
 This not only makes a good impression, but raises the chances that your audience will be more alert and remember you. The later you audition, the harder it will be to make an impression. Arrange your schedule to get there at the beginning, even if it means waiting in line to audition.
 Nobody is guaranteed a spot in a play. It doesn't matter what other roles you've had or what other theaters you've worked with. If you are not thought to be fit for the role, you won't be cast. Being an actor with good experience who auditions well will get you a part, not your past performances.
 The more you do it, the more comfortable you'll be. This means a better performance, because the more you go through the process, the easier it becomes.
 The decisions the director makes are up to that person alone. Please respect that person's decision. It doesn't always mean that you had a bad audition, or that you're not a good actor. It simply means that you were not the best actor for this part in this show. Also, arguing leaves a bad impression. You won't change anybody's mind. It will only lower your chances of getting cast in future productions by that director. Although asking how you can improve is appropriate, starting a fight will not help.

