 Generally, offenders request letters from people who can show the parole board that he or she has a support system waiting outside the prison.This support system typically includes family, friends, faith leaders, counselors, and employers.Feel free to ask the offender or his attorney why you were selected to write the letter and if there is anything that you should include in the letter.
 Before writing the letter, you will probably find it helpful to sit down and think about the points that you want to make. Writing them down in bullet point format will help you remember to touch on everything as you draft your letter.
 Ask the offender when the letter needs to be submitted. Some offenders will want all letters submitted to the parole board before a certain date. However, the offender may find it beneficial to have letters submitted throughout the year. This will signal that the offender’s support is continuous and substantial., If you are writing in support because you are an employer, then you should use company letterhead. If you are an employer but do not have letterhead, then you should have the letter notarized.All others can print off their letter on regular paper. However, if you are a business owner or a professional who has letterhead, then you can certainly use it for your own letter.
 In the first paragraph, you should identify who you are and also who the inmate is.Be sure to identify the inmate by name and prison identification number.If you do not know this number, then ask the inmate.


Sample language could be: “My name is Melissa Jones. I am the former employer of Jeffrey Smith, who is an inmate in your prison. His inmate number is 12345. I request that you grant him parole at his hearing, which has been scheduled for April 22, 2016.”

, In the second paragraph, you should explain the reasons you support the inmate receiving parole. Use your own language. For example, you might support parole because you are the inmate’s spouse and you and your children need the inmate back in your lives. You could write, “As I have visited Jeffrey with the children over the past two years, he has never failed to express remorse for what he did. When talking to the children, he asks them many questions about whether they are following the rules at school, and he always reminds them how important it is to listen to their teachers. The children need this fatherly presence at home.”If you are offering a home to the offender, then you will need to include particular information: the address, phone number, whether the home is rented or owned, and the names of other people in the home.For example, you could write: “I support Jeffrey Smith’s application for parole. As his first-cousin, I have offered him an apartment to rent. The apartment is in an apartment building that I own at 1212 Rockwell Road, Abilene, Texas. He will pay $450 a month in rent. The phone number to his unit is XXX-XXXX. My personal number is….”


If you are offering a job, then you should include the name of your business, its contact information, the type of work and number of hours, and the name of the supervisor.Sample language could include, “I have offered Jeffrey a job at my grocery store, Stop and Top, located at 445 Smithson Street, Jonesport, Maine. Our number is XXX-XXXX. The job is a full-time, 40-hour a week position unloading trucks and shelving goods. I will serve as his direct supervisor.”



, You need to end the letter in a way that gives the parole board confidence that the offender will not commit more crimes if released.


You could say, “I assure you that, should Jeffrey be granted parole, he has a healthy support system in place. I, along with his family, will give him all the support he needs to continue to build a productive life.”, If you are not confident writing in English, then you should write the letter in your native language and then get it translated. Make sure that the translation is done by a professional and not a family member.


You should attach a letter of translation. This letter will be signed by the translator, often in front of a notary public.
A sample certificate of translation is available at http://www.justice.gov/sites/default/files/eoir/legacy/2013/09/30/certoftranslation.pdf.
 You should send the letter to the parole board or to the offender’s attorney. Ask the inmate who you should send it to.


Some state parole boards have an online system you can use for submitting letters. New York, for example, has one such system. New York’s system, however, severely limits the length of any letter and might be best used by members of the general public.
If the offender has requested that you write the letter specifically, then you should still print off a hard copy letter and submit it.

