 Anxiety may be linked to some risk factors in older adults. These can include overall feelings of poor health, sleep problems, medication side-effects, physical limitations for daily activities, excessive worry with health and medical care, and stressful life events.If your loved one has some risk factors, this may increase their chance of experiencing symptoms of anxiety.
Ask the elderly person, “What are your sleep patterns like?” and, “How have your stress levels been?” Find out if they are having problems with money or if living on their own is causing stress.;
, Elderly people may begin to feel anxious after they have a fall or experience a traumatic event that makes them feel overly cautious in moving forward.An elderly person may begin to feel anxious after an illness or major life event, like family moving or the death of a loved one.


For example, if an elderly person falls on stairs, they may begin to have intense fears around stairs, get nervous thinking about stairs, and avoid going places where stairs may be present.
Ask, “What has it been like since you were sick? Have you been getting around okay after your fall?”

, Older adults may be hesitant to discuss emotional and mental health due to perceived stigma. For this reason, be careful in how you approach mental health. Be conversational and ask questions that don’t explicitly imply mental health. For example, say, “Is there anything in your life causing you to worry or be upset? Do you ever have a hard time putting things out of your mind? What do you think about when you cannot sleep?”It may be frightening or fearful for an older adult to talk about feelings and emotions. Take it slow and let the person talk.
 While many anxiety disorders exist, it appears that generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) affects older people the most. Behind GAD are specific phobias, such as agoraphobia.When thinking about what anxieties may affect your elderly loved one, look to these diagnoses as most likely.


90% of all later-life anxiety diagnoses are given for GAD and specific phobias.
Anxiety disorders are treated by medication including the following: SSRI, buspirone, pregabalin, benzodiazepines, and other medications

, Anxiety is diagnosed when a person has problems controlling the feelings of worry. Adults tend to have at least three of the following symptoms to qualify for a diagnosis: restlessness, fatigue, difficulty concentrating, irritability, muscle tension, or sleep problems.Ask, “What types of things do you worry about?" "How often do you worry about those things?”

, Elderly people tend to focus more on physical symptoms than emotional problems. For older adults, mental health stigma may affect their ability to talk about emotions and worries, so they may talk about pains in their bodies instead.Some common examples of body symptoms include:Pounding heart
Sweating
Stomach upset
Frequent urination or diarrhea
Shortness of breath
Muscle tensions
Headaches
Fatigue
Insomnia
Tremors

, Anxiety affects how a person feels and thinks. Anxiety is primarily focused on irrational worry and excessive fear (in comparison to other people in similar situations); however, other symptoms may be present, such as irritability, restlessness, hypervigilance (or looking out for danger), feeling tense, and expecting the worst.The person may be convinced that something bad will happen, or that they need to prepare for all scenarios because you can never be too safe.
 To qualify for a diagnosis of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), the person must have symptoms of anxiety (such as excessive worry) for most days of the week for at least six months.The anxiety may cause the person significant distress or interfere with daily activities.


For example, the person may worry about missing medication doses every day, despite someone giving the doses.
The anxiety may cause problems in multiple environments such as home, work, and family situations.
 While your loved one may meet all criteria for a diagnosis of an anxiety disorder, only a professional can make a diagnosis. Visit a psychologist, psychiatrist, social worker, or mental health counselor to receive a clinical diagnosis. Having an official diagnosis can be helpful in working through the anxiety, getting therapy, or obtaining medications if needed.Call your insurance provider for a referral to a specialist. You can also call your local mental health clinic or primary care provider, or get a recommendation from a friend.
 Anxiety can often co-occur with depression, heart disease, diabetes, alcoholism, and medical problems.Medical problems such as heart disease have symptoms that can mask actual anxiety symptoms. These symptoms might include chest pain or shortness of breath.A professional will ask questions to parse out the anxiety diagnosis from other diagnoses.
 Older people tend to be on more medications than younger people. These medications may mask symptoms of anxiety that might otherwise be easier to spot.For example, a medication may cause tremors, yet the elderly person may experience tremors as a symptom of anxiety. A medical expert may overlook the tremors as a medication side-effect and not as related to anxiety.
Ask, “What medications do you take, and how do they affect you? Do you experience any side-effects?”

, Older adults with co-occurring depression and anxiety often have more severe symptoms of both anxiety and depression.This can lead to greater problems in health and decrease feelings of well-being. If you diagnose anxiety, you may want to go over symptoms of depression as well.


Some common symptoms of depression include changes in eating and sleeping, feeling hopeless and helpless, feeling sad much of the time, and losing interest in previously enjoyed activities.
If the person is exhibiting suicidal behavior, act immediately by calling emergency services. This includes threatening to harm themselves or others, making a plan to kill themselves, or giving away possessions and saying goodbye to people.
For more information on diagnosing depression, check out How to Diagnose Depression.

