 Plug your Christmas lights into an outlet. Ensure that you don't have any burnt-out bulbs.;
, Make sure to do this before putting ornaments on your tree. LED lights are best for live trees as they do not heat up too quickly.The Around-and-Around Wrap: Wrap strands of lights around the top of the tree and work your way down to the base of the tree. For a 6-foot tall tree, you will need about 6 strands of lights with 100 bulbs each.Put your first light at the very top of the tree to begin. This light will shine on the star, angel, or snowflake that you will add later.
Secure your light strands by weaving them in an out of the tree’s branches.
The Vertical Wrap: Divide your tree into 3 sections. Each section will have its own lights.
Begin at the base of the tree and weave the lights up through the branches to the top of the tree and back down to the base. Repeat.
, The plastic will collect any needles that fall off your tree. Cover the plastic with a festive Christmas tree skirt.


These skirts add to the beauty of your tree and also keep the tree’s needles from collecting on your floor.
 Look for branches that are wider apart so that your ornaments won’t rest on lower branches.
 The tree is strongest near the trunk and can bear more weight.
 This works particularly well with shiny bulb, glass, or metal ornaments as these types are the most reflective.
 Make sure not to hang too many ornaments on each branch.


If a branch starts to get too weighed down, ornaments could fall off or the branch could break.
 These extras can include bows, strands of popcorn and cranberries, and candy canes.
 Tinsel makes your tree glitter. Hang tinsel near lights for the shiniest look possible.


Be mindful with the amount of tinsel you place on your tree. Too much tinsel could take away from the beauty of your ornaments.
For a more modern look, buy colored tinsel rather than the traditional gold and silver.
 Make sure that it is secure and not crooked.
 Admire the festive tree you have created and be jolly.
 The orbs can be glass or plastic.Add fake winterberries and silver bells to complete a traditional tree.
 Hang white lights instead of colored lights to accent the flowers.Silk roses, magnolias, and hydrangeas are good options for a wintery feel.
Add richly colored ribbons and little silver orbs or glittering glass ornaments for a twinkling, flowery look.
 Place pine cones throughout the tree.Mix bird ornaments in with fake leaves.
White lights are best for this natural look.
 Mix glass and plastic ornaments alongside white lights for a tree that could rival the White House's own.To get even more patriotic, hang red, white, and blue lights on your tree.
 Mod colors include lime greens, purples, bright blues, and hot pink.Light strands with large light bulbs mixed with bright small and large ornaments will give your tree a contemporary, edgy feel.

