 You can do a much better and thorough workout when you are focused and alert and morning is one of the best times to exercise because your body has rested from a full night’s sleep and it is in an energized state. Doing exercise in the evening may be difficult because your body is tired from a day’s work and you tend to be less focused on the exercise at hand. Give morning exercise a try to see how you feel:


For starters, try to get a brisk walk for ten minutes after you get out of bed
As the week progresses, do more strenuous exercises like running or biking too.
See how you are faring by the end of the week. You will probably find that doing some exercise in the morning is a far better energy booster than your regular cup of caffeine.;
, When you exercise in the evening, your body is fatigued, but after a workout your endorphins are pumping and you suddenly regain a burst of energy that may last a few hours. Owing to this renewed energy, you may find that you will have trouble getting to sleep. However, with a morning routine, you get your initial burst of energy to last you throughout the day. By the end of the day your body unwinds into a more relaxed state and you will find that you can go to bed earlier to get a full night’s rest before your exercise routine for the next morning. Try it out and you will find yourself sleeping earlier at night and waking up rested and recuperated for a workout that will re-energize you again.
 Studies have proven that when you exercise in the morning, your metabolism can reach its peak, and therefore you will burn fat three times more than when you exercise in the afternoon or the evening.Since you will have more energy after getting a restful night’s sleep, your body is in better shape to burn the unwanted fat that you want gone! Great exercises to do in the morning if you are trying to lose weight include:


cardio exercises (running, biking or aerobics to get your heart pumping and your fat burning)
at least 30 minutes to an hour of great cardio exercise will surely get you the results you want in your weight loss plan.
 Wake up in the morning and do your exercise routine to get better results in fat burning, sleeping patterns, and alertness levels. Morning exercises will also give you some quiet time to yourself to do a full workout without unnecessary distractions.

