 A stubby flat head screwdriver works best here to pop off the screw covers. Then, a stubby phillips works best to get the 2 screws out. There are another two screws on the bottom that you'll need to remove before taking off the cover.
 There may be more or less than 3 depending on the options the car has. The harnesses are very easy to remove. You simply squeeze with your thumb the ribbed portion, and pull. The separate very easily, if it's giving you trouble you're not squeezing hard enough, or in the right location. The hardest part here is having enough room for your hands to fit behind the cover., The 3 harnesses pull out just like the other ones. The speedometer cable pulls straight out after you use your thumb to depress the little tab., The trip odometer reset button has a rubber tip that needs to be pulled off first.,, Then remove the 2 screws on the face and the face comes off. You have to do this because it's illegal to turn back the odometer, and besides, it's just plain easier to swap the original odometer for the new one., One screw will get the button itself off, and a tiny little clip holds the rod in place. Make sure you're in a clean work area here, because those little clips like to go flying! Also, notice that the blue plastic piece has a spring on it, more potential for parts flying! Pay close attention to how that spring goes on before removing, It's a little tricky to get on right., Now the new cluster has the old odometer in it. Be careful that the speedo needle is pointing to zero at rest; it's capable of going on in almost any position. If you're going to install colored face gauges or face inserts/covers, now is the time. Same goes for an aluminum bezel. These can be bought on eBay for $10 + shipping, and give the cluster a race look. If you don't like the aluminum look, feel free to paint, powdercoat, or dye it!, You can replace the colors in these bulbs., The wiring harnesses and speedos go back on til they click. 3 plugs, 1 speedo cable, and 4 screws., Put the stock one back together too and sell it on eBay!