 Experts believe that relaxation strategies, such as meditation, can reduce your stress and the chance that you will get migraines. Stress is the number one migraine trigger.If you are not a familiar with meditation, you can seek out a mental health professional who can teach behavioral techniques to you. These can help you negate some of the pain from migraines.To begin meditating, relax and close your eyes while sitting in a dimly lit room. Then just take slow, deep breaths while attempting to clear your mind of all thoughts and all stress.
Continue with meditation several times a day if it helps you.
 Many people suffer from migraines after eating too much processed foods or food containing artificial sweeteners. Stay away from MSG, Aspartame, Sucralose, and Sodium Nitrate if you get migraines from food additives or artificial sweeteners., Some people get migraines after eating chocolate, certain fruits, gluten, cheese or nuts. Figure out what triggers your migraine and avoid it. If you consume any triggers, recall if you there has been any temporal association with the time of consumption to the onset of migraine.


Some common triggers are: foods with strong scents, chocolate, aged cheeses, alcohol, MSG , Cola, Pork, caffeine, and red meat.Studies have shown correlations between migraines and diet, with red meat exacerbating migraines.You want to avoid other triggers such as loud noises, bright lights, and strong smells.
 You can find this in turkey, fish, brown rice, yogurt and other foods, or you can take a supplement that includes tryptophan. It stimulates dopamine production, which can relieve migraines.


Studies have shown that depletion of tryptophan can induce nausea, headache, and photophobia.
While evidence has shown that tryptophan depletion can contribute to migraine, there is no established amount to include in your diet to prevent migraines., Treat migraines by getting enough sleep every night, but not oversleeping. In a popularly-cited study, changes in sleep patterns were shown to significantly affect migraines negatively.


Maintaining a regular sleeping pattern without too much deviation will help to reduce the incidence of migraines and can possibly reduce the intensity when they occur., Most people who suffer from migraines are sensitive to light. Photosensitivity is fairly common during a migraine and can serve to intensify the pain and discomfort.


Resting in a quiet, dark area will serve to reduce the number of external stimuli that can negatively affect your migraine.
 This can help relieve the tension of a migraine. The cold from ice packs can help to reduce and numb the pain, effectively dulling the headache.


Apply a cold compress wrapped in a towel (not directly) to your forehead for 10-15 min and then remove. Repeat after a few minutes if you experience relief from this technique.You should also drink lots of fluids.

