 You want to make sure your daughter has a say in basic decisions. Let her call some of the shots around the house in regards to things like her schedule and eating habits. Allowing her to make small decisions early on will create a mindset in which she feels comfortable pursuing her own passions and interests.These choices do not have to be major decisions. However, letting her choose her own way will instill confidence at a young age. Allow her to pick out her own outfits for school, for example, and select what activities she wants to do after school.
Allowing your daughter to make choices will show her that she's a valued member of your household. It will give her a sense of personal autonomy that will instill confidence.;
, Many parents hope their children will follow specific paths in life. However, forcing your daughter to pursue certain interests is likely to encourage more insecurity than confidence. Confident people make their own choices, so allow your daughter to pursue her own unique interests.Take note of what your daughter shows interest in. Pay attention to what subjects she responds to in school and what occupies her time after school. Try to find ways to encourage her to pursue these things.
For example, say your daughter loves her English class and always spends time reading at home. You could enroll her in a writing course at a community center or buy her a library pass.
You can also try exposing your daughter to a variety of things to help her find her interests. Try taking a trip to the science museum, visit an art gallery, let her try dance classes, fix the car together, or volunteer at a shelter.
 You do not want to force your daughter down a certain path due to her gender. When your daughter is pursuing interests and passions, leave preconceived notions about gender behind. Do not try to discourage her from, say, joining the football team. Many girls do not want to pursue traditionally female paths, so make it clear she does not have to do so.Also, avoid providing only gender stereotyped toys for your daughter. Provide her with a mix of toys instead, such as toy cars, toy tools, and lego sets, as well as dolls and a play kitchen.


If your daughter wants to enroll in a sports team at school, allow her to do so. If she shows an interest in playing with trucks over dolls, do not force dolls on her.
Strive to get every family member on board. Oftentimes, for birthday parties and other events, guests will bring traditionally girly items if they don't know what to get. Give guests a little guidance if presents are expected, and tell them to cater to your daughter's unique interests over traditionally gendered toys.
 While you shouldn't push your daughter in school unreasonably, academic achievement can certainly help build confidence. The best way to encourage achievement is to simply show interest in your daughter's academic life.Make sure you keep up to date on how she's doing in school. Help her with homework assignments and organizing her school schedule. Show her basic study skills when tests and quizzes come around to help her do well.
You should also simply ask her about school when you have the chance. Inquire as to what her favorite subjects are, whether she likes her teacher, and other aspects of her academic life. By showing interest in school, you're showing your daughter it's important.
 Media can have a negative impact on a young girl's sense of self. Media often forces gender roles on young women, and can also inhibit autonomous thinking and creativity. During your daughter's early years, let her develop her own ideas about herself and the world. A confident person thinks for herself, and your daughter will be better able to do so without too much media influence.Establish firm rules and routines regarding media consumption. Have a set limit of how much time she can spend watching television, for example, and don't let her spend too much time online.
As she gets older, however, you will not be able to as easily control her exposure to media. She will be exposed at school, out with her friends, and other places. Try to worry too much about this. If your daughter has had the ability to think for herself early on, she'll be less influenced by media later.
Talk to your daughter when she is faced with these images as well. For example, while waiting in line at the grocery store, you might explain the magazine covers to her by saying something like, "Honey, those pictures are not actually what women look like. They are enhanced, painted, and exaggerated. Real women aren't perfect and are beautiful because they aren't." This may be even more important for women of color to explain to their daughters, especially if they are often faced with images of women who are white.
 You want to make it clear that your daughter has a right to define who she is. Many children, especially young girls, feel they have to be universally liked. Teach your daughter she should be a good person, but also her own person. It's okay to have traits that others don't love as long as she's true to herself.Always present a range of options for your daughter and allow her to choose. If gymnastics is a popular club for girls at her school, let her know it's okay to go down a different route if she wants. Allow her to pick clothing that expresses herself, and read the books that speak to her rather than going with what's popular.
Remember that it's okay if your daughter does pursue some things that are popular or trendy. This is a normal part of growing up and does not necessarily mean your daughter is losing her individuality. She may genuinely enjoy the most popular tween band or reading series.
 Young girls are often encouraged to be likable, to the point they don't assert their own needs. When raising confident girls, assertiveness is vital. Many girls grow up viewing being assertive as being aggressive. Make sure your daughter understands it's appropriate to assert herself and her needs.Tell her it's okay to let someone know if they're making her feel bad or uncomfortable. Teach her ways to express herself without being aggressive or mean in return.
For example, if someone is picking on her at school, tell her not to yell or tease back. Teach her instead to say, with a serious tone, "I don't like the way you're talking to me." You can even practice at home by role playing these kinds of scenarios.
Prepare her a little for sexism. Let her know people may sometimes look down on her for being an assertive woman, but make it clear that's their problem. She has a right to a sense of personal space and autonomy.
 Your daughter may face judgment for her unique interests, style, and passions. However, let her know everyone faces judgment but she should not let this hold her back. Make sure she feels she can define herself however she wants, regardless of what others think.Have her pick three words that define herself. Encourage her to pick whatever words she wants. You can say something like, "If you're not thinking of how others may react, how would you describe yourself in three words?"
Then, ask her to talk about times she displayed these qualities, and times when she did not. This will show her she does not have to be showcasing all her skills at once. No one can be everything at once.
 Women are often put under particular pressure to be perfect. Girls often grow up seeing things in a black and white fashion. Your daughter may think she's either excelling or failing. Encourage her to see things in more nuanced terms.Allow her to express her vulnerabilities without judgment as well, but show her she can do so without tearing herself apart. Encourage her to open up when she feels she's screwed something up, but to talk it out productively.
Try to teach her to see herself realistically and without judgment. For example, if she says something like, "I failed at that test. I'm an idiot," correct her. Encourage her to instead say something like, "I didn't do great on that test, but no one's perfect all the time."

, One of the most important parts of raising confident girls is encouraging a sense of bodily autonomy. Your daughter should know she has a right to define personal boundaries regarding her body without feeling guilt, so instill this sense in her early on.Tell your daughter she is in charge of her body. Ask her on occasion, "Who is in charge of your body?" and encourage her to enthusiastically reply, "I am!"
Teach her it's always okay to say "No" to forms of physical contact, even from relatives. Do not push her to hug and kiss people goodbye if she's not comfortable. If other siblings roughhouse, let her know she doesn't have to participate if she doesn't want to.
 Your daughter needs to know you have her back and support her. A lot of support from others, especially adults, can instill confidence. Always support your daughter's decision and tell her you believe in her ability to succeed.Always tell your daughter you think she can achieve what she wants and help her along the way. If she wants to, say, enter the science fair, tell her you believe she can do a good job and assist with her project.
Successful people usually have cheerleaders early in life who tell them they will eventually succeed. Be your daughter's personal cheerleader and help her feel that she can be successful with time and effort.
 How you act in front of your daughter will teach her how to act. Make sure to model good behavior. Watch what you say and do. If your daughter hears you beating yourself up, she's likely to do the same. Try to have confidence in yourself if you want a confident daughter.Refrain from putting yourself down. If you miss a deadline at work, do not say something like, "I'm so stupid. I can't believe I screwed that up." Instead, say something like, "Everyone makes mistakes. I'll try to do better next time."
Avoid being too harsh about your body. Many girls develop body image issues, so if you're talking negatively about your own appearance, your daughter will learn to do the same.
Take compliments when they're presented to you. Thank people for speaking to your strengths instead of negating the comment.
 Women are often taught to be agreeable, despite their own personal reservations. Your daughter needs to know it's okay to disagree and express anger. If your daughter gets mad at you sometimes, or rebels against the rules, allow her to express this in an appropriate manner rather than punishing her.If your daughter doesn't agree with a particular rule, ask her why. Have a conversation with her about it instead of simply saying, "Well, those are the rules in this house."
Encourage her to express anger to others too. It's okay if she sometimes gets mad at teachers, boyfriends, and friends. Let her know anger is not something to be repressed, but a normal part of life.
 Your daughter should always feel she has a listening ear ready when she's going through something. Make time to talk regularly and validate your daughter's feelings rather than dismissing them.Create consistent times when you're able to listen. For example, always sit in the living room for a bit after dinner. Drive your daughter to and from school so she has a chance to talk if she wants.
When your daughter talks, listen more than you talk. If she's feeling something, acknowledge before giving advice. For example, say something like, "I'm hearing you feel the teacher's grading system is unfair."

, You want to make sure your daughter values her female friends rather than seeing them as rivals. If your daughter is struggling to navigate a female friendship, help her work through this. Make sure she knows how to manage conflicts so she can make strong female friendships throughout life.Discourage behaviors like gossiping and spreading rumors. If you hear your daughter gossiping with other friends, encourage empathy. Ask her to reflect on how she would feel to be on the receiving end of gossip.
Never dismiss mean girl tactics as an example of girls being girls. Make sure your daughter knows she should bring up her female friends rather than tearing them down.

