 From the homepage, click the link at the top that says, “Beauty Insider.” Beauty Insider is the name of Sephora’s rewards program. It entitles members to free products based on how much they buy.You can also become a Beauty Insider at the retail store. Simply ask the cashier to register you.
 There are three levels of Beauty Insider. You can choose from Beauty Insider, VIB, or VIB Rouge. All membership levels are free to join and have different benefits.Beauty Insiders receive a free birthday gift, beauty classes, and can accumulate points to spend on rewards.
VIBs get everything that Beauty Insiders get, plus a free makeover.
VIB Rouge members get as many free makeovers as they want, free 2-day shipping, and invitations to special events.
 Registration for Beauty Insider status is fast and easy. Simply click the link to sign up and fill in your information. You’ll need to log into the site from now on to use your Beauty Insider status and get your points., Once you’re logged in, your purchases will be recorded in your account. For every dollar you spend, you’ll get one point. If you choose to shop in the store, make sure they know you’re a Beauty Insider when you check out. Otherwise there will be no record of your purchase.If you’ve only registered as a Beauty Insider, you’ll be upgraded to VIB status if you purchase $350 worth of products in a year. If you purchase more than $1,000 worth, you’ll become a VIB Rouge member.
 Sephora rotates the products that can be redeemed for points. Some products can be purchased for only 100 points while some can cost 1,000 points. Check the website for new rewards deals, or ask about them at your local Sephora store.Points can be gained any time you shop in the store or online. They are automatically added to your account when you shop.
To redeem points in a store, tell the cashier that you'd like to redeem your points. You may be able to get your reward on the spot.
Points can be redeemed online at any time.
Points do not expire.
 Once you’ve registered as a Beauty Insider, you get a free gift during your birthday month. You can go into the store to request it, or login online. However, if you’re requesting your gift online you’ll still need to make a purchase to receive it.

