 Pouring yourself a big glass of water and drinking it may help to quell any cravings or hunger.To stay hydrated, women should consume 2.7 liters and men should consume 3.7 liters of fluids daily.


If you don't want to drink plain water, you could add a slice of lemon or a sprig of mint. You can also add flavorings to your water to make it more appealing.
Alternatively, you could drink seltzer water, decaf coffee or decaf tea. These are all beverages that are hydrating and will count as "water" in your day.
Avoid sodas, juices, sweetened coffees or other high sugar beverages. These are full of sugar and may cause weight gain due to their higher calorie content.;
, Many people tend to feel "hungry" when they are bored. This may cause mindless eating and snacking which can lead to you eating too many calories.Doing something to occupy your mind can distract you from thinking you are hungry. Try to steer yourself towards doing activities that make you feel productive or are mentally occupying.
Do something active! Get out of the house and engage in some physical activity such as a brisk walk or sports. Exercise is a great way to reduce your hunger.
Call a friend you haven't spoken to in a long time, or spend time doing a fun activity with your family.
Read a book or a magazine, or try to focus on catching up on some work.
Many cultures and religions involve some sort of fasting for a variety of time periods. It can be difficult to deal with hunger, especially during these fasting periods. If you are fasting, a way to distract yourself may be to pray or meditate.
 Studies have shown that mint flavors can help decrease your overall hunger throughout the day.Both brushing your teeth and sucking on sugar-free mint candy or gum are great options.


Brush your teeth soon after each meal or snack (if you have eaten anything acidic, wait 30 minutes to avoid damaging tooth enamel). The intense minty flavor from the toothpaste can help signal your brain that you're satisfied. In addition, most foods do not taste very good after you brush your teeth.
Chewing gum or sucking on sugar-free hard candies is another option. Both the action of sucking or chewing on something in addition to the flavor helps quell hunger in between meals.
 Many times you may feel hungry, but are actually experiencing a different emotion. Stress, boredom, anger or even happiness can trigger feelings similar to physical hunger.Keep notes on how you feel before and after eating to learn to recognize your hunger signals. You may feel your stomach growling, feel an empty sensation or have hunger pangs.
Learn to eat only when you feel hungry, not in response to different emotions. If you're not experiencing any true hunger sensations, you may not need to eat.
Make sure you stop eating when you are satisfied, but before you are too full. Eating slowly allows your body to send signals to your brain that it is sated. Try chewing your food slowly, setting down your utensils after each bite, and turning off the TV or other distractions to prevent mindless eating.

