 Either an audio or video demo can help potential clients remember you as a singer. It also gives you an opportunity to demonstrate your singing abilities outside of an audition. You should store these demos in a variety of formats, including MP3, CD, and online streaming., Locate different places in your area that might be interested in singers. This includes performance halls, theaters, wedding venues, and clubs. Contact the owner or their promoter to see if they would be willing to let you perform. Different types of singers will have luck at different venues.


If you want to sing at clubs, you should print out a list of all local bars, clubs, and pubs. Contact each individually to see if they are interested in hiring a singer.If you want to become a wedding singer, you can contact local wedding planners or houses of worship, such as churches. They might be willing to refer you to their clients as a wedding singer for their events., Knowing people who work in the music industry can help you find gigs. Contact local studios, agencies, and production houses via email or phone. Let them know of your services, and ask if they would be willing to listen to a demo of yours. Let them know what type of music you specialize in and why they should be interested in you.For example, you can write an email that says, “Dear Mr. Smith, My name is Laura K, and I am a jazz singer. For five years, I have been wowing audiences in numerous venues across the city, and I am looking to enhance my singing career. I know your studio specializes in upcoming jazz acts. The Daily Standard has called me 'the next big thing in jazz.' I am including a link to my demos if you are interested. Please let me know if you would be willing to meet some time to discuss a potential partnership. Thank you.”

, Check local listings frequently to see what singing jobs are appearing. Apply to every job you can to increase your chances of success. Different advertisements may require different qualifications, but in general, you will want to have a resume and demo prepared to send out to potential clients.
 While you may want to work as a solo singer, you can increase your exposure by working with other musicians. Joining a band will not only help you gain more performance experience but it may make you more marketable to certain clients, who might be looking for backing musicians as well. Cooperating with other musicians will also help you network within your local music industry, potentially introducing you to producers, audio engineers, and promoters.