 Realize that the opposition will paint each other in bad ways. The parties themselves may be expected to promise things they cannot reasonably achieve.;
, This aspect is really important as it enables you to vote for the kind of party that stands for what you believe in.
 However, be aware that the new candidates from each party may not have the same ethos; so don't base your choice on this alone. Other things to consider include:


The party should hold itself accountable to the people.
There should be a viable economic policy.
The party should support policies that ensure there are jobs with good compensation for the people it governs.
The party should be willing to promote environmentally friendly policies and activities.
The party should promote human rights, as well as all of the subsets of them, like children's rights and disabled persons' rights.
 Poor foreign affairs departments can cause citizens to have trouble traveling outside the country and can impact the ability to import and export goods. Ensure that your party will be able to communicate effectively with other countries.
 Different forms of government follow different ideals, so choose what you most want in your country and which party promotes your ideals (in alphabetical order):


Communism. Businesses are owned and controlled by the government, and money is supposed to be shared equally between working citizens, but party officials and representatives usually get more. Sharing equally in poor countries, with low economic standing causes a lack of money and basic opportunities for individual access to goods and lacks capitalist and profit making corporate methods of production and growth. Some form of this government is generally favored by countries in the Far East, such as China, North Korea, Vietnam, and in Eurasia, such as in the former Soviet Union.
Conservatism. The conservative governments are often promoting freedom of the individual citizen, somewhat similar to libertarianism, with entrepreneurial and corporate economic innovation, for creating business and jobs, by lessening regulation, lowering taxes and the cost of goods and services and making healthcare available using insurance and county/state hospitals, corporate hospitals and private, non-profit or charitable institutions. They are more likely to support military and foreign aid involvement abroad than libertarians may be.
Environmentalism. Environmentalist governments are committed to environmentally-friendly lifestyles, social justice (a form related to liberalism/socialism), defense and non-violence. It is a very new form of government.
Liberalism. Liberal governments attempt to promote prosperity while regulating economic activity, information, controlling education and creating government supported healthcare to be affordable by government subsidies, advocating civil rights and social security (i.e. attempting to insure pensions, healthcare, and control economic security).
Libertarianism. Libertarian governments promote personal freedom, by advocating smaller governments, lowering taxes and pulling back the government to stay out of citizens personal affairs and companies' business, including lowering corporate regulation, overall similar to conservatism, but favor less intrusive social norms and less global intervention. "American writers, political parties and think tanks adopted the word libertarian to describe advocacy of capitalist free market economics."Socialism. This is "a way of organizing a society in which major industries are owned and controlled by the government rather than by individual people and companies."A form of economic social ownership of basic institutions, energy and industries, less restrictive than communism. Socialism allows personal ownership of property and land but may not allow inheritance or may have high inheritance taxes, and there is often more freedom of religion in socialism. The category of socialism includes "fascism - a governmental system led by a dictator (such as Mao Zedong or Fidel Castro) and only one political party (such as a communist or socialist party) having complete power, forcibly suppressing opposition and criticism, regimenting all industry, commerce, and emphasizing an aggressive nationalism"-- as found in Russia and Soviet Block Europe until the late 1989-90 era.

"Social ownership" may refer to communal/common ownership, state ownership, cooperative enterprises, public ownership of equity (how increase in value of your property is used), or any combination of these. There are varieties of socialism and no single description. They differ in the degree to which they allow market forces to be influential or rely on national economic planning, how management is organized within industries and institutions, and the role of the state and people in defining their variety of socialism.



