 To deliver a sassy comeback, you need to be confident in who you are. Remember, a good comeback is about making yourself feel and sound good. It's not about putting others down. Don't be afraid to show off all of your positive qualities.One of the best ways to build your confidence is to remind yourself that there are lots of things that make you great.
Make a list of your good qualities. Are you good at soccer? Write it down. Are you a good listener for your friends? Put it on the list.
You can use your positive attributes to help you come up with sassy comebacks. For example, if someone teases you for being a nerd, say "Yup, but all my 'nerdy' good grades are going to look fantastic on my college applications!"

, Finding a new way to spend your time is an excellent way to build your self-esteem. Think about how great it feels to master a new skill. You feel proud of yourself and like you can take on the world. Figure out a new club to join or a new sport to try.Have you always felt like you might have an artistic side? Try taking a painting class.
Sometimes trying new things can be intimidating. Ask a friend to go with you for moral support.
 You probably already know that physical activity is important to keep your body healthy. Just as important are the positive benefits that exercise can have on your mind. Reports tell us that not only does exercise reduce stress, but it's a great way to boost your self-esteem.Try to spend at least 30 minutes each day being active. Find an activity that you enjoy, such as riding your bike or dancing.
Working out is a great way to spend time with friends and family. Ask a friend to learn to play tennis with you, or ask your sister to take a walk with you after dinner.
 Take some time to think about what you do best. Maybe you are a good writer or maybe you are an excellent swimmer. Make a list of the things you are good at. Then reflect on whether or not you are devoting enough time to honing your skills.When you're doing something you're good at, it's natural that it will boost your confidence and make you feel great about yourself.
Set aside time each week to devote to developing your skills. If you love writing, make it a priority to journal. You can also practice by trying out new genres of short stories.
 Hanging out with your friends is a great way to feel good about yourself. When you're with your buddies, you're spending time with people who think you're great. They'll laugh at your jokes and join you in doing your favorite activities. To become a more confident person, spend as much time as possible with your friends.If you're dealing with a bully, or even just an annoying person at school or work, your friends can help you. Try always eating lunch with a friend and having company for your walk or commute home.
Choose friends that are positive and fun. Being around them will naturally make you feel good.

