 There are quite a few varieties of whiskey that vary mostly in composition (what it’s made out of) and how it’s aged. Most whiskeys are made out of fermented grain mash (barley, corn, wheat, or rye) and aged in oak casks for a number of yearsScotch is whiskey made in Scotland, usually from malted barley.

Bourbon is whiskey made in the United States, usually from corn.

Single malt whiskey is whiskey created at a single distillery, though the distiller may combine whiskeys from many different casks to achieve the desired taste.

Blended malt whiskey is whiskey made from the products of multiple distilleries.

Single cask whiskey is whiskey is produced from one individual cask at a single distillery location.;
, There are quite a few ways to drink whiskey. You can drink it alone, you can take it as a shot, you can order it as an ingredient in a mixed cocktail. The choice is yours.



Neat: This is a way to order whisky meaning it is served without any ice, water, or mixer. It also means it will be served at room temperature, not chilled.

On the rocks: This is a way to order whiskey meaning it is served with ice cubes., Bring the glass to your nose and take a whiff. Be sure to keep your mouth open slightly while smelling the whiskey to get the full palate of scents. Try to pick up what scents you’re smelling. Perhaps it’s a floral bouquet, or maybe something a bit sweeter. Maybe you notice a woody, earthy tone.Put your nose actually inside the glass to get the best angle for smelling. This will help you fully appreciate the range of the bouquet.
 Take a small sip of the whiskey and hold it in your mouth for a few seconds. Roll it around your tongue. Some people even recommend “chewing” the whiskey a bit while it is inside your mouth to fully appreciate the flavor.Once you have tried the whiskey unaltered, try cutting it with a dropper full of water. The water will bring out different flavors and aromas that complicate the tasting.
 In order to acquire a true appreciation of whiskey, in all its various forms, you need to familiarize yourself with some of the basic terminology used in producing, describing, and ordering whiskey. Some of the most important terms include:Cask: A cask is an oak barrel that the whiskey is stored in while it ages in the distillery. Most whiskeys are aged for at least three years in a cask, while others age for longer periods of time (even as much as 25 years).

Proof: This basically indicates the amount of alcohol in a particular whiskey, or how strong the drink is. The number corresponds to twice the amount of alcohol content by volume. For example, a whiskey that is 60% alcohol would be 120-proof. The larger the number, the stronger the drink will be.

Maturation: This is the amount of time that the whiskey is left in the wooden cask to age (or mature).

