 Only administer Narcan if the victim exhibits the following signs of overdose:They are unconscious, unresponsive, and you cannot wake them
They have pinpoint (constricted) pupils
Their breathing is slow and shallow, breathing fewer than 8 times per minute

, When you find a loved one unconscious, yell and rub your knuckles on the center of their breastbone to try to wake them. If they wake up, they do not need Narcan.If not, call emergency services immediately and tell them that someone may have overdosed. Before giving Narcan, see if the victim needs CPR - this may save their life! Follow these guidelines:

Count their breaths: Listening at their mouth while watching to see whether their chest is rising and falling for 5-10 seconds.If they are not breathing or are breathing fewer than 8 times per minute, give them a few rescue breaths before administering Narcan.Check for a pulse for 30 seconds by placing your middle and forefingers on the victim's neck just off to the side a little, under the jaw line. If they don't have a pulse, start CPR chest compressions.
 Narcan acts quickly – within about 2 minutes – but it also only lasts for about 30 minutes. Keep constant watch on the victim’s alertness and breathing. Administer more Narcan if they meet the criteria for it. Continue this until emergency services arrive.If you do not have more Narcan and the victim’s breathing slows below 8 breaths per minute, administer rescue breathing until help arrives.
 Emergency services should immediately take the victim to intensive care for monitoring. If you are unable to access emergency services, get the person to the hospital as soon as they can breathe on their own. They need medical care even if their overdose is reversed by Narcan., Narcan can cause symptoms of withdrawal, making the victim want to use their drug again. Doing so can cause another overdose. These cravings may be difficult for both of you to deal with. Try to support the victim emotionally, and encourage them not to use drugs again that day., Store any Narcan you have tightly closed in its original container. Store it at room temperature in a dark place.Dispose of the Narcan and get a new one if the red safety guard has been removed, it is expired, it looks cloudy or you can see particles floating in it.

Keep it safely out of reach of children. Do not let anyone else use your medication.

