 If you're not up for making several calculations and repeatedly checking your pulse, the "talk test" is one of the simplest and most straightforward ways to measure exercise intensity. All you have to do is figure out how easy it is for you to speak aloud.If you can sing while engaging in an activity, your body probably isn't working hard enough for the activity to qualify as moderately intense exercise.
If you can carry on a conversation, you are engaging in moderately intense exercise. Think of going for a brisk walk with a friend and talking as you walk, or talking on the phone as you walk.
With vigorous exercise, you can still speak, but you aren't able to say more than a word or two without stopping to catch your breath.
You're exercising too hard if you're unable to speak at all while conducting the activity. Slow down and take a break.
 How fast and how hard you're breathing is another way to measure exercise intensity, provided you don't have any pre-existing respiratory conditions that affect the way you breathe.With moderate intensity exercise, your breath will quicken, but you won't feel out of breath.
Vigorous exercise will feel more challenging. You should be breathing deeply and rapidly.
If you're continuously have trouble catching your breath, start wheezing or coughing, or feel chest pain and pressure, stop exercising immediately. Your body is working too hard.
 In most cases, you can effectively gauge the intensity of your exercise based on how much you're sweating. This method only really works indoors in a climate-controlled environment, however – when you're outside, there are many other factors that could contribute to how much you're sweating.The temperature of the air around you while you're exercising is the most obvious outside factor that will contribute to how much you sweat. If you're walking outside in the middle of the summer when it's hot, for example, you'll sweat a lot more than you would if you were doing the same thing during winter.
Generally, with moderately intense exercise, you should experience light to moderate sweating.
If you're exercising vigorously, you should be sweating heavily. However, if you're sweating profusely, to the point that you could wring out your clothing, you're probably working too hard – especially if you're indoors in a climate-controlled environment.
 Ultimately, how intense you are exercising is a subjective measure. If you're out of shape, a brisk walk may be vigorous exercise for you. But for someone in peak physical condition, a brisk walk would be easy.For this reason, use caution when you see lists of activities that are labeled as "moderate" or "vigorous." These labels typically apply to a relatively healthy person, and may not be accurate for you.
Despite anything you read, go at your own pace – especially if you're just starting out. For example, you may have read that cycling at over 10 mph (about 16 kph) qualifies as vigorous exercise. However, you are working up a sweat and find it hard to say more than a word or two at a time if you cycle at half that speed. That's your vigorous exercise.
As you become more fit, physical activity will be easier for you. At that point, you'll know it's time to increase your effort.

