 Increasing your NEAT can burn on average an extra 330 calories per day. One factor that can differ between an overweight or obese individual and someone within a healthy weight range is their NEAT. An overweight or obese person generally performs considerably less NEAT activities.Figuring out what activities you do throughout the day can help you do more to increase your NEAT.


Think about a typical day for yourself. Start with the morning and progress through the day. Ask yourself questions such as, “Do I get takeout for dinner? Do I walk or drive to pick it up? Does someone deliver it?” or, “Do I combine tasks to avoid taking the stairs?” You could also ask yourself how long you sit at your desk every day or even keep notes each time you get up.
Estimate your NEAT by multiplying your basal metabolic rate (BMR) with your activity level. The easiest way to calculate your BMR at home is using an online calculator, which takes away the headache of doing complicated math. Try this one: http://www.bmrcalculator.org/

Multiply your BMR results by the following numbers, which can give you an idea of your current NEAT (though being moderately to extremely active means you are likely also getting some traditional exercise): 1.1 if you are sedentary, 1.15 if you are lightly active, 1.2 if you are moderately active, 1.25 if you are very active, 1.3 if you are extremely active., Once you have your NEAT estimates, you can start to make changes that will increase them. Keep notes on your current NEAT and reassess it every month or so. Write a daily log of the activities you did to gain an overall picture of how you’re increasing your NEAT and what effects it has. Remember that even writing the notes by hand can increase your NEAT., Pedometers are small devices you can clip on to shoes or wear on your wrist. They track how many steps you take every day. Getting yourself a pedometer — simple or jazzy — can ensure that you’re increasing your NEAT over the course of the day.Buy a pedometer that best suits your needs. Even a cheap model that clips onto your shoe can help you assess your NEAT. Consider a jazzier version, such as a Fitbit or Striiv Fusion, that you wear around your wrist. These devices often track your steps, but may also remind you to get up and moving if you’re low on movement.Try and increase the number of steps you take every day by 1,000. Set yourself a reasonable goal, working up to at least 10,000 steps per day.