 It is best to get rabbits used to being handled early in their lives so that they will be accustomed to it later on. Rabbits who are not handled regularly can find human contact distressing. Make a point of picking up and carrying your rabbit a few times a week, and not just when it need to be transported (e.g. to the vet)., Pet your rabbit gently, and wait for it to relax and calm down. Be sure to talk gently to your rabbit and make slow, gentle movements. If possible, only handle your rabbit in a quiet environment (e.g. a quiet, empty room at home).Rabbits have very fragile bones, so be especially cautious when handling them.
 As a general rule, rabbits are more comfortable being picked up from the ground than from a table. Whenever possible, interact with your rabbit at ground level. This also reduces the risk of your rabbit being dropped from a great height., Place one hand under your rabbit’s chest. Position your fingers to be resting under its armpit (also known at the axilla). Make sure that the rabbit’s front limbs are over your hand, to prevent compression of its chest., Make sure that your hand is firmly braced around the rabbit. Slowly and gently lift it up. Hold the rabbit so that its limbs are facing away from you, to prevent kicking or scratching with sharp nails., As you lift up the rabbit, bring your other hand under the animal to support its weight. Position your full hand, palm up, under its rump, letting the rabbit’s weight rest on it. Hold the rabbit firmly to prevent kicking, which could damage its spine.For extra support, lean your rabbit’s back on your chest. Alternatively, lean the side of your rabbit against your chest and support its rump with your elbow. Gauge your rabbit’s comfort level with different positions for future reference.
 If your rabbit is especially unnerved by being picked up and seems aggressive, alter your holding strategy. Hold it with its limbs facing away from you and lift it firmly by the scruff of its neck. Make sure to support its rump firmly, with its hind limbs braced securely.This method of carrying should only be used for short distances.
 If your rabbit seems unnerved when being handled, try covering its eyes. Some rabbits feel more relaxed being carried when they do not see their surroundings. Use a towel or the crook of your arm to gently obstruct its view.Make sure that the rabbit’s nostrils (also called nares) are not blocked when you cover its eyes.

