 Don't assume your girlfriend knows how you feel about her. Be sure to tell her exactly how you feel. Ambiguity leads to uncertainty, and that can put a strain on your relationship.;
, You are her confidant, so be sure to listen to everything she has to say. Help her unwind by talking through any problems she had. Empathize with her, share her highs and lows. This will help bond you together.
 The importance of listening in a relationship cannot be stressed enough.


Even if what she is saying is boring to you, pay attention because it isn't boring to her.
Learn to listen "between the lines" and infer what you can do to help her.
Listening shows that you are invested in her life, and will build her trust.
Beyond just listening, react to what she says. Become involved in the conversation, but don't take it over.
 Always be sincere, because it will be obvious when you're not being truthful.


Let her know that she's especially vibrant today.
When she changes her hairstyle, praise the new look.
Compliment her on something that she did in class/at work.
Make a positive comment about the clothes she is wearing.
 If you don't trust your girlfriend, she's not going to trust you back. Every good relationship is based on a solid foundation of trust.


If she's going out with friends, don't call or text her every twenty minutes. Allow her to have fun without you.
Avoid jealousy. Let her talk to other guys without you jumping in the conversation and getting defensive. Just because you are dating doesn't mean she can only talk to you.
 Always treat her with the utmost respect, even when you're fighting.


Be respectful to her even when she's not around. Don't trash talk her behind her back.
Bring up any concerns directly with her. Don't stew on issues you have, be upfront and direct.
Respect her intelligence. Don't assume that she needs help with everything.
Don't shoot down all her ideas. A relationship is an equal partnership.
Never resort to name-calling or physical abuse.

