;
, The Required Core Curriculum to become a California Trainee Appraiser totals 150 hours. Following are the required courses:


Basic Appraisal Principles (30 hours)
Basic Appraisal Procedures (30 hours)
15-hour National USPAP Course or Equivalent (15 hours)
Residential Market Analysis and Highest and Best Use (15 hours)
Residential Appraiser Site Valuation and Cost Approach (15 hours)
Residential Sales Comparison and Income Approaches (30 hours)
Residential Report Writing and Case Studies (15 hours)
All Qualifying Education courses will require that you pass a live proctored final examination. You will be given three attempts to pass the proctored exam; if you fail all three you must retake that course. The above course work also cannot be taken more than five years prior to the initial application date.
 Applicants must submit the following:


A completed Initial Application (REA 3001);
A completed Basic Education Attachment (REA 3002) to document basic education needed to qualify for the appropriate license level, along with copies of transcripts or course completion certificates;
A completed Consent to Service of Process (REA 3006), if the applicant's business, mailing or residence address is outside of California;
A completed Statement of Citizenship, Alienage, and Immigration Status for State Public Benefits (REA 3030), along with proof of legal presence in the United States;
All appropriate fees as required.
, After passing the exam, applicants then submit the Application for Issuance of License (REA 3008), a copy of the completed "Request for Live Scan Service" fingerprinting form (after being fingerprinted), and the balance of the license fee. Examination results are only valid for one year. Applications for Issuance of License must be received by OREA within one year from the date the exam was successfully completed.
 You must gain a minimum of 2000 hours of acceptable appraisal experience, and have spent at least 12 months working to gain that experience in order to apply for a Residential License.
 To earn acceptable hours of experience, a Trainee appraiser must work under the direct technical supervision of a Certified Residential or Certified General appraiser in good standing with OREA. The supervisor must be licensed at the appropriate level for the type of property being appraised. "Technical supervision" does not mean that the Trainee is required to be an employee of the supervising appraiser, but must receive direct supervision in the duties performed as an appraiser. In addition, a Trainee may work for more than one supervisor. The Trainee must either:


Sign the appraisal report as the appraiser; or be recognized in the certification statement with a description of the specific tasks performed while assisting with the appraisal.
Supervising appraisers must have no more than three Trainee appraisers under their supervision at any one time.
 To apply to upgrade a license, applicants must submit the following:


A completed Upgrade Application (REA 3023);
A completed Basic Education Attachment (REA 3002) to document basic education needed to qualify for the appropriate license level, along with copies of transcripts or course completion certificates;
A completed Log of Appraisal Experience (REA 3004) documenting the number of hours, months and experience. The log must also contain certifications on page 2 of the form.
A completed Experience Log Summary (REA 3003), which summarizes information from the Log of Appraisal Experience (not required for the Trainee level);
A completed Consent to Service of Process (REA 3006), if the applicant's business, mailing or residence address is outside of California;
A completed Statement of Citizenship, Alienage, and Immigration Status for State Public Benefits (REA 3030), along with proof of legal presence in the United States;
All appropriate fees as required.
