 Select a location that is similar to where the plants would grow in the wild. For instance, primrose grows along banks and rocky ridges, while Columbine prefers the shade of trees.


The size of the growing area is entirely up to you. It is best if you can set it aside to grow wild once the seeds have been sown, so perhaps consider placing it away from areas of the garden, yard or land that are frequently tended, such as lawns and vegetable plots.;
, When you grow a natural garden, it is best to select flowers that are local to your area.


Visit a local nature preserve to find out what types of wildflowers flourish in your area. Bring a notebook with you so you can write down names of flowers you enjoy, and note what flowers grow well together.
Find information about natural gardening online, at the library, or at your local nursery store.
 Purchasing wildflower seeds at a nursery, online or garden shop will ensure that you receive fertile and ready-to-grow seeds.
 When you grow a natural garden, you need to get the soil ready for the seeds. Clear out the vegetation where you want to create your garden. Use a hoe.
, When you grow a natural garden, it needs to have nourishing soil.
, Then plant them in the other direction to ensure adequate coverage when you create a natural garden.
 When you create a garden with wildflowers, you don't want the seeds planted too deep, because they may not develop.
 This will help to stop birds eating them. After a good amount of growth has happened (around 2 to 5 months), you can lift up the netting and let it grow., The seeds should start sprouting within two weeks, and then you may need to water them occasionally, especially during the driest months of summer.
 Mow the flower garden once after the flowers have seeded and just before spring. You should then have a patch full of color and habitat., Lift up a new area of turf next to the existing growing area and throw in additional wildflower seeds collected from the existing flowers. Doing this will ensure that the wildflowers spread and grow well.

