 Tap the gear icon on your iPhone’s home screen to access your device Settings.;
, This will open a menu displaying your mail accounts and data for contacts and calendars.
, This will display options for creating your new mail account.
, In the “New Account” section, you will have to fill out the details of your GoDaddy account. Enter your name in the “Name” field, your GoDaddy email address in the “Email” field, and your GoDaddy password in the “Password” field. Enter “GoDaddy” or something similar in the “Description” field. Once done, click the “Next” button located at the top of the screen.
 It is located at the top of the screen.
 On the “Host Name” field, enter “imap.secureserver.net.” The “Username” and “Password” fields will contain your email address and password, respectively.
 In the “Host Name” field, enter “smtpout.secureserver.net.” The “Username” and “Password” fields will contain your email address and password, respectively.
 Once you are done with the setup, tap the “Save” button at the top right of your screen. It will save your GoDaddy account on your iPhone.
 It is located on the top of the screen.
 You will have to set it manually. On the “Host name” field, enter “pop.secureserver.net” in the field. The “Username” and “Password” fields will contain your email address and password.
 In the “Host Name” field, enter “smtpout.secureserver.net.” The “Username” and “Password” fields will contain your email address and password.
 Once you are done with the setup, tap “Save” at the top right of your screen. It will save your GoDaddy account on your iPhone.
 Locate the app icon of an envelop on your iPhone home screen. Tap on it to launch it. It will open the Inbox of your newly-added GoDaddy email account.
 The list may not be current. To refresh and sync the content, tap and drag your screen down. If new content needs to be downloaded, a syncing icon will be displayed.
 Once the contents of your Inbox has been updated, tap on any email you want to open. It will be displayed in full on your screen.