 Most professions have some kind of organization for their members. These professional associations often conduct regular meetings for members or sponsor conferences. Research these associations and find out what you can do to become involved. Participating in these meetings or workshops is a good way to meet other people in the field and to gain some recognition for yourself.


As an example, if you want to get involved in business, you might investigate the chamber of commerce for your town or city.
If you are interested in working in the technology field, you might investigate the Association of Information Technology Professionals or the Institute for Electrical and Electronic Engineers., If you live in a small community, you might build a name for yourself by taking prominent roles in community events. If your town has an Independence Day parade, for example, you might volunteer to be on the planning committee. This is a way to network with other members of the community, and it also may give you an opportunity to show off some managerial skills, creativity, or whatever other talent you think may sell you to your prospective employer., Find topics that interest you and that will interest your dream employer, and then write about them. Conduct your own research in the field and share your expertise. If you write on noticeable topics, and if you write often enough, you should be able to gain the attention of your dream employer.You may seek out professional journals in your field to submit your writing. Alternatively, make use of the Internet and social media. Create your own blog or post notes on Facebook and Twitter. Keep your writing on a professional level that would impress your prospective employer.
It is important that your writing should represent your genuine beliefs, but it should also reflect ideas that will coincide with your employer. For example, if you are aware that the company has taken a particular political stance on some issue, you should be careful not to contradict that.

