 The best time for a baby’s or toddler’s birthday is on a weekend afternoon. The parents are generally available for a couple of hours and the invited kids (birthday honoree included) can nap before or after. Choose a day that’s a 2-3 weeks out to give the parents advanced notice.


Have a start and end time, say 1-3 pm. This way no one shows up too late and they don’t feel pressure to stage an awkward exit at some point in the day; there will be an actual group exodus 2 hours later.
This makes it easy on the child ‘’and’’ easy on the parents. It’s no pressure and convenient, so they’ll be more likely to come. This is also a good amount of time to fit into everyone's schedules.;
, This is one of the only times in your child’s life where the guests are going to very different people of mixed ages. They’ll be friends, neighbors, family members, and children close to your child’s age, though not necessarily the same. Think about how many people you can handle being the host. Generally speaking, a good number is around 10.


The more ages and types you bring, the more you’ll have to be accommodating. If other young children are present, they’ll need entertaining. You’ll need "adult food" and "child food," too. Think about what each person would need when you’re compiling your list.
 You’ll need to send out invites for the guests either via snail mail, email, or phone call. Having something tangible is best – a text or a phone call is easily forgettable. There are a few websites like Evite that can set up “personalized” invitations for you, too.The main benefit of snail mail is that you can make it truly your own. If you go this route, consider adding a personal touch with your baby’s handprint on the invite. That’s one for the scrapbook!
However, you’ll likely want to send out a phone call or a text 3-5 days before the party to make sure everyone has remembered the event and to gather RSVPs.
 Many parents don’t want more toys for their children. If you want something specific for gifts, be direct on the invitation. Indicate whether you want practical items, money or gift cards, or nothing at all. It’s not impolite – it’s saving them the hassle of buying something you don’t actually want.


However, stay away from demanding gifts that are too expensive, or demanding them in the first place. If they're watching their wallets, they'll be less likely to come if gifts are mandatory.
 Item number one on the checklist? Cake. That’s a given. But apart from that, what else will you need? Well, it depends on your guests. Cater to their ages – have some “adult” food and some “kid-friendly” food. You don’t need to plan a meal; just have snacks available throughout the party.


You can make a boxed cake seem like bakery-made heaven with the addition of mayonnaise or an extra egg. No need to spend a ton of money on a professional cake for a birthday your child will not likely remember. And this way you can get all the credit for the delicious dessert.
 Everyone loves a nice goody bag, especially if they went out of their way to get you a gift and make room in their schedule for your party. Show them you appreciate them coming with a goody bag, even if it’s just for the kids.


If it’s not for the adults, they’ll still be glad they came as their kids have something to keep them occupied. It’s more to show them your appreciation and to make it a day for everyone.
 If your child is old enough to understand, let them know what’s going to happen. A bunch of people are coming over to celebrate them. Presents! But it also means that other kids might see their stuff, that their routine will be interrupted, etc. If they understand what’s happening, they may stay calmer.


Let them know that this is a day of fun – it shouldn't be stressful or scary. Most of the time will be spent playing games, opening presents, and eating food.
 Having a bunch of 3-year-olds running around for 2 hours will not be the best birthday party for the books (especially according to the other parents). To be sure they stay at least semi-occupied, plan a few games for them (this also lets the parents enjoy themselves).


Need some ideas? Start out with a craft, keeping the kids entertained with coloring, paper, glitter, and whatever else you have around the house. Then move onto musical hot potato, freeze dancing, or a non-competitive round of musical chairs.