 Get a hacksaw and place it against the antlers, at the point where the antlers meet the skull. Saw both the antlers off, while securing the skull so that it doesn’t move, altering the trajectory of the saw so that the cut is uneven.Consider using a clamp to hold the skull in place, so that it doesn’t move while you saw it.;
, You need to remove all remaining organic material from the antlers. Scrub every part of the antler well, but give special attention to the area where the antlers met the skull cap. This is where hair and tissue are most likely to be hiding.Wire brushes are available at most hardware stores. They are abrasive enough to pick up tissue without requiring too much force.
 Fill a large cooking pot with water and, for best results, a pinch of salt. Allow it to reach a boil on a stove or a fire pit. Once it boils, submerge the entire antler in the cooking pot and allow to boil for 30 minutes.This step is important for removing dangerous bacteria from the antlers.
You should boil the antlers outside, otherwise they will stink up your house.
Before beginning, test to see if the cooking pot is large enough to fit the antlers inside. All the antler should be submerged during boiling. If you don’t have any pots large enough, you can try using prongs to force them underwater or adjust them periodically during the boiling process.
 Keep prongs on hand that you can use to remove the antlers without burning yourself. The antlers will feel soft when you pull them out of the cooking pot, but they will harden up after a few minutes., Leave the antlers outside somewhere safe, where they will get sun and dry off. Do not, however, allow them to be out in the sun for more than 24 hours. They sun will erode the color of the antlers after more than a day of constant exposure., Too much water can damage the antlers, so be sure that the towel is only damp, not wet. Squeeze excessive water out of the towel. Apply a nonabrasive soap—not bleach.


Bleach and bleach-based cleaners can damage the antlers.
 Feel free to use force when scrubbing the antlers. Scrub until all dust and grime has been removed., You do not want the antlers to remain wet. Use a new towel that is dry to go over them, picking up excess moisture. It is alright if the antlers are still somewhat damp at the end of the process.