 As an expert bachelor, you will need to play the field. Therefore, marriage or any talk of marriage is out of the question. Follow these break-up guidelines:


Make break-ups fast and final. Do not attempt to hang on to the relationship, even in a friendship capacity, as this will only weigh on you emotionally and affect your ability to be a true professional bachelor.
Keep all of your assets. Your assets are necessary to your status as a professional bachelor.;
, There are many books and courses designed to offer guidance on being a successful eligible bachelor.
 Women are attracted to men who are well educated. Additionally, attending an institute of higher learning will expose you to like-minded people and to a whole new group of women.
 A professional bachelor enjoys a wide circle of female associations, and one way to attract women is to have enough money to maintain a lifestyle of comfort and luxury.
 You will need the following:


Bachelor pad. This is your home base. A professional bachelor pad should be well-appointed in a masculine style of décor and set up for entertaining. The latest technology, such as a big-screen television and high-quality surround sound system, is a good idea, as well as having a bar.
Luxury automobile. An eligible bachelor drives a car that makes a statement. Exotic sports coupes and classic sedans are good examples of suitable bachelor cars.
Recreational vehicles. In addition to a luxury automobile, you will need to acquire vehicles that are meant for entertaining and having fun. A boat and a motorcycle are good for starters.
 Maintain an air of mystery in regards to your personal life. The more you evade revealing specifics about yourself, the more curious people (especially women) will be about you. For example, never kiss and tell, and when people ask what you do for a living, tell them you dabble in a bit of everything.
 Take pride in your appearance and present yourself in a way that commands respect. Wear nice clothing, keep your hair coiffed, stay well-groomed and maintain your physique through exercise.
 Stay socially active and keep a log of female acquaintances that you can call on to spend time with.

