 As is the case with most languages, it is useful to begin with greetings and pleasantries that are the most likely to come up in brief interactions with Kannada speakers. Here are some ways to greet, as well as replies to greetings, in Kannada:


Hello - namaste or namaskāra
Welcome - susvāgata
Long time no see - tumba divasagalinda kānisalilla
How are you? - hegiddērā?
All is well? – athavā kshemanā?
I am fine. How are you? - nā calō adīni, nīvu hyāngadīr'ri? or nān cennagiddēne, nīvu hēg'iddīra?
Pleased to meet you - nimmannu bheti mādiddakke santosha;
, In most languages, greetings and salutations change based on the time of day. Kannada is no different. Here are some useful phrases that take the time of the day into account.Good morning - shubhodaya
Good afternoon- shubha madhyahna
Good evening- shubha sāyankāla
Good night – shubharātri
Introduce yourself. Introducing yourself to strangers is a critical skill to acquire. People will be more willing to help you once you have explained who you are. Here are some ways to do that in Kannada. What is your name? (singular) - ninna hesarēnu?
What is your name? (plural) - nimma hesarēnu?
My name is … - nanna hesaru ...
Where are you from? (singular) - nimma ooru yāvudu?
Where are you from? (plural) - athavā nēvu yāva kadeyavaru?
I am from … - nā .... linda bandiddīni
We are from … - nā .... linda bandēni
Pleased to meet you - nimmannu bheti mādiddakke santosha

, Here are a few different ways to end a conversation in Kannada. Goodbye - hogi banni athavā hogi bartēra?
Good luck - olleyadāgali athavā shubhavāgali
Have a nice day - shubha dinavāgali
Bon voyage - prayana sukhakaravaagirali hogi banni
See you again - matte sigona

, When entering a new area with a different culture and language, it is wise to learn the basic pleasantries and phrases of gratitude so that you can show good manners to your hosts. Here are some Kannada phrases that can help you do just that. Excuse me – kshamisi
Sorry - kshamisi
Please - dayaviṭṭu
Thank you – dhanyavāda or dhanyavādagaḷu
Your welcome- yāke summane ṭhanksu? or parwagilla biḍi
I love you - naa ninna preetisteeni
Get well soon - bega gunamukharaagi anta haaraisuttene
Cheers or good health - tumba santosha athavā khushiyāytu
Enjoy your meal - shubha bhojana athavaa oota enjaay maadi

