 This can damage your lashes and irritate the follicles, causing hairs to bend or fall.;
, Use a gently face soap or moisturizing wipes to clear around your eyes and eye-lashes, removing gunk, dirt, and oil, for healthy and shiny lashes.
 If you wear mascara every day, your eyelashes won't grow as thick and full as they would otherwise because your hair needs to breathe. For best results, stop wearing mascara altogether or wear it occasionally. You can also purchase mascaras made of more gentle, less artificial ingredients that won't harm your eyelashes as much.


Never use water-proof mascara, as it chokes out your hairs and is very difficult to safely remove.
When you do wear mascara, always take it off before you go to bed. Use a gentle makeup remover or moisturizer with cotton pads to completely but gently remove all traces from your eyes.
Don't pump your mascara frequently, as it can cause it to dry out. If it is crusty or past the expiration date, throw it out.
Never share mascara, as it transfers oil and potentially bacteria from one eye to another.
 There are many different brands, and you can find them anywhere you can buy makeup. If you already have an eyelash curler, make sure that there the soft rubbery part is still in it and hasn't fallen out, as this can damage or pull out hairs.


Hold the curler down gently for 15 seconds on each eye.
Unclamp the curler slowly and carefully to prevent pulling out any hairs.
 If your eyelashes feel dry or you feel they aren't growing fast enough, you can try carefully moisturizing them with Vaseline before you go to bed. This helps heal any irritations and encourages growth.
 If your lashes are very light colored or you just want the impression of mascara without wearing it, you can dye your lashes black or dark brown. You can buy home kits but it is best to have it done professionally at a salon since you are using harsh chemicals near sensitive eyeballs. It is usually not expensive. Beware though that the dye will damage the lashes a little and doing it too often will keep them from growing properly.
 They take some practice applying and getting used to, but many women wear them every day. Better brands will last longer, but ever cheaper ones can be fine for a few wears. You can find a range of fake lashes to suit your tastes -- from subtle, pretty lashes to outrageous large lashes in fluorescent colors.


If you haven't worn them before it is best to practice putting cheap pairs first, as they can be tricky to get used to.

