 Locate the city and state where the death occurred.


States are responsible for maintaining vital records of events that happened in their state. If someone died in Virginia but lived in New York, the death certificate will be filed in the Virginia county where the death happened.
This might feel difficult or frustrating, especially if you aren't sure where the death occurred. To begin with, contact other friends or relatives to ask if they know.
You may also search online. Websites such as dobsearch.com and Records Project offer "free" search engines. But you have to pay a fee to find the actual city where the death occurred.
You may also simply want to type the loved one's name into a search engine. His or her death may have been reported in the obituaries of a local newspaper.
 You can find it online by searching for your state and the words "vital records," or go to the office in person to talk to a clerk.


To find out where to get vital records in your state, visit this website.
If the death occurred outside of the country, you should contact the Department of State. The State Department prepares a Report of Death, which may be used in insurance proceedings and is based on the foreign certificate of death.Call 1-202-485-8300.
 Some states don't allow the public to obtain copies of vital records. In closed-record states, you may gain access to the death certificate if you are the following:


Spouse or immediate family member (such as a child, sibling, or parent)
Attorney representing an estate, family members, or persons with a legal interest
Private investigator
Genealogical researcher
Many states appear to be moving toward a “closed” system. For example, Minnesota limits access to those who can show a “tangible interest,” which is defined as either a close familial or financial relationship (e.g., a trustee). Minnesota limits access to death records to prevent identify theft and fraud.To access records in closed states, you will have to show identification and maybe submit a sworn statement that you are eligible.
If your state has a “closed” system and you do not qualify as someone with sufficient interest to obtain a certified copy, then you can only get an “informational” copy. The information copy will have private information, such as Social Security numbers and signatures, redacted., This might include proof that you were related to the deceased using a birth or marriage certificate. If you're an attorney, you'll need copies of titles, court orders, or other documents showing the person you're representing has legal interest in the deceased.
 You can typically order the death certificate in one of three ways: online, by letter, or by stopping into the Vital Records office. Each state handles this differently. For example, some states may allow you to order death certificates from the state agency, whereas others may direct you to the county or city where the records are kept.


You can order online at the VitalChek website, which partners with many states. Click on “Death Certificate” on the left, and then “Start Your Order.” After selecting the state where the person died, you will be prompted for information, such as date of death, city where the death occurred, and your reason for ordering the certificate.
Request by letter. In the letter, include the name of the deceased, the date and city or town where the death occurred, your relationship to the deceased, and a daytime telephone number.Include a photocopy of your photo ID and a long, self-addressed stamped envelope.Order in person. You can stop into the office where the death certificate is held and order in person. You may be able to get the record at a state-level office,or you may have to go to the city or county where the record is held.Be sure to call the state Vital Records office ahead of time to clarify which office you should go to.
 Fees vary widely by state, but expect to pay around $40.


Verify the current fee schedule by calling the state’s vital records office.

