 Promise rings traditionally go on the ring finger of the left hand, and are replaced by the engagement ring if you and your partner get engaged. However, there is a much looser code when it comes to promise rings than there is with engagement or wedding rings. Pick what finger seems right for you and your partner. If you don’t want the promise ring to eventually be replaced by the engagement ring, consider buying the promise ring for a finger other than the ring finger.
Sometimes friends give each other promise rings, though it is not as common as romantic partners. If you are buying a ring for a friend, consider a different finger than the ring finger.
Some people even wear promise rings around their neck. Consider buying a chain for the promise ring also if your friend or partner doesn’t like wearing rings.;
, You will need to know your significant other’s ring size before buying them the promise ring. If the ring is a surprise, do not ask them for their size. There are several ways that you can find it out without spoiling the surprise. Look around for ring boxes in the place they store their jewelry. Some boxes print the ring size on the box.
Print out a ring sizer. You can find ring size charts on the Internet. Make sure to print it out to size, and then place one of your partner’s rings over the circle that best lines up to the diameter of the ring. This will give you their ring size.
Trace the inside of a ring they wear with a pencil onto a piece of paper. If you visit a jewelry store, they will be able to find what size they are from the tracing.
Ask their friends or family. If you know your significant other's friends or family well, consider asking them. Only do this if you trust them not to tell your significant other that you asked.
Ask your partner. If you and your partner have already talked about getting a promise ring, simply ask them what their ring size is.
 You will want to pick a price point before you actually go to purchase the ring. This way you will know exactly what to look for, and you won’t end up buying a ring that you can’t afford. Do some online research and look at typical ring prices. Promise rings are typically cheaper than engagement rings, with prices at mainstream jewelers starting as low as around $200 and going up to $2,000.
 Traditionally, a man buys the promise ring for the woman. However, you may decide that you and your significant other should both wear promise rings as a testament of your love for each other. Or you might be buying a matching ring for yourself and your friend.


You can either buy a ring that matches the one you are giving your significant other, or you can purchase a simpler one.
If you do decide that you want to buy a promise ring, factor the cost of this ring into the overall price point.
 There are pluses and minuses that come with talking to your partner about buying a promise ring.


A plus is that you can ask them what kind of ring they want, and the process of choosing will be much easier.
A drawback is that telling them you are buying the ring will take the surprise out of the moment you give it to them. Decide whether or not it’s worth it to talk to them about the ring beforehand.

