 Many sources of relationship tension can be addressed by better communication. Improved communication starts with honesty. When the opportunity to speak with your wife presents itself, be ready to share the things you feel strongly about, both good and bad.Be particularly honest about the things you believe were detrimental to your marriage before the distance grew between you.
Be sure to include both the reasons you want to win her back, and the reasons you believe your relationship can be a source of healthy, shared happiness for both of you.
Don’t avoid any conversations that need to happen. Don’t deny or ignore any past detrimental behavior – either your own or your wife’s.
 It may initially seem silly, but it can be incredibly helpful to literally make a list of the good, the bad – and even the ugly.Organize your own thoughts, and prepare yourself to clearly share them with your wife by getting them out on paper.
Make specific lists of the things you love about your wife and your relationship with her.
Also list the things that frustrated you about your previous lives together.
If you’re still speaking, and she may be willing to do so, ask her to do the same and share the lists with one another. This will likely lead to some serious, but important conversations.
 If you actually want to win your wife back and have a healthy relationship together, you’ll both need for forgive one another for those aspects of your past that led to the distance between you.Improved communication – and the honesty it leads to – will necessitate that you both accept responsibility for ways you may have hurt each other in the past.
Whether your wife has done and said things that have hurt you, or has been holding onto things you’ve done that hurt her – work to reconcile past wrongs by speaking about them together.
In the event your wife has consistently mistreated you, you need to strongly consider why you want to get back together.
 Your current separation might indicate a good reason for some distance between you and your wife. If the separation has been longstanding, or if your divorce has already been completed, this is all the more indication that there were serious issues with your relationship.


It is incredibly hard to deal with separation, particularly when you aren’t ready to let go. However, you may simply need to do so.
Speak with close friends and family members about how you’re feeling. They will remind you that you are loved (likely without even saying it), and help you work through the emotional turmoil of separation.

