 Before you report a listing as fraudulent, check eBay's rules to figure out how to best categorize the activity.


The website has specific rules for buyers and sellers, as well as rules for everyone who uses eBay's site and services. Violation of some rules and policies can result in eBay suspending the user's account or even blocking the user's IP address.You also can find general information and tips for staying safe while using eBay by browsing the articles in eBay's Security Center at , If the listing itself is fraudulent and is still active on the site, you can click the link at the bottom of the page that reads "Report this listing."


In some cases, the listing may already be closed, or the activity may not be related directly to the listing or the item sold. For example, one common fraud scheme involves contacting a losing bidder on an item and offering them a second chance to buy the same item at a reduced price. The scammer then has his victim send money through a wire service or money transfer company and doesn't follow through with delivery of the item.If you are a seller on eBay, you also may be the target of fraud on the part of a buyer. A scammer may contact you to purchase an item, offering to send you a check or money order for an amount greater than the sales price. They tell you that you can deposit the payment and send them a check or money order for the difference. Of course the check or money order you deposit is counterfeit, and the scammer has run off with the money and also potentially the item you intended to sell., Keep copies of any correspondence with the buyer or seller, along with any information you can pull from the user information page.


To report fraud to eBay, you generally need to have the user name as well as a reference number or any other information about the specific listing where the fraud has occurred.
For example, if you've used the "contact member" system within eBay, you may have a name or email address for the person, or you may have exchanged emails., eBay provides a service to mediate between you and the other user and investigate or resolve any complaints.


For example, if you bought an item and didn't receive it, you can use the Resolution Center to let eBay know. An eBay customer service representative will contact the seller for you and attempt to resolve the matter.If the issue you've encountered isn't described by any of the limited options available for you to open a case at the Resolution Center, you can contact eBay customer support directly and discuss your problem with a representative.