 If your friend is having trouble securing work or may not be taken seriously by the opposite sex show him/her why fashion may be a big reason.


Hidden camera. There’s nothing quite like seeing what you look like on camera to hit home your point. Set up a “nanny cam” or a flip camera in your home and invite your friend over. Most likely, he/she will show up in the typical garb, which can shine the light on areas that may need extra attention.
Testimony from friends and relatives. Talk to friends and relatives about how they feel about your friend’s clothing. However, only discuss the topic with friends that you know your buddy can trust. You don’t want this fun intervention to turn into an instance where your friend feels as if you are talking about him/her on the sly.
Research what the experts say. For example, if your friend is having a difficult time landing a job as an accountant but insists on continuing to wear dreadlocks from college, gather research about what kind of look account firms go for in applicants.;
, Explain to your friend that you don’t want him/her to completely change their style, but refine and polish it in order to achieve goals. Ask your friend if his/her current style is working out and if meeting the right men or women, for example is working well. Most likely the answer will be no.


At work. Tell your friend he/she should dress for the job he/she wants, not the job he/she has. Find examples of professionals working in your friend’s dream job to demonstrate the types of looks that would be appropriate.
In the dating world. Does your friend seem to attract the wrong people during the initial meeting? If your friend is wearing a style that continuously attracts the same type of thug, go to the bar and people watch. Look for the type of person your friend would be attracted to and see how that person pairs off. What does the girl or guy look like and how are they dressed?
As an overall confidence booster. If you don’t think you look good, you certainly won’t feel good. Explain to your friend that he/she will conjure up more confidence knowing that when he/she leaves the house in the morning, others will positively note the look.
 In some cases your friend is more afraid about putting time and money into fashion and has the “I don’t really care” attitude because its easier. However, if you show your pal that fashion doesn’t have to be back breaking, you may win him/her over.


Show him/her how to shop for a bargain. If your friend has never learned how to properly shop for a bargain, invite him/her to go on a shopping excursion and impart your wisdom about the right shops to hit and insight on the best days to find deals.
Find clothing that will flatter his/her shape. Try on a variety of outfits until you find a “formula” that will enhance his/her body. You aren’t looking for revealing clothing, but something that will provide a pleasing appearance where your friend really “wears the clothes” instead of the “clothes wearing your friend.”
Select outfits that enhance skin tone and hair. Not everyone looks stunning in every color so try on a shirts in a variety of shades until you find one that compliments both hair and skin tone. Try to inject that color or colors into every outfit through accessories or within the clothing.
Put together different “looks.” Find a variety of “looks” that compliments your friend’s style and fits into his/her lifestyle. Consider work, fitness and social outfits. Don’t forget about accessories and shoes--equally as important as the clothing.
 Is your buddy still rooted in the 1980’s or insists that a mullet looks awesome? Part of being fashionable in 2012 means that you need the right hair.


Go through magazines and select hair styles he/she likes. Find his/her favorite celebrity and choose one or two styles. Suggest that your friend find a celebrity or hair model that has similar texture hair and possibly a person who seems to be within the same age group to land the most appropriate style.
Test drive different hairstyles online or at a wig store. While seeing the style in a magazine is one thing, test driving the style is something else. Consider what your friend would look like in the style by either trying on different wigs or visiting one of the many online free hairstyling sites that allow you to match different styles with your photo.
Visit a professional stylist to create a new hair masterpiece. The best way to get a solid cut is to visit a salon that staffs trained professionals. While the initial haircut and possibly color may cost a little more money, visit a professional for that first style and then (if necessary) go to a lower end salon and have the stylist simply follow the lines set forth by the original cut.
 Part of having a fashionable look means being well groomed. Even men need a little plucking, waxing and buffing every now and again.


Nails, brows and unwanted hair. Part of your new look is to present a polished and refined exterior so examine the brows, nails and body to see if you need anything waxed, polished or buffed. Even men could use some shaping if they are donning a uni-brow or to remove excess hair around the neck or shoulders area.
Make up and skin. A solid skincare routine will help your buddy’s confidence and provide him/her with a fresher, more youthful appearance. If necessary consult with a dermatologist to tackle any aggressive acne or skin issues. Also, for women visit a professional make-up artist to identify a make-up line that will compliment her age and lifestyle. Ask the artist to show your friend how to apply the make up in a way that will work well with her lifestyle--especially if she is a mom or professional-on-the-go.

