 Raising the rent for occupied units requires similar considerations as setting the rent for vacant units. Consider the current rental market in your area. Also, think about whether or not you want to risk losing valuable tenants.Compare your rental rates with others for similar properties in the area. If your rent is lower than others, judge whether you offer enough amenities to justify raising the rent. Decide whether you want to raise rent across the board or just for specific units.
Think about your long-term, valuable tenants. It’s hard to put a price on reliable tenants who treat your property like their own. Decide if you would be willing to lose those tenants if they don’t want to pay the increased rent, and if so, whether you’d be willing to exclude any of them from a rental increase.
If you have multiple units, you may want to only increase the rent on certain units at any one time. Stagger the rent increases over time, so that you do not risk losing all of your tenants at the same time.
 In the US, states have laws regarding how rent increases are to be determined and communicated to the tenant. These laws may state how many days notice is needed before you can increase the rent. You should also be aware if rent control is instituted in your area. You should read the Landlord Tenant Act for your state.

Commercial leases often have different regulations than residential ones do.
If you're uncertain about the laws in your state, check with an attorney, preferably one who specializes in real estate or in landlord-tenant law.
 Explain to tenants the reasoning behind the higher rent. If higher property taxes or operating costs warrant the increase, make sure tenants understand this. Make them aware of any added value they can expect because of the increase. For example, perhaps you are hiring a better janitorial service. Or, maybe you are planning some capital improvements., Build a plan for increasing rents into your leases so tenants know when to expect them. Provide tenants with written notification of planned increases in the rent. Adhere to the notification guidelines specified in the lease so tenants receive sufficient advance notice. Use clear and concise language, and be professional by sending a typed letter on company letterhead.