 This is when you are most likely to get a good deal. People generally buy bikes in spring and summer, so by waiting until the end of bike season, you can get a better deal., When it comes time to buy the bike, give it a small road test first to make sure it is of a comfortable size and weight. Do not be afraid to ask the dealer to make minor changes to anything such as the brakes, suspension or gears.You can demo the bike and take it on a longer ride by paying a small fee to the store. This is a good idea if you are seriously considering buying that model.
This is why it is preferable to buy a bike at a local store rather than online. If you buy it online, you won’t know how it rides until you’ve already purchased it. If you buy it online, look for a good return policy in case you aren’t satisfied once you try it out.
If you buy it online, ask around to see if someone you know has that model and try riding theirs before buying your own. You can also read reviews of the bike online to hear about other people’s experience with it, but none of this is the same as actually riding it yourself.
 Bikes sold from a bike store should guarantee the bike and be able to help you with future repairs. They might even offer free tuneups. Find out everything that is included with the bike before buying it.Look for stores that offer a full warranty that will cover any manufacturing defects.For example, REI allows you to return your bike for a refund within one year of buying it if you are not satisfied. If it has a manufacturing defect, you can return it anytime., Make sure you have a helmet and a bike lock. If you plan on traveling long distances with your bike, you will need a water bottle and possibly a backpack. You might also want gloves and wicking cycling apparel. Your local bike store should have everything you will need. Factor these items into the price of the bike., When you have found the right bike for you and tried it out, all that’s left to do is pay for it! This shouldn’t be a problem since you hopefully stayed within your budget. You can simply charge it or pay by check or cash, depending on the store’s policies. If purchasing online, you can probably use PayPal as well. Be sure to keep the receipt in case there are any problems.
 When you have purchased the bike, make sure you take down the phone number of your dealer in case you need them in the future. They may be able to help you with repairs, tuneups, and replacement parts.

