 There are some life events that make a person more likely to attempt suicide. If you know what to look for, you will have a better chance at preventing it from happening.Pay attention to the stressors going on in the person’s life and consider whether they might be placing the person at risk for suicide.


Make a mental note of whether the person has attempted suicide in the past. You may have to just ask, “Have you ever considered suicide?”
Be aware if anyone the person knows has recently died, especially from suicide. The death of someone close to them can cause some people to consider suicide. This is especially true for teenagers.Find out if there is history of suicide in their family. You may have to ask them directly or ask one of their family members.
Pay attention if the person is or has been a victim of violence, bullying, humiliation, or abuse. These situations can lead a person to view suicide as an option.
Notice if the person has suffered a loss such as being laid off from work, a divorce or break-up, or even if their reputation has been severely damaged.
Be alert if the person has a serious illness such as chronic pain or exhaustion with no end in sight. Sometimes people view suicide as a way to end their pain.;
, Often a person considering suicide will give verbal clues about what they are planning. Knowing what phrases to listen for can help you recognize when the person is suicidal and help them before they go through with it.Be alert for phrases that suggest the person feels they are a burden on people like, "Everyone is better off without me" or "They won't have to deal with me".
Listen for signs that they feel no one cares about them or understands such as: "No one cares what happens to me"; "Nobody gets me"; or "You just don't understand!"
Pay attention if the person indicates that they don’t see any point in living by saying things like, "I have nothing to live for", "I'm just so tired of life".
Notice if they say something hopeless such as: "It's too late now. I can't go on"; "There is nothing left to do"; "What's the use"; or, "I just want the pain to stop."

, You can help prevent a suicide by paying attention to how the person feels and is acting emotionally. There are some emotional warning signs that the person might be contemplating suicide.If they aren’t expressing their feelings, then ask them. You might say, “How are you doing emotionally? How do you feel?”
Have they expressed a sense of personal failure, hopelessness, or guilt?
Do they seem depressed, anxious, or overwhelmed? Notice if they are crying a lot or are upset all the time.
Make a note of whether they are moody or irritable. Do they get angry at things that didn’t bother them before?
Sometimes people may even seem calmer and happier than they have been in a while. They may be looking forward to an end to their pain and suffering. Pay special attention to this sign, especially if they have been feeling down for a long time.
 People that are thinking about suicide may show behavioral warning signs. Paying attention to how the person is acting can help you prevent their suicide.Pay special attention if the person is talking, reading, or writing about death/suicide.
Notice if they seem disinterested in things they used to enjoy. Have they stopped participating in regular activities?
Giving away personal possessions, especially items of value, for no reason is a sign someone might be considering suicide.
Buying weapons or pills and visiting places like bridges, overpasses, rooftops, etc. may be signs a person may be planning suicide.

