 This will make the baguette fresh and crispy. Leave it in the oven for one minute so it can cool down. However, don't leave it there for too long, or it will taste as if you hadn't baked it at all.
 Don't be worried if your baguette cracks a little, and some pieces fall off. This is normal since the baguette's crust is hard and brittle. Don't use too much force, but do it slowly and gently to prevent the baguette from suddenly cracking in half.
 Your front teeth will be too fragile, and the back teeth will not be sharp enough to cut through the crust. After you have bitten into it, tear the baguette away from your mouth in a swift motion, using both your hands and your teeth.
 It might be hard to chew the crust, but the inside is actually really soft. Don't eat too much at once, or you won't be able to chew it all. It might help to switch sides once in a while to prevent strain on a certain tooth.


It might take a long time to chew the baguette, but don't force it down your throat. Just take smaller bites so you have less to chew.
 Spread a slice with butter, margarine, cream cheese or a vegan alternative to moisten the bread then eat as you would a cracker, cookie or biscuit. The slice will have a manageable amount of crust and the spread will make it easier for your salivary glands to handle. Tackling an entire baguette is a bit ambitious.;
, You can toast the baguette before eating for a crispier and fresher taste beforehand. Simply cut the lengthwise, then cut width to the desired size. Then you can start adding meat and vegetables of your choice.
 Simply cut the baguette in half, and add smoky turkey as well as cheese, lettuce, and other foods. You can switch up this recipe to your own preferences.
 There's a lot of pleasure in biting into the crust of a crispy baguette, then discovering something inside it. Cut the baguette in the half width-wise, and remove the inside of the baguette. You can use that for something else, such as dipping it in soup. Stuff with fresh food.

