 You should have daily access to the bike in order to improve your fitness, and if you live in a snowy climate this may be the best option. There are a number of models that you should choose to use based on your overall health.


You should choose a recumbent bike if you have any back problems. Stationary bikes are usually very easy on the joints and they are considered a low-impact workout, unless you have severe knee problems. A recumbent bike allows you to sit up straight while pedaling and holding on to handles by the seat or by the computer monitor.
You can choose an upright bike if you don't have any back problems. You will lean over and put your hands on handles near the computer monitor. An upright bike can also help to strengthen your core muscles as long as you use it properly, by flexing your core as you bike.
Look for a gym with spinning classes, if you like to use upright bikes and you are very serious about cycling or losing weight. During these 30 to 90 minute classes, an instructor tells you when to speed up and slow down, hoping to optimize the calories you burn.;
, You should be able to almost reach full extension as you pedal. Become accustomed to the controls, such as the resistance or incline on the machine.
 Many people do this by listening to a podcast or watching their favorite sitcom. You can get used to sitting properly in the bike by starting slowly.


Studies show that books, television and some other distractions will lower the intensity of your workout. However, it may extend the time you spend on the machine as long as you make a goal to stay on the bike for the duration of the show.
 Aim to cycle every other day at the beginning and walk for 30 minutes on your days off.
 Aim to work on speed 1 day, by sprinting and resting frequently. In the next workout, aim to increase your endurance by pedaling for 30 or more minutes, or increasing your time even further.


Workout rotation will improve 2 types of fitness, aerobic and anaerobic. Aerobic is often called cardiovascular fitness, and it is of a low-enough intensity that your lungs can provide your blood and muscles with enough oxygen to complete the workout. It improves your heart and your lungs. Anaerobic exercise, most often used in sprinting, also uses stores in your muscles and increases the strength and condition of your muscle tone and mass.
Even if you are cycling at a low resistance, increase your resistance by a level and sprint for 20 seconds. Do that 8 times during your workout. This will increase your overall fitness level over time.
 Wait until you feel that you have been cycling for at least a month, improving your resistance, so that you can keep the proper postures while you do the workout.
 You may want to be able to cycle for 30 minutes at the highest resistance or cycle for 60 minutes at a time. Whatever your goals are, they will help to improve your overall fitness by improving your heart, lungs and muscle tone.

