 As with grooming all dogs, it's important to have tools that are made for the dog you are grooming. However, it can be even more important with older dogs, as their body surfaces can be more easily damaged due to mishandling. For instance, remember that there are separate tools for getting mats out of a dog's coat, daily brushing, or combing out long or short fur.


For example, using a brush made for short fur on an elderly dog with long fur can damage its coat and even rip out skin due to the delicate nature of older dog's skin.;
, As your dog gets older you may need to do new types of grooming associated with aging. There are products, such as detangler, that can help you to do this grooming. For example, if you are trying to get rid of mats in your dog's fur, you can buy products that help get them out, such as mat detangler.This new grooming includes keeping sensitive areas, such as its rear end, clean that your dog used to clean on its own. In order to do this, you can buy products designed to help.
Products designed to assist you with grooming are usually available at pet stores. Consider browsing the grooming section at your local pet store and see if any of the products may be of use to you.
If you can't find what you need at your local store, it is probably available online.
 In order to keep an old dog's fur from getting matted and unsightly, you should brush it daily. However, you should use a soft brush to do this daily brushing. A soft brush is easier on the dog's coat, and it will reduce the risk of damaging the dog's fragile skin.


Brushing a dog daily is actually more important as the dog gets older. As it gets older the dog will be able to do less and less grooming itself and will need to rely on you to keep its coat in good condition.It may take more time to actually get tangles and debris out of a dog's coat with a soft brush. However, the extra time you spend brushing your dog gently will be wonderful for bonding with it and soothing it.
 Having tools that are damaged or in disrepair can make the grooming process uncomfortable or even painful for an elderly dog. Make sure clippers are oiled and working well, that trimmers are sharp, and that brushes and combs don't have broken or sharp tines or bristles.Grooming tools that are in disrepair can injure an older dog. For example, if a brush has a sharp metal bristle it can rip a older dogs skin, as the dog's skin may be very thin due to age.
 As your dog ages, it will need more attention paid to its physical upkeep. This means that it should be groomed more often to avoid matting, overgrown nails, and general uncleanliness. In order to keep up with this maintenance, you might consider taking your dog to a groomer that is skilled at this type of work.A good professional groomer will inspect your dogs overall hygiene and may find problems that you did not know existed such as fecal matter sticking to the fur and skin or urine scalding.If you are unsure where to take your dog for grooming, get a recommendation from your veterinarian or a friend that you trust., An older dog may not be able to get into, or stay in, a standing position.However, loss of mobility does not mean that a dog shouldn't get groomed. Instead, work with the dog to find a variety of comfortable positions it is willing to get into that, in combination, can allow you to do all the grooming you need to do.


Trying to get an aging dog into a position that is uncomfortable or even painful for it will only make the process more unpleasant for the dog.
If your dog experiences pain or discomfort sitting or standing in certain positions, talk to your vet to get recommendations regarding how to make your dog more comfortable.
 An aging dog needs to be allowed to be as comfortable as possible if you want it to cooperate with the grooming process. In order to make it comfortable you need to place it on a soft surface that is not slippery. The softness will keep its body comfortable and the non-skid surface will help it to stay steady when you are grooming it.A good surface to use is a rubber kitchen or bath mat. They are soft, non-skid, and can be easily cleaned after the grooming process is over.
 An older dog may need to move around and stretch its body to remain comfortable. If you sense that your dog is getting uncomfortable, allow the grooming session to end and return to it later when the dog is energized.


If you are taking your elderly dog to a groomer to get groomed, you may want to stay there while the dog gets groomed. This will allow you to be there if there are any problems but it also makes it so that the dog does not have to stay at the groomers for any longer than is necessary.

