 Even at a young age, your child will likely have homework. Help her succeed by fostering a good learning environment at home. This includes giving her a comfortable area in which to work.Designate an area of your home for school work. It can be the kitchen table, a desk in your child's room, or a corner in your home office.
Help her to concentrate by limiting distractions in the school work area. For example, avoid letting her do homework in a room with the tv on.
Establish a routine. Find a time that works for your child to her her homework and help her stick to that schedule.
Maybe your child works best before dinner. Schedule your meal time a little later to allow her ample time to get her work done.
 You can make learning fun and exciting by planning activities around what your child is learning at school. For example, if your child is studying the Civil War, there are lots of things you can do to make that come alive for her. Try taking a trip to a local history museum to see what exhibits they have on display.You can also do fun activities such as cooking new foods. If your child is taking Spanish at school, try cooking some homemade enchiladas together.
If your child is really interested in her biology class, try to find some nature-based documentaries to watch with her. Or look for some cool books on the subject. Your local library is a great resource.
Get the whole family involved. Family field trips are a great way to encourage learning. Take a weekend trip to a new city and explore some local history.
For example, if your child is studying science, try going to the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago. You can also look for alternatives closer to home.
 If your child is having trouble with a particular subject or class, you can provide extra learning opportunities outside of school. First, assess her needs. Is she simply bored by the topic? Or does she seem to struggle with some of the necessary basic skills?For example, maybe your child just doesn't seem interested in her history lessons. Try to make the subject more interesting for her by talking to her about some interesting individuals in your family. Hearing stories about relatives can make history seem more relevant and exciting.
If your child is struggling with certain skills, there are some steps you can take. For instance, if your child is having trouble retaining information, try making flashcards.
Ask the teacher for a copy of the curriculum, so that you have all of the necessary information. Then, design some flashcards that you can use to help your child study in a fun and creative way.
 Not only will your child need solid reading skills in school, but helping your child to become a reader will promote lifelong learning. One of the most effective ways to help your child become a better learner is to promote reading outside of school. You can do this by finding ways to make reading enjoyable for your child.If your child is young, you can read books together. Devote some time each evening to taking turns reading from a popular series such as the Harry Potter books.
Set a good example by reading your own books. If your child sees you choosing to relax with a book in the evening instead of the television, she will be more likely to adopt the same habits.
Don't be afraid to offer incentives. Have your child set a goal of reading a certain amount of books in a month. If she meets the goal, offer a reward such as a family outing for ice cream.
 Your child spends more hours away from school than in it. That is why it is important to help her continue learning when she is away from a traditional learning environment. Work to turn everyday events into moments where your child can learn something.For example, cooking is a great way to teach your child math skills and organization. Ask her to help you read a recipe and measure out the ingredients you will need for dinner.
If your child asks a question, take time to engage and give a thoughtful answer. If your teenager asks a question about the election process, take some time to ask her what her views about the candidates are.
Demonstrate that learning is something that happens throughout life. If you are using the internet to find tips to house train your new puppy, use that as an opportunity to talk to your child about all of the different ways you can find information.
 Reading and doing homework are considered types of quiet learning. While these are important, your child also needs to engage in active learning in order to have a more well-rounded education. Active learning means that your child is actively participating in an activity.Encourage your child to join a sports team or an after school club. Playing a sport like soccer teaches teamwork and the importance of following the rules.
Social interactions will also help your child gain confidence. This will help her to succeed in the classroom and out.
Take your child on educational outings. For example, ask her to accompany you to the local art museum. Ask her opinions about the different exhibits.
Lead by example. Show your child that it is important to live a well-rounded life. Join a book club with other parents in your neighborhood to demonstrate that learning can be fun., The mind-body connection is very important for a child's development. In order to succeed at school, your child needs to be physically healthy. Take an active role in her education by making sure that she is properly nourished and well-rested.Make sure that you provide healthy snacks and meals. While your child is growing, it is important that she receive the right nutrients. Provide healthy snacks such as fresh fruit or veggies and hummus.
Children need about 8-11 hours of sleep each night, depending on their age. Make sure that your child has a structured routine that includes a reasonable bed time.