 While becoming less common for a variety of reasons, the tradition of a bride taking her new husband’s last name is still the expectation for many after marriage. This (or any other) type of name change after marriage is not automatic, however, and requires some relatively simple but necessary actions on your part.


Likewise, divorce does not automatically revert a changed last name to the pre-marriage last name in Idaho. Again, a simple but necessary process must be taken.
 An official, certified copy of your marriage license is sufficient cause in Idaho to undergo a name change. No separate decrees or court orders are required.


Idaho marriage licenses are issued by the county recorder. You must both go together, provide valid photo IDs and Social Security numbers, and pay approximately $30 in cash only (the fee varies by county and even by day). There is no waiting period or expiration date for the license. Persons under age 18 require parental consent, and under 16 require permission from the court.Until quite recently in many states, only brides could take on the husband’s last name (or a hyphenated combination of both last names) using the marriage certificate as the only legal authorization. However, due to various legal challenges and especially the growing legalization of same-sex marriage (valid in Idaho since October 2014), such policies are in flux.
The rapid changes happening regarding marriage make it difficult to determine the precise, current policies in Idaho. However, at least according to the Social Security Administration, a certified Idaho marriage license is sufficient for either spouse to change his/her name to a) the other spouse’s last name, or b) a hyphenated combination of both.Unlike some other states, it does not appear that a marriage license alone can be used to change a last name to one that is not a) or b) above. See Method One in this article for that process.
 In Idaho as in most states, the easiest way to change your name due to divorce is to make it a part of the divorce decree itself. When done this way, no separate legal actions or fees are necessary.


Divorce in Idaho requires a good deal of paperwork, including a Petition for Divorce, all of which is available online or at the county courthouse. The filing fee is $137. The waiting period from petition to divorce decree is at least 20 days for an uncontested divorce, and likely six months for a contested divorce. The petitioner must have lived in Idaho for at least the past six weeks. An attorney is not necessary but recommended.On general divorce decree forms that are valid in most if not all U.S. states, there is normally a section (at number nine on the example cited here) that authorizes a name change as part of the decree.This process, however, entitles you only to revert to your maiden name or another former legal name. Otherwise, you will have to undertake a separate legal process, as described in Method One of this article.
 One of these documents, along with proof of your previous legal name, should be all that is required to change your name on your Social Security card, Idaho driver’s license / ID card, and other such changes.


See Method Three of this article for useful information on making these changes.

