 Their freakishly long legs make them very fast so you'll have to be quick. Centipedes don't usually invade homes in large numbers, so you may be able to get rid of your problem just by stomping on, or bug-spraying, every one you see. Note that if you are afraid to even approach or be near the centipede, even vacuum cleaners won't be useful.


If you don't want to kill the centipede, you can try to catch it in a jar and release it outside, but this usually leads to a high-pitched scream, a broken jar, and a free centipede.;
, Just place them in corners and crevices where centipedes tend to hunt. You may also catch other insects that are sneakily crawling around your home. Know that larger centipedes that walk over sticky or glue traps may escape by simply leaving behind a couple legs. Sticky traps are most effective for smaller centipedes, not larger ones.
 Keep in mind that insecticides are only temporary solutions. Any garden supply store will carry these products. Just make sure to follow the package directions. Even though these products shouldn't kill pets or humans, it's best not to have prolonged contact with them.


Sticky traps could possibly alert you to heavy traffic areas, allowing you to spray these areas or place more sticky traps. If one of your sticky traps turns out to be really popular and none of your other ones do, chances are the popular one is where you should focus most of your attention.
If you want to kill the centipedes, but you don’t want to poison the earth, yourself, or your pets, you can use natural pesticides like boric acid or food grade diatomaceous earth for continual centipede control.
Products containing plant-derived pyrethrin will exterminate centipedes on contact, and can be used as a fog or spray.
 Whether it's chemical insecticide, natural insecticide, or other, think about creating a moat-like barrier around the outside of your house. Because centipedes originate outside and come inside. When they do, they'll travel into the insecticide barrier. If they happen to make it inside, they should be dead or near death by the time you find them. Try using the organic pesticide containing cyhalothrin, which is used mainly for ants but does double duty for centipedes.
 If you've tried everything under the sun to help eradicate the creepy-crawly pests, it may be time to pony up and hire an exterminator. Exterminators may crawl your home for potential entrance points, locate and destroy any centipede eggs, and spray parts of your home with effective pesticides. We probably don't want to admit it, but exterminators do a better job of locating the problem and ensuring that it goes away. They're worth the money if you can afford it and are at your wit's end.
 The centipedes will have nothing to eat, and will hopefully die or move in with the neighbors A centipede without food is as good as a dead or soon-to-be-vacating centipede., Centipedes dry out and die if they don't stay in a moist environment. Clean up basements, closets, or any other damp areas, and use a dehumidifier.


Place packets of silica in the dampest places of your home. Silica is an absorbent that wicks away moisture from the air and ground. Look for silica packets in new shoes, for example, or buy some cheaply. Keep them in the dampest places of your home.
 Place firewood, mulch, tarpaulins, and compost bins away from the perimeter of the house and as far away as possible. Remove any compost, leaves, wood, and organic debris. Consider getting rid of damp items like compost bins if possible., This will keep the bugs from entering your home in the first place. Seal any cracks in concrete foundations, and caulk spaces around doors and windows.


Apply weatherstripping to the outside of your house to discourage centipede intrusion.
Caulk any holes between walls.
Look at gutters and downspouts and clear away away leaves, branches, or other material that may be blocking the water's natural flow down the gutter. This could be a potential home for centipedes.
 For a natural way to discourage centipedes from vacationing in your home, try laying down a thin layer of cayenne pepper at entrance points, both outside and inside your home. Dogs and cats should stay away from it, although they won't be seriously hurt if they happen to get a little curious.

