 College can be a very stressful time in your life. As soon as you go to college, look into finding a counselor to help you through this transition. Moving to a new place, meeting new people, and being in a completely new situation can lead to a lot of stress. This stress may cause you to fall back into destructive habits or make bad choices.

Meeting with a counselor as soon as you can may help give you the support you need to overcome temptation.
If you set up a counselor early, you may have a better chance of adjusting to college without any unhealthy eating habits.
Talk to your current counselor about a referral to a counselor near your campus. You can also contact the campus counseling center to find a counselor.;
, Joining a support group near your campus may be a good idea. This can provide you with a safe space to meet with other people with eating disorders. You can go to this group on a regular basis to help stay on track, or you can go when things get hard and you find yourself struggling.You can search for groups like Overeaters Anonymous or Anorexics and Bulimics Anonymous in your area.
Search online for support groups or talk to your campus counseling center. Many colleges don’t have on-campus resources available, but local hospitals or clinics may have groups you can join.
 Just because you go to college doesn’t mean you should lose touch with everyone at home. It is important that you stay in contact with your support network of family and friends. Set up times to talk on the phone or via Skype, make plans to see each other in person, and ask them if you can call them if you need support.

You should also continue to see and update your medical treatment team. Maintain appointments as often as you can.
Tell your family or friends, "I would like to call you if things get difficult for me at college" or "Can we have weekly Skype dates so we can stay in touch?"

, When you make the decision to tell others about your eating disorder, do so carefully. Think about why you want to tell this person and if that person is trustworthy. You want to share your eating disorder so you can find support and be able to talk about your struggles, so you want positive people knowing. If you have a new, positive group of friends, you may want to tell them so you can share your difficulties with them and get them to help you be accountable. They may be able to support you in tough times.
Refrain from telling people who will not understand, make you feel bad about yourself, or encourage you to participate in unhealthy behavior.
When you finally tell your friends, start by saying, "I have an eating disorder. I want you to know because I trust you and want to be myself around you."

, If you have been doing well with your eating disorder recovery, you want to make sure you keep up with your progress. You may think that you are doing okay and not realize that you are accidentally falling into unhealthy habits until it’s too late. Consider setting up regular check-ins with counselors, dietitians, or health care professionals. This can help you notice any changes before they become too serious.For example, you may be eating enough calories, only exercising during your PE class, studying, and socializing with your new group of friends. You may be limiting your portions in the dining hall and not purging. However, your weight or health may be fluctuating without you knowing.
Stress can cause health changes that may negatively affect you.
Setting up regular check-ins with your treatment team, or a local counseling center, can help you stay healthy and on a regular routine.
Any weight and health changes may cause a relapse, which can lead to severe negative consequences.

