 If you know next to nothing about Tumblr hipsters, you're going to need some inspiration. Follow, reblog, like, and even print out pictures of people who look the way you want to look, or have blogs you're trying to imitate. Take screenshots and set your desktop background to be a rotating display of these images. You might even want to have a special notebook where you keep these pictures and make notes on what you like/don't like, how you'd wear certain pieces,etc.;
, Pick out clothing you think you can work with and try to arrange it in combinations that work for your personal style. If you don't think you can work with something in your closet, set it to the side. Remember: even majorly out-of-date clothing can be saved with a pair of scissors and a bit of imagination.
 For help with your clothing and style, both Tumblr and Polyvore will help immensely. Pinterest is also useful; searching for "hipster" or "clothing" can yield great results.
 Visit stores like Forever 21, where you can stock up on a ton of new, hipster-esque clothes without spending too much money. Thrift stores are another great option! Again, don't forget that everything can be modified. So even if you think that something you're buying isn't that cute, or looks too tight or too long or too ruffly for you, think of the possibilities before disregarding it completely.
 You'll want lots of accessories such as crucifix necklaces, rings, and bracelets. String bracelets and anklets are also very popular. Forehead headbands with little flowers and beads can look nice, but only if you have relatively tame hair.
 Think Vans, Converse, military boots, gladiator sandals, etc. If you're extra daring you can even try to pull off skate shoes or Doc Martens. And of course, heels and wedges are always an elegant twist!

, Tumblr girls have flawless skin. If you have acne or pimples, use an acne cleanser to keep your pimples under control. Use foundation to cover your pimples or blemishes if you have too, but make sure it's powder foundation. Don't apply too much or your skin will look splotchy and make sure it matches your skin tone.
 The most popular style is long with beachy waves, but pixie cuts, bangs, and very curly hair are also common. If you're coveting a particular hairstyle that you don't have the right quantity of hair to do, consider getting a haircut or extensions. Try straightening, curling, braiding, whatever you want to try to create your own unique hipster style--when you get it right, you'll definitely know.


Tumblr girls either have curly hair (ringlets or loose curls) or straight hair. Many also opt for a more messy "just got out of bed" look. If you're going to straighten your hair, make sure it's perfectly flat and pretty. For curling, use a big barrel curler to achieve loose curl look, or simply but your hair in a twisted knot bun after your shower. Also, try different styles with your hair: braid it, fishtail it, put it in a bun, put it in an up do, make a side braid, etc. Play around with it! Tumblr girls have many different styles.
Hair color. Many hipster or Tumblr have ombré style hair. You can do this at the hairdresser. Some also just have their tips dyed a different color to add flare. If you don't wish to change your hair color, then keep your style! Tumblr hipster girls are also natural.
 The casual, everyday Tumblr hipster look is little foundation with eyeshadow in a natural tone, plus mascara and eyeliner and nude lips. For parties or a more formal look you can use virtually any brightly colored eyeshadow. Then put on your eyeliner a little thicker than usual and add light pencil eyeliner along the waterline in black. Finish off your special occasion Tumblr hipster look with coral or bright red lips.


Wear mascara. Mascara is the most important part of your tumblr girl look. Make sure you don't clump the mascara and buy some more often so it doesn't dry up. You can wear a light or natural colored eyeshadow but don't apply too much. Some Tumblr girls wear eyeliner to define their eyes well but if you're going to apply some, don't overdo it! Nude lips or a clear balm for the lips.
 Once you've got your look perfected, start a hipster Tumblr and show off your good looks. Take pictures of yourself from flattering angles and use a lot of tags, like "#makeup" or "#hair" or "#love". You'll be on your way to being Tumblr famous in no time!


Start by taking selfies in good lighting and in the right positions. Edit your selfies with filters to give it that extra tumblr look!

