 There are many different variants of Elemental HEROs. Currently, the best build is Masked Heroes, which use Mask Change and Shadow Mist to bring out Dark Law. However, there are many other options, so feel free to just experiment with the cards until you figure out what works for you.;
, The best HERO monsters are Shadow Mist, Bubbleman, Neos Alius, Blazeman, and Prisma (for fusion decks). None of the others are really worth using, except for fusing with. Masked HERO decks also use a few copies of Summoner Monk and Goblindbergh to special summon Shadow Mist and trigger its effects. Typically, HERO decks use few monsters and many cards to search them., HEROs have access to some great searchers in Reinforcement of the Army, E - Emergency Call, and A Hero Lives. The first two cards are great for searching out all of your HEROs, but A Hero Lives has a rather steep cost and is best for an early game Dark Law in meta decks., Miracle Fusion is the best fusion spell they have access to, and is good in nearly any HERO deck. If you are using Blazeman, add Polymerization since he can search it out. Fusion Reserve and Fusion Conscription can be used if you use fusions with specific materials, and Fusion Recovery can recover your materials. If using specific materials, it can be a good idea to use fusion substitutes like King of the Swamp and Prisma.
 You can also use a few copies of Mask Charge to recycle Mask Change and Form Change to switch around your HEROs. Also, use cards like Call of the Haunted or Oasis of Dragon Souls to special summon Shadow Mist., These are powerful cards which can disrupt your opponent or get you out of a tough situation, and so are used in almost every deck. Add cards like Twin Twisters/Mystical Space Typhoon, Raigeki, Soul Charge, Solemn Warning, Solemn Strike, etc.
 Add the Masked HERO monsters if using Mask Change, and the generic HERO fusions if you have a fusion spell. Good Masked HEROs are Dark Law, Acid, Anki, and Koga, Dian and Divine Wind if using Form Change, and Contrast HERO Chaos if using Miracle Fusion. The best fusion monsters are the ones who only require a HERO monster and a certain attribute as their materials, like Absolute Zero, The Shining, Escuridao, and Nova Master. Also, include some Rank 4 Xyz monsters like Castel, Abyss Dweller, and Utopia and Utopia the Lightning, and Rank 8s like Hope Harbinger and Felgrand.