 There are times when you will be forced to engage with a person who is being verbally abusive. For instance, you may be alone and cornered by a mentally unstable person. You may be the teacher in a classroom where a student is insulting classmates, or the manager in a store where a patron is yelling. In these situations, it will be your job to de-escalate the abuse for reasons of safety.Recognize the symptoms of agitation. The person may speak quickly, and may raise her voice or speak in a high pitch.
Agitation brings on certain kinds of verbal abuse. These may include cursing, threatening, insulting, demanding, and making illogical statements.
Aggressive posture, pacing, shaking, gesturing erratically or making fists are other signs of agitation.
 Take a deep breath and exhale. Look as calm and as certain of yourself as you can. Look into the eyes of the person you are speaking to, but don't stare him down, as this can appear threatening. Get eye-level with the agitated person. If he is standing, stand, but make sure you give him space.


Move slowly and deliberately.Relax your hands and do not cross your arms.
Stand at an angle from the agitated person. Standing or approaching an agitated person at an angle is less likely to appear threatening.
Do not turn your back or approach the agitated person from behind.
Stand with more physical distance than you normally would.
Getting close to someone who is agitated may cause him to panic and escalate into violence.
If you notice someone showing signs of increased agitation, step to the side and continue talking to him.
 Regulate your volume and tone. Speak evenly, slowly, and at an ordinary volume. Do not raise your voice to be heard over yelling. Instead, wait for the abuser to take a breath, and speak then.

Take a deep breath if you notice your voice wavering or if you are speaking too quickly or loudly.
If you are afraid, you may speak too quietly. Take a deep breath and project your voice, speaking from your diaphragm.
 Use an abundance of respectful language. Say "Please," "Thank you," "I'm sorry," "If you don't mind," "Sir," "Ma'am," "Mr." "Ms." and, if you can, the name of the person you are addressing. Avoid challenging, threatening, bossing, or shaming the agitated person.Repeat what the person is saying to reassure her that you are listening. If she says "I can't get any help and you're not helping!" say, "I hear that I haven't given you the help you need," then ask her how you can better help her.
Affirm what she is saying with nods and brief verbal responses, like "I hear you," "Okay," "I see."

, Be honest with all your information if possible. If the information you have will upset the person further, explain that you will discuss it when you can speak together calmly. Do not defend yourself or others from insults or accusations: they are meant to drag you into an argument, which will not help anyone.
Answer real questions. If someone asks, "Who the &*#@ are you," respond with your name and title.
Ignore fake questions. To a comment like, "Why are you such a &*#@?" you might respond "I'm sorry you feel that way."
Ask open-ended questions to get more information and to encourage the agitated person to slow down and think rationally.
 Explain that you cannot help the person when he is speaking abusively. Stay present with him, but explain that you are not negotiating with him during the outburst.


Offer options. Say, "Would you like to step into the hallway and continue our discussion in a quieter tone of voice, or would you like to come back again tomorrow and discuss this then?"
Offer empathy for feelings, but not for abusive behavior. Say, "I am very sorry that we failed to help you with this, and you have every right to feel angry. You do not have a right to make threatening remarks, however."

