 Filleting should be done when you wish to serve only the finest cut of the fish, rather than cooking it whole. Start by cutting through the neck of the trout at the groove of the gills. Angle the blade of your knife so that you’re cutting toward the head rather than the body to preserve the meat.Always use a filleting knife or other sharp blade when preparing fish. This results in much neater, more economical cuts.;
, Place the trout on its side with the belly facing away from you. Start a small cut on the top side of the backbone at the opening where you removed the head. Insert your filleting knife into this groove and run the knife down the length of the fish, staying just above the backbone. Finish by slicing through the section at the base of the tail. You now have a clean, meaty fillet.


If you’re staying close enough to the backbone, you should be able to hear an audible clicking as you slice through the rib bones.
 Turn the trout over on its opposite side and repeat the filleting process. Start the cut at the head and slice smoothly along the upper edge of the backbone until the entire fillet has been cut away., Place each fillet skin side down and pick out each and every pin bone you find. Scrape along the flesh with your knife or pick up each fillet and flex it to expose bones that are lodged deep. Nothing ruins a fresh fish dinner like a mouthful of crunchy bones!It’s alright if you don’t get every last tiny bone—even professional chefs sometimes miss a few.
 Now that the trout has been filleted and deboned, you only need to make one more cut to remove the skin. Take hold of the fillet on the tail end and use your filleting knife to cut into the flesh at an angle until you reach the outer layer of skin. Run the knife edge along the bottom of the fillet while tugging the skin lightly in the opposite direction. The skin should come away clean. Repeat with the second fillet and you’re ready to grill, bake or fry!Again, while it is not necessary to remove the skin prior to cooking, it is commonly done when filleting fish and makes it easier to eat.

