 Often individuals who give backhanded compliments are speaking out of jealousy, and their unkind words may reflect a deep-seated insecurity on their part rather than any genuine anger with you. If you believe that insecurity is motivating the “compliment,” it’s best to ignore it and move on. Be polite and don’t intentionally embarrass the insecure individual.For example, if someone tells you, “It must be so demanding to juggle a career and a baby, but you’re doing it well,” perhaps they’re frustrated by their own employment or family status.
 At times backhanded compliments can present valid critiques, although packaged in a rude and insincere format. The compliment may contain more merit if it was given by someone who knows you well and may have genuine insight into your family life. If it was given by a relative stranger, the statement likely has little validity or merit.You may decide to ask the compliment-giver directly: “Am I or my child doing something that’s upsetting you or that you feel needs to be criticized?”
If you feel that a backhanded compliment is not based on any genuine shortcoming of yours or your children’s you can disregard it entirely.
 Despite the rude method of delivery, you may need to consider if the deliverer of the backhanded compliment presented an appropriate critique of your parenting. No parent is perfect, and good parenting advice can come from a variety of sources. While it’s inconsiderate to give tacit insults to parents, an emotionally mature parent may be able to learn productive skills from a backhanded compliment.

For example, if someone says, “You have bold children; they certainly aren’t afraid to go out and take what they want,” it might be time to have a conversation with your kids about sharing possessions and asking politely when they would like something.
That said, don’t rush to incorporate every bit of “advice” you receive. Give yourself time to weigh all advice, and take backhanded compliments with a large grain of salt.

