 These foods taste great, but they decrease your metabolism.Plus, they will leave you hungry and wanting more, leading to even greater weight gain. Avoid sweet baked goods, soda, chips, candy, fast food, and other processed foods.


Eating an occasional treat is okay. Just make sure it’s healthy, natural, and organic. Learn to bake your own cookies, muffins and other treats at home.;
, Just as junk foods and processed foods will hamper your metabolic rate, healthy foods will accelerate it. Fruits and veggies top the list of foods which boost your metabolism naturally.Almost any fruit or veggie will do.


Incorporate more leafy greens like spinach, lettuce, and kale. Tasty fruits like apples, strawberries, and pineapple are great too.
If you don’t like eating salads and fruit, try sauteing or baking your asparagus or eggplant.
If you’re constantly on the go, think about investing in a good blender and get your fruits and veggies in the form of smoothies.
 Spicy foods increase the metabolism by around 8% beyond the BMR.

Plus, you are likely to feel full longer than if you ate the same dish without spice. Sprinkle some cayenne pepper on your potatoes, or squirt some sriracha on your sandwiches. Crushed red pepper is great for adding a bit of heat to pizza and pasta.

Chili is a classic spicy dish which warms the bones on chilly nights.
Try hot sauce with your collard greens, broccoli, or other veggies.
Add spicy sauces and additives in moderation. An excess can lead to ulcers and heartburn.


Weight-loss diets are those which involve taking in fewer calories than you consume through daily energy expenditures. When the body is denied the calories it needs, it goes into “starvation mode,” an evolutionary state in which calories are carefully conserved. Try to eat about 2,000 calories each day.

Don’t skip meals. Eat at least three times each day.
Eat a small snack between meals. Some whole grain toast, an apple, or a slice of watermelon all make great snacks.
 This increase in energy expenditure will boost the metabolism.


If you enjoy chicken or turkey, bake or grill them. Fried chicken and other meats will only add empty calories to your diet.
Avoid processed meats like hot dogs, bacon, salami, sliced beef, and fast food burgers. These are linked to cancer and heart disease.Do not eat processed cheese or dairy. This includes cheeses that have been mixed with lots of salt or emulsifiers. Nacho cheese and other liquified cheeses should be avoided.

