 To see another person’s point of view means that you have to dissociate yourself from the idea that there is only one right way to look at things. You have to recognize that different people will see the same situation in different ways, and that the opinions formed in those situations are not fact. When you take on another person’s viewpoint, you broaden your understanding of that person and the issue at hand. Try asking yourself these questions when you want to understand another person’s viewpoint:Why do I feel the way I do about this issue?
What would make another person feel differently?
Has this person dealt with similar issues in the past?
Is my stance based on factual evidence, or is it just an opinion?
How would I feel if I was in their situation?

, Simply to see the other person’s side is not enough. You also have to validate their opinion. Acknowledge that, even if you are right, they are not wrong simply because they see it differently. When you can accept that another person may also be right, you are giving credit to their intellect and humanity. This will go a long way in making up for a disagreement.Instead of disregarding someone by saying something like “I know you think that traveling overseas is unsafe, but you’ve never gone anywhere to know that,” acknowledge the other person’s point of view as meaningful by saying something like “You are right. Travelling overseas can be dangerous. I still think I would like to see more of the world, though.”

, Though it sounds easy, agreeing to disagree can be tricky. You have to realize that your value as a person is not tied to you opinion on an issue. That way, when the other person disagrees with you on the issue, it does not feel like a personal insult or attack. Allow the other person the room to express their opinion open, and take the same liberty for yourself.For example, your friend might think that skipping class is fine as long as their grades stay up. You might disagree. Instead of trying to force your friend to come to class, you can agree to disagree.

