 This is the trickiest part of signaling the girl you like with a third party. Even your close friends may have different ideas of what is "helpful," and in some cases they may say too much when trying to help you. If you plan on trusting someone else to help play matchmaker between you and the girl you like, it's best to be honest and clear with your helper. You might tell that person:


"There's this girl I really like, but I'm super shy telling her how I feel and I need some help. I was wondering if you could ask her if she's interested in anyone or if she is seeing someone?"
"Please don't tell anyone about this, but I really like this girl. I'm having the hardest time telling her how I feel. Could you help me figure out if she likes me?"

, The more often she hears good things about you, the more likely she is to associate you with those positive traits. You might have a close friend that you trust bring up your talents, skills, and accomplishments around her.


You should be careful when selecting the person who will brag about you to her. Some people may go over the top, which could be a more obvious signal that you like her than you want.Choose a few of your best characteristics and instruct your friend to talk about them. For example, you might ask your friend, "Could you mention the soccer game that I won for our team last night to the girl I like?"

, If her friends like you, it's much more likely that she'll like you as well. Additionally, if her friends like you, they'll say good things about you to her when you're not around. In some cases, girls may be worried that you won't fit in well with her life or friend group.Gain her friends' approval by helping out. You could offer help on homework in a subject you know well, if you're handy you could offer to fix something you notice is broken, you could treat her friends to a snack, and so on.
In some cases, this might cause jealousy between the girl you like and her friends. This might make her think of you in a more romantic light, but it might also backfire and cause her to get angry at you.
To prevent jealousy, whenever you do something nice for her friends, you might also say something like, "Of course I'll help you out. You're one of Sarah's best friends, and she's the best. Any friend of hers is a friend of mine."

