 Make sure there is nothing stuck between your teeth, that your hair is decent, and if you are wearing make-up, make sure that it's fresh and not running, bleeding or caking. Simply checking yourself out before stepping into the frame can save most issues before they crop up.
 Solid colors, usually neutrals (pastels, tans, grays, etc.), are almost always your safest bet. Stripes, patterns, and very bright colors often cast off unattractive glares and can draw the eye away from you. Stick to neutral colors, blacks, and whites if you want to be sure you'll come out looking good.


Clothes that fit well are imperative as well. If it doesn't fit your body type, the clothing will minimize your most attractive features., Use a towel or, with nothing else, your sleeve to pat down your face. Moisture will pick up light, leading to an unattractive shine on your face. If you're going to be taking pictures professionally, consider getting some matte gel, a simply photographers tube that minimizes shine and glare on your skin. Simply add it lightly in any areas that are shining in the photo.
 You don't want a ton of stuff happening in the background unless you're a talented enough photographer to balance the background or take it out of focus. You're much better with simple backgrounds, especially those that make you "pop." A little bit of contrast is perfect (like a light background when wearing darker clothes) to make sure you stand out., Yes, everyone actually does have a "good side," and you can find it easily by going through some old pictures. There is nothing scientific about this, so just chose the side you like best. Humans have natural variability, and you should decide what side you like best represented. If you're still unsure, talk to a trusted friend -- one you know will tell it to your straight and honestly which side looks best.


Have some fun in the mirror "modeling." What expressions do you think look best on yourself? What looks to you enjoy and feel natural?