 This will help with you understanding your natural beauty, in and out. Stand straight. Smile at yourself. Notice the positive things. It is all important. Embrace your flaws, but enhance your good features. Below are tips in order to help you.;
, Keep up with your personal hygiene. Shower every day to leave you smelling fresh and feeling renewed. Wash your body with sweet smelling body wash, and wash your hair every other day as washing it daily can make your scalp dry and flaky. If your hair is naturally oily, consider a clarifying shampoo to prevent your hair from producing excess oil. Clean your hair by massaging your scalp with shampoo using your fingertips. Rinse and repeat twice. Then wash with conditioner for shine and to prevent tangling. Massage into your hair for 20 seconds and leave it in for 2 minutes. Rinse and repeat. Deodorant is highly recommended.


Wash your face regularly. This will unclog your pores and help get rid of acne. Use an oil-free face cleanser twice a day and in a week or two, your skin will be clearer and new. Remember to dampen your face with warm water before you wash your face; it opens your pores. Rinse with cold water after you wash your face to close them. Having clear skin makes you look as if you care about your skin.
 One of the things we spend the most time on in the morning is our hair. So try to embrace the natural look, but you can always add accessories. You can still do some cute hairstyles that don't show your natural hair as much such as the sock bun. If your hair is wavy, you can still put it in a ponytail. Also, try to get haircuts more often than you usually do so your hair does not grow with split ends.


Be mindful when using heated cosmetics. These can damage your hair by drying it out and ultimately cause split ends. It is recommended that you only use heated cosmetics for special occasions.
 Try not to go overboard with makeup. Embrace the natural you; people don't like a girl who isn't cool with being herself. But, if you must have makeup, do a little mascara, eyeliner, lip gloss, and some foundation. Liquid foundation looks much better than powder because it makes your skin look more natural and blended.
 Get your heart rate up for at least 60 minutes a day, and in a week you will notice the weight loss and toning of the body. Remember to only lose weight if your BMI is higher than average.
 Eating fruits and vegetables give you the energy you need and make you look great. It improves your complexion too. Follow the suggested serving portions of the food pyramid and make sure you get the nutrients you need. If you're having trouble eating healthy, throw out most tempting foods and only have one night a week when you can eat some junk food. Remember to wash your hands before eating. in addition never forget to drink right amount of water. Water protects you from lots of problems and it can make your skin shine!

, Being a unique individual will make you more desirable when you are in high school because having an original personality will make you stand out in a positive way.

