 Your students will be most invested in learning how to write persuasively if they are arguing for or against something they feel passionately about. Ask them if there are any issues they are interested in changing - they could be issues in their school or community or family. Then ask them to choose the topic they feel most strongly about.For example, your students might feel strongly that there is not enough recess time. Or they might feel they should be allowed to watch more TV at home.
 Even after you've brainstormed ideas, resist the temptation to assign one topic to the whole class or even a topic to each student. Having to write a persuasive essay about something that they are not generally interested in will make the assignment harder, and you want your students to focus on the task of writing the essay without getting hung up on what they have to write about., Once your students have selected their topic, ask them to list a few reasons why they support or oppose the issue. These will form the main points of their essay and also acts as a rough outline for their essay., Once your students have chosen a topic and listed the pros and cons associated with it, they'll need to find evidence that supports their argument. Emphasize to your students that they should look in a variety of places for a variety of types of evidence to use in support of their argument.Some examples of where to look for evidence might be the internet, the library, or interviews they conduct with people.
Some examples of the types of evidence you can encourage your students to look for are articles, charts, graphs, and interview transcripts., Once your students have collected their research, allow them a number of days – in class – to write their essays. This gives them time to work while you're there and can help them.


For example, on day 1, explain to them that they should start by reading through the research they collected to see what pieces of it they can use to support which pros or cons they listed at the beginning of the process.
Day 2 could be focused on addressing each pro or con in its own paragraph. Explain to them that they should first explain their point and then use their research to support it.
Day 3 could be dedicated to turning their separate paragraphs into a full piece and then doing some self-editing.