 The kneecap is a vital part of knee anatomy. The knee is a hinge joint made up of the femur, or thigh bone, from above and the tibia, or shin bone, from below. When the large thigh muscle contracts, it pulls on the shin bone and causes the knee to straighten. However, it does not pull directly on the shin bone but via a pulley system formed by the patella.For this system to work, the thigh muscle needs to pull in a straight line. What happens with a luxating patella is that the forces pull at an angle and the kneecap pops out of place.


The problems which allow or encourage the kneecap to slip can vary. One problem is a slack joint capsule that means the kneecap isn't tightly anchored. Another is that the groove the patella sits in is too shallow, which allows sideways movement that shouldn't be there. The muscles may also pull at an angle because of the bowed natures of the dog's hind leg bones., Small dogs are especially prone to luxating patellas. This means that the Shih Tzu breed is especially likely to have this condition. Patella luxation is common in dogs that have shortened legs or bowed legs, such as the dachshund, Lhasa apso, Yorkshire terrier, or Shih Tzu.


Any age can be affected, but signs often show at a young age because this is a mechanical problem with the direction of pull of muscles and anatomy. Many dogs begin showing signs at eight to 10 weeks., The severity of the condition is determined based on four different grades. The mildest case is considered a Grade 1 while the most severe is a Grade 4. Grade 1 is when the kneecap just pops out of place and returns naturally. Grade 2 is similar, but occasionally the kneecap needs help to manually pop it back in.Grade 3 is when the kneecap stops popping back into place on its own. The kneecap is popped out unless it is manually popped back in. It will only stay in place for a short while.
Grade 4 is the most severe case. The kneecap stays popped out and won’t pop back into place even when manually moved.

