 Some store credit cards can only be used at the store or at a small group of stores. These are “closed-loop” cards. If you want a credit card you can use anywhere, then look for an “open-loop” card.Open loop cards often carry the Visa, MasterCard, Discover, or American Express logo on them.;
, Your card might give you a percentage of each purchase. For example, you might get 5% back on every purchase you make at the store.Some cards offer even more cash back, depending on the purchase. For example, a card might offer double cash back for purchases of gasoline.
Other cards will rotate categories each month that allow you to earn extra cash back.Also check whether there are limits placed on the amount you can spend that is eligible for cash back.
 This might be a much larger percentage. For example, you might get 10-20% off your purchase when you open the card. You should understand that this is a one-time offer meant to induce you to sign up.


If you’re going to get the card, make sure you are buying a sufficient amount of merchandise. Don’t get the card when you run in to a store to buy leggings. Instead, sign up for the card when you’ve made substantial purchases.
Ask if there is a cap on the amount you can spend when opening the card., Your store credit card will charge interest for all unpaid balances. You’ll need to closely look at this number. On average, store credit cards have APRs of 25-30%.The interest rate on a store’s credit card often exceeds what you could get for a credit card through a bank., Many store credit cards come with special promos or other perks exclusive to card members. The store clerk should explain these to you. For example, you might get the following:special sales
high-value coupons
invitations to member-only events
no-receipt returns
free gift wrapping
free shipping, Your cash back might be credited to your account and deducted from any balance. However, other cards might mail you a gift card once you reach a certain amount of points.You should ask how you can redeem your rewards.


Some cards make it very difficult to redeem rewards. For example, some cards might redeem rewards only once a year.
Some cards also won’t roll over the balance from month to month.This means you need to redeem the rewards each month or lose them.
 Often, the card comes with an initial 0% financing period.This period allows you to avoid making payments for six months or more. You might think this is a great deal, since you can pay off a little each month.


However, if you don’t pay your balance off in full by the end of the grace period, you may get hammered with a high interest rate.
Check whether the interest rate applies to the balance that remains unpaid or retroactively to the entire initial balance. This could make a big difference.
 There are many options out there. Accordingly, you should shop around for the best card. Compare cash back, interest rates, and delayed payment periods for a variety of cards.


Look online. Some websites, such as NerdWallet, have compared store credit cards for you.Consumer Reports also has a helpful guide to major store credit cards, which is available here: http://www.consumerreports.org/cro/store-credit-cards/buying-guide.
 Look at the card’s cash back rewards and try to calculate how much you will save each year. If you rarely make purchases that qualify for cash back, then there is little reason to get the card apart from the initial discount.
 The more cards you have, the more likely it is that you will forget to make a payment on one.If you are overwhelmed with cards, you might want to pass up a store credit card offer. Experts recommend you limit yourself to three or four cards.If you are diligent with your current cards, you may be able to handle a new card.
 Your credit score helps determine how much you pay for a mortgage and car, as well as whether you can rent an apartment or even get a job. The higher your credit score, the better. A store credit card will impact your credit score in the following ways:To apply, the credit card provider will need to pull your credit history. This will result in a “hard pull.” If you have too many hard pulls, your credit score can go down.
You might get the card for the initial discount and then think about closing it. However, 15% of your credit score is based on the length of your credit. Quickly opening and closing an account can ding you.
Nevertheless, a store credit card is a good option if you are trying to build your credit history. Retail credit cards are usually easier to get than credit cards from a bank. By building your credit history with a store credit card, you eventually can qualify for a credit card from a bank., If you can’t pay your balance off each month, then there is little reason to open a store credit card. The interest you accrue will cancel out any “cash back” that you get for purchases.


The other perks you might get—such as coupons—will also be canceled out.
Remember that stores offer these cards for a reason. They are hoping to make money off you!

, If you get cash back, you might be tempted to buy more than you normally would—and more than you can realistically pay off. Add up your total credit card debt. Those who are struggling with debt should not take out a store rewards card.