 With a brow pencil, give your eyebrows a more angled shape. This makes your face appear longer and thinner by adding contour and drawing the eyes toward the top of your face.Stick with your eyebrows' natural thickness and avoid thinning them out too much. Thin eyebrows can have the opposite effect and make your face appear rounder.;
, Find three shades of blush and apply them to your cheeks. Use the lightest shade at the top of the cheeks, a cream blush in the center, and a darker shade below the cheeks. This technique gives the illusion of more angled cheeks, making them appear slimmer.Use a fluffy brush to apply blush so that it looks natural.
 Use eyeliner and mascara to accentuate your eyes. Bigger eyes make the rest of the face look smaller and thinner. Experiment with different eye makeup styles. Cat eyes in particular elongate the lash line, drawing attention toward the corners of your eyes., Contouring the cheeks is one of the most effective ways to make them appear thinner. Find a matte bronzer a couple of shades darker than your skin, and apply it in a diagonal motion over the hollows of your cheeks (do this while making the fish face to get the right placement). Then apply it to the sides of your forehead and the sides of your nose, blending all the bronzer in with small circular motions., Dark colors recede and lighter colors pop, so by dying your hair so that your roots are darker and the tips are lighter, your face will appear slimmer. Dark brunette works best, so if your natural color is light, you might want to dye it darker first., Lightly tease the hair around the top of your forehead. Flat hair all around your face will make it appear broader. By adding volume in your hair at the top of your head, and keeping the rest smoother and straighter, your face will appear thinner.
 Dark tones are slimming, so by framing your face with dark hair, you create the illusion of a thinner face. If you keep the strands closest to your cheeks a couple of shades darker than the rest, the effect is amplified., Pulling your hair back can give your face a overall slimmer look. The best way to get this effect is by tying your hair at the same level as your cheekbones., Short bangs make your face appear rounder, so avoid those. Long layers and soft side-swept bangs can help de-emphasize the roundness of your face.
 Parting your hair in the middle makes your face appear rounder. A side part is great for slimming your face, and with hair covering part of your face, the effect is amplified. The ideal place to start the part, as a rule of thumb, is right above the arch of your brows., Seven to eight hours per night is ideal. Make sure to use a good pillow, as having your head elevated will help prevent water retention in your face. A good night's sleep is one of the most essential parts of avoiding morning bloating in the face., Getting enough water is important because dehydration can lead to enlarged blood vessels in the face. Scientists recommend that adult males drink 13 cups of water per day, and adult females drink 9.Also, water retention is often a side effect of too much sodium in your diet. Consider reducing the amount of sodium-rich food you eat, such as potato chips and french fries., Drink a glass of water before sleep to prevent overnight dehydration. For the same reason, avoid consuming alcohol the night before an important day, as the dehydration it causes can lead to water retention and a bloated face. And don't forget to thoroughly remove any makeup from your face before sleep.