 You cannot use eyeshadow to make blue eyes look brown, and vice versa. You can, however, use eyeshadow to enhance the color you already have. Depending on the eyeshadow color you use, you may be able to make your eyes appear brighter, duller, or more pale in color. Some eye colors, such as hazel and grey, may be able to pick up tints from certain eyeshadow colors. This section will show you how to use eyeshadow to alter your eye color.;
, Orange-tinted colors, such as coral and champagne, work especially well on blue eyes. They will make your eyes appear brighter and bluer than they actually are.Eyeshadow that is already blue may make your eyes appear lighter or paler. Here are some more color combinations for you to try:For daily, casual wear, try neutral tones, such as: brown, taupe, terra-cotta, or anything orange-tinted.
For a special night out, try some metallics, such as gold, copper, or bronze.
Avoid anything too dark, especially if you have fair skin. When choosing eyeliner, go for brown or dark brown instead. It will be less harsh than black.
 People with brown eyes can wear almost any color, but cool colors, such as purple and blue, will really help brighten brown eyes. Here are some options for you to try:For casual days, stick with browns. To make your eyes really stand out, try a silvery-brown or a peachy brown.If you are feeling more adventurous, try wearing blues, grays, greens, or purples.
For a special night out, you can try metallics, such as: bronze, copper, or gold. A green-tinted gold will also work well.If you have dark brown or black eyes, try some jewel shades instead, such as bright blue or violet. You can also get away with silver and chocolate.
 Gray eyes tend to pick up whatever color is around them. This means that you can use eyeshadow to give your gray eyes a blueish or greenish tint. If you want to bring out the gray tones that are already there, stick with sooty, smoky shades, like silver, charcoal, or black.Here are some tips on how to bring out the blues and greens in your eyes:To bring out the blues, stick with eyeshadow in these colors: copper, melon, neutral brown, orange, peach, or salmon. You can help bring the blue out further by adding a touch of blue to the inner corner of your eye.
To bring out the greens, try eyeshadow in these colors: maroon, pink, plum, purple, red-brown, or wine.
 These are the best go-to colors for green eyes. They contrast with the green pigment in your eyes, making them appear brighter and more vibrant. For example, you can were purple eyeshadow on a special night out, and shimmery brown or taupe during the day.Here are some more colors for you to try:Any shade of purple will look great on you. If you don't like purple, try some pinks instead.
If you are hesitant about wearing purple, you could try wearing taupe eyeshadow over the eyelid, and use a dash of purple close to the lash line.
Black eyeliners are too harsh for green eyes. Try using charcoal, silver, or deep purple instead.
 Hazel eyes contain flecks of green and gold. This means that you can use different colors of eyeshadow to bring out these flecks. Here are some more options for you to try:Avoid using heavy, smoky colors. They tend to hide the hints of green and gold in hazel eyes, and make them appear murky instead.
To bring out the greens and golds in your eyes, try using eyeshadow in bronze, dusty pink, or eggplant. Army-green especially will bring out the green flecks.
If you want to make your eyes look more brown, then use eyeshadow in gold or green.

