 If you wrap a paper clip twice around a cylindrical object, like a marker, it can serve as the base for a key ring. Make it more exciting by attaching homemade decorations like ribbons, beads, or origami.Be sure that you're using a paper clip made from a substantial wire that it can hold the weight of your key(s).
You should also be sure that the two loops of wire are as tight or close together as possible so that your key will not slip off. If you are worried about losing your key, twist the two ends of your paper clip around the loops a few times to prevent them from opening up.
 Use craft glue to attach buttons, cloth flowers, felted shapes, googly eyes, or other small decorations to the end of a jumbo paper clip. After your creations are thoroughly dried, slip the non-decorated side over the top of a page to mark your spot in style.You can also add colorful flare and help mark your spot by tying a tassel to the end made from knotting together a bundle of ribbon, string, or sewing floss.
 Connect many paper clips together creatively to fashion colorful adornments for your neck and wrists.The easiest style is a chain necklace or bracelet made from linking together multiple clips to achieve the length you want. Either attach the open ends together or twist together your clips into interlocking spirals.
Experiment by making long necklaces and bracelets with multiple loops of different colors.
Try decorating your jewelry with beads, ribbons, colorful paper wrapped around each clip with glue, or whatever else strikes your fancy!

, You can also try making a charm to attach to a bracelet or pendant for the end of a necklace by reshaping the paper clip into a different shape. If you twist the ends of the paper clip together, you can even add beads to decorate your design. Or, make a shape like a heart and then wind ribbon or colored string around it., You can make a ring with as little as a single clip. Either loop it around your finger of choice as many times as you can, or loop it once, twist the two ends together to form the size of ring you want, and bend the remaining length of wire into a shape of your choosing.
 Attach multiple paper clips together to form a chain, then hang a bell or other objects, like a small stuffed animal or wooden ornament, from it. Use your craft to decorate a child’s room or string it up outside to make music in the wind.
 The bendable wire of a paper clip makes a great building block for imaginative art. Unbend your paper clips before reshaping them into whatever your imagination desires. Twist paper clips together to create any size of structure.Try using multicolored paper clips to introduce multiple hues into your sculpture. Doing so can make it more vibrant or help you better represent the object you’re portraying, like a flower with red petals and green leaves.
 Use a paper clip to hold your Easter eggs securely as you dip them into dye. Simply twist it into a spoon-like shape with a circle that’s big enough to hold your egg stable., Reshape paper clips into fun shapes to hang up around the house or on Christmas trees. Attach some twine, string or ribbon to your paper-clip creation, and it’s ready to go.


Try out designs that take advantage of the typical shape of a paper clip. For instance, the shape of the paper clip works really well to form the body and wings of an angel with a bead for a head.It also lends itself perfectly to being the blades on a pair of ice skates cut out from paper or felt.Paper clips are likewise ideal for attaching ornaments to ribbons so that they can be easily hung up for display.
 There’s to need to purchase a roll of specialty wire when you can just as easily tie together bouquets and fasten flowers to wreaths using paper clips. Just unbend the clips and twist them around bunches of stems to hold your artful arrangements in place.