 Before "Frenching" the chicken wings, you'll need to separate each whole wing into its three separate pieces following the standard method.


Discard the wing tip as usual. You can make French cuts using both the drumettes and wingettes.
French cuts separate the meat and skin from a portion of the bone. The meat sits on one end of the wing piece and the exposed bone presents itself as a neat "handle" for easy gripping.
 Use a sharp knife to saw through the skin at the thin bottom of the drumette. Work around the entire bottom, stopping once the skin seems completely disconnected there.Firmly pinch the exposed bone between your fingers with one hand while cutting the skin with the other hand.
Use a gently sawing motion to separate the skin. Allow the blade to do the work instead of forcing the knife through with force. The goal is to separate the skin without marring or sawing into the bone itself.
 Use the side of the knife blade to push the meat down from the thin end of the bone and further onto the thick end of the bone.


You might be able to use your hands to do this, but if it feels too slippery or too tough, use the knife.
Press the blade of the knife down so that the sharp edge lightly touches the side of the bone. Push up on the meat, rotating the drumette as needed to scrape up all sides.
Note that you may need to cut through several sinews while doing this.
 Once the meat forms a tight knob at the end of the bone, use your fingers to pull it inside-out.


This isn't strictly necessary, but securing the meat in this manner should prevent it from slipping back down along the length of the bone as it cooks.
 Fold the meat inside-out over that end to secure it, if desired.


Since the wingette is the middle section of the whole wing, you shouldn't need to separate the skin from the bone as you did with the drumette.
Force the meat from the narrow end of the wingette, exposing more of the bone there and creating a fat knob on the thicker end.
You can fold the knob of meat inside-out to help secure it, but doing so may not be necessary.

