 You can access this by opening the Control Panel and selecting “Add or Remove Programs” (Windows XP), or “Programs and Features” (Windows Vista, 7, and 8).


You may need to choose the Programs category before you can open Programs and Features.
Windows 8 users can open Programs and Features by pressing Windows key + X and selecting it from the menu.;
, Older computers may take a few moments to load the entire list. Once you click on Babylon, the Uninstall/Remove button will appear at the top of the list. Click it to start the uninstallation process. Follow the instructions in the uninstallation program.
 In the Programs list, you may see other Babylon-related programs such as “Babylon Toolbar”, “Browser Manager”, and “Browser Protection”, that will need to be removed as well., You will need to remove any toolbars and extensions, reset your homepage, and remove Babylon from the list of search engines.


To remove toolbars and extensions, click the Chrome menu button. Hover over Tools and select Extensions. Click the trashcan icon next to any Babylon entries, and then click Remove to confirm.To reset your homepage, click the Settings option in the left menu. In the “On startup” section, click the “Set pages” link. Delete any Babylon entries by clicking the “X” next to them. You can set your startup page to whatever you prefer.
To remove the Babylon search engines, return to the Settings menu and click the “Manage search engines” button in the “Search” section. Click the “X” next to any Babylon entries.
 The quickest way to fix Firefox is to use the Reset feature. You will keep your personal data and bookmarks, but any toolbars will be removed and settings will be set to default. This will ensure that Babylon is completely removed.


Click the Firefox button in the upper-left corner.
Click the arrow button next to Help.
Select Troubleshooting Information.
Click the Reset Firefox button. Firefox will close and reset., The quickest way to fix Internet Explorer is to use the “Reset Internet Explorer Settings” tool. This will reset your Internet Explorer installation to factory settings.


Click the Tools menu. If you can’t see the menu bar, press the Alt key.
Click “Internet Options” and then click the Advanced tab.
Click the Reset button. Check the “Delete personal settings” box to ensure that your homepage and search engine list is reset.
Close and restart Internet Explorer.
 There may be some residual registry entries left that could cause errors or even reinstall the Babylon program. To remove them, Press the Windows key + R and type in “regedit”. Use the tree on the left to navigate the folders and delete the following files:Right-click on each entry to delete it. Be careful when deleting registry entries, as removing the wrong entry could cause your computer to not function properly.
 There are several tools that will scan your system for unwanted installations and lingering files. Examples include HitmanPro, Spybot Search and Destroy, and Malwarebytes. Run these scans at regular intervals to ensure that your system stays malware free.

