 Optimally, you would already be a legitimate member of the media and, therefore, have an opportunity to get a press pass allowing you backstage for a variety of events. Press passes aren’t, however, given to all media outlets for all events as they’re limited in number. If you’re not a working member of the media, consider joining your student newspaper; getting an internship at a local newspaper, radio or TV station; or offering to cover the event for free for a local publication.


However you go about it, the rewards could be substantial – time spent interviewing your idol, hanging around after the event and even perhaps striking up a friendship.If you’re an indie blogger or journalist, email the event organizer or press contact person several weeks before the event, explain who you are and what you do, provide links to work samples and request a press pass for the event. Call in one week if you didn't receive a reply to your email.Additionally, it might be helpful to become a member of the International Association of Freelance Journalists, which can help bloggers and freelancers get press credentials.
 For many, their idols aren’t seemingly untouchable multi-millionaires that appear to exist in an alternate universe. They are emerging or just really good local artists and musicians, retired academics or NASA engineers, activists from the 1960s civil rights movement or small-city gardening experts. Going to these types of events provide excellent opportunities to meet your idol and likely walk away with more than an autograph or photo.


To find out about these events, read your local newspapers and magazines; look for fliers posted at public libraries and in other public places; visit college, university and local tourist websites and the like.
 You know someone who knows someone whose cousin went to school with your idol. Sometimes all it takes to hit pay dirt is to look through your all your contacts and start making calls to people you think might know someone to get you to the person with direct access to your idol. As they say, there’s only six degrees of separation between any two people. Also, social networking sites can be very useful tools in this endeavor, so don’t overlook them!If it doesn’t happen immediately, create new relationships and cultivate the old to get you closer. You never know when someone you might have scratched off your list is suddenly back in touch with a missing link.
 Celebrities and public figures frequently appear on talk shows, in large part to promote their latest ventures or agendas – new movies, TV shows, clothing lines, albums, books, causes, charities and so forth. Most daytime and evening talk shows are free, though you often have to wait a long time to get tickets, if you ever do. Nonetheless, if you do manage to get a ticket, you might just meet your idol either during the show, if you’re very lucky, or before if you play your cards right. Here’s how it works and what you need to do.


Often celebrity guests will arrive about an hour before the taping through a side door. In many cases, like with major stars or public figures, some type of barrier is erected.You’ll a) need to know if and when your idol is appearing on a talk show, b) where the stage door is located prior to the day of taping and c) ensure you're there about 2 hours early.
Bring whatever you want signed, something easy to write with (like a felt-tip pen), your camera fully charged and ready, a smile and good manners.Taping schedules and guest lists are on each show’s website, or you can look here, too: onlocationvacations.com/talk-show-guest-schedule.
 Waiting outside theater stage doors is a bit different from talk shows in that theatre productions have both matinee and evening shows, sometimes require actors spending a long time in make-up and often travel from one city to another. It’s often best to avoid the matinee shows as actors may not leave before the evening performance. Friday and Saturday nights aren’t the best times either because you’ll be one amongst so many fighting for your idol’s attention. Finally, don’t go to the last night of the show because the crew will often be packing up to leave. Here are some more tips.


Try to stand near the theater wall just to the left or to the right of the stage door to, essentially, block your idol’s way before he or she can get too far.
If there's a large crowd, stand back, directly opposite from the door and wait until the crowd breaks before approaching. You may even have more time with your idol this way.
Always be polite, congratulate your idol on a great performance, have your paper or playbill, pen and camera ready and say thank you., Television shows and movies film in cities around the world, though many are filmed in Los Angeles and New York City. If you happen to live where a show or movie is being filmed, you might randomly stumble upon a filming. But if you’re focusing on meeting your idol, you need to know where to look. Research what your idol is next starring in and then find out where the show or movie will be shot. Here’s a site to help determine this: onlocationvacations.com. Once there, find your idol’s trailer and navigate around security so you can wait outside of it.It’s certainly not subtle, but if you are polite and don’t behave in a way to frighten your idol, you might get a quick chat and a photo.
 Because producers don’t want viewers to see empty seats when the cameras are directed at the audience, they hire people to wait in the proverbial wings to slide into these seats when people go to the stage or take inevitable bathroom breaks. Being a seat filler won’t be glamorous, and you likely won’t be paid. You may not fill your idol’s seat, but you might. Or, perhaps, your idol could be sitting nearby and whomever left the seat never returns! You may even get lucky while you’re standing in the periphery before, during or after the show., Oftentimes radio stations put on contests for tickets, backstage passes and meet and greets for upcoming concerts. It often goes like this, “Be the 6th lucky caller, and you’ll win two VIP tickets and backstage passes to see AC/DC Friday night at Alltel Arena!” Other times the DJs will ask the caller to answer an odd quiz and, increasingly, you simply fill out a form on the station’s website to enter a drawing.A variety of other companies and organizations participate in contests for free tickets and sometimes amazing winnings, not only to concerts but also to sporting, cultural and theatrical events., This might take some semi-stalking, but if you can find out where your idol regularly eats or shops, try to get a job there. This might provide more interaction with your idol than most of the other means discussed. After all, if you’re helping your idol find the perfect book for his mother’s birthday, you’ll likely end up talking a good bit. Or, if you’re doing a good job as a waitress or waiter, you won’t only list the specials, take his or her order and deliver your idol’s drink and food., Unless you have a press pass, are a crew member, special to a member of the band or other group performing, affiliated with the band or group or bought a special VIP package, it’ll be tough getting a backstage pass. With that said, it can be done in one of three primary ways. The first relates to bands and involves joining or creating a "street team," or a group of people who promote a band, both on the streets and now online. The second is by getting a job working at the venue where the event will be held. And the third requires a lot of schmoozing. Here’s how it works.First, if you didn’t get a job working at the venue, go to the venue and start chatting up the venue workers prior to the event. Be very friendly and offer to help.
If this doesn’t work, try to make friends with the opening acts when they arrive and see if you can get a pass that way. Express a sincere interest in their music and in your desire to meet more people involved in the tour.
If this fails, move on to the concert crew (they’ll typically be the ones dressed in black). Offer to help move things and set up equipment, talk about the tour, throw out hints and see if anyone bites.And if all of this fails, and you’re still dying to meet your idol, the tour bus will be in the parking lot near the back entrance or by the loading dock. But be warned, roadies may be around with hopes of their own., And for the final, and perhaps most creepy, means of meeting your idol, find out the hotel in which he or she is staying and then wait outside. The best way to do this is to check out paparazzi photos online to determine his or her location.Or, spend a couple of evenings in the hotel bar in hopes of meeting your idol. Another option is nefarious, and not particularly wise, but possibly successful. Follow the band (or other group of which your idol belongs) and its entourage to the hotel, walk in with them as if obviously a guest, grab a drink and mingle ... but not with the band or security, at least not at first.