 If you can learn to ignore ignorant comments from others, you will have a much better day.;
, In the long run, your academic abilities over the school years will be much more important than your social abilities.
 During lunch hour, read a book or study for your next class. If you can stay entertained and happy simply by sitting and letting your mind wander, so be it. Don't let other peoples' hurtful words get to you.
 Some good examples are therapists, special education teachers, or even "regular" teachers. They will provide you with advice or an alternative option for lunch if necessary. If you are too shy to talk to an adult, have your parent email the school or even leave a note on your teacher's desk.
 During recess, you may feel awkward, uncomfortable, or even have panic attacks due to sensory situations. If you absolutely can't bring yourself to use play equipment or join in on team sports, try to keep busy. This could mean sitting against a wall (or on a bench if you can) and reading, studying, doing homework, drawing, or anything else you enjoy. If you are allowed, listen to music. Even if there is a rule against the use of electronics, you will likely be able to get a special exception. If you feel too uncomfortable to do anything but stand or sit, there is a serious problem. Talk to your therapist, teacher, or parent as soon as possible. They will work with you to solve this problem or make adjustments as necessary.
 When you are walking in a hallway, you may feel like everyone is looking at you or that you look weird. This is not the case. Most people will not even give you a second look. Even if they do, they will forget about it within a minute or two. People are more concerned about themselves than they are about others. Once you understand this, you should feel much more comfortable. If you have an anxiety disorder or similar issues, you may feel unable to get rid of your negative thoughts. If so, be sure that your therapist and any other helpers you have are aware of this and are working with you to improve.
 Remember, these are the entire reason why you're here. Instead of upsetting yourself thinking about your social difficulties, pride yourself on your hard work and effort academically. Pay close attention in class, study, and take notes. As long as you do all of this and make an effort, you will pass your classes. If you are trying your hardest and still failing the class, speak to the teacher. It may be helpful to have your therapist and parent(s) present.
 Remember, as much as other people put stress on social performance, IT DOESN'T MATTER. In the long run, your grades matter entirely and how popular you were and how many friends you made don't matter at all and have no effect on your adult life. As long as you remember to stay positive and ignore ignorant comments, you will do well. If you do get to the point where you are depressed or contemplating suicide, talk to a trusted adult or call 1-800-273-8255 immediately.
 View related pages for more help.

