


Use a seeded whole grain bread and chunky peanut butter for a deliciously nutty PB&J.
Spread peanut butter-chia mixture and dried blueberries on celery sticks for a lunchtime snack kids will love.
Combine peanut butter-chia mixture with soy sauce, lime juice, ginger, brown sugar, and hot sauce to make a Thai-style peanut sauce for a cold noodle side dish. For added nutrition, substitute agave sweetener for brown sugar and Bragg's Liquid Amino Acid for the soy sauce.



Like bean or alfalfa sprouts, chia seeds make delicious sprouts, a wonderful addition for sandwiches or salads.
Put chia seeds in water, drain excess water and leave in a jar for a couple days.
Every 12 hours or so, rinse with water and pour the water off.
In a day or two, the sprouts will be ready to eat.
 Ground or whole chia seeds are a good substitute for cornstarch when thickening a soup is required. For a simple and nutritious vegetable soup, thicken with chia seeds: You will need:


2 tablespoons olive oil
1 small onion, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
2 stalks celery, chopped
1 medium green pepper, chopped
2 medium carrots, chopped
2 cups fresh green beans
2 quarts of chicken, vegetable or beef broth
4 big tomatoes, chopped and peeled
2 ears of corn, just the kernels
1/2 c. chopped Italian parsley
1/8 c. chia seeds or chia seed powder
black pepper, to taste
salt, to taste
lemon juice (optional)
red pepper flakes (optional)
In the olive oil, sauté the onion, garlic, celery, green pepper, carrots, and green beans over medium heat. After 5-10 minutes, when the vegetables begin to soften, add the tomatoes, broth, corn, and season with salt and pepper. Increase the heat to high and bring to a boil. When it boils, reduce heat and simmer for 25-30 minutes. Then stir in chia seeds to thicken, and add lemon juice and more seasoning to taste. When the soup thickens, serve immediately, topped with parsley. Serves 6.



Mix with garlic powder (to taste) and a small amount of flour for a delicious and crunchy addition to your breading.
Be careful not to burn the seeds when baking.



This can be a perfect substitute for breadcrumbs or oats in any beef recipe that needs bound together. Substitute about half the amount of chia seeds and add some coconut milk to bind meat together.

