 If you are diagnosed with metabolic syndrome, you will need to change what and how much you eat. Choosing different foods in different quantities is a great way to lower your risk factors, including blood pressure, cholesterol, and your waistline.Eat more fish, fruits, vegetables, and whole grain foods. Additionally, you’ll want to limit your consumption of red meat, oils, sodium, and sugar.
Eating less is also important, especially if you’re overweight. Depending on your age, men should eat roughly 1,800 calories per day, whereas women should eat roughly 14,000 calories per day., Since waist circumference is a risk factor for metabolic syndrome, you may be overweight if you are diagnosed with metabolic syndrome. Losing body fat is important part of treating your illness.Weight loss can help to lower your blood pressure and cholesterol levels as well. A loss of 5%-10% of your body mass can be a good way to get healthier.
Make sure you are not starving yourself when trying to lose weight. Excessive weight loss or not eating enough can mess your metabolism and cause a different set of problems for your health.
 Daily exercise is a great way to treat metabolic syndrome. Just a little exercise daily can drastically decrease your risk factors for metabolic syndrome.Try to exercise roughly 30 minutes per day 3-4 days a week. Your exercise can be as simple as walking around your neighborhood.
Make sure not to overdo exercise when you’re starting out. It’s important to not injure yourself, but instead to take it slowly.
 Stress can increase your blood pressure and cause unhealthy eating habits. While exercise can help you to manage your stress level, it’s also important to recognize ways you can reduce stress on your own.Being physically active can help you to keep your stress level low. Going for a walk or a run can help you to work off excess stress.
You may also want to change your lifestyle or work habits to reduce your stress level. Saying no more often at work or learning how to express your emotions better can help you to become less stressed at work or at home.
 Smoking can increase your blood pressure and risk for heart disease. Additionally, excessive drinking of alcohol adds additional calories to your diet and can be detrimental to your body over the long term.Smoking can cause difficulties with lipid production, as well as sugar intake. Cutting out smoking entirely is a good way to mitigate your risk factors for metabolic syndrome.Excessive intake of alcohol can be potentially damaging to your heart due to weight gain as well as excess strain. While a few alcoholic drinks can actually be useful to your heart, too much alcohol consumption can often be quite bad., If changes in diet and lifestyle do not work, you may need to take medication for your metabolic syndrome. For the most part, these medications will help you to manage the specific risk factors associated with the illness.Insulin and insulin-agents may be useful, especially if you do have diabetes. These will help to keep your blood sugar in a healthier range.
Statin therapy and even aspirin can be useful in reducing your risk for cardiovascular disease. These can help to lower your blood pressure and keep your cholesterol and triglyceride levels healthier.

