 It is never too late to start exercising again. Although it may have been a long time and working out again may feel like a “lost cause,” you can start exercising at any time. It may feel like you are back at zero, but this isn't the case. Your body will remember all the hard work you put in previously, helping you return to familiar habits.;
, Depending on how long it has been since you last exercised, you may need to determine your current fitness level. If it has only been a few weeks since you last worked out, you should be able to jump back into your original workouts with little problem. However, if it has been more than a few weeks, you will want to ease back into your workouts.If you exercise regularly, you begin to lose your muscle and cardio fitness after only a few weeks. However, if you exercise less frequently, you will get out of shape more quickly.
If you are unsure about your fitness level, you can perform a few physical tests, such as walking and doing some push ups, to test where you are at.You can also talk to your doctor about what exercises and strategies are best for you.
 Set some clear goals about why you are working out and what you want from it. This will give you something to work towards and keep you motivated. A good goal is one that you can track and that gets you going every day.For example, you might set a goal of running a 5K or losing 10 pounds (4.54 kg) in 6 months.
 If it has been a few months, or even a few years, since you last worked out regularly, you are not going to be in nearly as good of shape as you once were. It is important to be aware of this and not expect yourself to get back into shape overnight. Because of this, you need to set realistic goals that you will be able to meet. Unrealistic goals will only demoralize you and may lead to injury.For example, if you were previously able to run five miles (8.05 km) three times a week, you should not expect to meet that distance right away. Instead, set a manageable goal of only running a mile or two a few times a week and work up from there.
 Before you restart your workout routine, you might need to invest in some new gear. If you have gained a little weight since you stopped working out, you should get some new exercise clothes that stretch and breathe, keeping your body cool and irritation-free. You may also want to look into getting new shoes and other workout gear, such as water bottles and cell phone holders.Getting new clothes can remove a mental hurdle to exercising and push you to get back on track.
 Making a vague plan to start working out at some point in the future is not going to give you much impetus to start exercising again. Instead, you need to set a specific date and stick to it. This will help motivate you and give you a deadline to work towards.For example, if you start working out for a New Year’s resolution, you should set January 1 as the date that you plan to begin exercising again.

