 There are many ways you can leave assets to the NRDC using estate planning. You should meet with an estate planning attorney to fully understand the tax consequences of making a gift to the Natural Resources Defense Council.


You can get a referral to an estate planning attorney by contacting your local or state bar association, which you can find here: http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/ABAGroups/DivisionforBarServices/BarAssociationDirectories/StateLocalBarAssociations.aspx.
Also see Select an Estate Planning Attorney for more information.
 You can help support the NRDC by leaving them property or cash in your retirement instruments. Consider the following ways you can leave assets:Leave assets in a will or living trust. You remain in control of the assets during your lifetime. At death, the assets pass to the NRDC to use. You can also change your mind before you die and remove the gift from your will/living trust.Name the NRDC as a beneficiary to your retirement plan, such as your IRA, 401(k) or other qualified plan. You can continue to make withdrawals during your lifetime. You will need to contact your plan administrator and then tell the NRDC.Donate a life insurance policy. If you have a paid-up life insurance policy, you can transfer ownership to the NRDC.Leave stock and other appreciated assets. You can transfer stocks, bonds, or mutual fund shares to the NRDC, which then sells them and uses the money for its programs. You must have owned the assets for at least a year. You receive a tax deduction in return., It’s possible to donate assets to the NRDC and receive income in return. You should talk about the following options with your estate attorney:Purchase a charitable gift annuity. In exchange for transferring cash or securities to the NRDC, you get paid income for life. The minimum gift must be $10,000 and you should be at least 60 years old. After all beneficiaries die, the NRDC keeps the balance of the assets.If you are under 60, then you can begin funding an annuity early with a deferred gift annuity (provided you are at least 40). When you turn 60, you can begin drawing the annuity.Contribute assets to a pooled income fund. In return, you receive income for life. This is like a charitable gift annuity, and your initial minimum gift should be $10,000.Create charitable trusts. You can transfer cash, securities, or other property into a charitable remainder trust and receive a percentage of the principal in payment. When the trust terminates, the NRDC keeps the assets. You must have at least $100,000.A charitable annuity trust is similar, though it makes annual payments in fixed amounts., Another option is to fund a trust with securities or other appreciating assets. The trust makes yearly payments to the NRDC. However, when the trust terminates, the assets pass to your heirs.The NRDC recommends a minimum gift of $1,000,000 to a charitable lead trust.
 You can request additional information here http://www.legacy.vg/nrdc/articles/41.html. You may also call 212-727-4421 if you have questions.

