 If your heart is closed, odds are you have a tendency to harshly judge and criticize yourself and other people. Learning to practice compassion can help you enhance your vulnerability and open your heart.


Be compassionate with yourself by extending forgiveness for your flaws and faults. Take ownership for your mistakes and refuse to hide them. Be gentle with yourself. Stop holding yourself to impossible standards.Be compassionate with others by remembering that they are flawed and human, too. Accept and forgive freely—don’t hold grudges. Aim to see the best in people rather than dwelling on their faults., A closed heart often translates to taking things very seriously. Lighten up a bit. Remember how you used to be before the world hardened your heart. Laugh. Dance in the rain. Tell silly jokes. Run through the meadows with bare feet.If you have trouble reconnecting with your inner child, spend some time hanging out with a small child. They will help you remember.
 Often when we close off our hearts, we also become selfish. You may have adopted a “me vs. them” perception of life and stopped willingly lending a hand to others. Vulnerable people have an attitude of giving. Not for credit, just because. However, you must also be willing to let your loved ones give to you, too.Ask a friend or family member what you can do for them. Say, “Is there anything I can do to make your day easier or better?” Similarly, if you are in need, have the courage to ask for help. Say, “I could really use another eye on this history paper. Do you mind looking at it once I’m done?”
You might also give of your time or money to charities or local volunteer organizations.
 Having a closed heart often means you have closed yourself off to challenges and new opportunities. When you are learning to be vulnerable, you can relax the reigns and not worry about doing everything so perfectly. Take on new challenges for the sheer enjoyment of learning something new.


Learn a new language. Sign up for a class as a total novice. Think of something you haven’t a clue of how to do and start reading on the subject. Put yourself out there and risk making a mistake.