 Instead of using the live chat service merely as a back-and-forth communication tool to connect with your website visitors and your customer community, optimize the resources by using all the features your live chat service provider has enabled for you. These features include generating chat transcripts to review chat operator competence, leveraging web analytics to assess website performance, and tracking visitor behavior with the help of your application’s visitor monitoring attributes. You are already paying for all these features. You might as well use them.;
, Research past inquiries received through all your service channels, live chat, phone and email. Pick out the questions you receive frequently and script customized answers to these questions. Serve up these answers with a single mouse click each time your customers ask these questions through live chat. Make sure that the answers match the question 100% otherwise script an individualized response also called a free-hand response. Canned messages take only a mouse click to send to your customers and tend to save heavily on support resources.
 The faster your chat reps process chat queries, the more customer support dollars you will save.
 Experienced chat reps are able to handle up to three chat sessions simultaneously. Although there is a minor learning curve involved, practice will make your chat reps perfect and cut your support delivery costs by as much as 35%. Support your chat reps by keeping them constantly updated about your live chat application, your products and your services

, Hire and train a few part-time chat reps to deliver chat service to your customers from their homes or while they are in transit. This will make it possible for you to deliver live chat service after hours and conserve your resources by not giving your customers a reason to pick up the phone and call you. Phone support is significantly more expensive than live chat support, according to dozens of studies.
 When a software applications company announces an update, one of the focus areas is the speed at which commands are executed thus reducing the time it takes for actionable items and processes to complete. Updating frequently also improves the efficiency of your chat reps.
 If you offer products or services on your website demand for which peaks during the holiday season, you will need additional hands on your deck. This will not only save time for your customers by eliminating any possibility of wait times for chat but will also speed up the process of providing support to your customers.
 Your chat reps will save huge amounts of time if you integrate your live chat with your CRM application. Once the integration takes place, your chat reps will no longer have to open and close independent applications to locate important information such as customer profiles, purchase history, transcripts of previous chats and copies of email communication. It will all be readily available from a single window. This will significantly reduce the time it will take your chat reps to deliver a higher level of support to your customers.

