 The Spanish verb ir means to go. When constructing the informal future tense to talk about something that's going to happen in the near future, conjugate this verb in the present indicative to agree with the subject of the sentence.In the first person, ir is voy. In Spanish, "yo voy" means "I am going."
If the sentence you are writing is in second person, you would write "tú vas" (too vahs) which means "you are going."
For a singular third-person subject, such as él or ella, you would say va, as in "él va" (ell vah) or "ella va" (AY-yah vah). Remember that Spanish has a formal and informal you. Conjugate ir as you would with a third-person subject if you are using the pronoun usted.
First-person plural, nosotros (we) is vamos (no-SO-trohs VAH-mohs). Second-person plural, ustedes (you all) is van (oo-STAY-days vahn). With third-person plural, ellos or ellas, ir is conjugated the same. Your readers or listeners will understand the subject from the context of the sentence.;
, In English, infinitives include the word to (think "to walk" or "to drive"). Spanish infinitives don't necessarily include this word, so if you want to say you are going to do something in the near future, you must include a after the verb ir.A means to in Spanish. For example, if you wanted to say "I am going to learn Spanish," you would say Voy a aprender español (boy ah ah-PREN-day ess-PAN-yohl).
Keep in mind that in Spanish, you simply use the present tense for continuous actions that are taking place in the present and the future. While in English you would say "I am going to the store" to indicate that you were on your way to the store, in Spanish you would simply say "Ir a la tienda" (Ear ah la tee-END-ah, literally translates as "I go to the store").
 The infinitive expresses the action that the subject of the sentence is going to do at some point in the near future. The entire phrase is a lot like English, when you say you are going to do something.For example, if you wanted to say "I am going to study a lot" in Spanish, you would say Yo voy a estudiar mucho (yo boy ah ess-too-DEE-ahr MOO-choh).
You also can add a word or phrase to indicate when the action is going to take place. For example, Yo voy a estudiar mucho mañana (yo boy ah ess-too-DEE-ahr MOO-choh mahn-YAHN-ah) – I am going to study a lot tomorrow.

