 If certain social situations, tasks, or your job trigger negative feelings or anxiety it’s important to know that. Talking with a therapist is a good method for discovering what triggers your mood. It may be best to steer clear of unnecessary triggers for now.


A therapist can help you use exposure therapy to gradually, safely confront them.
Note that avoiding a trigger too much can make your feelings worse. Tell an expert how you feel, so you can start working on conquering it in a controlled manner.
 You may feel scared, embarrassed, or ashamed to bring up that you're having a hard time, but it's worth it.


Loved ones who are close to you can help bring you up when you're down, and make your life easier.
Confiding in and being able to be yourself around this person can help to alleviate your depression or anxiety. Sometimes, when we feel pressure to pretend to be happy, we end up feeling worse. But when we don’t have to do pretend around certain people it can alleviate pressure and worsened feelings.
Talk your parents about your depression and anxiety. Often these illnesses are hereditary. You may find that one of your parents has been dealing with the same thing you are. Your parent can give you advice on coping mechanisms that may help.
 Other people can help remind you that you have value and that life is worth living. Connect with people who make you smile. While you sometimes want to be alone and stay in bed, forcing yourself to get out and interact with others is important.
Isolating yourself can be dangerous when you’re feeling down. Being alone with your anxious thoughts can worsen how you feel.
Though you should get out and be active, there are times when being alone is good for you. Perhaps you just need some time to yourself to read a book, watch a movie, or listen to music. Just don’t make a habit of choosing to be alone over socializing. It’s about finding a balance.
 Cuddling with a loved one or pet can help you feel relaxed and loved.


Make time with your significant other to cuddle and talk. Being intimate and open can help you feel better. And help your significant other to understand what you’re experiencing.
Get a pet to cuddle with. Pets are great for people trying to cope with depression and anxiety. Pets promote touch, can distract us, are happy to see us, and keep us active. 