 Some people may worry that antidepressants put you in a fog where you forget your problems, along with everything else. They may think that antidepressants cover problems instead of helping you deal with them. On the right antidepressant, you can get to a place to deal with any underlying issues.Antidepressants won’t magically fix your depression or underlying issues. That’s why working with a therapist is helpful while taking an antidepressant. The medication can help your depression and moods so you can work more effectively with your other treatments.
 Many people are afraid to take antidepressants because they believe the medication will alter their personality. Some even believe it will turn you into an unfeeling zombie. This will not happen if you take the correct antidepressant. If you take the right medication, it will help you feel better and like yourself again.If you experience loss of emotions, suffer from apathy, or feel like a zombie, you should contact your doctor. You may not be on the right antidepressant.
 Many people are afraid that if they start taking antidepressants, they may have to be on them for the rest of their lives. However, most people take antidepressants as a short-term treatment. This generally lasts anywhere from six months to a little over a year.Antidepressants are supposed to help people with depression feel better and get out of their low state. Once that occurs, the doctor will generally work with the person to help them slowly come off the antidepressant.
If you have to take an antidepressant indefinitely, that is okay, too. Many people take lower doses every day to help manage their moods., While some antidepressants may have side effects related to sex, they generally don’t cause you to not want to have sex. Depression can negatively affect your libido and ability to have an orgasm, so treating depression can improve your sex life.If this is a concern, talk to your doctor about the sexual side effects of your particular medication. You may be able to take a different antidepressant.

