 As a middle-aged woman, you probably have a busy life trying to balance work and family life along with other commitments. However, a solid night's sleep is essential to decrease stress and battle weight gain.If you work during the day, try to start slowing down around 8 or 9 at night, rather than doing physically taxing or intense things later in the evening that will give you a burst of energy and make it difficult to go to sleep.
You also should avoid eating late at night – particularly sweets – and avoid caffeine in the evening or late in the afternoon.
When you work later hours, it can be more difficult to get the sleep that you need, especially if you have kids.
You can decrease the effects of sleep deprivation by trying to squeeze in a short 15- or 20-minute nap at some point during the day.
 Setting aside even as little as 10 minutes a day for meditation can provide substantial health benefits. Over time, meditation and deep-breathing exercises can make it easier to lose weight as a middle-aged woman by lessening the impact of daily stress.Cortisol, a stress hormone, bears much of the blame for "middle age spread," particularly if you've noticed an increase in belly fat that seems resistant to diet and exercise.
Meditation has a calming effect on your body and can decrease your body's production of this hormone, helping you lose weight.
Using meditation to reduce stress also can help you fall asleep at night and get more restful sleep after you do fall asleep.
If meditation doesn't appeal to you or you find it difficult to clear your mind, take a few minutes to practice deep-breathing exercises, or carve a little time out of your day to do something you find relaxing, such as coloring in an adult coloring book or reading a light-hearted novel.
 As you age, self-care becomes all the more important. At the same time, spending time and effort on yourself and your own needs typically takes a backseat to other commitments.Pay attention to your body and recognize that your self-care needs also will change as you age.
When time is at a premium, you still can do little things for yourself that will ease your stress and brighten your day.
For example, you could buy a scented candle in a relaxing or calming fragrance such as lavender or vanilla and light it for a few minutes each evening as you wind down from work.
 Maintaining deep and fulfilling relationships with family and friends can decrease stress and anxiety. That lowered stress level will in turn make it easier for you to lose weight as a middle-aged woman.Make an effort to listen to and support the people in your life in positive ways, and they will likely return the favor.
Make time with your friends and loved ones, even if you don't have the time or energy to do the things together that you might have done when you were younger.
For example, if you and a friend both have dogs, find a time when you can meet each other at a local dog park. You can talk while your dogs get a little exercise.
If you and your friends or family members have kids, plan play dates that will give your kids time to bond while the adults catch up on each others' lives.
 Procrastinating or avoiding dealing with something you don't enjoy doing can turn a small nuisance into a huge problem. Taking a proactive approach to issues as they arise can help you keep stress in check.If you have a larger task ahead of you, break it down into smaller pieces so you can take care of it over time rather than trying to find a time to do it all at once.
When faced with a problem, ask yourself if you can do anything about it right then. If you can, do whatever you can do immediately.
If there's nothing you can do immediately, try to put it out of your mind. Worrying about something that's out of your control will only increase your stress level, making it much more difficult for you to lose weight.

