 Skin that has been exposed to the sun is often darker due to the increased melanin production. A tan naturally fades as the sun-darkened skin layers dry out and fall away from your body. You cannot actually "un-tan" skin that’s been exposed to UV, but you can certainly help speed the process with gentle exfoliation. To protect your skin, avoid exfoliating more than twice a week., This may help alleviate dry, scaly, or darkened skin. Use them as creams and exfoliants to remove layers of dead skin.Apply a thin layer of plain yogurt to your skin before bed, and rinse it off with warm water after 10 minutes. Or: make a mask by mixing one tablespoon each of oatmeal, tomato juice, and yogurt. Apply it to the skin, and rinse after 30 minutes., Foods that are high in vitamin C, such as the juice from citrus fruits, can be applied directly to the skin to help exfoliate and lighten dark marks.Do not apply citric acid to your face, and don’t treat your skin with citric acid more than once a week.Apply the juice to your skin with a cotton ball, and rinse after 10 to 20 minutes., Make a thick but spreadable paste by mixing chickpea flour with rosewater or turmeric with cucumber juice. When the paste is ready, spread it onto your skin. Rinse when it dries, or after 30 minutes., This is the water leftover after rinsing rice. You might also rub raw potato on your skin for a lightening effect. Rinse with warm water after 20 to 30 minutes.
 These creams are sold in many beauty and cosmetics departments. They work by reducing the melanin in your skin, although there is no guarantee that they will make your skin as pale as you want.Be sure to talk to your doctor before using commercial creams. Follow all instructions for safe and proper use.


Many skin lightening creams use hydroquinone as their active ingredient. Know that some countries have banned this ingredient due to safety concerns. Products containing more than two percent hydroquinone are available by prescription only in the United States.Mercury has been banned from cosmetics in many countries. You can still find these products online, but you will do well to avoid them.

