 Theatre kids are known for being themselves and not caring about the judgment of others.


While that is certainly not true of everyone, acceptance of themselves is a goal that theatre kids work towards. You can be any height, weight, do your hair however you’d like- diversity is key. Because theatre kids strive to be themselves, they do not feel pressured to wear designer clothes or popular mall labels. It is the art that matters, so when it comes to clothes they are like any other kids. While preppy certainly isn’t the norm, you won’t be judged if you dress like it as long as you don’t have the stereotypical prep attitude that many attribute to that style.
Comfort, in a presentable and laid back way, is key because much of the time you will be in rehearsal or in a class perfecting your craft. T shirts, jeans, converse, dance pants, flats- things like this. It’s not to say theatre girls don’t love heels, they do, but it’s just not convenient for rehearsal. Outside of the theater though, they are just like every other kid.
Also, it is unappreciated by true theatre kids when others try to be accepted into the group just because they dress in a stereotypical manner. Theatre kids don’t all wear cartoon or comic tees or shirts with “witty” sayings, in fact, few do. These ideas only came about because the negative stereotype is “weird.” Also, you will not be accepted as a theatre kid just because you wear the shirt from your favorite musical. They don’t care how much you like “Wicked,” it is the dedication they want to see.;
, Well, not literally. But hey, if you feel like it, do it. Like I said in the step above, theatre kids work at being themselves. If you feel like being a bit crazy, be crazy, and if you feel like sitting by yourself with your iPod or reading a book- you can do that too. As far as literally singing, theatre kids do that =) Feel free, be loud, sound pretty, sound awful; it’s great stress relief. While it’s true that many theatre kids do love musicals and classic music like the Beatles, everyone is different. So while you may find some who shun the mainstream radio, you’ll find just as many who love it and many in-between. Just be prepared that theatre kids love diversity in their music, do not judge their tastes. If you don’t like it, don’t listen.
 It is extremely apparent when you are not committed. Many kids who do theatre, in your school for instance, may have other interests; maybe some terms they do sports after school instead of the play. It's perfectly fine to do that, but the amount you are committed to either activity is what will distinguish you as a "theatre kid" or as a really good friend" of the theatre kids.
 For many, it does not come easily and it takes many failures to find a success. You need to learn to see the value in small successes so you don't feel discouraged because rejection will happen. You need to have a sense of "This is what I love and I will not give up." Many theatre kids struggle with self worth because it is such a demanding and competitive activity. Just do your best, be happy, and you will find friends and things to be proud of.
 It's hypocritical. Just because someone does sports and not theatre does not make them a bad person or unworthy of your time. Accept other's passion as you wish they would accept yours.
 If you're in a show, talk about it! Don't be shy!

