 When teaching your children to eat well, focus on how proper nutrition makes them feel. Explain to them that too much sugar or starchy food can impact how much fun they have when they play, while foods like vegetables and lean protein help give them strength and energy to play all day.Try not to encourage your child to stick to a certain size or weight. Children constantly grow and change, and may become self-conscious of natural, healthy growth if led to believe that they should be one specific size.
Remind your child that as long as they are healthy, their size does not matter. Making smart nutritional choices and engaging in regular exercise is what's important for your overall health, not the number on a scale.
If you believe that your child is rapidly gaining or losing weight, or seems to have problems maintaining healthy body function despite proper eating and exercise, consult your pediatrician. Do not make any major changes to your child's lifestyle without seeing a doctor.
 The easiest way to teach your child to have a negative body image is to have one, yourself, or otherwise to be critical of others. Avoid statements like, "This outfit makes me look fat," or, "I would hate myself if I looked like that person." This only teaches your child that their value is based on other's opinions about their body.Instead of criticizing negative attributes, teach your child to be open and accepting of different sizes and shapes of people, as well as people of different backgrounds. Encourage them to believe that everyone is beautiful and valuable in their own way.
When negative concerns do need to be addressed, try to be informative rather than critical.
If you feel bad after eating too much, for example, let your child know, "I ate too many non-nutritious things and now I feel tired and upset," rather than simply saying you feel fat.
 Not only does regularly participating in a physical activity such as a sport or play group encourage your child to exercise, it also helps them build a healthy view of their body. They build up their strength and skills, and start to take pride in those things their body can now do that it couldn't before.Sign your child up for a sport or another activity in which they have expressed interest. Encourage them to stick with it unless there is a serious reason to quit. It may seem difficult at first, but they will get the most out of any activity with regular practice.
Show pride in your child's accomplishments. Let them know that you are proud of their efforts and that you see them improving as they progress.
Even if your child's soccer team doesn't win, for example, tell your child how proud you are of them for being able to get the ball all the way down the field without having it stolen or kicked away.
 Online, on TV, in movies, and in print, the media encourages both unrealistic body standards and the idea that one's primary value is based on their appearance. Talk to your child about what expectations are unrealistic, such as a very thin or overly muscular physique.Explain that this is used to make people feel like they need to buy products or watch certain shows and movies, not because it is a standard to which everyone should hold themselves.
Limit the exposure your child gets to negative media images regarding body standards. Try to choose body-positive shows and online content, and encourage your child to go outside, work on school work, or focus on a hobby in their spare time.

