 Sticking a knife with no rotation is made possible by modifying the standard throwing grip. Wrap your hand loosely around the handle of the knife. Pinch the handle between your thumb and the length of your middle finger. Place your index finger flat against the spine of the blade at the knife’s center of balance. This is known as the “thumb grip,” or sometimes the “drive-finger grip,” as you’ll be using your thumb to guide the movement of the knife and your index finger to drive it forward as you release.The thumb grip is used to neutralize the rotation of the blade after it leaves the hand.
Every knife will have a slightly different center of balance. Locate the knife’s center of balance by laying it across one outstretched finger and adjusting it until it balances on its own. This is the section of the knife on which you should place the point of your finger.;
, Hold your arm straight out in front of you with the tip of the blade trained on your target. Eyeball the exact spot you’re aiming for. Pay close attention to the angle and position of your arm. This is where your arm will need to be at the moment you release the knife.Pointing the knife in the direction of the target before you throw can help muscle memory take over, giving you a sense of exactly where your arm should be when you release.
For better accuracy, make a quick initial lineup part of your throwing ritual.
 Keeping your shoulder fixed and your upper arm parallel with the ground, draw the knife back until it’s level with your head. Your elbow should be bent about 90 degrees, with the blade of the knife pointing straight up. Square your stance and take a small step forward with your opposite foot.To get an idea of what position your shoulder and forearm need to be in, hold up your throwing arm as though you were making the “goal” gesture used by fans of American football.
The Mumyou-Ryu technique was derived from a technique used by ancient Japanese warriors to throw circular projectiles (shuriken, or “throwing stars”) without rotation. It was adapted for use with straight, modern knives and spikes., Lean over your front foot as you prepare to throw. Let go of the knife while your throwing arm is at roughly a 45 degree angle—this will help compensate for gravity and create the relaxed arc that the knife will trace in the air. At the moment of release, lightly “brush” the length of the spine with your pointer finger. Straighten your arm so that you complete the throw pointing at your target. With any luck, you’ll hear the thump of a successful stick.Bring your forearm and knife hand down in a circular path, in one quick movement.
Your forearm should stay straight up and down throughout the windup and release.

