 If you do not know something, asking does not hurt and will invariably save you, and the workers, valuable time.;
, Look around for any signs on sales, prices or clothing information. A lot can be said in a sign, and you'll save yourself from asking a stupid question.
 Find your approximate size, lift up the top of the stack and grab the size, and gently place the rest back where they were. That way, there is less folding for the employees. A stack can take quite a long time to refold, and if there are a lot of stacks that need folding, it is quite a mess.
 When there is no limit on how many things you can take into a dressing room, please be mindful of other customers and limit what you take in there to about five articles of clothing. This way, you won't accidentally leave a pile of clothes or hangers on the floor and take up too much time in the dressing room, thereby leaving other customers hanging.
 Ask what it is before you leave the store and remember it. Some stores accept exchanges only, while others accept refunds with the tags attached, while still others accept unconditional refunds. If you do not ask, do not be shocked and angry if your items aren't accepted back. Generally, a good rule of thumb is to leave the tags attached and bring it back in 30 days.
 Please do not question their value as a human being in their faces when they make a mistake. Just because they work retail does not mean that they are automatically exempt from feelings.
 Please be mindful of closing times and do not be offended if you are asked to leave.
 Children are terrible about ripping tags off, messing up displays, and being nuisances to the staff of the store. Do not expect the employees to be babysitters. This is also for your child's safety, as there are things that can hurt them in a clothing store and potential child predators lurking in the aisles.
, It is annoying and offensive to the employees. If you can find something cheaper somewhere else, you need not announce it.

