 Although you may end up adopting a child from elsewhere, an agency that services your local area is the best place to begin the process.


Keep in mind that even if you end up adopting a child from another state, you typically must get approved to adopt in your own state first.You can search the U.S. Department of Health & Human Service's national directory of foster care and adoption agencies online at https://www.childwelfare.gov/nfcad/.
AdoptUSKids, a project of the U.S. Children's Bureau, also has a map available at http://www.adoptuskids.org/for-families/state-adoption-and-foster-care-information. Clicking a state or territory brings up a list of applicable adoption resources, including agencies and instructions on how to get licensed to foster or adopt in that location.Once you've found an agency you're interested in using, you can contact the agency itself to find out more about the adoption process and resources available in your state.;
, Your preferences regarding the age of the child, the level of involvement from the child's biological family, and the level of overall control you want to have over the process can help you determine which agency would be a good fit for you.



Private adoption agencies often have a shorter wait time than public agencies, depending on the type and age of child you want to adopt and how you feel about adopting a child with special needs.In many states, using a public agency is only an option if you are able and willing to adopt a child with special needs.If you want to adopt a newborn or infant, you probably will have better luck using a private adoption agency than using a public agency. Because children available to adopt in public agencies typically come through the foster system, they tend to be older.However, you should keep in mind that there are few costs associated with adoption through a public agency (apart from the typical expenses necessary to bring a new child into your home), while adoption through a private agency can cost tens of thousands of dollars., Each state has its own requirements to become licensed for adoption, but costs vary widely among state and private agencies.


Private agencies do tend to cost more than state agencies, but you get a lot more control over the process and have a lot less uncertainty than you may have with a state agency.In contrast, public agencies typically only charge a few hundred dollars for application processing and background checks. You may have $100-$300 in additional adoption-related costs such as fees for medical exams, court filing, and fingerprinting.If you adopt a child with special needs, you may qualify for a federal tax credit that covers most if not all of your adoption expenses. Some states such as California have similar tax credits as well.Contrary to popular belief, you don't have to be wealthy to adopt a child. Even if you want to use a private agency, many have sliding fee scales to make their services more affordable for qualified adoptive parents with lower incomes.Most agencies don't expect you to pay the entire cost of the adoption up-front, and typically have payment plans available in which you can pay the fees over time while your application is being processed.You also may want to consider getting a loan to cover adoption-related expenses, particularly if you anticipate the expenses will be reimbursed later by your employer or that you will qualify for a tax credit., Agencies typically hold orientation meetings to provide a more in-depth explanation of the application process and introduce you to other adoptive families.The local agency you contact typically will invite you to attend a meeting and let you know when these meetings are held.
At the meeting, caseworkers or other presenters will give you more information about the process of adoption, the children in foster care, and the roles and responsibilities of adoptive parents.Pay attention and take notes during the presentations. Be sure to write down any specific information such as who to contact and how to get an application.You may want to write down a list of questions you have before you go to the meeting, so you can make sure they all are addressed and you have all the information you need.
 Because your family will play a significant role in the application process, it's important to make sure they understand your desires and preferences early on.


You may have to educate your friends and family about adoption. Make sure you have all the information you need to answer any questions they may have.
Close family members should understand that they likely will be contacted by a caseworker from the adoption agency at some point during your application process.
You also may want certain friends or family members to write reference letters for you to include as part of your application.
 If you've decided to adopt with a state agency through the foster care process, you typically must complete a number of classes to learn about the system and the needs of the children.


Keep in mind that some state agencies require you to be approved both for fostering and for adopting, since you will be caring for the child for several months before the adoption is finalized, during which time the child will still be considered a ward of the state.Many adoption agencies – both public and private – also require you to complete adoptive parent education or training classes. In some cases you may have to pay a fee for these classes.Training typically consists of between four and ten classes, during which you will learn more about the adoption process, the people in the agency, and how to handle the special needs of adopted children., You will have to provide thorough personal and financial information on your application.


You will have to provide verification of employment and income. Although you don't have to be wealthy to adopt a child, you must be able to show that you earn enough money to cover your own expenses as well as the additional expenses that come with having a child.You also must include proof of your age. Each state requires adoptive parents to be at least a certain minimum age, and you must demonstrate that you meet that requirement.Often you also must include letters of reference from your employer and from other people who know you and can testify to your character and fitness to be a parent., Once you've completed your application, it will be reviewed by caseworkers to determine if your family is ready to move on to the next step.


In addition to details about your personal life and background, you also may be asked about your experience working with children, your reasons for pursuing adoption, and your understanding or experience with children who have special needs.
Make sure you've answered all questions on the application completely and honestly, and that you've included all documentation requested by the agency.You also typically must sign a confidentiality agreement through which you agree to maintain the appropriate level of confidentiality regarding details you may learn about children and their birth families., The agency will assign a caseworker to work with you and guide you through the application and home study process.


Generally there are two types of caseworkers – those who work with families who want to adopt children, and those who work with the children themselves. Your caseworker is there to evaluate you and ensure that you will provide a good home for a child.It's important to maintain a good relationship with your caseworker – he or she is on your side, and wants to do everything possible to help you find the right child to adopt.
As the application process unfolds, your caseworker should be your primary contact for any questions you have or any additional information you want to include for consideration in your application., In most states you must complete criminal and employment background checks before you can be approved to adopt.


The exact background checks required vary among states, but generally, you must fill out forms to get full criminal background checks, and you must provide details about your educational and employment history.Typically you will need to request criminal history records from the FBI and any states in which you've lived. You also may be required to get specific clearances from child abuse, domestic violence, or sex offender registries.Many states also require criminal background checks of any other adult, including your spouse or other family members, who will be living in the same house as the adopted child or who will be frequent visitors.What convictions will bar you from adopting a child depends on your state's law, but generally, you will not be approved to adopt a child if you were convicted of any crime that required you to register on sex offender or child abuse registries.Many states also bar prospective parents from adopting if either parent has a felony conviction in the past five years involving violence, physical assault, or drugs and alcohol.Aside from serious or violent felonies, sex crimes, or crimes involving domestic violence or child abuse, having a criminal history including minor brushes with the law such as misdemeanors shouldn't cause the agency to ban you outright from adopting a child.If you have any questions about your criminal record and its impact on your ability to adopt, you should talk to your caseworker.
 Your caseworker will conduct a home study to further evaluate your family's fitness to adopt a child.


You will need more documentation for your home study than you needed for your application, because your home study is an in-depth evaluation of your home life and personal history. You'll need documents about your family background, your relationships with family and friends, your social life, and your daily routine. This typically includes legal documents such as marriage and birth certificates or divorce decrees.Provide documentation or evidence of your participation in community or religious organizations, if you have it. For example, you could show your caseworker certificates of participation for community events.
You also may need to get health exams and reports for yourself as well as your partner or any other adults who live in the household. Generally, the agency wants to make sure that you don't have a serious health problem that negatively affects your life expectancy, and that you have enough energy to take care of a child.Keep in mind that if you've decided to use a private agency, you probably will have to pay additional fees for your home study. These fees can range from several hundred to several thousand dollars.In addition to evaluating your paperwork, the caseworker will visit your home to see the space you have for the child and assess the safety of your home., You and anyone else living in your home will be interviewed regarding the potential adoption. Your caseworker wants to know that everyone is eager to adopt and that you will provide a good home for the child.Expect the caseworker to ask you questions about your childhood, how you were raised, and your relationship with your parents. He or she also will ask about your current home life, your relationship with your spouse and the extended family, how everyone feels about the prospect of adoption, and what adoption means for you.The caseworker also will ask you how you would bond with your child. S/he wants to understand your support system and how you would react to problems or handle any difficulties or insensitive questions that may arise from other people who discover your child is adopted.Make sure you answer the caseworker's questions as openly and honestly as you can, and don't worry about giving a "wrong" answer. It isn't a test – the caseworker is trying to develop a profile so he or she can match you with the best possible child that will fit your lifestyle and the personalities in your home. The best way to ensure the caseworker achieves this is to be honest and true to yourself and your desires and interests.
For example, if your ideal night would be spent curled up with a book next to the fireplace listening to soft classical music, it would not be wise to tell the caseworker you have an active lifestyle and enjoy frequent sporting events and camping. Although there are a lot of kids who enjoy outdoor activities, that type of child probably would not be as happy and comfortable in your home.
Your caseworker may visit your home more than once to talk to you and members of your family. He or she will be gathering information about your home and neighborhood, your community, and your relationship with neighbors and other families in your area.The point of the home study is not to eliminate families who aren't highly educated, wealthy people with large houses. You may be approved to adopt even if you have a small home or rent an apartment – the caseworker only wants to be sure that you have the financial means to support the child and provide him or her with a loving and supportive home environment., After your home study is complete, your caseworker will compile a report for review by the agency. Keep in mind that your caseworker is typically looking for ways to get you approved to adopt a child, not reasons to reject your application.If you have any specific concerns about things you think might cause the agency to disqualify your application, it's important to bring those things up to your caseworker. He or she may have tips for you, and if nothing else the agency will take your concerns into consideration when reviewing your home study report and application.After your home study report has been reviewed, you will find out if you've been approved as an adoptive family. Your caseworker will explain the next steps to find children waiting for adoption or evaluate possible matches.You also may want to join a local support group for foster and adoptive parents. Your caseworker will have information on groups available in your area., You should review your caseworker's report so you can address any gaps or correct any discrepancies.The home study itself may take as long as six months to complete, and the caseworker will produce a lengthy report that analyzes your home life and the resources you can provide for a child. These details will be used to help match you to a suitable child who will best benefit from what you have to offer.Keep in mind that your home study report will be shared with other caseworkers who work with children available for adoption, so you want to make sure it accurately reflects the type of child you want.
If there are any relevant activities that your family enjoys or information not included in the report that you think should have been, you can bring this up with your caseworker and have it added to your report.Some agencies also may share your home study report with a child's birth family. If you're concerned about the confidentiality of any information contained in the report, you also should bring this up with your caseworker.
Additionally, if a significant period of time elapses after your home study is completed and you haven't received any information on potential matches, you may want to review your home study report again and update any information it contains.For example, you may have gotten a job promotion since the home study was completed, or you may have moved to a bigger house.
 Once you're approved, you can set up a family profile to make your information available to more caseworkers who are looking to place children.Photo-listing services such as AdoptUSKids allow you to create a profile and search for children using a number of different filters such as age, number of children in a sibling group, or geographic location.Having a family profile means your information will be available to caseworkers looking to place children. You also can send inquiries directly to a child's caseworker if you find someone you're interested in adopting.
 Once a caseworker identifies your family profile as a possible match for a child, he or she will provide you with summary information about the child or sibling group available for adoption.The policies on matching children with adoptive families vary widely among states, and sometimes it can take months or even years before a caseworker finds a child that seems suitable for your family.
Your caseworker will be actively searching for children, and you can take part in this process by searching the profiles of children on registration networks as well. If you find a child in whom you're interested, your caseworker can send information about your family to the child's caseworker for evaluation.
If your information matches the needs and wishes of the child, the caseworker will request more information including your full home-study report so he or she can more fully evaluate the match.
If the child's caseworker decides you're a potential match, he or she will send you additional information about the child. You can review that information and let the caseworker know if you remain interested in adopting that child.
 Before the adoption is finalized, you may have a number of visits with the child or sibling group to get to know each other and figure out how well the family will work together.


If your family is selected as a match for a particular child, you will be introduced to the child.These meetings may initially take place in a public place rather than in your home, and typically involve caseworker supervision.
Make sure you're taking an active part in planning the visits, and understand who will cover costs for travel, activities, and accommodations.Talk to your caseworker about how the child is being prepared for placement in your home. This will give you some idea of the child's understanding and expectations.
 Once you've chosen a child and completed all the paperwork and legal requirements, your newly adopted child will come to live with you.


Keep in mind that the child may live in your home for several months before the adoption is fully approved and court papers have been signed and entered finalizing the adoption.In some states, the arrangement may be observed or supervised for as long as six months before a court will formally approve the adoption.At a minimum, the child's caseworker typically will want to meet with him or her at least once a month for the first few months of the placement.Your caseworker typically will give you information about post-adoption resources, such as medical and financial assistance, that are available to you.Before your child arrives, you need to make arrangements for medical care for the child, and enroll him or her in school or other activities.