 Eating healthy will have a positive effect on your appearance and general well being. Eat a variety of fruit and vegetables. The recommended foods are 5 vegetables and 2 fruits. Try to drink about 2 liters (0.5 US gal) of water a day. Water flushes out toxins and keeps your organs healthy. Try to eat foods that are as natural as possible e.g opt for a fruit salad over a bag of corn chips. Try to cut down on sugar and salt.It takes time to break bad eating habits but you will get there.;
, To get your body toned and fit is not an impossible task but you will need discipline. Understand that exercise doesn't have to be a chore. Join a team sport, walk your dog or anything that gets you moving for at least 30 minutes a day.
 As a teenager your skin will be fickle, stubborn, oily, dry, red, flaky. Possibly all of the above. Don't worry. The years do pass but there are a few things to make your skin healthier. If you are eating healthy then this will reflect on your skin. Don't overwash your face, even if it is oily. Exfoliate your skin once a week to get rid of the dead skin. Face masks are great but make sure you use them in moderation and use ones suitable to your skin type.
 Brush twice a day, floss a few times a week. Remember to brush your gums and tongue lightly. Go to the dentist for a checkup every 6 months.
 Smell nice, shower often and wash your hair. Get rid of any unwanted hair. Keep your nails clean and don't grow them too long.
 You will find yourself a lot less stressed and happier. Change the way you think; be positive. Think about what is good in your life, get excited about things. Don't gossip or judge.
 Incorporate what's in fashion with what you like. You don't have to spend heaps of money to have nice clothes. Even up cycling your old clothes can be a nice touch!

, Do what looks good on you. Don't get stuck in the same old hair and make up routine. Mix it up and keep it interesting.
 Being smart is definitely cool. Being uneducated and jobless is not. Be organized at school; keep your school bag, locker and binders clean and up to date. Take notes. Do homework when you get it and not at the last minute. Study for tests. Ask for feedback from teachers. Contribute in discussions. There is a reason you go to school. Don't waste all those years on nothing. Don't be disappointed if you do badly on a test or assignment, it happens. Go over what you did wrong and get it right.
 Make time for your friends if you want them to stick around. Offer to go out even for only an hour if your super busy. Go to the movies, go shopping. Friends are important to have in your life.
 Don't be ignorant but you don't have to change what you believe is right. Just say 'I have a different opinion but your idea is interesting too.' Don't cave into peer pressure about doing something you will regret.
 None of these things are going to benefit you in anyway shape or form. Cut them out of your life gradually.
 Not swearing at all is a little overboard, but try to keep from swearing in every sentence.
 Nothing speaks confidence and assurance like good posture does. Stand up tall and proud but don't look down on people. This will make you seem more welcoming and friendly and is also a health benefit.
 What ever it is, guitar, ballet, rock climbing. Don't abandon your interests, pursue them and master them.
 Remember to say please and thank you when necessary.
 Look for ways to do your bit to help the planet.
 Realize how bad some people have it and do your bit to help. It's hard to help when you’re young so this is a great, free website. http://www.freerice.com/

, Try to get 8-10 hours sleep a day.
, Have good, old fashioned fun. Go outside instead of sitting in front of wikiHow.
 If you don't then no one else will.
 Make your bed everyday and put clothes away. It will make your room more inviting and you will be able to find things easier.
 Even if they are wrong that's no reason to be rude and disobey. They have your best interests at heart.

