 Monitor your cat’s litter box to check for changes in the color and frequency of your pet’s elimination. Blood in the urine is one of the clearest indications that your cat has a urinary tract infection.If you suspect a problem and want to evaluate your cat’s urine more closely, ask your vet about getting plastic pellets instead of litter; this enables you to extract the urine without the interference of the cat litter and inspect it more closely.
If you collect and inspect the urine, check to see if it’s clear, not cloudy. Additionally, it should be yellow, not dark brownish or red.;
, Often owners believe that if a cat is straining, she is simply constipated, but that is not necessarily the case. This could be the sign of another problem, such as a UTI.If your cat is urinating outside her litter box, it may indicate your cat can no longer control her bladder.Also note how often your cat uses her litter box. Increased urination is a sign of an infection, or another bladder problem., Many owners notice that a cat with urinary tract infection seems "off."Often, cats with urinary tract infections will become uncharacteristically unresponsive, tired, or depressed. Other cats with urinary tract infection will be unusually aggressive.Any sudden change in mood should be evaluated by a veterinarian.
 Cats with infections tend to drink more water and lick their genitals frequently. Cats who begin hobbling around without a good reason are often suffering from an infection. However, be aware an infection cannot be diagnosed on symptoms alone. There are a lot of common signs which are shared with other urinary conditions such as crystals, stones, or nerve-related inflammation of the bladder wall. If your cat appears to have become frightened of her litter box, that can also indicate a problem., Your cat's coat should not smell strange and there should not be any recent hair loss. If her abdomen feels inflated or hard, that is a sign she has an infection or another bladder problem.If your cat has skin folds around her vulva, she is more likely to develop an infection.
 Some cats have a history of obstructions, which makes them more susceptible to future problems.Additionally, some conditions make cats more likely to develop urinary tract infections. For example, cats with hyperthyroidism or diabetes are more prone to infections. If your cat recently underwent surgery, she is more likely to develop an infection, especially if the surgeon placed a urinary catheter.Your cat's gender can also impact the likelihood of getting an infection. Male cats are far more likely to get urinary blockages.