 You can probably manage occasional bouts of anxiety and moderate levels of stress on your own. But if you have been diagnosed with an anxiety disorder or high cortisol levels or if you’re under a lot of stress, you should seek professional support.Therapy is one way to address the issues that are stressing you, causing you anxiety, and raising your cortisol levels.


Ask your physician or mental health care provider about therapy options. You might say, “What therapy options might work to help me decrease my stress, cortisol levels, and my anxiety?”
Cognitive-behavioral therapy focuses on changing your thinking in order to change how you behave and has been found to be effective for treating anxiety.
Family psychotherapy works to treat your anxiety as well as help your family members support you in treatment.
 Both anxiety and elevated cortisol levels are caused by your body’s response to stress. In fact, cortisol is called the ‘stress hormone’ because your brain tells your body to make it when you experience stress.Although, you can’t always eliminate a stressor (for example, you can’t drop a required class), you can lower your cortisol and manage anxiety if you use strategies to limit your reaction stress.Practice deep-breathing exercises. For example, when you feel yourself becoming anxious, slowly inhale through your nose, and then slowly exhale through your mouth.
Visualize yourself feeling peaceful and calm when you’re in stressful situations. For instance, picture yourself snorkeling off your favorite coast to calm yourself.
When you can, take a break from stressful situations. Take a walk or at least close your eyes and take a mental break.
 Adding yoga to your regular routine is a great way to reduce stress and to lower your anxiety. Additionally, there are some studies that indicate that yoga can act on the brain so that it produces less cortisol.Explore the different types of yoga to find the one that works best for you.


If you haven’t tried yoga before, or have physical limitations, you may want to try hatha, kripalu, or iyengar yoga.For more of a challenge you might want to give power, bikram, or ashtanga yoga a shot.
Check with your physician before starting a yoga program to make sure that it’s appropriate for you. You might ask, “I’m interested in trying yoga. Are there any types I shouldn’t try? Are there any health considerations I should think about?”

, One way to reduce your stress, cortisol levels, and anxiety is to introduce a little humor into your life.Smiling and laughing can relax you and help you cope with stressful situations. Do things on a regular basis to put a smile on your face to help prevent stress, high cortisol levels, and anxiety.


Make time every day to do at least one thing that puts a smile on your face. For example, subscribe to a daily joke messaging service.
Talk to someone that puts a smile on your face. For instance, spend time talking with a child. Their insights and opinions are sure to make you chuckle.
You can also watch a funny movie or stand-up comedy to get yourself to laugh.
 It will be much easier for you to decrease your stress if you have people that care about you and that can support you.Build a support team that includes your physician (and/or mental health provider) and your close family and friends. They can encourage you, help you address stress, and help you manage your anxiety.


Let the people close to you know that you are coping with high cortisol levels and anxiety. For example, you might say, “My cortisol levels are elevated and I’m battling an anxiety disorder.”
Ask them to encourage you and just be there for you in general. You could ask, “Could you just hang with me sometimes. We don’t have to do anything but talk.”
Consider asking your provider for a reference to an anxiety disorder support group. You might say, “I think I might benefit from joining a support group. Could you recommend one near me?”

