 This is a tick-borne disease, which means that certain tick species, like Ixodes ricinus (the deer tick), carry the Borrelia disease in their body and infect mammals when they bite them to feed on their blood. A wide variety of mammalian species, including us humans, can catch Lyme disease, but the condition cannot transfer directly from dog to human or vice versa.Disease spread is dependent on the presence of biting ticks. The tick also needs to be attached to the host’s body (in this case, your dog’s body) for at least 48 hours to effectively pass the disease on. If the tick is removed before 48 hours have passed, it is very unlikely that your dog will get the disease.;
, These blood tests work by detecting the body's immune response to the presence of Borrelia. If the result is positive, this does not necessarily mean the dog is ill or will become ill because of the Borrelia.


A positive result merely means that the body has mounted an immune response to fight off the spirochaete, in much the same way that vaccination induces the body to raise an immune response to whatever the vaccination is against. Thus the blood test is of value in demonstrating the dog has had contact with Borrelia, but not in conclusively proving it is causing a dog's current illness.
 Because the blood test can sometimes be inconclusive, many veterinarians do not use the blood test, but are guided by clinical signs to give trial treatment. Animals with Lyme disease often respond quickly, and show signs of improvement within 24 hours of starting antibiotic therapy.


Thus, "diagnosis by treatment" is entirely justified if the veterinarian uses his clinical judgement and concludes Lyme disease is a possibility.
 Antimicrobial drugs from the tetracycline or potentiated amoxycillin family are effective against Lyme disease.


Dogs usually show signs of improvement within 24 to 48 hours of starting therapy, and treatment should be continued for 30 days., This treatment is the most effective way to treat Lyme disease. It is also readily available, and relatively inexpensive, which is good because the treatment often has to last for at least 30 days.


The dose is 10mg/kg by mouth, twice a day for 30 days. Avoid giving milk or dairy products with this medication because it stops the medication from being absorbed into the bloodstream. A typical dose for a 20 kg dog is one 200 mg oxytetracycline tablet twice a day., Do not give your dog oxytetracycline if he is still growing and has his milk teeth (his baby teeth). Oxytetracycline can cause yellow discoloration of the tooth enamel to occur. Instead, amoxicillin works well for dogs who are six months old or younger.


Keep in mind that potentiated amoxycillin is a bit more expensive than other Lyme disease treatment medications.
The dose is 20 mg/kg by mouth, three times a day for 30 days. A 25 kg dog requires a 500 mg potentiated amoxycillin capsule three times a day., On some occasions this antibiotic can cause minor gastrointestinal upsets such as diarrhea. This is usually because of disturbances in the bacterial population of the gut. If this occurs then your dog should be put on a bland diet (such as chicken and rice) and a probiotic treatment given to rebalance the gut.Examples of suitable probiotics include Promax paste or Fortiflora granules. Both are mixed into your dog’s food, once a day for 3 days., This is especially important to do if your dog spends a lot of his time outside. Create a routine pattern for inspection so that you make sure you do not miss any spots that a tick could have bitten. To check your dog for ticks:


Start at your dog’s head. Brush his fur in the wrong direction with your fingers so that you can more easily feel any unusual bumps, or even spot the ticks with your eyes.
Next, move to your dog’s ears. Be sure to lift the ear flaps and look underneath.
Check your dog’s neck—all around, from top to bottom.
Feel along your dog’s back, sides, and belly. Run your hands down each leg in turn, and don’t forget to check in between your dog’s toes.
Lift your dog’s tail and check around his anus, as well as along the tail itself.
Double check your dog’s tummy and give him a belly scratch at the same time.
 Certain anti-external parasite treatments are effective against ticks. Talk to your vet about what preventative treatment would be best for your dog. .
 A monthly application of fipronil means that any tick that attaches to your dog will die before it can transmit Borrelia. Fipronil works by over-exciting receptors in the tick’s nervous system, causing paralysis and death within 24 to 48 hours after the tick has bitten your dog., You can use a spray, or a spot-on formula. For fipronil, the dose is weight related and so it is important to have the correct weight for your pet. The most convenient application method is a spot-on pipette designed for pets in the following weight ranges:


Up to 22 lbs, 23 to 44 lbs, and 89 to 132 lbs.For dogs over 132 lbs the appropriate combination of pipettes should be applied.

