 Fit one piping bag with a star tip, like tip #13, and fill the bag with royal icing in the desired color of your rosette. Place a leaf tip, like tip #65, on the other piping bag and fill it with green royal icing for the leaf.

You should also prepare your work surface. Spread out a sheet of wax paper or parchment paper. The sheet should be large enough to hold several rows of rosettes.;
, Hold the star tip bag slightly above the wax paper. Gently squeeze the bag to start the flower.

Keep the bag nearly perpendicular to the work surface. Tilting the bag could distort the shape of the rosette.
Do not lift away the tip after creating the initial dollop. Proceed directly into the next step, ideally without easing up on the piping bag.
 Continue squeezing the bag while moving the start tip around the center dollop. Wind the icing all the way around its center in a full circle.The piping bag should remain perpendicular, and you should apply even, continuous pressure to it as you form the flower.
Keep the tip close to the center as you create the spiral. The icing should curl over itself, forming a tight circle.
Stop squeezing the bag as soon as you finish the circle. Lift the bag away only after the icing stops coming out of the tip.
 Sometimes, a small tail will form when you lift away the piping tip. Use a toothpick to gently press that tail into the side of the rosette.Alternatively, you could use a clean paint brush to gently tap the tail into the side of the blossom. If the icing is too stiff, you may need to dip the tip of the brush in water before tapping down the tail.
 Allow the rosette to dry for 30 to 60 minutes at room temperature before continuing.

If you wish to make multiple rosettes, you should form all of the flowers before moving onto the leaves. All of the flowers should have at least 30 minutes of drying time before you begin to work on the leaves.
 After the rosettes dry, hold the leaf tip bag at a 45-degree angle to one side of one flower. Gently squeeze the bag until a wide base builds itself onto the base of the flower.

Make sure that the green icing comes into direct contact with the dried rosette. If it doesn't, or if it barely touches, the leaves will not stick to the flowers.
 Slowly pull the tip away from the rosette while simultaneously applying less pressure to the bag.

This should cause a narrower leaf tip to form off the initial base.
When the icing stops flowing, carefully lift the tip up and away to create the final point of the leaf.
 Allow the leaf to dry for 30 to 60 minutes. Keep the rosette out at room temperature as it dries.

If you plan to create multiple leaves, create them all at once and make sure that each one dries for at least 30 minutes.
 Peel the dried rosettes off the wax paper and store them in an airtight container.

When you're ready to use them, attach the bottom of the rosettes to the intended surface using wet icing.

