 Using a stiff sheet of construction paper, outline each ear with pencil. Outline an extra strip to each ear, about a half-inch wide, where the ear will connect to the head. Cut the ears out with scissors. Then, with each ear facing up, apply glue along the extra strip and stick that to the back of the bag, behind the flap.
 Use a stiff sheet of construction paper or thin cardboard for more durability. Design a pair of legs with pencil. Allow extra length at the top to use as a glue tab later on. Cut the legs out with scissors and then, depending on the materials you’ve used for the bag itself, use paint, construction paper, and/or fabric swatches to match your puppet’s skin and/or clothing. Then, with the legs facing up, apply glue to the extra length on top. Glue the legs to the inside of your puppet, underneath the front of the bag, so they dangle out of the opening and in front of your own arm when you’re wearing the puppet.


Since the legs will dangle out of the opening, be gentle with your hand as you slip it in or out of the puppet.
 Use a stiff sheet of construction paper or thin cardboard. Outline each arm separately with pencil. Allow extra length at the end of each, at the “shoulder,” where it will connect to the puppet. Cut each arm out. Depending on the materials you’ve used for the bag itself, use paint, construction paper, and/or fabric swatches to match the arms to the puppet’s design. With each arm facing up, apply glue to the extra length at the shoulder and stick the glue tab to the back of the bag.


To manipulate the arms, trace a second cutout for each arm once you’ve cut out the first: a front-side and a back-side. Glue the two together, leaving a small gap at or below the wrist. Fold the arm where its elbow should be to create a crease. Then insert the thin end of a chopstick (or a similarly long and tapered object, like a sharpened pencil) into the gap by the wrist. Manipulate the chopstick to bend and extend the arm.
For bird puppets, use the same method to create wings.
For fish puppets, use the same method to create lateral fins.
 Use a stiff sheet of construction paper or thin cardboard. Outline your tail with pencil, allowing extra length at the end where it will meet the body. Once you cut it out, crease the extra length to create a glue tab. Depending on the materials you've used for the bag itself, use paint, yarn, or construction paper to match the tail to the puppet's design. Apply glue and stick the glue tab to the back of the body.


For a more durable tail, trace your first cutout on more construction paper or cardboard to create a second cutout. Glue the two together except for the extra length at the end where they will meet the body. Then crease the extra lengths in opposite directions, apply glue to each, and fix the tail to the back of the body.
For fish puppets, use the same method to create a dorsal fin.

