 Butternut squash seeds won't germinate in cold soil, so it's necessary to plant them once you're certain the last frost has passed. In warmer climates this could be in mid-spring, and in cooler climates you might have to wait until late spring. If you plant your squash too early, it won't survive.


If you want to get a head start, you can start the seeds indoors up to 3 weeks before the last frost. Plant the seeds 1 inch (2.5 cm) deep in seed starter mix in small pots. Keep them moist and warm until the last frost has passed, after which you can transplant them to the garden.;
, Butternut squash needs full sun and warm conditions to thrive. It will do well in the sunniest spot in your garden. Avoid planting it in the shade, since the squash won't fully ripen without full sunlight.
 Butternut squash needs rich, well-draining soil. If your soil is poor, till it to a depth of several inches and mix in plenty of compost. Depending on how many squash plants you're putting in, you may need to prepare a large area to serve as your planting bed. Plan to allot 3 square feet of space per squash plant.
 Squash grow best when they are planted in soil that has been hilled. Create hills about 3 inches (7.6 cm) high for each squash plant, leaving at least 3 feet (0.9 m) of space between hills in the same row, and 6 feet (1.8 m) between rows. Dig a hole 1 inch (2.5 cm) deep in the top of each hill and drop in 4-5 squash seeds. Cover the seeds with soil and pat the area lightly.

After the seeds sprout, thin them out to leave 2 - 3 sprouts per hill.
If you're transplanting squash plants that you started indoors, plant each one on its own hill.
Squash vines can either grow along the ground or on a trellis. If you wish to train your squash plants to grow vertically, place a trellis or stake near each hill. When the vines sprout, wrap them gently around the base of the trellis or stake, and they'll begin growing upward.
 Spread some pine straw or another light mulch over the squash beds to protect the growing plants.

