 Put on rain coats and galoshes, or a bathing suit and flip flops, and go jump in the puddles on your street.Have contests where you try to splash each other, or play hopscotch as you jump from puddle to puddle.


Get down on the ground and make mud pies. Bring out small boats and float them in the puddles.
This doesn't have to be a kids activity. Puddle jumping is fun at any age.
 Set up a series of clues throughout the house. Have each clue lead to the next clue. This keeps the kids busy as they work towards finding the treasure.


The treasure can be a toy, a treat, a fun activity, or small reward.
The kids can play against each other, or they can play in teams and work together to find the treasure., Set up a series of obstacles that the kids have to go through. This can include just about anything - crawling under tables, walking in straight lines along tape on the floor, throwing stuffed animals into buckets, hopping along the hall, forward rolling across the room, or picking up stuff with their teeth. Brainstorm with your kids to figure out what is suitable for your house and what you own.


Make medals for the winners out of construction paper.Make sure the obstacles that you place in the house are safe. You don't want your rainy day fun resulting in injury.
 Pull out your craft supplies and get creative. Decorate pine cones, make hand puppets, draw pictures with watercolors, make leaf collages, and use felt pieces to make a picture story.The only limit is your imagination.


Let the kids choose their own crafts. This way each kid can do something that interests them so they don't get bored.
 Rainy days are great for building blanket forts in the living room. Set up some chairs and drape blankets between the chairs and the couch. Have a picnic lunch under your blanket fort.


Turn it into an indoor camping experience. Put sleeping bags in the fort and blow up air mattresses. If you have a small tent, erect it in the living room., Gather scrap boxes and pieces of cardboard. Either cut and place them into 3-D shapes for your buildings, or just cut them for flat, one-sided buildings. Use markers, crayons, and colored paper to decorate the buildings. Make an entire town, including a fire station, school, skyscrapers, apartment complexes, and houses.Use small figures and toy cars with your cardboard city. Or you can make your own cars and figures to live in your city.
 Get dressed up in fancy clothes, big hats, gloves, and ties. Brew some tea, set out your fine china, and place doilies on the table.Bring stuffed animals and imaginary guests that the children want to bring. Get the kids to create the guest list.
Get the kids to help you bake bite sized desserts and finger sandwiches for the tea party.

