 It is illegal to discriminate against blind people under the Americans with Disabilities Act. No person who is qualified to work can be excluded simply because they are blind. This pertains to any area of employment including, hiring, firing, training, and so on.For example, employers may not ask blind or visually impaired people about their medical condition unless it relates directly the tasks required for work. For example, an employer may not ask, “How severe is your condition?” However, they can ask, “Are you able to read data files?”;
, Providing reasonable accommodation means making changes to the work environment or application process so that blind or visually impaired people have equal access to employment. Employers are required to do this under the Americans with Disabilities Act. If you requested an accommodation that was not provided, you can file an official complaint through your local government website or through the US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Specific accommodations may include:


Changes in lighting (natural, halogen, fluorescent).
Use of large print or braille on documents or signs.
Use of electronic voice messages in place of written communication.
A human assistant to help with written tasks or other visual communication.
Changes in work schedule to accommodate for public transportation.
Sharing or switching assignments with other employees. , Blind and visually impaired students have the legal right to a free and appropriate public education. All United States school districts must accommodate blind and visually impaired students in a way that allows them to receive an education that fits their needs. Additionally, students with disabilities must be educated in the same environment as students without disabilities when appropriate. If a school cannot accommodate a blind student, that district must provide alternatives. Another public school must accommodate the student, or the district must accept the cost of a private education. , Like everyone else, blind people are entitled to the same set of international human rights. The blind and visually impaired have the right to participate and express themselves in all areas of society including civil, political, social, economic, and cultural realms. 