 You'll want either a 100% cotton or silk with a tight fiber weave for best resolution so the ink will stick and your image will be clearer.You can find pretreated and precut fabric for printing at craft stores. These are usually already stiffened for printing. This method will save you other steps in preparing your own fabric pieces but can also be more expensive.You will also need a fabric stabilizer. Fabric will not feed as easily into a printer as regular paper does so you will need to attach a stabilizer to guide it through your printer without it jamming. Options include freezer paper ironed shiny side down to the back of the fabric, 8.5"x11" office stickers stuck to the back of the fabric, cardstock with spray adhesive or tape,or fusible webbing., Iron out your fabric on a dry setting so that you don't have any bumps or wrinkles while attaching the stabilizer. Then, lint roll the fabric to pick up any stray fibers that will get in the way of printing and produce a smudged image. Use a craft cutting mat with a grid printed on it for accuracy to measure out a piece of fabric that will fit through your printer. Most printers have the capacity to print on 8.5"x11" pieces.


For freezer paper, cut a piece of paper to the size your printer takes and iron it shiny side down onto the fabric, then cut the fabric to size using scissors or a rotary blade.
Or, you can cut the fabric to size, iron an uncut piece of freezer paper to the fabric, and then trim the sides of the freezer paper so that the edges line up perfectly.It can help to leave about 2 inches of stabilizer to feed through the printer rollers to catch the material.
Office supply stickers or labels are also efficient to use. You can peel off a label and stick it to your fabric and then trim as needed. These labels won't leave much residue if any and they come pre-sized for printing.If you use spray adhesive or a spray-on chemical to stiffen the fabric, make sure you have a drop cloth or other protective surface beneath it. Don't oversaturate the fabric or it will become too stiff to use once it's printed. After spraying, let it dry completely before feeding through your printer so it doesn't get jammed.
 The best kind of at-home printer to use unless you are looking to print commercially is an ink-jet printer which can use both dye and pigment ink cartridges.


Dye ink is not water resistant on its own but if you want to print with it, you can pretreat your fabric to be waterproof with chemical solutions like Bubble Jetset found at craft supply stores.Pigment ink is the best option and will be water resistant with only a little leakage when its first washed.
To find out what kind of ink cartridge you have or want to buy, look up the serial number online or use a search engine to find specific brands to use., Chances are you have an idea in mind for what you want to put on your fabric.You can use different mediums to create your design:


Photos you have taken
Drawings or paintings scanned into the computer
Images or text pulled from the internet

, Whether you start out with a rough design on paper or a photo that you scan into the computer, you will want to upload it into an editing program to make it fabric-ready. There are several free programs, such as GIMP, PicMonkey, Aviary, and Inkscape, that are available online as well as software that you can buy for a more professional finish to your images such as Adobe Photoshop or Illustrator.
 In many editing programs you can select different picture resolutions in the settings. You can always test out your design by printing on a normal piece of printer paper to make sure that everything is aligned correctly.


Whichever measurement your computer uses for image resolution, whether it's pixels or DPI (dots per inch), select the highest setting so that you get the best quality print.Additionally, check the color settings for your printer and computer and make sure that they are aligned.You can use sites that translate hex and RGB color codes (two different ways to indicate to computer programs the color you want to use) to color correct your design.Choose the highest resolution possible to ensure the best quality image for your design. Most computers have an option for "Printer Preferences" where you can select different options and for many, the option you should select is "Best Photo" quality.Scout out other fabric printing websites for ideas and suggestions. There are several websites that provide printing services that also exhibit their client's designs in galleries so you can look through other's people's projects and gather ideas for your own fabrics. Popular sites include Spoonflower, Digital Fabrics, Woven Monkey, and Fabrics on Demand.
 Watch carefully as it prints to make sure that nothing gets snagged in the process. As the fabric prints out from the machine, catch the edge of it and keep it raised off of the printing tray so that any damp ink doesn't smudge or smear. Let the fabric sit out to dry on a flat surface before handling.

