 Prostatitis is a bacterial infection of the prostate gland. It is usually due to underlying prostate problem, like BPH. After diagnosing prostatitis, your vet will perform what’s called a culture and sensitivity test to determine which antibiotic will be most effective against the bacteria in your dog's prostate.Prostatitis can either be acute (makes dogs sick) or chronic (doesn’t make dogs feel sick). Antibiotic treatment for chronic prostatitis may not be very rewarding., The prostate gland is surrounded by a thick capsule that makes it hard for antibiotics to get inside the gland and kill the bacteria.Because of this, prostatitis treatment usually takes at least several weeks, if not longer. If your dog has chronic prostatitis, antibiotic treatment may last for more than four weeks.Your vet will prescribe antibiotic pills for your dog. If your dog doesn’t like taking pills, consider hiding the pills in a pill pocket or your dog’s favorite treat.
Give your dog the full treatment course, even if its symptoms start to improve. If you stop the treatment too early, not all of the bacteria in the prostate gland will be killed. These bacteria could multiply and become resistant to other antibiotics.
If your dog also BPH, you will also need to treat your dog for that disease.
 Unfortunately, antibiotics are usually not enough to treat prostatitis in male dogs. The symptoms often come back after antibiotic treatment is finished. Neutering is frequently recommended along with antibiotics for effective prostatitis treatment.Prostatitis can also cause abscesses (pockets of infection) and cysts (fluid-filled sacs) to form in the prostate. If your dog has prostatic abscesses and/or cysts, your vet will need to drain and remove those surgically.Removing prostatic cysts and abscesses requires major abdominal surgery., Your vet will want to check your dog’s progress after prostatitis treatment. One week and one month after treatment, your vet will test your dog’s semen for bacteria. If you didn’t have your dog neutered during prostatitis treatment, your vet will check your dog’s semen every six months until your dog is neutered.