 You'll want to be at a high level when you are farming for gold, because this will allow you to enter all of the dungeons in the game instead of just some of them. You can reach level 65 within a week of playing if you maximize your leveling.
 If you're not too keen on buying and selling, the best way to get items you can sell is by looting them from dungeons. Wearing gear with a Loot Rate Drop % increases the chance of obtaining both the quality and quantity of items in each dungeon run. In addition, you can also get a 5% bonus when you join a level 5 guild.


Getting the Loot Drop stat from the Envoy Path also increases the chance and stacks with the percentage of your Loot Drop gear. If you get all the Loot Drop stats, you will get a total of 8% drop increase from Envoy Path alone, so make a good use of it.
Loot Rate Drop % cards can be purchased from the Cash Shop; these also stack with the percentage rate drop from your gear, including the Envoy Path.
 Treasure loots appear every time you kill the last boss of Hell Mode dungeons. There are also chances that treasure loots appear after you get rid of other bosses. These treasure boxes will give you either a normal loot, loyalty points, rare items, and even costumes.


Obtaining better loots from the treasure box is also affected by the loot drop rate you have. If you use a Treasure Charm (will give you higher chance of a good drop every time you kill a boss), boss monsters may give you higher-rank loots, which can be sold for a higher price.
Treasure Charms can be bought from Item Mall using AP and loyalty points. These will increase the number of drops you get from bosses that drop unidentified items. There are three levels of treasure charms, which add 1, 2, or 3 drops.
Treasure Charms can also be obtained randomly from daily fame quests.
 While you're hunting for rare drops from dungeon bosses, keep in mind that dungeon grinding will also give you gold and silvers. Easily put, simply cycle through the Hell-level dungeons of the top 5 dungeons within your server, and then work on the hard versions when you have more time to play.


Conquering dungeons will give you silvers for killing monsters. This alone can earn you a significant amount of money.
You can also sell the green-tiered equipment monster drop at the Auction House for lower prices.
Sell the crafting materials you obtain per dungeon raiding for additional profit.
Bosses also drop materials used for crafting equipment and weapon. If you don't need the materials, sell it for more profit.
 You will want to maximize the gold earned per time played, and to do so you will want to run the most lucrative dungeons. Some of the best dungeons to get rare loot are Miner's Steppe (Hard), Other World: Helonia, Temple of Eidolons, and Other World: Skandia.


These dungeons do not usually give money, but instead give you rare drops that you can sell to other players.
 Doing your level-appropriate daily quest gives you a chance to obtain yellow weapons; these fetch a good price if it possesses 130% rate.


With the new patch, the fishing feature also gives good drops but requires starting capital (for gears and bait). Nevertheless, fishing is a good alternative if you don't have time or are too exhausted to do dungeon raiding.

