 Need to scoop kitty’s litter quickly and efficiently? While you could try using a paper plate, turn to something a little more sturdy that you could use again in the future.


Clean out a gallon jug. Wash an empty gallon jug using hot soapy water. Make sure you allow the jug to dry before using it.
Cut the jug in half. Slice the jug just below the handle so you have an easy way to grasp the jug when scooping. Keep the lid in place as you will need the bottom completely sealed.
Use immediately! While this scoop will not siphon the cat debris from the litter it will allow you to remove large amounts of litter (or any other substance such as dirt from a potted plant) at one time.;
, Need to change that bulb right away but don’t want to wait for it to cool down? Use half of a tennis ball to grasp the hot bulb and change it without getting burned.


Locate a clean tennis ball. You’ll want a tennis ball that isn’t punctured or damaged--definitely do not want to use Fido’s tennis ball toy either.
Cut the ball in half. Using either an extremely sharp knife or a box cutter, slice the ball in half. It might be a good idea to do this on a cutting board to avoid damaging your countertop or other surface.
Place the halved ball in the palm of your hand place underneath the hot bulb. Make sure you have a good grip on the tennis ball, providing you with enough traction to grasp the light bulb without breaking it.
Remove light bulb. Turn light bulb to remove, allowing the rubber inside of the tennis ball to grip and guide the removal. Let the hot bulb sit inside the tennis ball and gently lay the bulb on the table.
 If you are constantly rearranging your rooms but need a way that allows you to still drag pieces of furniture without damaging wood floors, consider slapping a pair of clean, old socks on the bottom of your furniture.


Make sure the sock bottoms are in tact. Holey socks will only leave opportunities for the bottoms of the furniture to scratch the floor.
Consider using two pair. For light chairs or bar stools you can use one pair of socks on each chair leg. However, for furniture such as couches, beds or heavy tables, you may want to not only double, but triple up. Try folding one sock into either a ball or a square and tape it to leg bottom. Then pull the other sock over it so that it keeps the balled sock in place.
 This quick and easy way will keep the moisture from being trapped inside the sponge while maintaining if off your countertops.


After daily use, lodge the sponge inside the bottom of the clip and close. Be sure you wring sponge out before retiring it into the binder clip and change sponges every day or two (or after using on soiled surfaces).
 Love your scented candles but hate the black residue it leaves behind? Nylon material provides a quick, easy way to clean your candles and maintain that new look.


Slide candle inside one panty hose leg and rub or roll the candle around. Perform this task on the floor so if the nylon material breaks the candle doesn't tumble and break.
For jar candles, run the nylon material across the top or along the blackened area to remove debris.
 While paint thinner may work, you may not want to apply such a harsh chemical to your skin.


Clean skin using soap and water first. Determine how much paint you can remove using soap and water first.
Fill a cotton ball with baby oil and dab paint areas on skin. Begin by dabbing the area to pick up caked on latex paint.
Pour baby oil on stubborn areas. For areas that don’t respond to dabs of oil, pour a teaspoon of oil over the area (standing over the sink or grass outside) and allow the oil to soak into your skin. Use a washcloth to remove the paint.
 Salt’s abrasive properties can help you perform a variety of tasks safely and easily.


Remove sticky residue from your iron using old fashioned table salt. Heat iron without the steam setting. Place a piece of plain, white computer paper on your ironing board and cover it with table salt. Run the iron over the salted paper. The salt will act as a “scrub” and remove leftover black and sticky marks. Repeat if necessary and clean salt from iron once cooled using a clean paper towel and water.
Unclog drain using salt and hot water. Pour 1/2 cup of salt followed by a quart of steaming hot water down the clogged drain. You may want to repeat this process several times, especially for stubborn clogs.
Remove dust from intricate items such as a holiday wreath. Place wreath inside a paper bag and pour 1/4 cup salt over the wreath. Close bag, gently shake.
Wash away debris and dirt from vegetables using salt. Wash veggies in a salt bath and then rinse in a colander before eating.
Polish brass and copper with a salt paste. Add a few tablespoons of salt to equal parts white vinegar and flour. Use a soft cloth to apply, rub and then rinse.
 After trimming the tree you may be covered with tree sap. Washing your hands with soap and water may not do the trick but a simple dousing of olive oil will free you from your sappy prison.


Pour a tablespoon of olive oil onto a clean washcloth and rub across sticky skin. You may need to rub a few times to remove the sap so repeat as needed.
Wash skin following the olive oil bath to remove excess oil. Especially if the oil is on your hands, you may want to remove oil to avoid transferring it to other surfaces.
 Shallots or onions emitting a strong odor you just don’t want to smell every time you open the refrigerator door? Try lining the inside of your vegetable drawers with newspaper to absorb the smell.


Use only clean, fresh newspaper. Don’t pull the paper from the garbage or recycle bin. Also, be sure it’s true newsprint and not glossy magazine paper (that won’t absorb odor).
Change newspaper drawer liners frequently to maintain freshness. Use the Sunday paper as your marker to change the liner.
 Natural oil can replace furniture polish and other oils for a more natural, non toxic finish.


Remove adhesive from surfaces or items using cooking oil. Apply oil to the adhesive or sticker using a cotton ball or paper towel and then rub firmly. Follow by rinsing with hot soapy water for full removal. Another type of solution you can use to remove adhesive is mayonnaise or white vinegar. A shot using a hot hair dryer has been known to work well too.
Swap shoe polish as furniture polish. Need to cover up furniture scratches and dents in a pinch? Grab a bottle of shoe polish in the same color as your wood furniture and fill in scratches.
Polish stovetop using car wax. Can’t seem to get your stovetop in ship shape? Apply a thin layer of standard car wax to the surface and then wipe off. The wax will provide a buffer against future spills too.
Repel ice from your shovel by spraying liberally with cooking spray. Ice won’t stick to your shovel when taking care of the driveway after a winter blast and your job will move along quicker.
Hate residual candle wax inside candle holders? Use cooking spray inside candle holders. Once the evening is complete and the candles have burned down, the wax will slide right out.
 Lint rollers can be used in a variety of ways to make life easier.


Clean out your purse with a few swipes of the lint roller. Simply run a clean roller around the sides and bottom of your purse to obtain loose change and other errant debris.
Perform quick clean up after a messy arts and craft project by running a clean lint roller over the glue and remaining pieces of leftover paper.
Can’t seem to remove the dust from delicate lampshades? Run a lint roller over the shade and see the dust disappear.
 Check your laundry room for items that have dual uses.


Transform a collapsible laundry bin into a quick garbage bin. Need a quick, extra place for trash? Cover the collapsible laundry bin with heavy duty trash bags and you have an extra bin.
Clean your iron using a dryer sheet. Heat the iron to a low setting and run it over the dryer sheet until sticky residue disappears.
Avoid getting whacked with a retractable cord is to stop it dead in its tracks with a clothespin. Affix the clothespin halfway between where your cord begins and ends to prevent it from unwinding all the way.
Remove sawdust from a messy construction project with a dyer sheet. The dust automatically clings to the sheet, allowing for quick clean up.
Eradicate stubborn soap and scum build up on shower doors using a dryer sheet. Add a few drops of warm water to the sheet and rub over the offending area.
Use a mesh laundry bag to dry your smaller items in the dish rack. Fill with baby bottles, small spoons or other items that typically get lost to keep them in place.
 From hairspray to toothpaste, here are a few ways your bath, body and hair items can perform double duty.


Use hairspray to remove lipstick from clothing. Spray area and then allow it to stand for 10 minutes. Dab with a damp cloth and then wash.
Remove stains from suede shoes using an emery board. Use the softer side of the board to gently remove small stains.
Protect car or interior furniture seats by covering them with a bath mat. The rubber bottom of the mat will keep it steady so it doesn’t slide.
Clean your computer keyboard using cotton swabs. Spray lightly with isopropyl alcohol to pick up debris and dust.
Make vases sparkle by dropping one or two denture-cleaning tablets into a vase of clean water. Allow tabs to fizz and rinse.
Save and clean erasers by rubbing ends with an emery board. Use the heavy side and rub until pencil marks are gone.
Loosen labels or price tags using a hot hair dryer. The heat from the dryer should loosen and make removal easy.
Clean grout using an electric toothbrush. Apply cleaning solution to the grout and then turn on the toothbrush for extra scrubbing. Make sure you are finished using this toothbrush before using.
Make linoleum sparkle using toothpaste. Buff out scuffs on linoleum tiles using toothpaste and a little water. Remove scuffs and then rinse.
Coat the bottom of metal cans with nail polish to avoid getting those horrible rust rings in your shower.
Use rubbing alcohol in a variety of ways including removing hairspray from walls and furniture, removing permanent marker from walls or countertops,

,


Wad up aluminum foil into a ball and use to scrub pots and pans clean. Allow pan to soak for a few minutes in sudsy water, then use your aluminum ball to scrub away the baked on debris.
Use baking soda to perform an endless number of tasks including silver polish, linen freshener, drain de-clogger, stain remover, carpet freshener, scrubbing agent, crayon eraser,
Remove dust and cobwebs in high places using a standard broom. Consider placing a microfiber cloth over the broom for extra coverage.
Use a dustpan to quickly scoop up toys. Find your broom and gather small toys into your dustpan.
Clean built up scum inside vases or hard to clean bottles using eggshells. Drop a few clean eggshells into a vase, fill with water and swish around. The eggshells will help loosen built up scum.
Use citrus to freshen and clean in a non toxic, aromatic way. Clean coffee or tea stains by rubbing them with a lightly salted citrus peel. Toss a few citrus peels down the garbage disposal to remove odor, brighten laundry with ½ cup of lemon juice to wash cycle or clean cutting board by squeezing lemon on the board. Use lemon-fresh Kool-Aid lemonade drink mix to remove lime deposits and iron stains. Place drink mix packet in the detergent cup and run dishwasher.
Absorb grease on fabric using cornmeal. Pour cornmeal over greasy area and allow to sit for 15 to 20 minutes. Vacuum and repeat if necessary.
Deodorize jars using one teaspoon of mustard powder and a quarter of warm water. Allow to sit for a few minutes and then rinse.
Eliminate freezer smells by soaking a cotton ball with vanilla and placing in the freezer.
Vinegar has multiple uses including deodorizer, coffee maker cleaner and sticker remover.
Clean glass or television screens using a coffee filter. The filter picks up dust and creates a streak-free clean.

