 Neutral colors -- black, navy blue, gray, tan (or taupe or camel), cream, white -- work best, as they not only mix with each other, they don't stand out so you can wear them repeatedly and not make it obvious that you're wearing the same thing. (Navy blue isn't technically a "neutral" according to color theory, but it blends so well it's effectively one when it comes to fashion.) Remember that five well-chosen shirts combined with two pairs of pants will give you ten combinations, but two outfits that don't go with anything else will only give you two combinations. Here are some suggestions you can aim for:



Men: 3-4 jackets, 3-4 pair pants, 5 button-front shirts, 5 pair dress socks, 3-4 ties, 2 pair of shoes.

Women: 2-4 jackets, 3-4 skirts, 5 tops (button-front shirts or solid-color knit tops), 2 twin sets (matching tank and cardigan), 5 pairs dress socks and/or pantyhose, 2 pair of shoes (low heels, or flats if you can't wear heels at all).
Consider suits. People often assume suits will be more expensive than buying separates, but you often get a jacket and skirt for less money than if you bought them separately. Suits in solid colors or with subtle patterns are best for splitting up and using each half separately.
Shoes should be comfortable and well-fitting, preferably leather. Even if you buy your shoes in a thrift shop, look for pairs that appear to be hardly worn, as shoes do mold themselves to the wearer's feet and your foot is different! Don't try to squeeze into a pair that doesn't fit. Better sources for shoes would be the larger discount shoe stores or outlet malls. Also look for sales circulars from the department stores in your area -- often bargains can be had. If you know you consistently can find shoes in your size that are comfortable, online retailers or auction sites can be a good resource -- but make note of their return policies and the hassle involved if you need to do that.

Shoes for women: If you can only start with one pair of shoes to go with everything, choose black. For your second pair, choose a color that will go with more of your wardrobe. If you have a good deal of blacks, whites, greys, blues, pinks, and reds, navy shoes would be a good choice. If you tend to have more earth colors, such as beige, brown, tan, yellow, green, and orange, look for tan or dark brown shoes. Do not dismiss the importance of avoiding very high heels in the office -- remember, you will be wearing them for at least seven hours or more, and may have a job which entails getting up from your desk and walking to many locations in the office. Shoes with heels over 2 inches (5.1 cm) high will likely feel very uncomfortable at day's end. Neutral beige hose works best with all color shoes - avoid white, dark "suntan," very shiny hose, and tights.

Shoes for men: As for men, black is the color to choose if you can only start with one pair of shoes. For your second pair, dark brown or oxblood (a dark burgundy or maroon) is recommended. Navy is usually not an option for men. Dress shoes for men should be simple, with 4 or 5 holes for laces and no design or contrasting trim that stands out. Dress loafers or dress boots can also work if very plain leather. Socks should be black or dark brown (small patterns are acceptable). Don't wear work boots, hiking shoes, or white athletic socks to the office.

;
, If you stick with neutrals for the big stuff, you'll have a wide range of coordinating colors to choose from for shirts and ties. Know which colors complement your skin tone. Avoid having too many neutrals, and stock up on solid colors, as distinct patterns are more likely to stand out (thus allowing people to notice that you're wearing the same thing again) and they're more difficult to mix and match. If you do prefer patterns, look for understated or muted colors, and smaller scale patterns that will not be bold and as memorable, but will coordinate with many of the other items in your closet (example: the black and white skirt shown in the introduction can work well with black, white, grays and many other colors).
 Maybe you have a nice white button-front that just needs ironing, or a pair of shoes that would look like new with a coat of polish.
 There are some charities in big cities that help lower-income folks dress for success. To find them, search online or if you're in college, ask your career counselor or maybe even someone in the business school.
 You probably have a limited amount of time to shop as well as a limited budget, so start with the lowest-price stores first, but focus only on what you're likely to find at that kind of store. If a particular kind of store listed below isn't in your area, skip it rather than taking a long trip (both gas and your time are expensive!) Stick to your shopping list, and be ruthless about quality and usability. If it's a beautiful jacket that doesn't go with anything else, it's not a bargain.



Thrift stores (e.g. Goodwill, The Salvation Army): Go to the ones in nicer neighborhoods, as rich people throw away better stuff. Look for jackets, pants, skirts, and button-fronts, as these are more likely to show up at the thrift store still in good shape. Be aware of what's repairable and what's not. (See Tip on repairs). Avoid buying used shoes.

Consignment shops: These usually have nicer stuff and more helpful staff than thrift stores. Look for the same sorts of things as you did in thrift stores. Call before you go there to find out if they have a good selection of office wear -- some shops specialize in it and others avoid it altogether.

Discount retailers (Walmart, K-Mart, Target) and Mid-level department stores (Sears, JC Penney): Buy your dress socks and/or pantyhose, possibly your shoes and tie here. Take a look at the shirts; look for machine-washable natural-fiber shirts and tops. The jackets/pants/skirts at the discounters may look nice but they are not usually made to last. The mid-level stores usually have big clearance racks where you can find good-quality stuff, but skip the overpriced stuff in the front of the store.

Off-price retailers (TJ Maxx, Filene's Basement, Marshall's): This is where you find the designer stuff that department stores couldn't sell. Luckily, last year's classic suit looks pretty much like this year's classic suit. This isn't cheap (expect to spend $150 to $250 for a suit) but if you've been unlucky at the consignment stores and clearance racks, it's still cheaper than paying full price at a department store.

Budget Online Marketplaces (Smashion.com, Fashion Circus): These online fashion sites have great fashionable items from people who are looking to recycle their closet. Let their outcasts be your treasures! These sites are better than consignment shops because you're being eco-friendly in shopping online AND you're helping out the sellers in that they don't have to split their profits with consignors.
 While you may have spent what seems like a lot of money, you will have picked up a wardrobe that will last, and that you can expand on easily by buying additional pieces when you have a little extra cash. Care for your clothes well, and they'll turn out to be a great investment in your career.

