 Papers and essays are like the Mount Everest for cheaters. Climbing it is difficult, dangerous, and tempting. If you want to get away with cheating on an essay, the best way to cut corners is to find an older sibling or older neighbor who hung on to their copies of the same assignment from years past.


Many older teachers will assign the same papers year after year, and won't keep copies of them, making it very difficult for them to remember one students paper after a year or two. Never do this if your teacher collects essays online, or saves digital copies. This makes it very easy to do a quick file search and find copied passages.
Buying essays online is basically a scam for chumps, so don't get schemed out of your hard-earned lunch money by some enterprising con artist. If you don't know the person you're getting the essay from, write it yourself. In general, paying to cheat is a bad idea, friend, sibling, or otherwise.
 When you get a copy of the old essay, you do have to do at least a little bit of work to change things up and make it your own. The best way to do this is to retype the essay, changing each sentence as you go. You can retain the good ideas and the order of most things, and also change up the exact wording to make it slightly different.


Make sure the response to the topic is still up-to-date and not incriminating. If you see opportunities to expand and make more current references, do it to bring everything together.
Never copy-paste from online and turn it in without revising. If you do, go over the font and the size to make sure everything is uniform.
Copying passages or whole chunks of text from online is always easy to find quickly. If you try this, you risk lots of trouble.
 After going through the essay, read it alone to make sure that you're really understand what it's saying and that everything makes sense. If you turn in a paper and you're unfamiliar with the topic, it might become obvious if your teacher wants to talk to you about it or ask you specific questions about what you meant. Don't get caught by being careless.
 If you try to get fancy and patch together an essay from multiple sources, it might seem great to have a bunch of expert level discussions about gun control, but you still might end up with a terrible grade if you haven't provided a possible solution, like the assignment required.


Read the assignment sheet closely as you go over the copied essay, making sure that it does everything that it needs to for you to get a good grade. If it doesn't, you need to add that in. Hey, at least you didn't have to start from scratch.
 Stealing material from someone is against the rules at every school, and can get you into serious trouble–we're talking automatic failure of most classes, most subjects, and possible expulsion from school. It's probably better to just write the thing.

