 For this unique bow, there are several materials you will need to create a three inch long hair bow. Go to your nearest fabric store, and get the following:


23 inches of ribbon
Needles
Thread
Straight pin
Alligator clip
5 x 4 piece of cardboard
Sharp scissors or rotary cutter
Straight ruler
Hot glue gun

, To create the shape of your bow and hold down your ribbon, you will use a piece of cardboard to act as template. You will need to cut a square out of the center of the length of the cardboard that is one inch deep and 1/2 inch long.









Measure out the space you will cut with a ruler and trace it with a pencil. Use sharp scissors or a rotary cutter to carefully cut your cardboard.
 This will create the layered look of the bow. Use an alligator clip to keep the end of the ribbon held down as you wrap it around your template.
 Once you have wrapped the ribbon around the cardboard template twice, flip over the template, and use your straight pin to hold the ribbon in place. Push it through the cut out opening of the template so that it goes through the top and bottom of the ribbon.
 Be sure to carefully remove the ribbon, but leave the pin in the center to hold the shape of the ribbon.









Apply pressure on the pin while simultaneously holding your ribbon. You can now pull the tails of the bow out from the bottom of the ribbon to the left and right side. Your ribbon should begin forming an "X" shape.Pull each loop up to form an ‘X’ design. The goal is to fan out your bow to create more volume and shape on each side. You can move the loops how you would like by keeping pressure in the center to hold them in place.
 Take your threaded needle and make sure the end of your thread is already knotted so that it doesn't slide through your ribbon. Pull the needle through the bottom center of the bow while making sure your bow doesn't loose the "X" pattern.








Once you have wrapped your needle through the center of your bow several times, cut the needle from the thread and tie the thread in a knot.
 You can use a hot glue gun, or fabric glue, to glue your bow to a hair clip, headband, or hair tie.









Once the glue has dried, your bow is ready to wear.

