 Pour 2 tablespoons of the olive oil into a medium pot. Turn the heat on to medium-high and add 2 boneless, skinless chicken thighs once the oil shimmers. Sprinkle the chicken with kosher salt and cook the chicken for 8 to 10 minutes. Turn the chicken once, so both sides turn golden brown. Use tongs to transfer the chicken to a plate.You can use skin-on chicken thighs, but the stew may be a little greasy. You'll also need to be careful of the chicken sputtering as it browns.;
, Turn the heat down to low, so the oil cools a little. Stir in 3 large cloves of minced garlic and cook it for 30 seconds. Stir in 2 tablespoons of ground cumin, 2 tablespoons of tomato paste, and 3/4 teaspoon of crushed red pepper flakes. Cook the seasonings for one minute and return the chicken to the pan.You can also add any of the juices from the chicken to the saucepan.
 Put 2 whole bay leaves and 4 cups (1 liter) of water in the saucepan and stir it well. Bring the stew to a boil over medium-high heat. Turn the heat down to medium-low, so that it bubbles gently. Simmer the stew for 20 minutes with the lid off of the pot. Take the chicken out of the pot once it's completely cooked.Stir the stew every once in a while to keep it from sticking to the bottom of the pot.
 Open 2 15-ounce (425 g) cans of chickpeas and drain them. Rinse them to remove excess salt and add the chickpeas to the saucepan. Bring the stew to a lively bubble and cook it for 5 minutes. You can use two forks to shred apart the cooked chicken and add it back into the stew.Use caution when shredding the chicken. It may still be hot to handle.
 Drain and chop 1/2 cup (90 g) of jarred, roasted red peppers. Stir these into the stew along with the remaining 2 tablespoons of olive oil and 2 tablespoons of fresh lemon juice. Cook the stew for one minute and then taste the stew. Stir in salt and pepper to taste. Right before you're ready to serve the stew, stir in 2 cups (180 g) of country-style bread cut into 1-inch (2.5 cm) cubes.Garnish the chickpea stew with 3 tablespoons of coarsely chopped flat-leaf parsley.

