 Use clear candleholders to maximize the amount of light that your finished project will provide. For each one, print your scanned artwork onto an 8.5 x 11-inch sheet of plain vellum paper (a translucent form of paper that will allow plenty of light to shine through it). Cut away the excess paper, wrap the image around the holder, and tape the ends together where they meet.Measure the holder’s dimensions before your kids create the artwork. This way you can give them appropriately sized paper to draw on. This helps eliminate the need to alter the size of the image after scanning. It also saves you from wasting printer ink on larger images that will need to be trimmed down to size.
For a more seamless look, add an extra inch to the width of the vellum paper when cutting out the image. This way you can overlap the ends when wrapping them and then use double-sided tape between them so the tape is out of view.
 Choose a plain canvas product to iron your artwork to, like cosmetic pouches or tote bags. Print the scanned image onto iron-on transfer paper, which you can find online or at craft stores. Trim away the excess if needed, remove the sheet’s backing, and then iron the image onto the canvas.Plain white canvas is ideal to avoid clashing colors. However, feel free to use pouches, bags, or other canvas products with solid colors or other designs if desired.
 Transform the original artwork into a double piece of art by using it to create a silhouette of the artist. If you have have a printed photo of your child in profile that matches your desired size for the silhouette, use that. If not, take a digital photo of your child in profile and upload it to your computer. Alter the size of the image on the monitor until it matches your desired size. Then:Tape tracing paper over the photo or monitor and then trace the outline of your child’s head. Remove the tape and use scissors to trim along the outline.
Rub a glue stick over the back of your child’s artwork and then stick the outline to that. Then use your scissors to trim the artwork along the glued outline.
Glue the cut-out artwork to a sheet of stretched canvas, spray the whole thing with clear gloss varnish once the glue dries, and frame your silhouette once the veneer dries.
 Use a bound journal, as opposed to a spiral one. Place your child’s artwork facedown on the worktable and then open the journal on top of it. Trace an outline of the book on the back of the artwork, with an added border of a half-inch (1.25 cm) along each side. In the top and bottom borders, draw a vertical line at each corner of the spine. Remove the book and cut the outline out with scissors. Then:Rub the entire surface area of both covers, plus the spine of the journal, with a clear glue stick. Then line the edges of the spine up with the marks in your border and press the spine into the back of the artwork. Once the whole length of the spine is pressed into the artwork, open the covers all the way and press them into the artwork, too.
Flip the book and artwork over and smooth out any wrinkles before the glue begins to dry. Flip it back over and use scissor to cut a vertical line in the artwork’s border along each mark for the spine. Then make a diagonal cut from each corner of the artwork to the corresponding corner of the journal.
Fold the border’s corners over those of the journals and press it firmly to the inside of the covers. Then do the same with the edges. Apply more glue if it has begun to dry too much for it to stick firmly in place.
Add a protective cover to the artwork. Lay out a sheet of clear contact paper. Attach this in the exact same manner as you did with the artwork.
 If DIY projects aren’t your thing, never fear. Search online for a multitude of companies that will use your uploaded images to create gifts featuring your kids’ artwork. Choose between:


Paper products, like photo books, notepads, and wrapping paper.Necklaces, bracelets, and other jewelry.T-shirts, dresses, scarves, and other clothing.
Bedding, like pillow cases and blankets
Kitchen items, such as plates, mugs, and coasters.

