 Once you've achieved consistent accuracy and power shooting from the center, try placing the cue ball nearer one fo the side cushions. Give yourself about 2–3 inches (5–7.5 cm) of space, or however much room you need to shoot comfortably. Most professional players start near this area when breaking in tournaments.


Some tournaments may require you to begin within a certain area closer to the center, due to the dominance of this technique.
 Professional players manage to pocket a ball on the break a majority of the time.One way to accomplish this is to strike the one ball, at the nearest tip of the diamond, and get it to rebound off the rest of the diamond and into the side pocket. Try starting from near the left cushion and aiming to put the one ball in the right side pocket, or vice versa.


Some players do not like this technique, since it can be hard to control the two and three balls which you'll need to hit next.Consider it good practice for pocketing a ball on the break, and decide whether to continue using it once you are more experienced.
 The two balls on the shorter tips of the diamond, or "wing balls," can sometimes be hit into the corner pockets, although don't expect to get both at once! This technique will likely require a fair amount of practice. Begin by placing the cue ball near the left side cushion, and aim at the center of the one ball. Watch the wing ball near the left cushion and see where it ends up. If it drifts toward the end cushion, set up the rack again and aim slightly more to the right. If the wing ball hits the left side cushion instead, aim to the left next time.Once you've found a spot that consistently gets the wing ball near or in the corner pocket, practice the shot repeatedly to make it more consistent.
 Once you can consistently hit the spot you are aiming for, and rarely scratch or foul on the break, start thinking about positioning after the break. With enough control, and potentially by adding spin to the cue ball, you can get the cue ball to end up near the center line of the table, giving yourself a better chance at a good second shot if you manage to pocket a ball on the break. If you are not trying to get the one ball in, watch where it ends up as well, since it is the next ball you will have to pocket. Ideally, the one ball ends up near the center of the table, in line with the cue ball.
 Each table has slightly different characteristics, and if you move to a new one, you might find your breaks are not as effective. Move the cue ball around until you find a location that gets good results for your preferred strength and style of break.


Try to find a worn-out spot on the table's surface where many players have placed a cue ball before. This is not ideal, as you may have a different break style than those players, but it's worth a try if you don't have more time to spend exploring different positions.

