 You can find fake wasp nests for sale on the internet. You can also make one yourself by using a crumpled paper bag and some twine.


To make the fake wasp nest, crumple up the paper bag and wrap twine around it so that it holds a vaguely circular shape.
You could also use two paper bags for a bigger nest.
Hang up the fake nest with twine. Put it in the near vicinity of the wasp nest. Hang it up during the night, when the wasps are less active.
Wait for the wasps to notice the fake trap and leave. Wasps are territorial. They will not want their nest to exist near another “wasp nest,” even if that nest is fake.If this fake nest is not enough to make the wasps leave, it will deter future wasps from settling in your home.
 Fill it with water and a sweet lure, like lemonade. Wasps like sweet-smelling foods and foods that are high in protein.


Hang it in a location where you typically see a lot of wasps. The wasps will fly into it for the bait. They will then drown in the water.
Empty and refill the glass trap frequently. This will ensure there is always bait for the wasps.If you refill it very frequently, you might consider getting another glass trap.
 If you eat outside, avoid eating these foods in the presence of the wasps. They are attracted to the following foods especially:


Sweet foods
Foods high in protein
Pet food, Put garbage cans and compost as far away from the house as possible.
 While flowers attract wasps, some plants keep them away. Try mint, eucalyptus, citronella, and/or wormwood., The wasps are attracted to the flowers for the pollination. Put potted plants inside the house or move them far away from the house entirely.Keep flowery scents out of your house. Do not wear flowery perfume or use flowery air fresheners. These smells attract the wasps., A dead wasp produces pheromones that will bring more wasps and ants to the site of the dead wasp.An aggravated wasp is more likely to sting, too.
 Make sure all door, windows, and vents are tightly sealed. Wasps often enter houses through insufficiently sealed areas.