 There are several types of Chinese stocks that can be bought from non-Chinese exchanges. Different regulations, fees, and procedures apply to each one.


You can research different types of stocks and information about Chinese stock exchanges by reviewing databases such as Morningstar, Barron’s, and Bloomberg.
Think about choosing stocks that have the right cost, risk level, diversity, and potential returns for your particular investment portfolio.
If you are relying on translated sources for information about the Chinese market, keep in mind that the sources might not be the most current or detailed.
Since foreign markets can be particularly complicated, it is a good idea to seek advice from a financial professional before investing in them.
 When you are ready to buy shares in Chinese companies, contact your broker, who can guide you through the process and answer any questions you may have. With internet-based stock trading, you can also purchase stocks on your own in many cases. Visit your online investment service for details on which options are available to you.


Before purchasing any shares in a company, make sure you know and understand any fees, limits, and risks associated with its stock.
 N-shares are available for Chinese companies incorporated outside of the country, and are usually listed on foreign stock exchanges such as the NYSE and NASDAQ.A majority of the revenue or assets for companies offering N-shares must come from China., American Deposit Receipts, or ADRs, is a kind of representation of a non-U.S. company trading on a U.S. stock exchange. There are a number of Chinese ADRs available to trade.ADRs are traded like regular stocks (listed and paying dividends in American dollars), and issues such as currency exchange, fees, and taxes may be managed by the bank issuer.
Global Deposit Receipts, or GDRs, work much the same way as ADRs in other areas.
 Exchange-traded funds, or ETFs, are like mutual funds in many ways but have a few key differences, such as the fact that they can be bought and sold throughout the day (similar to stocks), and are designed to track a market index. Some ETFs focus on Chinese corporations entirely or in large part, so these can be a way of investing in the Chinese market.Chinese stock indexes, which China-focused ETFs attempt to track, may be structured very differently than your local stock exchange’s index, and have other distinct differences. Make sure to research these ETFs and/or speak to your broker before purchasing shares in them.
 If you cannot or do not want to directly purchase stocks in Chinese companies—or if you simply want to diversify your holdings—you can purchase shares in a mutual fund that invests in China. In this way, you will still indirectly tie your investment to the Chinese market while leaving the actual purchasing of Chinese stocks to the mutual fund managers.


You can find out if a mutual fund invests in Chinese stocks by reviewing its profile and portfolio holdings. This information can be found in the fund’s prospectus, from your broker, or through your online investment service.

