 Unlike the first Batsuit, the Dark Knight's suit is a lot more sophisticated. Here's how to make one.


Start with full-body pant suit or unitard. It should be all black fabric and long sleeve. It should be extremely fitted and stretchy for optimal mobility. You can find them at stores that sell ballet clothing, or if you will be spending time outside when the weather is colder, you can go for neoprene body suit like those that divers, surfers, and paddlers use (and which may be a little more forgiving if you're not fresh from training with Ra's al Ghul and the League of Shadows.
Add on armour. Use a black paintball armor to create the hard shell of the bat suit. Every part of your body should have this hard shell on it, but you especially want to cover the chest and upper arms.
Pump it up. Batman's suit clearly indicates how big each and everyone of his ab muscles are, to strike fear into the hearts of villains and scoundrels. You can pad the abs by adding large amounts of Puffy Paint (available at Walmart) to the armour, or use dense, paintable styrofoam (available at craft stores) to build up muscles.
Add the Batman crest. The Batman crest covers the center of your chest. It should be the all-black bat symbol and there should be nothing around it. You can use this template: just print it as large as you need, trace it onto cardboard, and carefully cut out with a box cutter.
Add the gloves. The gloves should be elbow length, all black and should have three "fins" attached to the sides. These fins should be stiff and angling backwards towards Batman.;
, This is the stiff black or dark metal belt with a large square pockets on the sides that house Batman's gadgets. You can use an inexpensive webbing belt with a black buckle, and empty jewelry boxes or eyeglass cases for the pouches.
 Go the extra mile and try adding utilities such as a Bat-monitor (black walkie-talkie), Bat-cuffs (spray paint handcuffs black), a Bat-lasso (black climbing rope), a Bat-Tracer (anything black with a blinking red or blue LED), Batarangs (anywhere that sells novelty boomerangs, painted black), etc.
 You should have a floor length, straight cut at the bottom, black cape. A sheet, dyed black, should do the trick nicely. Cotton is good, satin is better. Kevlar is best. Good luck with that last one!

, These boots can be closer to military boots than rain boots. The less lacing or buckling the more authentic the boot will look.
 Crown your costume with the perfect Batman mask. Buy a black rubber mask with pointed ears that extend from top sides of your head. Your nose should be stiff and pointy. The mouth and chin should be completely exposed and the eyes should have very little other than the whites of your eyes exposed.


Use black make up to "black-out" the skin surrounding your eyes so that the mask makes you look more like the Dark Knight.

