 The External Assessment component is worth 70% of your final grade (Paper 1 - 20%, Paper 2 - 25%, Written Assignment - 25%), so naturally it makes sense to dedicate a majority of your preparation time to these assignments. You’ll need to excel at both external and internal assessments to earn a seven, but you’ll have little chance of a good overall score without doing well with the former.External Assessment is labeled as such because the assignments are evaluated by IB assessors off-site; that is, they are sent out to be graded.
This means it is more important to be aware of the general expectations for these assignments, and somewhat less essential to be concerned with your teacher’s specific points of emphasis.
 For this assignment, you are provided two previously unseen passages, one poetry and one prose, and are given two hours to write a literary commentary on one of them.For a literary commentary, purpose and effect are two key elements to consider. That is, what was the author’s intent for this piece (and how is that reflected in the construction of the piece), and how does the resulting piece impact the reader (based on cultural context)?
Before writing, read the entire piece carefully, identify major themes and assertions, highlight stylistic elements, and consider the author’s point of view carefully.
When writing, structure your essay clearly, provide quotes or specific references as evidence, and analyze — don’t just identify — the features of the piece. Explain what was written and why.
 Here, you respond to a given question and write (within two hours) an essay that incorporates two works studied in Part 3 of the course (Literary Genres).The question is almost certainly going to ask you to, to at least some degree, compare and contrast a key theme in two works within the same genre. When considering the three works in Part 3 (two of which you will write on here), mentally align them side-by-side and consider commonalities and differences.
Consider content, context, and literary elements utilized in each work.
If you can draw from a couple of specific quotes or key incidents from each writing, that will add weight to the major assertions in your essay.
Organization is, as always, critical. Make sure you clearly address the question given — it is surprisingly easy to write an essay without actually doing this. Turn your basic answer into your thesis statement, and use the body of the essay to flesh out this answer in more detail, using the two works as your evidentiary base.
 This assignment is part of the aforementioned “World Lit” element of the course, where you are dealing with works translated into English. You write and submit a reflective statement (300-400 words) and essay (1,200-1,500 words) on one of the works studied in Part 1.You have greater time flexibility to complete this assignment on your own schedule, which can be a blessing (plenty of time to refine it into a masterpiece) or a curse (waiting until the night before to write it). Choose the former if you want a shot at a seven for the class.
The reflective statement constitutes a rather meager component of your overall score for this assignment, so spend the bulk of your time on the essay. That said, make sure your reflection is clearly organized, free of grammar errors, and fulfills the requirements of the assignment. It is a personal reflection on your experience with the work, but that doesn’t mean you can skip out on details about the actual work itself.
The literary essay will (or at least should be) be the most complete analysis of any one written work you will produce during the class. You need to clearly define the author’s intent, show an appreciation for his/her writing choices, indicate an awareness of cultural contexts within which the work was written and is now being received, and do all of these in a clear, structured manner.
Identify the work and your major interpretive assertion about it (your thesis) quickly in the introduction, then use the body of the essay to substantiate this claim with supporting evidence that draws from the text itself, along with considerations of genre, literary conventions, intended audience, the impacts of translation, and so on.
If you do excellent work on this assignment, which constitutes 25% of your total grade, that seven may be within reach.

