 Sometimes, if someone is teasing or annoying you they're seeking out attention. Simply ignoring sends a powerful message. You are above the teasing and do not wish to engage in negativity.


Remember, you are a worthy person. If your sibling is putting you down or trying to make you feel bad, this is there problem and not yours.
Stooping to your sibling's level, while tempting, is not going to help the problem. Do not return insults with insults. Simply ignore the aggressor.
Try your best not to let your sibling know you're feelings are hurt. While it's perfectly appropriate to be hurt if someone is being mean to you, if your sibling is trying to hurt you her or she will thrive on you getting upset. Simply ignoring your sibling is the better option.;
, Go to your own room. If you sibling follows, ask them to leave your room. If your room is your space, your parents are likely to side with you if you need their support in getting your sibling to leave your room. Sometimes, simply avoiding the situation is the best way to deal. You could also look into hanging around places in the house where your sibling is unlikely to go.
 Go run an errand to get away from your sibling. If your parents don't trust you to go out on your own, take a friend with you. Put on a pair of headphones to drown them out. This might help you disengaged. As discussed, the less your respond to your sibling the less likely he or she is to keep bothering you. Finding a distraction that helps you ignore the situation can help get your sibling to shut up.
 If ignoring or avoiding doesn't work, you might have to assert yourself. Being assertive when being teased or bullied may help get your sibling to shut up.


Remember, you have a right to be respected in your home. Your sibling's teasing is violating that right. It is appropriate to be assertive and stand up for yourself.As stated, you do not want to stoop to your sibling's level and return insults with insults. However, it is appropriate to respond to defend yourself against insults. If your sibling is relentless, tell them firmly why what they're saying is not okay. For example, if your sibling is teasing you about a shirt you're wearing say something like, "It's my shirt and I like it. That's all that should matter. You making fun of me isn't going to change how I dress.", You can also use humor to combat teasing. Humor conveys a sense of comfort with oneself. Your sibling will find this self-assurance threatening.


Acknowledge your sibling's message in a humorous way. This shows you can accept your own faults. Your sibling may be teasing you because of his or her own insecurity and he or she will be shocked at your comfort with yourself.Let's go back to the shirt example. If your sibling keeps telling you the shirt is ugly, say something like, "I guess I just like ugly clothes. Oh, well. Bad taste isn't the worst thing in the world!", You might not always want your sibling to shut up because he or she is getting on your nerves. Your sibling might talk too much. If this is the case, try to listen as long as you can. As you listen, try to understand what your sibling is trying to communicate and why. Is she being mean to you, making fun of you? Why might she feel the need to do that? Is she trying to get something out of her head but having trouble expressing it? Is there anything you can do to make it easier for her to express herself?