 Life’s setbacks can throw us for a loop, often disrupting the day-to-day routine of our lives. Focusing on familiar tasks such as going to work, cleaning the house, and taking the dog for a walk can help you get back up and being moving forward., Resilient people know that every setback, every failure, everything that goes awry, is a lesson in disguise. While it is important to move on from mistakes, tell yourself that you will first figure out what you can learn from the experience.Sometimes, the lesson may simply be, "I can't control everything."


Familiarize yourself with the concept of "posttraumatic growth." This refers to the study of how trauma — from illness to sexual abuse to refugee experiences — can lead to positive changes. The people in these situations experience losses but, at the same time, those losses produce valuable gains.An event may leave you feeling exposed and vulnerable but, at the same time, it may also reveal your strength and ability to survive and overcome.
 Sometimes situations don’t work out the way you wish. It’s important to learn when to let go. If you have tried your best and done everything within your power in a given situation, it may be time to let go and move on.If you have tried your best to make amends with a friend but were unsuccessful, it might be time to let go of the friendship.
If you have given your all to a writing project but feel it still falls short, let it go and move on to a new essay or poem.
 Everyone is going to fall down at some point in life. What matters is not how many times you fall, but how you pick yourself back up. Be persistent and continue working toward your goals despite the obstacles in your path. Your perseverance will pay off eventually.Look at each failure as an experiment — now that you know what does not work, you can keep looking for what does work. Maybe you tried to quit smoking cold turkey but started smoking again after a month. Now you have a valuable piece of information — you know that you can't quit cold turkey, and that you need to try a different method, maybe by using the patch.
 Remaining hopeful is one of the most important components of becoming a more mentally resilient person. Maintain a positive, yet realistic outlook on the future. Don’t let the weight of the past drag you down.Make a list of all the positive possibilities for your job search. Just because there were only two jobs in your field last year doesn’t mean there won’t be ten this year.
Believe that things will get better. Think of all the times you have fallen down in the past and the great things that happened when you picked yourself back up. You’ve got this!

