 There's no definitive, industry-wide scale for mattress firmness. However, you'll find most mattresses labeled on a scale from extra-firm to extra-plush. Your ideal mattress firmness should be somewhere in the middle of this scale.Mattress firmness scales aren't uniform across all manufacturers, so ask a store salesperson if their mattresses typically run softer or firmer.
When you ask, don't immediately indicate whether you prefer one option over the other. That way, you'll have a better shot at getting a more objective answer.;
, For most patients who suffer from back problems, a medium-firm mattress is the best choice. It provides ample support, but balances support and comfort.You should weigh support and comfort equally. A mattress that provides support but isn’t comfortable will increase stress and joint pressure.
 Medical professionals used to recommend extra-firm mattresses for people with back problems. However, more patients report better results after switching to a medium-firm mattress. Extra-plush mattress should always be avoided, as they provide minimal support and cause the spine to sag., Innerspring mattresses are typically the most affordable and longest lasting options.The best models are reversible to allow periodic flipping and contain 600 to 1000 coils.


The thickness of the individual coils determines the mattress firmness. Medium-firm to firm innerspring mattresses contain coils that are 2.2 to 2.4 millimeters in diameter.
Some inner springs also contain a top foam or memory foam layer. Coil thickness has more to do with the mattress firmness than the top layer, so pay more attention to coil thickness than to the top layer.
 Adjustable air mattresses are more expensive than innersprings and can be adjusted to your desired firmness using an electric pump.Models that have an additional inflatable lumbar support can offer relief to those who suffer from lower back pain.If you sleep with a partner, the biggest pro to an adjustable air is the option to adjust individual halves to suit your preferences.
Keep in mind there’s no definitive evidence that proves an adjustable air mattress is better for back problems than an innerspring.
 Memory foam works well if you don't move positions while you sleep, but takes a while to mold to your body if you change positions. Keep in mind alternating sleeping positions helps ease back problems. Memory foam can also retain body heat, so you might want to avoid it if you get hot at night.If you like the feel of a memory foam mattress, choose a high-density foam option. Foam mattresses with a higher density are better quality., There are a wide range of issues that cause back pain and discomfort. If you haven't already, see your doctor or spine specialist for an accurate diagnosis.


Ask them to give you tips on mattress selection and sleeping positions that can help ease your specific condition.

