 Surgery is usually only advised for women who have underlying problems and require medical intervention to stop the bleeding. Common underlying problems include abnormal growths in the uterus like fibroids and polyps.
 A procedure called myomectomy can be used to remove fibroid growths from the uterus. This is usually done under general anesthesia.

Alternatively, the blood supply to the fibroids can be cut off in a procedure called uterine artery embolization. The polyps that are in the uterus can also be removed in a procedure called a polypectomy. This procedure is advised when the bleeding is excessive and the patient has fibroids in the uterus.
The patient is likely to have staining or spotting for up to eight weeks after surgery, and is advised to avoid the use of tampons in order to prevent infection. The woman may also be advised to avoid sexual intercourse until completely recovered to allow healing.
 Endometrial ablation is when the lining of the uterus is removed or destroyed.


This will either significantly reduce the amount of menstrual bleeding, or stop the patient's periods altogether. This is not a good option for people who are planning to have more children in the future.
This procedure is usually done in the doctor’s office or it can also be done in a health center. The woman may have nausea, cramping, and vaginal discharge that is mixed with blood after the surgery.
These symptoms may last for approximately 1 to 2 weeks. After this time, the menstrual period is reduced in some women, while other women will stop having their period altogether.
 There are several different techniques that can be used for endometrial ablation and they include:



Electrocautery: This is where an electric current that travels through a roller ball is used to cauterize the endometrial lining.

Hydrothermal therapy:This is where heated fluid is pumped into the uterus and the endometrial lining is destroyed by high temperatures.

Balloon therapy: A balloon filled with fluid is attached to a catheter and inserted in the uterus. This water is heated, causing it to erode the endometrial tissue.
 This is a surgical procedure in which the whole uterus is removed. This procedure is done in a surgical theater by a surgeon.


This procedure is usually done in women who are in menopause or in those who are not planning to have any more children. As the uterus is removed entirely, the woman will no longer experience menstruation or be able to bear children.
The patient will usually have to stay in the hospital for approximately four days following the procedure for observation. Once discharged, it is important that the patient takes it slow and avoids heavy lifting for a number of weeks, until they are fully recovered.

