 Various intelligence tests administered throughout your schooling are acceptable to Mensa as proof of your superior intelligence. Many supervised intelligence tests are accepted by Mensa, however, each document must be individually assessed by a Mensa psychologist.A short list of accepted tests include:


ACT (composite)
GRE
LSAT
PSAT
Reynolds Intellectual Assessment Scales
Stanford Binet;
, You'll have to get a letter from your school on school letterhead that's been signed by an approved representative to prove that your test was properly administered. If your test was administered by a psychologist, have her sign the original or a notarized copy of your reported test results.


A school administrator can sign in place of a school psychologist, if necessary.
An official transcript reflecting your test score that has your school's seal stamped on it or a transcript enclosed inside an school envelope is also acceptable., These tests should have been administered by an appropriate proctor, in most cases a psychologist, and will require that professional's documentation on official letterhead. In addition to this, you will be expected to include documents containing:


Your name
The testing date
The full range of the IQ scale
The percentile you were ranked at
The original signature of the proctoring psychologist
The license number of the psychologist

, Along with your testing evidence you'll also send an application and payment for your application fee. This fee is a generally a $40, one-time, nonrefundable payment, though sometimes this fee is waived for promotional reasons., You might be able to instruct your school or psychologist to send your test results directly to Mensa for evaluation. Other testing agencies might only send your test results directly to you to protect your privacy. If this is the case for your test results, send the results unopened to the following address:
American Mensa, Ltd.
Attn: Testing and Admissions Manager
1229 Corporate Drive West
Arlington TX 76006-6103


Original documents you want returned should be sent with a self-addressed, stamped envelope.
Non-original documents must be notarized as copies of the original document.
 Depending on your evidence, the time of year you send your evidence in, and other factors, your evaluation will take between two and four weeks. If five weeks pass without notification, you should contact the testing and admissions department through the Mensa website.

