 Once you've frozen a few ice balls, you've probably noticed that the centers of these balls tend to be white and cloudy. However, it's possible to get crystal-clear ice balls if you have individual ball molds (not "tray-style" molds) and a freezer-proof cup or mug that's big enough for the ball mold to fit snugly in the rim. Use the following steps:


Fill the cup or mug to the brim. Set aside.
Fill your mold.
Keep a finger over the mold's fill hole. Turn the mold so that the hole points down and your finger is blocking the flow of water.
Put the cup in the sink (or somewhere else where you don't mind spilling water.) Slide the mold into the cup hole-down (keep your finger over the hole as long as possible as you slide it into the cup.) The extra water should flow over the sides of the cup. The hole in the mold should point down at an angle — not straight down.
Put the cup and mold into the freezer. If you have trouble removing the mold when the ice is frozen, run warm water over the outside of the cup where it meets the mold.
 Ice balls don't have to be white or clear. If you'd like to add a little color to your ice balls, consider putting a drop or two of food coloring in each ball and gently shaking the mold or balloon before putting it in the fridge. This won't effect the taste of the ice, but it can be great in terms of giving cocktails and other drinks eye-catching presentation.


If you're throwing a party, try putting out a serving bowl full of ice balls of many different colors. This way, guests can add whatever color they want to their drinks!

, To add flavor to your ice balls (and make a great conversation piece), try freezing different ingredients in each ice ball. As each ball melts (which, compared to ordinary ice cubes, will typically take some time), the flavor of the ingredient will leech into the drink. Here are just a few ideas to get you started:


Lime slices
Lemon slices
Mint leaves
Basil
Berries
Candy
For these ingredients, you'll want to make smaller ice balls than you normally would — ideally, just bigger than whatever you put in them. If you make full-sized ice balls, your fillings will sink to the bottom or float on the top, concentrating them all in one part of the ball.
 Giving your drinks an unexpected burst of flavor is as easy as simply making your ice balls something other than ice balls! Substituting fruit juices, soft drinks, and so on for water can allow you to make some interesting flavor combinations — just make sure that whatever you use compliments the taste of the actual drink.


If you're using flavored liqueurs, note that alcohol has a lower freezing point than water and a colder the temperature will be needed to freeze it. Hard liquor is very difficult to freeze with anything but a commercial freezer.

