 Since it's Halo, the popular ideas are comic science fiction or science fiction action.;
, Your Machinima may be dramatically or comically driven based on the genre. Make sure to include interesting points such as action sequences, bizarre characters, and plot twists. Think up a script of audio or visual effects, ques or music, or camera angles and put them in the order they are used in the scene. This will help the capturer/editor during their part.
 Your Machinima should include a cast of 3 or more different voices. If you can pull it off and make it convincing, change your voice and use it for different characters.
 There are three methods for filming Halo Machinima. Using Xbox Live can be useful for a big battle scene that is spontaneous and does not involve lowered weapons. Using split screen is good for coordinated interactions between multiple characters. Using System Link is good for coordinated interactions between even more characters.
 Record audio before you film the video. Do not try to record multiple people's voices while acting out a scene. Have your capturer/editor go into an Xbox Live party and record the dialogue separately from the scene acting. This will save a lot of time from resetting the scenery after errors.
 Set dates, times, and scenes to be shot. Also, you may want to bring food and drinks if you're shooting locally.
 Once all scenes are shot enter Theatre Mode and capture takes. Its common to use the flying (detached) camera so the capturer has more control over the angles.
 There are three methods of capturing the recorded takes. A capture card is a small device with an A/V input that either goes directly into your computer or plugs into the USB drive or Firewire drive on your computer. A Digital Video Camera is a type of camera with an A/V In drive and a Firewire output drive. Bungie Pro is a service that allows you to spend money in order to render saved films and clips. Each has its negatives and positives based on your personal preferences.
 Once footage is captured, you need to import into your preferred editing program. Make sure to sync audio and video together. It's also a good choice to render the video in multiple formats to make it more accessible.
 Once the video is finished, you should put it on a video site such as Machinima.com or YouTube. You can also make the video available for download on your own site.

