 It is recommended to avoid unknown calls and entertain any unknown service provider that tries to sell services to you. Moreover, if you are really inclined towards their services, ensure you perform online research to know reputation of the company.;
, Many scammers ask clients to wire money; it is impossible to reverse cash when using wired money given. If a seller keeps on insisting you to wire transfer for making payments, do not act unless you are sure about the authenticity of the deal.
 No matter, whether you are receiving messages in the forms of text, email, advertisement, or phone call; you need not to share your financial or personal information with the unknown message senders. This is called ‘phishing’. Eventually, these crooks try to trick you for stealing sensitive information.
 Though it is illegal to play foreign lotteries, people take interest in getting into these deals. This increases the chances of losing money through fraud sweepstakes. There are fake messages that tempt you by saying you have already won money in so-n-so lottery. They ask you to pay “custom duties”, “taxes” or “fees” for collecting your prize. Ensure you do not get involved in such messages and never make payments for receiving the prize – as they could trap you, irrespective of any promises or guarantee.
 For example: Sometimes you will get a caller who won't tell you who they are until you identify yourself first. Be clear: the person who called -- and not the person who answers the phone -- must identify themselves first.


A typical conversation would be: \*ring\* \*ring\* You: Hello? Them: Hello. May I speak with Mr. X? You: Who is calling? With this introduction, you neither confirm nor deny your identity. You require them to identify themselves first.
 After the caller has identified themselves, you have the option to (A) acknowledge yourself, (B) gather more information about the caller without identifying yourself, or (C) just hang up.
 Ask for the caller's name and company (including phone number and contact address) and reason for calling you. If this is not provided to you within 10 seconds, hang up. Any lack of identification is a scam. Just type the address or phone number into Google. The first result had better be them. If it's a real company, then they will happily give you their contact information. If you can't search while talking at the same time, ask the caller to wait a moment while you locate your notebook or glasses, but use the time to check out the company on the internet. If it doesn't exist, immediately be suspicious. You could also look for feedback about the company or type of call. Government sites aimed at revealing scams may be helpful here too.


You can even be polite. For example, ask them for their phone number, extension, and what this is regarding. Then let them know that you will call them back. If they do give you a phone number never call them back at that number. Use that number to look up the company. And use the company's contact number to call them back. Otherwise, you will get a scam artist saying a valid company's name and giving you a non-company phone number. You'll see that the company is real, and then you will call the scam artist back. A few callers will give you their contact information, but really want you to stay on the line. "There's no need to call us back. I can help you right now!" This is a clear indication of a scam. Real companies want you to call them back. Sales calls are more likely to make a sale if you call them. And banks get a thrill when customers practice real security by calling back on the bank's official support number. If the caller pressures you to stay on the line, then it is a scam.
If you get a "political survey" from a "non-profit" that refuses to identify itself, do the following. Terms like "non-profit" and "political organization" are specific conditions that can be used to get around no-call lists. However, the organization must be a registered non-profit or political organization. The IRS offers a very convenient search tool. Just select the type of form (8871, 8872, or 990; if you don't know, just select all three) and enter the organization's name. Leave everything else blank. If the search does not identify the organization, then they are not exempt -- regardless of how much they lie by saying that they are exempt. The searches may return multiple organizations with similar (or same) names. This is where the address and phone number comes in. Click on the search results and see if the name and address matches the registered organization. If none of the records match, then they are not exempt and are probably a scam or fraudulent caller. Remember: anyone can call you up and say that they are conducting a political survey on behalf of a non-profit. Just because they say it does not mean it is true. Just because they say that they are a registered non-profit does not mean that they are. Always verify.
 Do not confirm computer usage, ownership of anything in your house or account numbers. Once again, it is nobody's business and the fact callers are asking for this sort of information should immediately alert you to the possibility of a scammer.


Tell the person you are recording them if they are persistent or belligerent. Say something like: "In accordance with state law, I am obliged to inform you that I am recording this call. If you do not wish to proceed, let me know now." Sound official. If the person is not legitimate, they'll hang up and you're done with them.
If you have identified yourself and greeted the caller but the caller fails to acknowledge this and speak instantly in a conversation, but asks to speak with you, suspect that they are transferring you between sales teams or the like and are not someone who knows you.
 Your time is precious but so is the fact that the more hot air the caller exudes, the more likely it is that they're trying to lull you into buying their stardust. Replies should be very specific, such as: "This is a call regarding your credit card." Which credit card? Don't tell them what cards you have. Just ask which card they are calling about. And don't accept a generic answer like "your Visa card". You might have multiple Visa cards. And even if you only have one Visa, they don't know that. If they are legitimate, then they should be able to tell you the name of the issuing bank and the last few digits on the card. "This is Bank of America calling for Neal X regarding his Visa card that ends with 1234." Anything less specific is a scam; just hang up.
 This is an important lesson to learn and a hard habit to break. Never give any kind of positive confirmation on the phone until you are absolutely certain who you are talking to. For example: You: Hello? Them: Is this Neal Krootz? You: Yes this is. How can I help you? The instant that you say "Yes", they have a positive confirmation. They can record the call, edit the recording, and use your innocent 'Yes' to authorize them for whatever they want. This his how your telephone line can be slammed (illegally switched to a different provider). Thus, never give a positive confirmation. Instead, you could say: "Is this Neal?" "This is he." "That is me." "Speaking." "Correct, this is Neal." Never say "Yes". The same goes with "Uh huh", "Yup", and any other vocalization that could be used in place of an authorized confirmation.
 You will be amazed at the number of cold calls that hang up on you when you ask these basic questions. "Who is calling?" \*click\* "What is your address?" \*click\*. Any caller who won't give their name or address is a scam. And if they hang up, then it's definitely a scam. Right now, about 50 percent of callers should have hung up after you asked for their address. The next step is to tell them that you are recording the call. Regardless of whether the call is really being recorded, tell them it is being recorded. Real companies with real offers won't mind being recorded. Real surveys do not require privacy. If they hang up, then it is a scam.


A real company won't hang up on a prospective or existing customer. Remember that.
 If you do, chances are that you're downloading a virus, allowing access to your computer or giving away precious personal information that they'll do unspeakable and ruinous things with. Just do not do it!


Ask things such as: "How do you know my computer is running slowly/hacked into/busted/not working as it should?" They don't have cameras in your house! And if they're somehow watching your online activities, that'd be a matter for the police. You can tell them as much.
 You get all sorts of phone calls. Friends, family, business associates, scams, and fraudulent callers. Just asking basic questions and verifying caller information can easily stop you from making a big mistake. Some of these rules may come off sounding rude. But remember: it's rude for a scammer, telemarketer, and fake non-profit to call you. Real companies won't be offended.

