 There are many good reasons to use visual aids. They can help make things easier to understand, they help audiences remember what you've said, they appeal to visual learners, and they can help an audience view you as more persuasive. Be sure you're clear on what you hope to accomplish with each visual you incorporate into your speech.
 While it's a great idea to use visual aids in your speech, be sure to choose ones that make sense. For example, in the speech mentioned above in which the speaker wants the audience to learn the four things to look for when buying a diamond, it might would make sense to show a diagram of a diamond that illustrates where a jeweler makes cuts in preparing the gemstone. It would also be helpful to show side-by-side photos of clear, white and yellow diamonds so the audience can recognize the differences in color. On the other hand, it wouldn't be very helpful to show an exterior photo of a jewelry store.
 PowerPoint can be a great delivery device for visual aids. You can use it to show photos, charts, and graphs with ease. But there are common mistakes that speakers sometimes make when using PowerPoint. These are easy to avoid once you stop and think about them.


Don't write everything you plan to say on your slides. We've all suffered through speeches where the speaker did little more that read off of his or her slides. That's boring for the audience, and they soon disengage. Instead, use word charts to preview, review or highlight key information. Remember, the sides should be a supplement to what you're going to say rather than an exact copy of it.
Make your slides readable. Use a font size that's easy for your audience to read and don't overcrowd your slides. If your audience can't see or get through the material on your slides, they won't have served any purpose.
Use animations sparingly. Having graphics fly around, zoom in and out ,and change colors can be engaging but can also be distracting. Be careful not to overdo the special effects. Your slides should be a supporting player rather than the star of the show.

