 When exercising, its important to wear workout clothes that aren’t too tight and are made out of synthetic fibers, not cotton. Unlike cotton, synthetic fibers lift moisture from your body as you sweat. So there will be less of a chance of wet skin rubbing against each other, which leads to chafing.Wear compression shorts if you are cycling or running long distances to prevent chafing between your legs.
Choose exercise clothing and sports bras that have smooth seams to avoid rubbing against your skin, especially your underarm area.
If you notice your skin chafes when you wear a certain pair of shorts or pants during your workout, switch to a different pair.;
, If you are a runner or hiker and want to prevent chafing in your groin area, wear underwear that is made of synthetic fibers.Avoid underwear made out of modal, rayon, viscose, tencel, lyocell, and bamboo. These are all wood fibers and behave very similarly to cotton when they get damp or wet.
 To prevent chafing, its important to stay dry as wet skin can make chafing worse. So don’t stay in wet or sweaty clothing after a workout or a long day in the heat. Change into dry, clean clothes right away., If you are experiencing chafing between your thighs, gently clean the area to remove any dirt or sweat. If you are experiencing chafing in another part of your body, like your nipples, or your underarms, clean this area well after a workout or a long day outside.


Do not scrub or rub the area. Instead, wipe it gently with a warm wet cloth. Use mild soap that is unscented so it won’t irritate your skin.
 Bandelettes are bands of stretchy lace 6” long that also have a silicone grip that fits on your thighs.They prevent rubbing by forming a barrier between your thighs.Order Bandelettes online and measure your thighs to find the right size.
This is a great option if you are squeamish of lubricants or powders and want a product you can slip on easily.
 A pair of fitted men’s boxer-briefs are super breathable, as they are made with cotton, and they fall at the perfect spot on your thighs to prevent any touching or rubbing.