 Before you even set forth on your gravestone photography expedition, spare a thought for cemetery etiquette and do the right thing so that others may enjoy this experience too.

Park your car in an appropriate place. It is better to walk a distance than to park in a poorly chosen space.
Do not wander around with your equipment if there is a committal or graveside service in progress.
If you move any flowers or remembrance items to get your photograph, remember to replace them before leaving.;
, A good digital camera that has auto-focus, flash, adjustable light settings, and zoom. Optical zoom is best because it allows you to get the most details in an image but it will cost more for such a camera and it is a battery depleting element.The Association for Gravestone Studies recommends a 35mm SLR fitted with a 50-55mm lens or a wide angle 35mm lens for crowded graveyard sites.Have enough memory or take along extra cards if you think you might run out.

Prefer a camera with an LCD monitor. This will allow you to check before going home that you have got all of the information you want captured taken clearly. If you can't read the inscription or it's out of focus, you'll know straight away.
 This is the most important step as the fine details of the headstone are what you're keen to capture.


Front light. The morning light may be recommended if the headstone is facing east. This is often the case, but not always. West facing gravestones (such as in New England) are best photographed at the middle of the day and north facing stones are best photographed in later afternoon light.It is more difficult to get a good shot if the stone is backlit.

Angle of sunlight. Direct lighting may not produce a good result as it can wash out the inscription. Noonday lighting can supply contrast of bright light on the stone surface and darker shadows inside the engraving. An angle of the sun of 30 degree at midday is considered to be the best for lighting.Use shadows to your advantage on worn stones that are difficult to read.

Reflecting light. Some photographers have portable reflectors or mirrors for this purpose. You can redirect sunlight by the simple placement of a piece of white board. You can buy an inexpensive folding "science fair display" of corrugated cardboard. Lean it against your tripod or a nearby stone so that it directs the light where you want it. Aluminum foil may also work, but may result in unwanted distortions and glares. You can also use two mirrors to create light over a shadowed headstone.Of course, keep your reflector out of the camera field.






Off-camera Flash. For best results on difficult stones, or if you don't want to wait around for the perfect sun angle, use off-camera flash. Typical flash units are bright enough to overpower the sun and give sharp contrast even on worn tombstones. You need a camera, probably with a flash shoe, a flash unit (often called Speedlight or Speedlite), and a wired or wireless triggering mechanism. The Cowboy Studio NPT-04 is an inexpensive radio wireless trigger. You will also need a flash stand or an assistant. Position your flash unit so that the light falls across the face of the tombstone from the side, or slightly above. Set your camera on Manual exposure at a fixed, low ISO value. ISO 100 and f/20 at 1/200 is a good starting point for your exposure. You may have to try some test shots to find what works best with your equipment.
 Be aware that different surfaces photograph differently, some better than others. Shiny metallic surfaces will reflect a lot of light and will require more care to avoid getting nothing more than a blur of sunshine, while dull stone surfaces will often need dampening to help bring out the inscription clearly. Check your photos after taking them to see what adjustments need to be made for the headstone surface., Don't use anything other than pure clean water. Many gravestone surfaces are porous and fragile, such as granite, marble, sandstone, slate, etc.; part of their charm is also part of their fragility, so be extremely careful when attempting to clean or brighten them up. It's fine to spritz a little water onto the inscription to bring out the inscription more clearly or to clean it. Wipe off the surface of the stone with cotton cloth, natural sponge, or a kitchen towel and leave the engraving damp. Allow the surface to dry a bit, and the damp engraving will appear slightly darker. If you have a very soft brush, you might consider using it on non-flaking gravestone surfaces to remove dust build-up or soil.


Do not use shaving cream. It will leave a residue of stearic acid that may stain or actually damage the stone (especially if it's granite or marble). This is considered vandalism.

Do not use chalk or charcoal directly on the stone. A memorial marker is not an appropriate place for graffiti; moreover, the pigments used in chalk can stain permanently (as can plaster of Paris). Do not use anything gritty or harsh that could remove any part of the headstone.

Be very careful if grave rubbing. First, be aware this can damage old headstones and that it is illegal in some States in the USA and possibly in other places. If it is permissible, do so with great care and avoid doing it on any headstones that appear fragile, very old, and in disrepair. To do a gravestone rubbing, place a very large sheet of clean paper over the face of the stone. Then, using the side of the chalk, very gently create a rubbing that leaves an image of the marker on the paper. Always supervise children who do this and ensure that they are very careful with pressing and standing around the grave site.
 Digital cameras free you up to take lots of photographs, some of which won't work out as well as others and some of which simply serve as a record rather than a photo of any beauty. Make use of this ability to take various shots of the headstone from differing angles and distances. Take photographs of the section of the cemetery so that you can document the location of the grave. Take a photograph of the entire cemetery from a distance and of the cemetery sign or entrance to document the name and location of the cemetery.

You may need to take several shots of some headstones to get all of an inscription. In this case, the panoramic feature of a camera capable of such an operation or phone such as an iPhone can come in handy. If you have an iPhone, carry it with you.
 Statues can tell a lot about who a person was and how they are remembered. Flowers, plants, and other parts of a stone's environment can also enhance the picture.