 Write out a weekly or monthly budget so that you know how much you have to spend on food at any given time.This keeps you on track with your spending and allows you to create a list of things that you can afford from the grocery store.


Place your organic food budget high on your list of priorities — up near the top with rent, utilities, etc., not down with “money for going out Friday nights.”
While there is evidence that points both toward and against this assumption,you can use your budget to see if, over time, your increased expenditures on organic foods lead to a reduction in your healthcare costs. (The assumption here is that if you spend more on organics now, you’ll spend less due to obesity, chronic illnesses, etc. in the long run.);
, While it might be time-consuming, clipping coupons can save you a lot of money in the long run. Most stores put out coupons each week in the form of a circular or flier. You can also sign up for organic coupon sites online, which will provide you with coupons for organic foods.The following company websites tend to have coupons available every week:Kroger
Whole Foods
Trader Joe’s
Earth Fare
Simply Organic
Mambo Sprouts
Organic Deals
All Natural Savings
Stonyfield
Organic Food Coupons

, Check the websites of the stores you frequent and of the organic products that you purchase for special deals, promotions, and sales each week.Their social media pages may also display special sales. When you shop for the sales, you can save a considerable amount of money, and even if you don’t need something immediately, you can always buy it and save it for later.


Keep an eye out for “manager’s specials” at the store when you shop. You might find deep discounts on organic produce that’s a bit browned and bruised but still edible for another day or two, or organic boxed or canned goods that are just a bit past their “sell by” dates.
 Depending on your local climate, buying organic blueberries in December may seem like it requires taking on a second job or pawning your wedding ring. Instead of operating on our modern assumption that you can buy any food at any time of year for roughly the same price, think and shop seasonally. Prioritize fruits and vegetables that are being currently harvested, and adapt your shopping and menu habits accordingly.You can find useful seasonal produce guides online that adjust for variations in climate and region., After you’ve figured out what organic foods are on sale, try to plot out your meals for the entire week using those items.This will save you time and money in the long run. Planning your meals also helps you to buy only what you need, rather than splurging on items that unnecessary.