 Spitters are best for spitting on a group, separating, and and heavily damaging the weakest players.


Before they get to the place you're staying, spit on the group to separate them. When they kill you, block the path to the safe house with your acid puddle!
Spit on downed survivors to further damage them, and keep healthy survivors away.;
,


Hunters are returning Infected from Left 4 Dead 1, and they are best used as stealthily as possible, until you have to pounce, hence the name Hunter.
Upon pouncing, the farther the distance you pounced, the more impact damage it does, while the height doesn't matter. Yes, it will hurt the survivors more on impact! The maximum amount of impact damage is 25, and the minimum is 1.

The best way to get 25 damage is stand on a building, pounce, and hit. The taller the building, the better! Taller buildings allow you to leap farther and get more airtime. Of course, this requires a ton of practice and skill and steady aim, but it's worth it!


If you get pushed off, but the survivors can't kill you right when you get pushed off, either for the reason of an attack of Hordes, Chargers, or any bigger distraction, it's best to leap away. They can usually deal with these distractions faster, then when you pounce, usually that's right when they get done, you get about 10 damage on one survivor. Hunters will do 5 damage per second when on a survivor. It may seem small, but Spitter acid and bile can speed up the process.
 Boomers are returning Infected from Left 4 Dead 1. They have the unique ability to blind survivors and summon Hordes. Boomers are supportive types.



Never go full on assault on a survivor, hide and puke, and wait patiently for your puke to recharge.
When you die, you blow up, launching pus and bile everywhere. It can still cover survivors, and summon hordes. This is good if your right around a corner, surprising the survivors, and they forget to melee you away, and they get slimed.
 Smokers are also returning Infected, and they have the ability to forcibly split up a team with his tongue.


A new ability he has is to pull survivors up buildings or walls. This way, survivors can't melee to save the constricted one; they have to shoot that very small tongue of his. Smokers should hide and then pull the last one to delay the team and hurt the survivor.
If the smoker gets the survivor all the way toward him, he starts punching them. If an object blocks this process, the tongue will squeeze you to death, dealing 10 damage per second. Constricted survivors must be saved quickly, or they will be in capped or even die. Smokers are great at pulling the last ones down to their death, or separate them from the group at No Return spots.



Jockeys are best at separating Survivors. They do better than Smokers. Smokers are meant to kill the survivors quicker than the Jockey. Jockeys will ride their victims, until they are incapped. They also perform well at No Return spots. Jockeys should hide and grab weak or far-away survivors, and separate them. While the Jockey is riding, it may look like he is humping the survivor, and he has been nicknamed Hamper by the survivors and players.
 Chargers are great for ambushing. With a little steady aim, they can pull the survivors away, and throw the survivors out the windows on the Hotel chapter of Dead Center.


Chargers are a little better at going kamikaze, and staying out in the open, but don't do it too much or you'll get killed.
Waiting behind corners and separating the survivors is a good strategy. Spitter acid and Boomer bile speeds up his damage. He pounds the survivors into the ground every 2 seconds, and does 15 damage per slam. They cannot be melees out of the grip; only shot or burned.
 Last but not least, this big brute is the only Infected that can stay out in the open easily.


He has 6000 health on Normal. He is a nightmare on expert.
The AI Director randomly chooses an Infected player to become the Tank.
The best strategy is to light him on fire with a Molotov or Bile Bomb him, and then shred him with assault rifles or shotguns. A tank can never keep up with a survivor with green health.
Survivors should keep their team healthy when this brute comes into play. He can throw rocks at you if he is out of punch range. Each punch does 25 damage. This means that, with just 4 hits, you're incapped! Infected can help the Tank by grabbing safe house runners or deserters attempting to run away from him.

