 You must be an Archer with a job level 40 or higher to take the job-change quest to the path of becoming a Bard. When you're ready, head to Comodo town, and look for Lalo at 226, 123 southeast of the city, just a short distance from the bottom right of the Kafra. Talk to him and the Bard will ask you to bring a flower.;
, There are eight flowers, but you will only need to bring one. Give it to the Bard so you can proceed to the next test.



Aloe. Get it from Green Plant, which spawns mostly at Glast Heim's Hvergelmir's fountain. You can also get a monster drop from Flora at Comodo Field 03. To get to Comodo Field 03, from Comodo town, keep heading right three times. If there's a large body of water at the center of the map, you're in the right place.

Frozen Rose. It can be obtained from Ice Titan at Ice Cave 3. To get to the Ice Cave, start from Rachel City and then head west, north, north, two east, and then finally north. It's much easier if you ask Priest or Acolyte to warp you there.

Hinalle. It can be obtained from White Plant and a monster drop from Rocker. Rocker can be found at Prontera Field 07. To get there, start from Prontera City, head south and then west.

Illusion Flower. This flower can be gathered from Shining Plant, which can be hard to find. Best to hunt it from Mavka at Moscovia Dungeon. You can get into this dungeon right after you complete the Moscovia Quest.

Izidor. It’s an easy drop from Rybio at Glast Heim Underprison. You can go to Glast Heim with Priest or Acolyte's warp. However, if you're planning to walk there, start from Geffen City head to 2 west, 1 north, and then west.

Ment. Ment can be obtained from Red Plant, and also a monster drop from Rafflesia at Lighthalzen Field 01. From Lighthalzen City, just head north.

Singing Flower. A drop from Mavka at Moscovia Dungeon, it can also be obtained from Flora at Comodo Field 03.

Witherless Rose. Also a drop from Mavka at Moscovie Dungeon and Flora at Comodo Field 03. Obeaune from Undersea Tunnel 3 drops this item as well. To get into Undersea Tunnel, take the ship from Izlude.
 After your gathering quest, Lalo will tell you to become friends with the Snowman. Sounds strange, but this part of the quest is highly enjoyable. Find the Snowman at Lutie (133, 122). Talk to him, and then select the option in blue that reads “Snowy-snow?”


You need to talk to the Snowman a couple of times, but when he’s immersed in thought about Poze, you need to find him.
You have to speak to Duffle inside the top-right house, and then talk to the Snowman again to activate Poze.
 Poze is located to the west of the Toy Factory entrance. To get into the Toy Factory, simply head north from Lutie. Poze is wearing a red Christmas coat. Talk to him, and he will send you to talk to Uncle Hairy Cantata.
 He’s located at the southeast of the Toy Factory entrance, right outside a house. As you start to talk to him, Uncle Hairy will tell you to bring 1 Squid Ink and 1 Sticky Mucus before he will talk to you. Return to Hairy with the items, and he will talk to you about the Snowman. He will suggest that you talk to Thachentze to learn more.


Squid Ink can be obtain from Marse at Undersea Tunnel 3.
Sticky Mucus is dropped from Marina and Plankton at Undersea Tunnel 1.
 Find her inside the house to the west of the large Christmas Tree. Talk to her, and she will send you to get the roughest salt in the world from the Snowman. Return to the Snowman and when talking to him, select the first option, the one in blue, so that a dialogue appears. In the end, you will get the salt. Return to Thachentze, who will send you to talk to the clown Hashokii.
 Hashokii is just to the south of the Christmas Tree. Ask him about the Snowman, and he will then send you to talk to two children at the east of the tree, Charu Charu and Marcell.


Talk to the little boy first before talking to the little girl next to him.
At the end of the conversation, she will send you back to the Snowman. Again, select the blue option, and the Snowman will give you a gift from his bag. A present!

, Now that you’ve become friends with Mr. Snowman, return to the Bard at Comodo town to proceed to your next test. At this part of the quest, type exactly what the Bard sings. Possible songs will be listed below.


Remember to remove the space at the end of each line if you are copy-pasting the song from this guide.
 The song has five parts, and the Bard will have you type the lyrics. Should you fail at this part of the quest, talk to the Bard for a retake.



Part One. It should go "A merchant without money or equipment, a Merchant that couldn't sell anything. But he was too proud to beg. So he gathered some money selling items. At first he only sold Red Potions. Some say he sold Sweet Potatoes, too."

Part Two. It should go "All Gods never age. The ever so beautiful Goddess Eden, Beautiful and graceful Goddess Eden, Odin's daughter-in-law and Bragi's wife. Her sweet apples in her basket, all thanks to her sweet apples."

Part Three. It should go "There was a man who was said to be immortal. His name Jichfreid, son of the hero Jichmunt. The evil giant Papner, turned into a dragon and ate him."

Part Four. It should go "Louder, louder, louder. Give strength to the warriors! Shake the sky and roar through the land. Make my heart pound again! Let the castle walls ring. This day will never come again!"

Part Five. It should go "Bragi, Bragi, forever calls the poets name. My songs are his breath, my mind is his will, all wandering poets are his people, and all praise shall go to him."

, After successfully copying the Bard's lyrics, he will officially change your job to Bard., After your job change, the Bard will offer to give you a weapon if you have 60 Trunks. Each type of Trunk gives you a different weapon. For 60 Trunks, you will receive a Violin. Violins have 3 slots and 50 attack power. The element is neutral, and the weapon can be upgraded. Trunks can be obtained from Willow and Elder Willow at Payon Field.
 For this kind of Trunk, you will receive a Mandolin. Mandolin gives batter attack, which is 90, still with neutral element, and can be upgraded. Compared to Violins, Mandolins only have 2 slots. Solid Trunks and Barren Trunks can be obtained from Willows at Payon Field, but have a lower drop rate compared to Trunk.
 You get a Lute with two slots for 60 Fine-Grained Trunks. This weapon has a neutral element but has an amazing 105 attack power. But if you have enough Zeny, purchase this weapon from Comodo Weapon Dealer instead for 24,500z. Fine-Grained Trunks can be obtained from Willows as well, but only have 10% chance of drop.
 If you're an Archer with a job level 50, the Bard will give you a Harp instead of a Lute. Harps also have 2 slots, but compared to Lutes, you can get 114 attack power plus 2 INT. Harps are also neutral in element and can be upgraded, but cannot be purchased from weapon dealers.

