 Undoubtedly a fit body does wonders to our confidence. With the help of good work out and complete and balanced diet, we can also achieve that fit and well shaped chest and arms. In this post, we will be highlighting the most popular chest exercise – Barbell Bench Press. We will be talking about how it gets done perfectly, some warning, tips related to this exercise. Have a look.
 This is the most effective exercises for chest. It does wonders to your body and at the same time it can also disfigure your body, if you do it in the wrong manner. This exercise increases the strength and flexibility of the chest and arms. For better results, this exercise should be done at least thrice a week., First of all, lie on an exercise bench, facing upward. Then hold the barbell above the center of the chest. If you're a beginner, make sure you do not start lifting high weights in excitement. Start with 2.5 kgs each side. The position of your hands should be wider than arms width with elbows pointing out to the side. Grasp on the barbell should be in such a manner that your fingers hold the bar and thumb holds it around the front. If you do it incorrectly, the bar may fall down on your head, chest or neck and you can get injured. Once you're in an accurate position for this exercise, then it's time to perform it. First, push the bar upwards. When you push the bar upwards, inhale so that your chest gets expanded. Then pull it down and release the breath slowly so that your chest gets contracted. Make sure the bar doesn't touch your chest throughout this exercise., If you have crossed the beginner's phase, then you can experiment with the basics of this exercise. You can do this exercise with dumbbells instead of barbells. You can also place your feet on the bench instead of ground. Try adding more weights to the barbell.

If you're a beginner or a skinny individual, then start with 3 sets of 10, 8 and 6 reps each with no weights on the barbell.
If you're new into gaming, but healthy, then you can start with 3 sets of 15, 12, 10 reps each.
If you want to see the result of your hard work, then make sure you start adding weights and also increase the number of reps.
If you feel dizzy or pain in your chest while doing more reps or sets then stop it right there. Take a break and have some water. Then move on.

