 It is impossible to completely avoid aspergillus exposure, as it is present in all parts of the United States and throughout the world. However, it is most prevalent in warm and wet locations. As a result, certain regions and certain times of the year offer higher risk than others. If you are immunocompromised and at high risk for aspergillus infection, consider taking extra precautions in regions and during seasons where/when aspergillus is particularly prevalent.


Certain regions like the Northwest or Southeast United States are much more hospitable to aspergillus. The wet season in these regions is a particular time when aspergillus may be prevalent.
While regions like the American Southwest may be less hospitable to aspergillus, the fungus is still present there.
Aspergillus grows best in a range between 53 degrees Fahrenheit and 149 degrees Fahrenheit., Areas with lots of decaying vegetation are areas with increased risk of aspergillus. When you are in these areas, you are more likely to be exposed to large amounts of aspergillus fungal spores. Such exposure can increase the chance of you developing aspergillosis if you have a severely weakened immune system.


Watch out for wooded areas with decaying branches, leaves, and other organic material.
If you are an avid hiker or outdoors person, frequent areas that are open and where natural air circulation is better., If you need to be in a moldy building or in high risk areas outdoors, you should use a dust mask. Wearing a dust mask can drastically cut down on exposure to aspergillus spores that may be in the air or put into the air by human activity. As a result, anyone looking to limit exposure to aspergillus should wear a dusk mask.


Dusk masks can be purchased at local hardware or big box stores.
Some masks offer more protection than others. HEPA masks are perhaps the best solution, but they can be pricey. Other less expensive masks still offer a level of protection.
Masks range in cost from less than a dollar to twenty or thirty for high-end HEPA masks.
To use a dusk mask, carefully put it over your mouth and nose. Secure any nose clamp or other methods of fastening and closing the mask. Make sure the mask is snug on your face and you can breath easily., Another major activity that puts immunocompromised people at risk of coming into contact with aspergillus is gardening and lawn work. As a common type of mold, aspergillus is found all around us in nature. If you have a severely weakened immune system as a result of certain types of illnesses or medications, consider limiting outdoor work so you can prevent aspergillosis.


Watch out for decaying vegetation when working in your garden.
Consider having a lawn care company mow your lawn and take care of your landscaping.
Exercise extra care if you have a compost pile in your backyard. Compost piles are excellent habitats for aspergillus.
Plan gardening and lawn work for cool and low humidity days., One of the best ways to reduce your overall risk of an aspergillosis infection is to limit exposure to indoor environments that contain mold, as aspergillus is a common type of mold. Indoor areas offer extra risk because of potentially limited ventilation and low air. Take the following steps:


Do not enter buildings that may have mold growth.
Wear a filter/dust mask when working or playing in dusty environments.
If you have any concern about a building that may have mold, avoid it.