 If you’re unhappy with the lackluster appearance of your easy chair, love seat or Ottoman, it may be time to give it a makeover. New companies are popping up that specialize in designing high-quality furniture covers that fit like a glove over popular IKEA models. A drab white EKTORP sofa could be totally transformed with a tasteful floral print, or dazzling mint green criss-crossed with Chevron.Slip covers can be found for many of the best-selling IKEA pieces. With these, you can enjoy the comfort and longevity of your furniture without being locked into the look.
Comfort Works, Bemz and Knesting are just a few suppliers where you can find furniture covers to suit all tastes., Instead of making sweeping changes to the look of your living room, make subtle ones. Try replacing the basic legs that come standard on your coffee table or sofa with a set that offers a little more flair. Certain businesses now specialize in designing eye-catching furniture legs that can lend a little character to your tired pieces without the need to completely redecorate.Swedish company Prettypegs is the industry leader of tricked-out IKEA legs, though you can also get them handmade in private web shops like those on Etsy., The legs aren't the only part of your generic IKEA furniture you can trade out. Custom knobs, latches, drawer handles and even hinges are available to make simplistic pieces a little more dazzling. These ornate touches will lend a bit of bling without distracting from the main focus of the piece. Sometimes, little changes can make a big difference.Pick out hardware that will provide a pleasant contrast to the rest of the piece, like gold knobs and hinges on a black BRIMNES cabinet or leather loop handles on an old-fashioned GALANT drawer unit.
For lavish original accessories, give modern furniture pioneers like Superfront a shot.
 Look into the emerging trend of adhesive furniture finishes. These are essentially giant stickers, and are available in a wide range of sizes and spectacular designs. Simply smooth the vinyl sticker onto your bureau or tabletop and watch it go from boring wood grain to any of hundreds of full-color art prints. If you’re the kind of person that likes to alter the look of your furniture often, these could be just what you need.These stick-on accents can easily be applied and removed, and won’t leave behind any sticky, damaging residue.
If you’re looking for places to compare different designs, start with Mykea. O’verlays and PANYL.