 It's important to check in with yourself and to make sure that your mind and body are as reasonably healthy as they can be during this time of crisis. Though you may feel that all you can do is lie on the couch and cry, you should make sure to eat even when you aren't hungry, to get out of the house and take a walk when your body needs the exercise, and to look away from the television when your eyes need to rest.And if you're craving an ice cream sundae or if you're really longing for a night out with the girls but won't admit it, give in to that, too. Do what your mind and body are telling you to do instead of ignoring your true needs.
The sooner you start eating, sleeping, and doing the things your body and mind need regularly, the sooner you can get back to your normal life.
 Though you shouldn't pack your schedule so much that you can't even come up for air, you should make sure to keep yourself as busy and occupied as you can so that you don't have hours on end to think about your divorce. Once you're ready plug at least a few social occasions, workout routines, or times carved out for the things you loved into your schedule so that you have enough things to keep you on your feel and to give you something to look forward to.You should try to have at least one thing each day to look forward to, even if it's just a phone date with a close friend or some time to watch that old Katherine Hepburn movie that you haven't seen in a decade.
Setting goals can help you develop a routine. For example, if you want to run a 5K, then you'll have to fill a few hours a week with time for training.
Try to mix it up. Don't fall back into the routine you had when you were married, or you'll miss your own life even more.
 Though you don't have to go on a health kick right after your divorce, working on maintaining healthy life habits will help you start to feel mentally more stable and physically stronger. Work on eating three healthy and balanced meals a day, getting 7-8 hours of sleep at around the same time every night, and working out at least a few times a week.


Don't overdo it. Don't take your divorce as a reason to lose fifty pounds or being a health food nut. Just be healthy -- in moderation.
Exercising will make you feel more energized and positive.
 Use your divorce as the opportunity to try the things you never got to try when you were married. Maybe you always wanted to take an art class but never had the chance, or maybe you never had a chance to expand your cooking repertoire because you didn't have the time. Now, spend some time finding a love for Italian cuisine, pottery, or foreign films and enjoy the feeling of expanding your mind and body and finding new things to care about.Check out the classes at your local gym and take one that appeals to you. Don't be afraid if you're an absolute beginner -- you won't be alone.
Exploring a new interest will also expose you to a wider variety of interesting, engaged people.
 If you ended up staying in the home that you shared with your ex, then you may need a change of pace. Though it may not be financially or practically possible for you to move out of the house, but you can move things around so your ex's presence isn't haunting the place. Move your furniture around or buy new furniture, paint the walls, or even splurge on a new bed so you can slowly remove the presence of your ex.


If you want to take a little vacation, go for a weekend trip or a getaway across the country to visit a friend. Though taking a vacation won't be a permanent solution for your divorce, it can help take your mind off of things.
You can also change your environment by avoiding the bars, restaurants, or old haunts where you and your ex used to hang out.
 Though you may think that drinking will relieve your pain and make it easier to deal with your divorce, it'll actually make your troubles harder and will bring you more physical and emotional pain. Though it may be fun to forget your divorce for a few hours and let loose, don't drink so much that you don't know where you are, lose control, and end up embarrassing yourself and hurting others in the process.


If you want to take it easy on drinking for a while, let your friends know. This will make it harder for them to pressure you to have a crazy night.
 You're going through a hard time and deserve to be spoiled once in a while. Spend a day at the spa, get a massage, or take a relaxing hot bath and watch your stress levels go down. You can even splurge on an expensive haircut, manicure, or a new outfit that makes you feel amazing.


This isn't the time to be hard on yourself or to punish yourself -- instead, let your body feel relaxed and cared for.

