 It has probably taken months and even years to program yourself to think like the "populars", the "cool set", the "hipsters", or whatever other allegiance you've allied yourself to. And that thinking isn't going to go away overnight. For a time, you will still see things through the lenses of the group think you adopted, so you need to be patient, persistent, and consistent with overturning this thinking.;
,


What are your values? How do these differ from those of the group you were formerly a part of?
What are your thoughts about major political, social, economic, and cultural issues?
What are your preferred fashion do's and don'ts? Do you even like the trends of the group you were part of?
Has there been a side of yourself you have been repressing just to get along with the old group? List the things about yourself that you think haven't been properly expressed in a long time.
 If you are still struggling to define what it is that you value and think, then you'll need to spend some more time on this step until things firm up more for you. You can test yourself by reading popular culture in the papers, magazines, and online and asking yourself questions all the time about what you think of the issues as presented. You'll start to form your ideas more clearly as you do so.
 Don't get upset or frustrated. Quietly acknowledge that this is happening and choose to abandon this line of thinking. Restore the balance by thinking the way you want to do so now. Remind yourself through questions:


Instead of saying "What should I think?" or "What would he/she think?" say "What do I think?"
Ask yourself how you truly feel about absolutely everything. Even down to the food you eat, the clothes you wear, and the route you travel home each day.
 The hardest part about undoing a faked personality is learning to stand up for the person you really are. You will need to be very gentle on yourself because this part is going to be hard to begin with but it gets easier with practice. Your initial knee-jerk reaction may be to respond as you would have done within the group but stop yourself, breathe deeply, and clearly voice your opinion.


If you disagree with someone, then don't be afraid to do so. Just be polite although firm, and say that your thoughts on the matter differ from theirs.
Respect yourself and the other person through use of polite language, manners, and by articulating yourself clearly.
If someone becomes difficult or pushy with their opinions, simply let them know that you respect them but that you will be agreeing to disagree. Take a break from them if it gets too hard to deal with.

