 Characters take on their own personality the more you work with them and put them in real situations. They will occasionally stick out their tongue, jeer at you, and mock you for the reactions you force them to make. “Come on, I'd never do something like that! You're writing it out all wrong!” So how do you work with a character and control them? There really is no magic answer to that, so let me just share with you a bit of what works for me.;
, You can't honestly determine someone's actions by glancing at them, and you would have no clue whether or not they would delight in conversation, or ignore you. To know a character, I start out with writing his biography. Begin with the basics: name, age, gender, purpose, personality, background and looks. You will think of more to add later on as you develop your character. You'll want to have this for reference when you're writing something about a character. So that you wouldn't tell the reader sometime later that one of your characters has brown eyes and red hair, while at other times the story says he has blue eyes and blond hair.
 Would you get angry or just ignore them? What would you do when faced with the death of someone close to you? Etc.” Sometimes I write down the whole history of a person, just so I can know how they will respond to emotional and physical tests. I do this judging how I want my character to act, whether I want him to be rude, friendly, odd, etc. I keep in my mind what I want my character to be like, then I go back and build a past for him that helps me understand the reasons for his behavior. Every person has dreams, goals, troubles, weaknesses and strengths. The way they react to their circumstances, the way they accept faults, they way they keep on going forms their personality.
 He has suffered an abusive childhood and over the years he has grown bitter, resentful and doesn't communicate well with people. He would rather keep to himself than meet new friends. When you get to know why he is the way he is, you will realize where the attitude is coming from and have a better understanding, or rather relationship with him. (Yes, you do develop a relationship with your character—it happens.)

, It's always good to observe real people and transform them into characters. I have used countless people I have seen or met at the grocery store. I was eating at a restaurant not long ago, and I noticed an Indian man sitting at one of the tables with his friends. He was rough looking, had long, black, greasy hair, and really dark skin. I stared at him occasionally, and even though I think I made him angry, I got a good idea of what I wanted one of my characters to be like. Though he may not have been rude or mischievous like I thought he looked, he still conjured up a great personality to work with.
 Whether or not you decide to fulfill their needs and desires is completely up to you, but don't forget to mention the suffering your characters go through -- how hungry they are, how thirsty they've become, how much pain and suffering of a long journey, etc.
 They can get grumpy, rant, cry, run off, or stoically endure the problems that they encounter through the story. Just don't forget that the characters suffer for the things you do. Not that that's a bad thing. It's actually good to bring out their attitudes, as it makes them more real, and allows your readers to empathize with them.
 It may build up inside of him, and fester for weeks. The reader can tell by Harold's actions that he's mad, though he may never say anything and doesn't blow up. Finally, he can't take it anymore. A simple question or a suggestion by someone sends him on a rage, and he explodes. Emotions can be a lot stronger than physical actions, but it depends on how you use them.
 You can build much more lifelike characters by observing real people, giving them a past, and placing them in situations that bring out what's inside of them. Construct a foundation for your character and you'll be amazed by what they will build for you.

