, wrong beliefs about reality. According to Jain Philosophy, the universe is made up of six simple substances and is therefore eternal.
, At this stage, a person generally hovers between certainty and doubt on Right Belief. Knowledge of Seven fundamentals or truths (tattva) that constitute reality is essential. These areJīva, the living or conscious substance, i.e., the soul;

ajīva, the non-living, i.e., the unconscious substance;

Āsrava, i.e., inflow of matter into the soul;

bandha, i.e., bondage;
stoppage- obstruction of the inflow of karmic matter into the soul (called samvara);

nirjarā, the removal of matter from the soul; and

moksha, i.e., freedom.
 You will reach this stage when doubts are removed. The doubts may be removed by meditation or the instruction of a spiritual teacher. (Right Belief but no self-discipline) After developing Right Faith, Right Knowledge must be acquired. Knowledge can acquired through scriptures or meditation.
 Right Conduct includes:


Five kinds of spiritual purity:

1. Equanimity,
2. Penalties for faults arising from inadvertence, or negligence, on account of which one loses equanimity,
3. Refraining from himsā (injury)
4. Control of passions,
5. Contemplation of one's own soul


Observance of the vows:


Ahiṃsā- Not to hurt any living being by actions and thoughts. Out of the five types of living beings, a householder is forbidden to kill, or destroy, intentionally, all except the lowest (the one sensed, such as vegetables, herbs, cereals, etc., which are endowed with only the sense of touch).

Satya- Don't lie or speak what is not commendable.

Asteya- Not to take anything if not given.

Brahmacharya (Celibacy) - Refrain from indulgence in sex-passion.

Aparigraha (Non-possession)- Detachment from material property.

Digvrata- restriction on movement with regard to directions.

Bhogopabhogaparimana- vow of limiting consumable and non-consumable things

Anartha-dandaviramana- refraining from harmful occupations and activities (purposeless sins).

Samayika- vow to meditate and concentrate periodically.

Desavrata- limiting movement to certain places for a fixed period of time.
Fasting at regular intervals.
Vow of offering food to the ascetic and needy people.
 Some negligence is possible at this stage.
 No negligence is allowed at this stage (partial realisation of natural joy possible).
 Also, a new channel of thought opens here.
, Very slight greed is left to be controlled.
, Through this process, every passion is annihilated and delusion is destroyed.
 It is characterised by the destruction of all inimical (ghātiā) karmas. (Omniscience is with vibration).
 The soul destroys the four aghātiā karmas. It is marked by Omniscience without any activity. This is the last stage on the Path, Those who pass this stage are called siddha and become fully established in Right Faith, Right Knowledge and Right Conduct.


Right Faith (Samyak darshan)means "Belief in substances ascertained as they are."
Right Knowledge (Samyak Jnana) is the Knowledge of the substances (tattvas) without any doubt or misapprehension.
Right Conduct (Samyak Charitra) means being free from attachment i.e. not committing hiṃsā (injury).

