 The only sure way to know whether or not a cat is a stray is to find its owner. A stray cat may not be far from its home. Attempt to locate its owner by asking your neighbors if they have lost a cat or know anyone who has.It may help to take a picture of the cat along with you.
Posting a photo of the cat and a location where it was found on social media can also help you find the owner. This method will allow you to reach a bigger audience in much less time than going door-to-door.
In addition, you can create a “found” poster with the cat’s picture and contact number to call if anyone recognizes the cat.
 If you are able to safely catch the cat, take it to a veterinarian to have them scan the cat for a microchip. If the cat is implanted with a microchip, it will have information about the owner and how to contact them., It is also possible that the owner of the stray cat doesn’t know it has been wandering. In this situation, it can be helpful to attach a paper collar to the cat, if possible, that includes a message like, “This cat has been visiting me lately. Please contact me if it belongs to you.” Be sure to include your phone number or email address so the person can reach you. If the cat wanders around during the day but returns home at night, this will let the owner know what it is doing.


Don’t leave the paper collar on for an extended period of time because it could be irritating to the cat. If you haven’t received any calls within a few days of placing it on the cat, remove it if the cat will allow you., Check with the animal shelters in your area to see if anyone has called about a missing cat recently. If someone has, they may be able to give you the person’s contact information or contact them on their own to try and reunite the owner and cat.


It is also a good idea to leave a description of the cat, where it was found, and your contact information with each shelter so they can get in touch with you if someone calls looking for a cat that matches your description.
 There are also online resources, like PetsLocated.com, that help reunite owners with their lost pets. This site has a “lost” database and a “found” database and it continually cross references the two to try and match up any pets that have been reported lost and also found. Enter the information you have about the cat on this database to help find the owner.