 Artist's brushes intended for inking comics have short handles, similar to those used for painting watercolors. Brushes used for painting with oils or acrylics typically have longer handles and are not recommended for inking. As inkers typically get close to their work in order to follow sketch lines made by a penciller, longer handles get in the way.;
, Artist's brushes range in size from as small as 20/0 to as large as 30. The most common sizes of inking brushes, however, are 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, with 3 being the recommended size for first-time inkers, although some artists go down to size 0 for inking finer lines.


Brush sizes are not necessarily universal among brush manufacturers; one company's size 0 may be another company's size 1. Check with your local artist supply store for guidance.
 Many artists favor natural bristles made from the hair of the Kolinsky sable, a species of weasel. Other artists find synthetic bristles a cheaper alternative, provided the brush is made by a manufacturer with a good reputation. To evaluate the quality of a brush you're considering, ask to dip the brush in water until it's good and wet, then strike the middle of the brush against your wrist. If the brush hairs come to a point without any "split ends," you can expect the brush to perform well as an inking brush.


Good quality natural hair brushes include the Winsor Newton Series 7 and the Raphael.
Good quality brushes with synthetic hair include the Winsor Newton Specter Gold II.
Some artists prefer to work with a brush pen, which has a fibrous tip like a brush but uses ink cartridges like a fountain pen. Kuretake and Pentel each make quality brush pens. You may prefer to use different cartridges than those the pen comes with, however.
 The standard ink used for inking comics is India ink. Quality brands of ink include Higgins Black Magic, Pelican, and Speedball Super Black. Different brands of ink may have different properties, however, despite being of equal quality; some tend to be thicker than others. Some artists prefer to use a thicker ink when inking with a brush than with a pen and to thin the brush ink with a tiny bit of ammonia when necessary.

