 Espresso beans are a type of different coffee beans that have less acidity than other types of coffee beans. In the Italian tradition, they are always a blend of beans that in addition to being low in acidity, are heavily bodied, and sweet.You can buy a bag of your favorite espresso roast at any coffee shop or grocery store. If you don’t know a lot about different roasts, then just look for “Espresso Roast” on the bag.
If you get whole beans then you will have to grind them properly for espresso, which is a fine grind.You can substitute the espresso for strong coffee if you need, and add just a bit of sugar to mimic the sweetness of espresso.;
, You will need about 3/4 a cup of milk for every cup of espresso. You don’t have to worry about frothing the milk for a Caffe Latte Freddo. Unlike the lattes you usually get at a coffee shop here, this drink has you just mixing the milk into the espresso and shaking.


Whole milk is the standard in Italy, but you can use whichever milk you prefer.Thinner milks will affect how thick your drink ends up being.
 Your ice cubes shouldn’t be too large as the method for making the Caffe Latte Freddo involves shaking instead of blending.


Regular ice cube trays should be fine.
 If you want your drink to taste a bit less bitter you can add sugar to your drink. While espresso roasts are sweeter than other roasts, some people still prefer an even sweeter taste.
 The more pure the water, the better. If you are using water from the tap and it is full of minerals, it may affect the taste of your espresso slightly.


Most average coffee drinkers won’t really notice much of a difference, but the purer the water the more the flavors of the roast will come through.
 In order to ensure that your shots are pulled at the correct temperature you should heat up the espresso maker. Plenty of modern espresso makers will automatically heat up before pulling shots.


If your machine doesn’t preheat automatically, then run your portafilter under hot water to warm it. The portafilter is where you pack in your grounds and if it is cold then this could affect the brewing temperature. If you do heat it with water, make sure it is relatively dry when you put the grounds in it.
 If you have whole espresso beans and have a coffee grinder at home you can grind your beans now for a fresher taste. To ensure you get a proper grind, figure out which kind of grinder you have.


There are a couple types of grinders out there, Burr Grinders and a Blade Grinders.Blade Grinders are better for drip and French Press because they don’t usually offer a super fine grind. A Burr Grinder uses two burrs to efficiently grind your coffee beans and will be able to offer a much finer grind.
If you are using a Blade Grinder, set the grinder to the highest setting for the finest grind.
To see if your grind is fine enough you can do a simple test by pinching the grounds between your fingers. If a small portion clumps and stays compact between your fingers, your beans are ground fine enough.
 There are several types of machines that can brew espresso. While unfortunately your drip coffee maker isn’t suited for espresso, you can find reasonably priced stovetop machines.


You can get an Italian Moka pot which makes espresso in a little metal pot that heats on your stove.If you have an espresso machine, then load it up for one shot, or a double. Most espresso machines will automatically pull a double shot, which for best results should require between 18-21 grams of grounds.If you don’t have either an espresso machine or Moka, you can use a French Press.
 Ensure that your portafilter is securely locked. Then place your shot glass under the spout.For the best roast, you should pull your shots for between 22-28 seconds.
 Make sure that you have measured your milk out correctly so that you get the best taste. Your end result should be a nice light brown color.


Make the mixture in a mason jar if you have one, or use a beverage shaker that will strain the drink while leaving any ice behind.
Pour the espresso in first, then add the milk.
 If you want your drink to be a bit sweeter, and a little more American you can add a tablespoon of sugar.


You don’t have to stir it in as the espresso will dissolve it on its own, and you’ll be shaking the entire mixture which will disperse it evenly.
 If you are using a mason jar, then make sure the lid is screwed on tightly and shake as you would when mixing a drink like a shaken Martini. Use an up and down motion to best distribute and mix your ingredients.
 Your glass should be large enough and suitable for serving coffee beverages.


If you used a drink mixer then pour your Caffe Latte Freddo into a clear espresso glass (or a half-pint glass if you have one), or back into your mason jar.
If you shook your Caffe Latte Freddo in your mason jar and didn’t strain it, then just unscrew the lid.



If you have strained your Latte Freddo you can see if there’s any foam left in your shaker and scoop it out, placing it on top of your drink.

