 If you want to reheat a roast for later, the process starts when you first cook the roast. Roasts can dry out in the reheating process, so you'll want to save any fats or fluids that drip off the roast into the baking pan.


You should also cook the roast slightly less done than you prefer. For example, if you prefer a medium rare roast, remove your roast from the oven when it's rare.
Collect the drippings after removing the roast from the oven. You can pour the drippings into a sealable container and store them in the fridge for later.;
, For a larger roast, you'll want to cut your roast into two equally sized sections. If your roast is smaller than 4 pounds, you should be able to reheat it without slicing it into sections.
 When you're ready to cook the roast, you'll need certain supplies. If you do not have the right supplies, purchase them at the grocery store prior to reheating the roast. You will need the following:


Aluminum foil and parchment paper
A tablespoon
A baking sheet

, Place a square of aluminum foil on a baking sheet. If you cut your roast into two sections, use two squares. Place a piece of parchment paper on top of each square of foil. Set a piece of roast on top of each piece of parchment paper.
 Use your tablespoon here. Each piece of roast should be drizzled with 2 to 3 tablespoons (29.6 to 44.4 ml) of the saved drippings. Smaller pieces of roast may only need 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml), while you should go for 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) for larger pieces. The drippings will help the roast from drying out upon being reheated.
 Roll the foil and parchment paper over the roast, until the full roast is covered. Make a tight parcel with each piece of roast, as this will assure the roast remains moist and cooks through during the reheating process.
 Place your pieces of roast on a baking sheet. Transfer to an oven that's heated to 350 °F (177 °C). Heat the roast for 20 to 25 minutes.


Use an instant read thermometer to check to make sure the roast is at a safe temperature to eat. The internal temperature of your roast should be around 145 degrees Fahrenheit.
 If you're just reheating slices of roast, they can be reheated over the stove top. A cast iron skillet can reheat roast while preserving the flavor and most of the moisture. Cut off a few slices of roast at your preferred thickness to start. Keep in mind, however, thinner slices may work better for this method.Heat a cast iron skillet over medium high heat.
Place the slice or slices of roast on the skillet.
Cook the roast for a few minutes. You need to turn it frequently to make sure it cooks evenly, and the meat is reheated completely.
 It may be difficult to cook very thick slices of roast on a cast iron skillet. For this, you can use a grill pan. Slices of about 3/4 inch thick work best for the grill pan method.Preheat your grill pan to a low or medium heat setting.
Place your slices on top of a stoneware plate, or another type of plate that can withstand a lot of heat.
Set the plate on top of the grill pan. After 6 minutes, blood or moisture should begin draining from the roast. It should now be fully heated and safe to eat.
 In general, do not use the microwave to reheat roast. This may be unsafe, and roast dries out in the microwave. However, small portions of a cooked meat dish can be reheated in the microwave. If you're reheating a plate for someone who was late for dinner, the microwave is a quick and easy option.Place vegetables and side dishes towards the center of the plate, with the pieces of roast around the side. You can sprinkle some water on the slices of roast to prevent them from drying out.
Cover the plate with a lid, or with microwave safe plastic wrap. Set the plate towards the outside of the turn table and reheat for 2 minutes.
Let the plate stand for 1 minute before serving.
 When storing a full roast for reheating, it's important you protect the roast from contaminates in your refrigerator. The roast should be wrapped in airtight packaging. Plastic film would work well here. Wrap the roast completely in the packaging. Having any bits of the roast exposed could be dangerous.
 You want the roast to be stored in the coldest portion of your refrigerator. This is usually towards the back of the fridge, so push the roast back there. If you need to make space, do so.
 Leftover meat is usually only good for 3 to 4 days. Make sure you do not eat the roast after this time period. Any leftovers that last longer than 3 to 4 days should be thrown out.It's a good idea to write the date you cooked the roast on its packaging to make sure you do not eat it after 3 to 4 days.

