 If you can comfortably lift your dog, you can weigh it with a standard bathroom scale and some simple subtraction. Just pick your dog up in your arms and hold it tightly so that it can’t wiggle around and jump (or fall) to the ground.Hold your dog with both arms, close to the center of your body, as if you were picking your dog up to give it some affection.
This is not a good idea if you struggle with lifting heavy objects or have some health restrictions that prohibit you from lifting things.;
, Get on the scale and wait a few moments for the scale to register the weight. Look down, view the number, and record the weight it displays. This is the total weight of you plus your dog.Be careful to keep a tight grasp on your dog the entire time. You don’t want to accidentally drop your pup if it wiggles in your arms.
 Let your dog down off the scale and then step onto the scale by yourself. Record your weight while standing alone on the scale.


Give the dog a treat for cooperating to encourage him to stay still next time.
 Take the total weight (you plus your dog) and subtract your individual weight. The answer is your dog's weight.For example, if the total weight (you and your dog combined) is 215 pounds and your individual weight is 187 pounds, you’ll perform this equation: 215 minus 187. The answer is 28 pounds, the weight of your dog.
 Your veterinarian should be able tell you the “target weight” for your dog’s breed. If your dog is purebred, you can also compare your dog to breed standards published on the American or British Kennel Club websites.These standards will also give you the typical weight range for males and females of that breed. Keep in mind that these standards are the average for “show quality” dogs, and that unusually tall or short dogs may not fall into these weight ranges.
If your dog is a mix of two breeds with a similar ideal weight, aim for that general range. If your dog is a mix between several breeds, consider the ideal weights of the breeds that the dog looks most similar to in size and appearance.

