 Pour a line of emulsion along a side of the screen and use the squeegee to spread a thin line along the entire screen. Photo emulsion reacts to light, hardening when exposed, so anything not covered by your stencil will turn into a barrier preventing ink from getting through.


Apply emulsion to the flat side of the frame, not the side surrounded by wood.
Do this in as dark a room as possible to prevent the emulsion from hardening before you're ready., Expose it to as little light as you can. A closet or bathroom will work well, as long as you can close some curtains

, You'll need to expose the emulsion to direct, strong light to prepare it. Following the specification on the photo emulsion bottle, set up a light above your flat black surface. Each emulsion has different times, watts, and distances needed for proper hardening, so be sure to read the bottle before beginning. The lamp should always be 1-2 feet above the emulsion.


If the emulsion calls for 30 minutes at 200 watts, set up a lamp with a 200W bulb 1-2 feet above a table. The screen goes under the light.
 As you're moving the screen, cover it with a towel so it does not react to incidental light. Place it under the lamp in your station, leaving the towel on for now., The screen should be emulsion side up. The mesh will be lifted a few inches off the table and resting on the frame. Place your stencil in the middle of the screen with 4-5 inches of space between the design and the edge of the frame.


You must place your stencil down in reverse to get the right image. Look at your stencil the way you want it, then flip it over before you put it down. Otherwise, you will get a mirror image when you start printing.
If there is a breeze, or your stencil is very light, place a clear piece of glass on top of it to keep it from moving.
Do not push, prod, or move your screen, light, or stencil once it is placed and set., Simply follow the instructions on your emulsion bottle and remove the screen when it is done. When it is done, remove the stencil and set it aside for later. If you smell anything burning during this process, turn off the light immediately.


If you prepared the emulsion correctly, you should see the faint outline of your stencil in the emulsion when the design is removed.
 Take any high-powered water source (shower, faucet, hose) and wash off the screen, focusing on your image. The water will wash away the unhardened emulsion around your design. You should see the outline of your stencil appear. Keep on spraying until you can see your image well. Let the screen dry before moving on to the next step.
 The mesh should be touching the whatever you're printing on, like paper or a shirt.


If you're using a shirt, slide some cardboard between the layers of the shirt to prevent the ink from bleeding through.
 Put a thin line of ink just above your design. Then drag the squeegee over your design firmly, coating the entire stencil in ink.


The harder you press the darker your image will be. , Pull the screen off the t-shirt/paper with even pressure, then hang the shirt up to dry. Your design will be printed.
 You can use your silk screen again with another t-shirt if you want, adding more ink as necessary. Simply wipe down the backside after every shirt and reapply ink. If you're using the same print for multiple days in a row, rinse and dry it at the end of each day.

