 Although there is a relationship between alcohol tolerance and dependence, they are not the same thing. A person can increase their alcohol tolerance without becoming dependent, though having too high an alcohol tolerance likely means you are also dependent.Tolerance means that your body adapts to the consumption of a specific amount of alcohol, even in amounts such as one beer or one glass of wine.Dependence means that you consistently and compulsively consume alcohol and need it to function, a dangerous state you want to avoid.If your alcohol tolerance becomes too high, it's likely a sign that you're dependent, which can be dangerous not only for you, but also the people around you.;
, Not all alcoholic drinks are equal in alcohol strength, and even the type of drink may be handled differently by different individuals.


In general, the smaller the typical serving size, the stronger the drink. A shot of whiskey can have as much alcohol as an entire light beer.
In many countries, the alcohol content is labelled on the container. The higher the content, the higher the effect.
Sweet fruity drinks and/or cocktails can be very difficult to judge on alcoholic content--especially for a novice. Since these can vary widely based on the bartender, there is no one standard.
Not all types of drinks are standardized. A typical lager-style beer is usually about 5% alcohol, but some craft beers are 20% or more.
Different drinks may produce different effects. Be aware that while inebriation has common effects, different types of drinks may cause slightly different effects. For example, a person may be much more mellow drinking wine than after having tequila.
 Before you start to increase your consumption, estimate what your current tolerance is. This will help you figure out the safest way to consume more alcohol.


Have one drink, then perhaps another in a safe environment with responsible drinkers. Do not put yourself in a situation where impairment is inherently dangerous, or with people who are irresponsible and are likely to push you past your comfort zone.
If you do not normally consume alcohol, or have one or two drinks once a week, your tolerance will be comparatively low. If you consume two drinks five days a week, your tolerance will be accordingly higher.
 The easiest way to increase your tolerance for alcohol is to drink more of it. You’ll want to do this without harming yourself- or anyone else. It is important to realize that alcohol consumption is never risk-free and that while you may not feel the effects of alcohol consumption, you may nevertheless be too impaired to function normally.


Go slowly. For example, consume only one additional drink than you normally would. If you never drink, start with one, or even a half of, alcoholic beverage. If you usually have one glass of wine or one spirit, have one and a half or two drinks. This will ensure that you do not consume too much alcohol as you increase your tolerance.
Consider having one glass of water in between drinks to help yourself consume drinks slowly.
Eat while drinking. Consuming food while drinking helps keep the alcohol from having quite as strong an effect. Drinking on an empty stomach will cause much more inebriation than on a full one.
 Remember, you are increasing your tolerance and avoiding dependence. By consuming alcohol within sensible guidelines, you will run less risk of becoming dependent or harming yourself.


Remember that your judgement will be impaired on alcohol--you can be drunk and not think you are. For this reason, it is often good to have a friend to keep tabs on your drinking, and help you to stay within the sensible guidelines for drinking.
Alcohol units are based on the percentage alcohol in a beverage and the amount of alcohol consumed. One unit of alcohol is 10ml of pure alcohol.Since most alcohol beverages are not pure alcohol, the percentage of alcohol in the drink is a factor in the number of units.For reference, a bottle of wine has 9-10 units.
For example, one pint of beer with a 4% alcohol volume 2.3 units.If you prefer spirits, such as scotch, a "single" scotch of 25ml has one unit.Or maybe you prefer wine, in which case, one 175ml glass has 2.3 units.The guidelines for sensible drinking recommend no more than 2-3 units of alcohol a day for women. This would be the equivalent of approximately one beer or glass of wine per day, or two to three single spirits.The guidelines for sensible drinking recommend no more than 3-4 units of alcohol a day for men. This would be the equivalent of approximately 1-2 beers or glasses of wine, or 3-4 spirits per day., As your alcohol tolerance increases, it may be difficult to figure out when you’ve had too much to drink. Making sure you know how much you’ve consumed will help you avoid getting drunk, alcohol poisoning, or possibly worse.
 It’s a good idea to have at least two alcohol free days per week. This will keep you from becoming dependent on alcohol and help your body recover from previous consumption.


If you find that you can’t go a day without alcohol consumption, this is a sign that you are dependent.If this is the case, seek professional help.
 Any time you consume an alcoholic beverage, you run the risk of harming your body. The only risk-free alcohol consumption is not drinking at all, and the more you drink, the greater your risk.Tolerance will not protect you from the dangers of alcohol.
In the short term, alcohol consumption can cause the following health problems: weight gain, depression, skin problems, and memory loss.
In the long term, alcohol consumption can cause the following health problems: high blood pressure, chronic liver disease, and breast cancer.

