 One way to get your work seen is to put in on articles that have a public profile. Spray paint artists work on high gloss surfaces or surfaces that are semi- to non-porous. That means you can create not only on poster board but on windows, skateboards and car hoods.
 Creating with a can of spray paint is not necessarily seen as vandalism; in some cases, it’s considered to be an important contribution to a city as a form of public art.


Look for mural art projects to be a part of. Many cities have mural art programs that create wall art as a way of beautifying neighborhoods. These groups may not use spray paint to create their art, but they’re worth investigating.
Cities around the world have designated areas where graffiti and spray paint artists are welcome to work. These include Venice, California; Queens, New York; Melbourne, Australia, Warsaw, Poland; Paris, France and Taipei, Taiwan to name a few. Do some research to find areas where your artwork is welcome.
 Since spray art is a fairly new genre, many traditional galleries don’t accept it, but you can take a more DIY approach to getting paid for your paintings.


Rent a booth at a local arts fair or flea market. Many areas have art shows that are well-attended annual events. In some cases, you’ll have to submit your work to a panel of judges in order to be accepted. In other cases, you simply have to pay the fee for a booth. Many communities have weekly or monthly flea markets. Double check that the one you’re interested in allows for artwork to be sold.
Create a website or online gallery to showcase your canvases. This allows people from all over to browse through your work and find something that appeals to them. You can also offer your work for sale on eBay.
Set your sights high. Find inspiration in the story of Hugo Montero, one of the major innovators of spray paint art. At the peak of his popularity, he had shows at the New Orleans Contemporary Arts Center and the Smithsonian in Washington DC, collaborated with MTV and continued painting on the street. A journalist gave him the nickname CanGogh, which stuck with him from that time forward.

