 On your date, you can make eye contact to send a simple and direct message that you're interested in the person you're with. Maintaining good eye contact will let your date know that you want to hear what they have to say and that you are enjoying your time together. Try to make good eye contact with your date to let them know you'd like to see more of them.Avoid staring contests. Try looking at something else to make eye contact breaks occasionally.
Lack of eye contact can mean that you or your date is uninterested or shy.
 Physical touch is a powerful message that you can send, letting your date know that you're really enjoying their company. You can try moving closer to them, putting your arm around them or even holding their hand. Take note of how they respond to learn if they might be as interested in another date as you are.You can break the touch barrier by lightly touching their arm or hand while you are laughing at something they have said. Or you may brush the person's hair out of their eyes or fix their hair for them to introduce some physical touch.
If you notice your date moving away from you or stiffening up, there is a good chance that your touch has made them uncomfortable. You should move away and stop touching them.
If your date moves closer to you or reciprocates the touch, they are likely comfortable and interested in you.
 Mirroring is the natural tendency for people who are getting along to copy one another's movements and behaviors. To help show that you're interested in your date and build a better connection, you can try subtly mimicking some of your date's motions. Looking for signs that your date is copying your motions can also be a hint that they are interested in you.Mirroring will generally be a natural and unconscious action.
Facial expressions, tone of voice and posture are all examples of behaviors that can be mirrored. For example, perhaps if your date leans towards you, you lean towards them also. If your date tilts their head when they look at you, you may do the same.
If you try to copy your date's behaviors, avoid doing so too obviously. Blatantly copying someone else's motions can actually cause them to dislike you. Don't mirror every single move your date makes, and allow a few seconds to pass before you mirror their actions.

