 You might be starting a new life because you want to make a change. Or, you might be starting a new life because you have to. Some personal tragedy may have destroyed your home, job, or relationship. Either way, the first step in starting over is knowing what you want from life.


Even if you are not happy with beginning a new life, prioritizing what is important for you to do in this new life is helpful. Having clear goals and determining what you need to do to achieve them will help you feel more confident and optimistic about building your new life.Taking the time to determine exactly what you want will get you thinking about the business items you need to take care of, as well as clarify what changes you are able to influence.;
, If the life changes you are considering are of your own choosing, it is a good idea to spend some time thinking about the consequences your actions may have.


Major life changes can be hard to undo. Spend some time considering what you will gain, and what you might be giving up by starting a new life.For example, perhaps you are contemplating selling your home and moving to another city. This new city may have much to offer, but once you've sold your existing home, it is unlikely you'll be able to get it back.
Similarly, breaking off relationships with long-time friends or family members can create rifts that are very hard to mend, should you decide you want those people back in your life.
The point here isn't that you should not begin a new life or make major changes. But, these decisions should be made only after careful consideration.
 If beginning a new life was easy, people would do it all the time. The reason they don't is that there are many obstacles that can make major life changes difficult. Take some time to think about what might hold you back, so that you can plan for it.


Perhaps you want to move and begin a new life in a different city or country. Determine what parts of your life will be affected. If you are moving far away, will you mind leaving your present community, friends and established patterns of coming and going? Compare the cost of living where you live now to where you want to go. Is it affordable? Are jobs in your field available? A move to an international location may take more thought and planning than a move elsewhere. Find out whether you must obtain permission to move to or work in your chosen destination. Likewise, finding housing, negotiating currency, banking and transportation will be much different from your current situation.
If you do not have the funds to quit your job and start a new life surfing on the beach (or whatever your dream), you'll need keep your day job. This doesn't mean you have to give up your dream of surfing, but this is an obstacle you'll need to consider. You want to be sure your plans are as practical and realistic as possible.
 Consider what it is you'll need to do to achieve your goals and start your new life.It's a good idea to sit down with some paper and a pen and write this down. You'll probably go through several drafts as you consider and reconsider different approaches.


Divide your life into the major areas in which you intend to make changes. For example you might want to change your career/job, location, significant other, friends, etc.Next, as you list the changes in each area, prioritize them. Narrow down to the most important aspects of your life plan.
Think about the practicality of beginning a new life. Consider the steps this will take and whether you have the funds, the support of others in your life, and the energy to undertake the changes necessary.
For example, if you want to change careers, determine the steps you'll need to take and the parts of your life this will affect. Family, friends, education, salary, commute time, and hours worked are likely to be variables that change in your new life. Try to anticipate, as much as possible, how the changes you want to make will impact the different areas of your life.
 You'll probably need to create your “life plan” over a series of planning sessions. After you take some time away from your plan, other things to add will come up, and you may wish to eliminate items from the initial plan.


Do not rush the process. As you add, subtract and prioritize your life areas, you break down a potentially overwhelming project into smaller, more manageable pieces of information and tasks.
Throughout the process of building your new life, review the plan often, and make additional revisions as they become necessary.