 Each state has its own land management agency that has responsibility for state government land. The name of the agency varies depending on the state, but look for an agency that has "land management" or "natural resources" in its title.Typically state governments have greater amounts of property for sale than does the federal government. One reason for this is that federal law requires the federal government to first offer public lands to state governments before selling it to the public.
The easiest source for information on public sales and auctions of state-owned surplus property may be the website of the appropriate state government agency.
Typically, the website will include details regarding the types of property normally sold and the auction methods used. You may even be able to find information about specific properties or dates for public auctions.
 If state real property is currently and actively listed for sale to the general public, you typically have the ability to review details about that property either online or by visiting an office of the state's land management agency.The state also may have a mailing list for people interested in purchasing surplus land. For example, the state of New York gives you the opportunity to sign up for property sales notifications, so you can receive an email when state-owned surplus property is being sold.
New York, Michigan, and other states have websites specifically devoted to the sale of surplus properties, some of which are available for immediate sale without going through an auction process.
Property typically is sold as is, without any warranties or guarantees, and will not be sold for less than fair market value.
 Before you bid on a state property for sale, you typically must register as a bidder and meet the basic eligibility requirements established by state law. These requirements vary among states and within states, depending on the type of property you want to buy.At a minimum, all states require bidders to be 18 years of age. In some states, you must be a resident of the state or be purchasing the property on behalf of a business incorporated or licensed to do business in the state.
If property is sold online through a website, you typically must create an account with the website and provide credit card information.
You typically have the ability to bid on multiple properties at once, but keep in mind that you must provide a deposit and be prepared to close the sale if you win the auction for the property.
If you're looking at a property that is offered for immediate sale, you'll have to be prepared to pay the full price shown when you purchase the property.
 In most states, if you want to bid on any state-owned real property, you must have certified funds equal to a minimum percentage of the amount you plan to bid – typically at least 10 percent – along with you when you register your bid.Property may be available for immediate sale. This usually is the case if the property was already offered at an auction but no bidders offered the minimum bid or higher – where the minimum bid typically is the fair market value of the property.
If you're looking at a property that is available for immediate sale, you won't have to put down a deposit, but you will have to be prepared to make a full and final payment for the complete purchase price.
 If you participated in an auction, the state agency will notify you if your bid is accepted as the winning bid. You typically have a limited time to pay the remainder of the amount of your accepted bid or you may lose the property.The government isn't going to finance the property for you, so if you don't have the cash on hand you'll have to arrange your own financing to make the full and final payment for the property.
Once payment is made, the state will issue you a quitclaim deed for the property. State governments make no guarantees regarding the title to the property, and the property may be subject to liens or other encumbrances.
Keep in mind that state-owned property often was acquired by the state because the previous owner failed to pay property taxes. Any property taxes owed on the property also must be paid as part of your payment on the property.
As soon as possible after you've purchased the property, it is in your best interest to have a full survey complete by a licensed property surveyor.

