 Find a physical activity you really enjoy. It does not mean you need to run, do cardio, or do sit-ups. This can mean a yoga class, purchase a DVD for a dance routine, or even go bike riding. Sweat is a good thing, working out not only makes you look better, but it also helps you FEEL better. The key is to be a healthy you in the body you were born in.;
, When showering use a sweet smelling wash so you’ll feel good while getting squeaky clean. Try exfoliating 1-2 times a week with a sugar or oatmeal scrub. This makes your skin silky smooth due to removing all the dead skin cells from your body, making your skin glow.
 The purpose of shampooing is to remove dirt and oil from your hair and scalp. Do not leave shampoo in for longer than necessary to clean your hair, otherwise it will dry your hair out, no matter what brand the shampoo may be. Invest in an excellent conditioner. When your have rinsed the shampoo from your head, eliminate all excess water and concentrate the conditioner on your ends, clip your hair up and leave conditioner in for the remainder of your shower and rinse. This maximizes shine and healthy looking hair and will prevent knots. Olive Oil has been found best to keep your hair super soft and way shiny.
 Be sure to moisturize as soon as you step out of the shower or if possible, while you are still in the bathroom and you have just dried off. Your skin acts like a sponge and absorbs lotion most effectively when you have just finished your shower, so this is the best time to apply lotion in all areas.
 Your feet are often neglected, and you can often tell if a person really takes care of themselves by looking at their feet. Since the skin on your feet is very thick, use Body Butter here. Keep your toe nails short and clean, and ensure your polish is always fresh. Clear polish is best to those who are unable to keep up with the maintenance of feet due to busy schedules. Same with your hands, they are also often neglected. Keep nails short and clean and clear nail polish always works. It is best to have clear short nails than coloured but chipped nails.
 Keep acne blemishes under control with a great acne wash. One with salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide are most effective (Please remember to follow instructions stated on these products in order to avoid dryness or face irritation). Follow up with astringent if you are very acne prone, and if not use a skin evening toner. Lastly apply a moisturizer with a minimum of SPF 15 to protect your skin from premature ageing, fine lines, and wrinkles. The skin on your face is a canvas, with a flawless canvas you are confident and feel better about looking people right in the eyes.
 Eyebrows should be well kept, cleanly plucked and nicely trimmed. There are great market products that help remove facial hair you may have on your top lip. These work great, but nothing is perfect so you might have to pluck a hair or two. To get a close, clean shave on your underarms, legs, or bikini line, exfoliate first (to ensure you get all that dead skin off and you get a super close shave), use a moisturizing shaving cream (to moisturize as you shave and avoid dryness), and use a new clean blade and shave opposite of hair growth (new blade to avoid bacteria from entering into those little nicks that occur with shaving).
 With perfumes, less is more! Apply perfume to your skin only! If applied to your clothes this might just be overwhelming. Apply dabs to your pulse points which are: Wrists, neck, cleavage, behind your knees, inside your elbows and behind your ears. Behind your knees?!! Yes! Scents travel up, so this way your scent stays with you. It is best to have one quality perfume than many mediocre perfumes.
 There is no doubt that dental hygiene will make or break you. Floss at least once a day, brush at least twice a day and use a total care mouth wash at the end of the night. Your teeth may not be the whitest or the straightest, but a clean germ free mouth is the closing point to this effortlessly beautiful regime I have provided. Smiling is an instant boost and when you have the best smile you can have, it can take you from 0 to 60 in no time.
 This has got to be the best beauty product fr an effortlessly beautiful woman. If applied at night, petroleum jelly creates super soft, healthy lips. It has been shown to strengthen and lengthen eyelashes and eyebrows. It relieves cracked skin you may get on your elbows, and it is a wonderful eye make up remover!

