 Open a new web browser tab or window, and visit the Skype website.;
, Enter your Skype ID and password into the fields provided, and click “Log in” to continue.
 Scroll down the page and go to the Manage Features section. In this section, you can find five rectangular boxes displaying the features available with its respective icons. Click the option with a phone icon and a hash stating “Skype number.”

, To change your Skype number, you must cancel the number you already have. To do this, go to “Settings” and click on “Cancel your subscription.”


Cancelling your Skype number won’t make your number inactive effective immediately. It only expires the number and will reserve it in your account for the consecutive 90 days. For 90 days, this number will belong to you and no one will be able to purchase this number. In case you want to renew this number, you can always do it during this period.
 To do this, just click the back arrow on your browser.
 Click the “Get Skype Number” link, and then “Click Number” from the options that appear. You'll be presented with a drop-down box. The upper part of the box contains a rectangular box displaying “Country/region → Area code, number, subscription → Confirmation.” Below this are two options: “Reserved numbers” and “Which country would you like your Skype number in?”

, Click on the specific country you want to have your Skype number in from the options. This will direct you to a new page with “Step 1: Select area and code.” Select your area and code from the list below to continue.
 After selecting an area code, you will be directed to Step 2, below the Step 1 area. Step 2 is where you can select or enter the phone number you want. If you want to enter a favorite number combination of your own, enter it in the “Enter your favorite combination” field. If you want to select a number from the list of suggestions, just click on the one you want.
 You will then be re-directed to a web page that will ask you to make the payment through debit/credit card or net banking. You will be asked to pay $60 for this new subscription. Make the payment by following the on-screen instructions.
 After you have selected or entered your new Skype number, and paid for the subscription, click the “Save Settings” button. You have successfully changed your Skype number.

