 Texting will only work if you know her phone number. It's hard to ask a girl for her number, but try to be casual about it. A simple "Hey, I don't think I have your number yet. Wanna exchange information?" should get the job done most of the time.


When getting her number, avoid:

Getting her number from another friend. If she didn't personally give you her number, she's not going to expect you to text her. She could find it creepy that you got her number without asking her.
Asking her over IM or the internet. Asking her in person will make it very hard for her to refuse. Unless she's really in control and plain doesn't like you, you should get the number 9 times out of 10.
Making a big deal out of it. The less it looks like you care about getting the number, the better off you should be. If you look like you really care about getting it, she could be a little put off.

;
, If she gave you her number and is waiting for you to text her, start off with something like this:


"Hey, it's Geoff from yesterday. How's it going?"
"Hi there. It's Joey. Don't want to bother you long but have you seen this video? I almost died a second ago...."
Or try for something a little more self-consciously funny if you think you can pull it off:"The guy who just embarrassed himself in front of you by trying to ask for your number? That's me!"


, Send texts gradually to see how she responds. Don't break her phone with hundreds of texts in the beginning. A few texts a day, followed by a break of a day or two, will show her that you aren't absolutely crazy about her (which can be a turn off for some girls).
 We all have body language. You probably knew that. What you might not have known is that body language can bleed through texts. Signs that you're texting her the appropriate things include:


Quick responses. Is she responding back really quickly whenever you text her? If she's playing hard to get, she might be purposely waiting, so don't put too much stock in this.
Laughter and other emoticons. Is she laughing all the time with "haha" or "lol?" That's a good sign. Smiley faces and other emoticons are definitely good signs, too.
Flirting back with you. You'll know a flirt when you see one. If she texts you something like "Oh I wouldn't have missed it for the world," or "Anytime I talk to you, it's a good day" means you're doing something good. Keep it up!

, Just like there are positive signs that you should be picking up on, there are negative signs that you can pick up on, too. Pay attention to these as you begin texting.


She doesn't respond to some of your texts. She just plain ignores them. If you said something impolite or insensitive, make a mental note not to text that again. Try giving her a little more space.
She writes back with very few words. If you sent her a couple of really nice, well thought-out texts, and she just responds with "That's nice," it means she's not in the mood or doesn't think what you wrote is very interesting.
She's never the one to start texting you. If you always have to text her, and she never makes an effort to text you, things probably aren't going great — yet!

, It can be a good idea to start with generic things and build up to more personal things over time.


For example, you might tell her about upcoming parties and events at the start.
Later, you can send texts telling her what you're doing and where you're going.
Finally, you can send texts just letting her know that you're thinking about her and the sorts of things you like/love about her. (Do this only if you're in a relationship or you're not worried that she'll find that uncomfortable.)

, Texting her funny things will help make texting much easier. If you're a funny person, use that. If you're not, try developing inside jokes, playfully teasing her, or simply commenting on funny situations you both are part of.
 Respond to questions that she asks and also respond in a way that shows that you have read and taken in the things that she has been texting generally. She'll like that.


Don't always respond immediately every time she texts you. Wait a couple of minutes before you text back. Switch it up. Sometimes, wait a big longer, sometimes a bit more.
 Don't lay it on thick, all day, every day. If you've started flirting with her, do it sparingly. A little bit will go a long way. Learn to make your texts a little more diverse by texting about:


Her day-to-day life. "Hows it going?" "How was your day?" and "Do anything fun over the weekend?" are all normal texts.
Any problems she is dealing with. Let her come to you with the problems. Don't pry into her life. But try to offer advice if she seems open to it.
Things that are happening in your life. You're probably giving her a lot of attention, and that's fine. But maybe, just maybe, she wants to learn about what's happening to you. Share what you're doing, who you saw, and where you're going. A little goes a long way here. Don't get carried away.
 If you start to develop a relationship with a girl, don't just rely on texting forever and ever. Eventually, you're going to need to move past texting and start hanging out with her, calling her on the phone, and going out on dates. If this girl likes you, that's what she'll expect.

