 Photos from your last camping trip can showcase your adventures, or photos from your child’s first year can be a decoration for a first birthday party. You might also choose an inspirational theme, including pictures of strong women, for example.


You can also make a photo mosaic. For this project, choose a main image and then assemble small pictures according to color tones in the main image. These smaller pictures will be “tiles” that make up your larger picture., ;
, Collages can decorate a small area of a wall, or they can be the centerpiece for an entire room. Take into account how many pictures you have to work with; making a large collage will require lots of pictures. In addition, collages do not need to be square or rectangular, but instead can be star-shaped, heart-shaped, letter-shaped or other shapes.Use poster board, cardstock, wood panels or foam-core shapes as the base of your collage.
 These can come from just about any printed material, from magazines, newspapers, old books, or postcards. Even fabric can be used in collages. If you are doing a photo collage, you should select the best photos that represent the event or convey the theme you’re going for. Depending on how large your collage is, you may need to choose 10-20 pictures, or you may need 50 pictures or more.


Consider how large you want your pictures to be in your final collage. The pictures do not need to be the same size, nor do they need to be the same shape. In fact, a range of sizes and shapes will give more dimension to your collage and make it more interesting to the eye. Think about if you want a certain picture to dominate the collage and have subordinate pictures surrounding it, for example.
You don’t need to always choose pictures of people. Adding in pictures of details (a bridge or road, a plate of cookies, a deck of cards from a poker game) can add dimension to your collage. These add to the overall sense you’re trying to convey in your collage. Because you are creating a collage of many pictures, you can afford to include some background or detail pictures.
 Your collage will look better if you have high quality images with sharp resolution (at least 300 dpi; 600 dpi for larger photos).
 Have on hand the following supplies to keep you focused on the artistry of your collage: scissors, X-acto knife, glue or other adhesive, paintbrush, a backing sheet, pencil, plain paper, and your pictures.


The backing sheet should be made from cardstock or poster board. The size of your collage will determine your need for how large your backing sheet will be. Choose a weight of paper that is between 80lb. and 110lb., Start deciding how you want to place your pictures. What parts of the pictures do you want to include or leave out? Be sure to leave room for a title or name if you want to include that (for example, you might put a title such as “Sage’s First Birthday”). Keep an eye on the colors: are you grouping all the blue-toned photos together? Do you have a big spot of brown-toned photos? Spread the photos out to balance the color across the entire collage. Or, you might want only blue-toned photos in the collage so that it matches the room for which you’re making the collage. Test out different arrangements, patterns, and color schemes.
 Once you have a general sense about where you want the pictures to go, you can start trimming them to fit better. Particularly for pictures that will go along the edge of your collage, you will need to trim them sharply with an X-Acto knife or paper cutter to get a smooth, straight edge.
 Use white glue, Mod Podge, double-sided tape or similar adhesive. If you are using a thicker material such as wood or foam-core, you may need a stronger adhesive. Some glues and tapes will not last as long or may discolor the pictures over time. Use an archival quality tape or glue if you want your collage to last, or if you are giving it as a gift. Paint on the glue with a paintbrush to ensure complete and smooth coating. Press the picture down onto the backing sheet. Use a credit card to smooth out any air bubbles. Dab a bit more glue or other adhesive at the corners to ensure they stick fully to the paper.


Use stickers, glitter and other materials to decorate the collage. You can also write on the collage with markers, pens, paints or crayons.
 You might want to apply a coating over the top of the pictures to smooth them all down and to seal them. This is an optional step and is not necessary if you are planning to frame your collage behind glass. If you choose to seal your pictures, use Mod Podge or similar coating to protect the pictures and to smooth down any rogue peeling corners.


You can also use melted wax to coat the pictures. This should only be used if your backing is made from solid wood or other durable material, as paper will bend and cause the wax to crack. To melt the wax, choose a container you don’t mind ruining (tin cans work well for this) and heat on the stove. Be very careful! Then paint the wax over the pictures. A thicker wax coating will give a cloudy look to the pictures.
 You can either have a professional framing service do this, or you can select your own frame. Choose a frame that is complementary in color to the collage. Have hooks on the back that will enable easy wall hanging.


You can also make a frame out of decorated cardboard or other colored cardstock paper, or you can skip framing your collage altogether.
 Hang it on a wall that is easy to get close to (preferably not above large furniture). Because your collage has lots of pictures, you might want to display it so people (and you) can look more closely at it. Alternately, you can stand it on an easel, which can be a perfect way to display it at a birthday or anniversary party. If your collage does not have a regular frame with hooks or wire on the back, you can also stick it to the wall using glue dots, masking tape or other wall adhesive.


You might choose to make copies of your collage to share with others. A collage in honor of a child’s first birthday is a great present for grandparents. Scan the collage and print out high quality copies. You can use a home scanner or take the collage to a professional service for scanning. You can also get the collage printed as a poster or vinyl banner, or have it printed on other objects, such as mugs, mouse pads or t-shirts.

