 Every person has individual nutritional needs. A medical professional can help you decide whether full fat or low fat dairy is the best choice for you. They will consider factors like age, weight, and whether or not you have a medical condition. For example, full fat milk is generally recommended by dietitians for children under the age of 2.;
, Full fat dairy consumption is linked to lower rates of obesity. This is contrary to popular belief that full fat dairy products are less healthful than reduced or low fat dairy. For example, researchers in Scandinavia found that those who consumed full fat dairy products were less likely to be obese than people who ate low fat dairy products., A study conducted by researchers at the Harvard School of Public Health found that people who ate full fat dairy products were less likely to develop diabetes than those who didn’t. Those who regularly included full fat dairy products in their diets were between 44 and 52 percent less likely to end up with diabetes., Eating full fat cheese is associated with maintaining healthy cholesterol levels (HDL), while not increasing bad cholesterol levels (LDL). Higher healthy cholesterol levels decrease your risk of heart disease., Low fat dairy products have fewer calories than their full fat counterparts. This can be an important consideration if you are counting calories. If you’re looking to cut calories a low fat dairy product is a good choice.In general, low fat dairy still contains the same amount of calcium and Vitamin D as full fat dairy.
 Low fat dairy products can be higher in sugar. Sugar is often added to make up flavor deficiencies when fat is removed from a product. For example, low fat yogurt can have a considerably higher amount of sugar than full fat yogurt., It is common for salt to be added to low fat dairy products. This enhances the flavor that is lost when the product’s fat content is reduced. For example, low fat cheese can contain more sodium than full fat cheese. This is especially important to consider if you are watching your sodium intake.