 Know what you will say and get to it swiftly. By waiting to get to the point or stumbling over your words, you are just torturing the employee and yourself.


Try something like, "Mark, I've called you in here because of your consistent failure to meet benchmarks set for your position." Not, “So, Mark, how’s the family? Peggy is due any day now, right? Gosh, she’s a sweetheart.” At the very least, Mark’s going to think you’re a real jerk when you follow that with “You’re fired.”

, You’ve stated your case, and the reason for termination. You’ve given the employee ample time to correct any failings, and that hasn’t happened. The employee knows what’s coming, so take aim early and tell them the truth without going into details—that all should have been covered in performance discussions leading up to the firing.


You don't need to delineate your reasons—if they need reiteration, they can be stated in a letter. The less you say, the better. "I know we've discussed the same issues a number of times. Despite repeated warnings and counseling, you really haven't made sufficient improvements."
However if the employee asks for a reason, give them one. Unemployment insurance applications often ask the reason for the termination.
 Just spit it out. Don't allow the employee to turn it into a discussion or argument. "Because of this, I'm sorry, but I’m going to have to let you go."

, Make sure you describe, preferably verbally and in writing, any steps they must take, such as returning company equipment or clearing out their workspace. Explain the severance package you are offering, if any. If necessary, remind them of any legally binding agreements the employee has signed, such as an agreement not to disclose company secrets.


If you are asking them to sign any legal papers, allow them a few days to take the documents home and review them.
Let your employee know if you will contest their unemployment claim. If you are firing the employee due to misbehavior, excessive absence, or performance failures, it may be within your rights to contest the employee's upcoming claim for unemployment insurance, as such claims effect your company's tax bill. However winning such battles isn't always easy, and depriving an employee of needed unemployment benefits can turn what might be a genial separation into an angry legal war—or worse. Either way, let your employee know if you plan to contest their claim or not.
 Usually the employee you just fired is not a terrible person, just not suited to the job.


If you feel the employee worked in good faith, but simply lacked the skills necessary for the job or the right temperament for your company, you may offer to give them a recommendation regarding their reliability, their attitude, their teamwork, whatever parts of the job they were successful with. Thank them for the work they performed well, and wish them good luck on their future endeavors.
 Even if it is clear you did your due diligence, the employee you are firing may get upset. If they turn violent, call security, other employees or the police to help remove them. If they are simply insulting or lashing out emotional, do your best not to respond. You might not deserve it, but it may be what their need to get through the situation.
 Even if you liked the employee as a person, keep a professional distance at this point.


It will help the former employee to know that it wasn’t personal, just business.
 Yes, it’s hard to fire somebody, especially somebody who needs the job. Just remember that you are responsible for your employees, and if they are failing, so will you.

