 These simple but beneficial exercises can work well for both of you; however, take note that some dog species are better suited to running than others. Dogs with a lean build, deep chest and long muzzle tend to be best for running. Also, don't run with a dog until his skeleton is mature; prior to that, damage could occur.If running or jogging is too much to handle for one or both of you, stick to walking, building up your pace as you progress over time. Talk to your dog’s vet and your own doctor if you have concerns about fitness levels or experience discomfort.
 At the pace of a typical leisurely dog walk, you may not elevate your heart rate much above resting. Instead of letting your dog sniff, chase or investigate every bush or tree, you'll need to let him know you mean business. This may take a few days to establish a routine of a stepped-up pace, so be patient.Begin your walk or jog by making initial eye contact and practicing “heel.” After a while he’ll associate this behaviour with exercise.
Start your workout by walking at a brisk pace. Even a 19 minute mile (12 min./km) pace in the beginning will get your dog focused on the matter at hand.
Keep the leash relatively tight but not so tight that the dog has no wiggle room. You want some tension on the leash, but you also want your dog to feel free to maintain a similar pace without being pulled or dragged.
It's recommended that you keep to soft surfaces when jogging or running, to protect your dog's footpads.
 After walking approximately half of a mile (0.8 km), pick up the pace to ultimately jogging or walking a 15 minute mile (9 min./km) if your dog is in good shape. Unfortunately, if you're interested in running several miles at an eight minute mile (5 min./km) pace, you may need to leave your pup at home and instead do your cool down miles together.Consider using the "interval walk". This consists of alternating your walk with jogging, running backwards and side shuffling for small increments of time. This varies the pace and technique, and is both useful at building up your dog's acceptance of the workout routine and at making the exercise more enjoyable.
Playing dog tag in the park can be a fun way to get in some running and chasing exercise all while having some fun. Only allow a dog off the leash where regulations permit. But if you do find places where this can be done, it's excellent exercise for your dog (and you).
 If you're just beginning to run or walk with your pup, take it slowly and gradually increase your distance and speed. Notice where your dog is located in relation to you. Dogs tend to prefer being in front of you, so if your dog slows down and is walking or running alongside or behind you, it's time to stop.Begin the first few weeks only walking or slowly jogging between 30 to 40 minutes. Take plenty of rest and water breaks for the dog and consider interval training. Perhaps jog at a 15 minute mile pace for five minutes and then take the intensity down to a casual walk for 10 minutes in the beginning.
After approximately six weeks of regular exercise, your canine pal may be ready to go for the gusto and complete an hour of solid cardio.

