 First, you need the game of course. The latest version (1.3.1) is the best to get. You can find the link in the introduction.
, We're going to work with this one., Then open up the template.bmp file in it. You can use the Paint program for it., Just don't forget to stay within the purple box, don't affect it. If you want a better tutorial for the basics, try this one: ,, It's a 30-day trial, but it's full, not a demo. We use NeoPaint because it has easy palette editing. You can download it here ,, You will also see a lot of light blue blocks. We're not going to use these right now. First we will try the font color., You can edit these by going to Picture -> Edit Palette..., Now locate the rainbow colors mentioned before. I want to make it a black-red gradient. You can do this by selecting the block one by one and dit with the sliders, but you can do it easier. Just press the button in the toolbar, located on the right, to make a gradient from two colors. WAIT, first make the color block located at the top right black, then the last color in the row red (use the sliders for this). Now you can go to the gradient button.
 Now click OK and you will see a gradient in the blocks.
 Choose the first option, then press OK. Now save your bitmap, and open up Icy Tower. Select your character, and look at your freshly edited font colors. If you don't like the results, just change it again. Hint: You can make a reflected gradient by using half of the row black-red, and the rest red-black.,, You will notice a black-white gradient with a trace of blue on the left bottom. This is the gradient for the walls and the background. We want to make... it green. So we will try green. Just go to the edit palette option and edit. But this time it's a little harder, because the 16 blocks are for the walls on the side AND for the background., Make the last color light green, for example. Then make a black-light green gradient. Back-up and save, and try it out. Just experiment with the sliders.,, Now we will try modifying the floor colors., I can show you 3 of them, the rest you need to do on your own., Locate the 4block brown gradient, next to the colors we've edited before (level colors). This is the 3rd floor (the wooden one). Most of the floors only contain 4 colors, so that makes it easier to locate., For example make it green. The other two I know





are for the fourth and the fifth floor. There are others in the palette, just find out and experiment., Check out the tips wrote down in the Tips section. These are really useful(you can find most of them in the steps too).