 We often let ourselves react without thinking in stressful situations when someone annoys or angers us. If you want to be more Zen, next time you are in a situation where you are upset, take a moment to breathe.


Oftentimes the first thing out of our mouths is not the best. Therefore, when trying to be more Zen, mull over what you want to say before you say it.
 Try to put a positive spin on everything, even when it seems like that’s not an option.


If you reflect hard enough, you can usually find a way to turn a bad situation or feeling into a good one.
Maybe you hate getting up to go to work. This could mean that you need to discover a new path in your life. Perhaps it’s time to start looking for a new job. Take positive action by setting a time and day to update your resume and start networking.
Don’t ignore your negative thoughts or emotions. Accept that you have these feelings and take a moment to think about how you can counteract these bad feelings or thoughts with good ones. If you feel beaten or rejected by something in your life, try to figure out what that is. Then reroute your thinking from “I’m not good enough,” to “This is an opportunity to explore something new.”

, Becoming Zen isn’t just about staying present and being happy. It’s about understanding how our body and mind works, especially together. And using that knowledge to accept who we are, all our faults included. Sit comfortably for a while with your eyes closed and try to picture your anger as if it were tangible.


What colors or images do you see? Notice anything that might come up which makes you angry. Your subconscious mind could be giving you clues as to what triggers your anger.
Notice where your body tenses up and where you feel anger. Some people feel a pit in the stomach; others feel a burning in the chest.
Breathe slowly in through your nose and out through your mouth.
Jot down all of your angry thoughts and triggers. Write down where you felt your anger. Then, read what you wrote. Begin to form actionable steps on how to turn this anger into positive fuel and energy.
It will take a while to tackle all of your inner demons. And that’s ok because it’s natural.
 If you know that you are likely to speak without thinking or begin to feel that anger, fear, frustration, or any other negative emotion build up, it may be time to leave.


Inaction in certain settings is the path to being Zen. By not acting negatively in a certain moment and leaving, you are choosing to act positively in another moment.
Politely excuse yourself. Go for a walk outside and take a few minutes to breathe and find something to be grateful for.
 Negative moods, anxiety, depression, and a short temper are major side-effects of not getting enough sleep.


Decide to go to bed earlier on weeknights.
Unplug. Sleeping with the tv on or using your phone before bed affects how well you can fall asleep. The quality of your sleep after you dose off will also suffer. By keeping our eyes and brains stimulated from the blue light, noises, and pictures, we don’t give our brains the proper time to prepare for rest. 