 Part of your job as a business analyst is to gather and assess information regarding the business itself. You may be able to use your own data collections methods or you may end up relying on data provided to you by others. Either way, you need to be efficient and flexible when looking over the available information.


For example, you might discover that job that remained unfilled was the cause of breakdown in the chain of command. You are looking for weaknesses and strengths when you assess.
 After you’ve looked over the data, you will want to craft a single report, or even multiple reports, describing a set of possible solutions. When you are a business analyst, you should try to dig deeply into any potential problems by asking the standard who, what, when, where, why, and how questions. The answers will help you to craft a solution that helps the many over the few.For example, if you find that the progress of paperwork markedly slows down in one department, you might suggest bypassing that area altogether or sending more resources their way to speed up the process.
 You will need to act as the intermediary between the company and the shareholders. This means communicating important information to them in both formal and informal settings. They will expect to see clear, evidence-based solutions with traceable results.You will touch base with your shareholders frequently to see what they expect from each project. It is possible to do this with both group sessions and private interviews.Working with shareholders will involve a fair amount of tact and diplomacy. You will want to work around disagreements quickly and recover quickly if a project falls through., The best business analysts are comfortable talking with anyone in the company about pretty much anything. You will be especially close with technology-based departments as you will need to balance shareholder expectations with the realities of that sector.Recognizing and working around the limitations of IT is a behavior that will bring you additional loyalty from those workers, which may make future projects easier. For example, if an executive wants a computer program to perform a certain task, you will need to work with the IT specialists in order to find a good option that is available and appropriate., You will want to ask a ton of questions. This is especially the case when you are presented with a new project or when you meet a new person. By asking questions, you get important information that you can pass along to others, thus improving the efficiency of a company. Being curious about others' views will also let them help you to identify possible problems and solutions.For example, you might ask an associate, “Why do you follow that protocol?” Or, you could say, “How would you describe the company’s chain of command?”

