 Sometimes alone time is necessary because plans fall through or nothing is going on, but it is also a good idea to make plans to spend time on your own now and then. Try setting aside about 30 minutes per day to be alone and do something that you want to do. It might feel strange to plan alone time at first, but over time it will become easier and you may even begin to look forward to it.Try setting aside a specific block of time that you will spend by yourself. For example, you might decide that you are going to spend some time alone from 5:30-6:00pm every evening.
Decide what you want to do during your alone time as well. If you are not sure what you want to do, you can start with something simple like taking a walk around your neighborhood or going to a coffee shop by yourself to read.;
, To help make alone time more fun, plan to do something that you want to do. Alone time is a great way to indulge in your hobbies and to get to know yourself better, so think about what you would really like to do during your alone time.Try learning a new hobby, such as a sport or craft that you’ve always wanted to get into. Some good sports for alone time include running, biking, skateboarding, swimming, and dancing. Good hobbies for alone time include knitting, baking, sewing, building model planes, writing, reading, and scrapbooking.
Consider filling your alone time with a project that will take some time, such as a knitting an afghan or learning how to skateboard. That way you can use each of your alone time slots to work on the project and you will feel a sense of accomplishment when you finally complete it.
 It can be hard to pamper yourself when lots of people are around, but alone time can provide you with the opportunity to pamper yourself and see to other personal needs as well. Try using your alone time to do things that you want to do for yourself.For example, you could use your alone time to see to personal care needs, like taking a bath, styling your hair, or giving yourself a manicure.
 When you are alone, you can focus more on the things that you want to do without being interrupted or distracted by other people. Try using your alone time to get to know yourself better.For example, you could start a journal to write about your thoughts and feelings during your alone time. Or, you could try listening to a new genre music, try out a new hobby, or identify a new goal that you want to work on.
 Being with people all of the time creates stress and takes a lot of energy. Spending some time alone each day can give your body and mind the chance to recharge.To relax during your alone time, you could try meditation, yoga, tai chi, or deep breathing exercises.
 When you spend time with others, you may not be able to focus enough to solve difficult problems. Having some alone time each day can allow you to spend time deep in thought and work on solutions to problems.Try using some of your alone time to just sit and think about a problem that you have been trying to solve.For example, you might be facing a difficult personal problem that you need some time to think about. Or, you might have a challenging project coming up at work or at school that requires some deep thought.

