 Latex paint is the most common paint used in modern interiors, and is a popular choice for low-cost craft paint. It is also known as acrylic or acrylic latex paint.


Check the can or tube of paint for the words "latex" or "acrylic latex." If you see this label, follow the steps below to remove your stain.
If the paint can is unavailable, think back through your past painting projects. Did you clean your brushes with water or paint thinner? If you used water, you were most likely working with latex paint, and can use the steps below.;
, As soon as the spill happens, scrape off as much paint as possible using a butter knife, the edge of a spoon, or a similar object. The more time the paint has to dry, the less likely you are to remove it.









If the paint has already dried or you are tackling an old stain, scrape off as much as possible before you attempt to clean it with water or another liquid agent.
If your clothing has many layers of dried paint, you can use tape to remove many of them. Apply a strong tape like heavy duty duct tape, gaffer’s tape or auto repair tape to the surface of the stain, then quickly remove the tape. It should bring the dried paint with it! Be sure to dispose of excess paint responsibly, following the disposal process listed on the paint can.
 Latex paint is a mixture of water and acrylic, so there is a good chance you can remove fresh paint with water. Begin rinsing from the back of the fabric. Rub or scrape at the paint as you rinse to loosen its hold and to help the water get through the stain.
 Using an emulsifier will help break up and remove the paint stain. You can use a purchased cleanser like Goof Off, or you can use a homemade solution.









A mixture of hand soap and dish washing detergent makes a great paint cleanser, especially for fresh stains. Combine the hand soap and detergent in a small bowl, using a 1 to 1 ration. Apply the solution to the paint stain using a sponge, and tamp it repeatedly for at least 1 minute. Then rinse in warm water and repeat as necessary until the stain is gone or nearly gone.
If you are working with a dried stain, use hairspray or isopropyl alcohol to remove the paint. Rub the hairspray or alcohol onto the stain for one minute, then rinse using warm water. Repeat this step as necessary until the stain has disappeared or seriously faded.
 After you have rinsed the last of your chosen cleansing agent from your clothing, launder it according to the item’s care instructions. The wash cycle should remove any remaining paint, but be sure to check that the stain is fully removed before you dry your clothing. Drying a remaining stain will only make it more difficult to remove.

