 The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is a form detailing your financial information for the purposes of obtaining student aid. The bulk of government student aid is in the form of loans. Most of these loans are available without a credit check. Indeed, many students have no credit history at all and still receive loan awards.
 Stafford Loans are the most popular types of federally available loans. The interest is variable from year to year, and they come in two forms, subsidized Stafford Loans, and unsubsidized Stafford Loans. With a subsidized loan, interest is deferred while you are in school. With unsubsidized Stafford Loans, the interest accrues while you are in school. The amounts of Stafford Loans that are available to borrowers vary per year and by education level. Undergraduates may borrow between $5,500 and $12,500 per year. Graduate students may borrow $20,500 per year., The interest levels on Perkins Loans are fixed at 5%, unlike Stafford loans, which have variable interest rates. Undergraduates are eligible for $5,500 per year and graduate students are eligible for $8,000 per year.Eligibility is limited to those who demonstrate "exceptional financial need" as is determined by the FAFSA.
 PLUS Loans are available to graduate students and parents of undergraduate students. The amount available is the cost of attendance minus any other aid the student might receive. The interest rate is fixed at 6.84%, and the loan origination fee is 4.272% after October 1, 2015. Unlike other federal student loans, PLUS loans come with a credit check, although the terms are fairly lenient., If you’re applying for a private student loan, a lender will assess your creditworthiness just like any other private lender. There are many different types of private student loan lenders, but you should start with conventional lenders, like Sallie Mae and SoFi. Check out some comparisons at www.graduateleverage.com and www.simpletuition.com.

#*Private student loans should usually be something you look at last, but particularly for graduate students, the interest rates offered by private lenders can be less than interest rates offered by the government., It may be easier for you to get a private student loan if you can find an adult (parent, guardian, trusted family friend) with good credit who will agree to co-sign the loan. A co-signer takes on the responsibility of paying your loan if you fail to make timely or regular payments.

