 Flash Trading, also called "Trust Trading", is a trading method in Animal Jam where two players will offer items for trade and accept or decline without seeing the items. It was originally started as a game between friends, where one person would offer a rare item and the other would offer a junk item. The person with the junk item would attempt to accept the trade before the person with the rare item declined it. It quickly became popular with scammers as a way to trick people out of rare items, and the developers have since limited the ability to make Flash Trades.


Trades now have a timer before the Accept button appears, giving both players time to see the items being traded. Because of this "Flash Trading" as it was known is no longer possible.;
, Find someone that will Flash Trade with you, and that you trust to trade back your Rare items. If you want to avoid being scammed, don't join any big Flash Trading parties. Instead, try to meet up with a friend off the beaten path so that you can trade safely.


Avoid Flash trading with anyone you don't trust. Even then, there's a chance the person you trust was just gaining your trust to scam you out of an item later. You should only Flash Trade with people you know in real life if you want to avoid the chance of scams.
 Because Flash Trading is associated with scamming, you can't type "flash" into the chat. Instead, you can use "fast" to indicate that you want to Flash Trade.
 Your items will need to be tradeable in order to perform a Flash Trade. Add the items you're willing to part with in the trade to your trade list. You can open the trade list from your profile window.
 Open the other person's profile window and click the Trade tab.
 When you open the trade tab, you'll see the items that the other player has made available for trade. Select the item that you want to Flash Trade for.
 Select one or more items to offer in return. You'll lose these if the other player accepts your trade.
 A few seconds after sending or receiving the trade offer, the Accept button will appear. You'll need to accept or decline the offer based on your goals for the Flash Trade.

