 A 2-liter soft drink bottle is ideal. Pour everybody with you a tall glass of tasty soda—they'll thank you later when they have cottonmouth, and you need the bottle empty.









Coke's new redesign of their bottles makes some lids harder to work with. If you do use a Coke product, try to find a different lid.;
, You can use a drill, or simply hold your lighter to the plastic (on the side, near the bottom). When the plastic becomes soft, poke your scissors through to make a hole. Rotate the scissors 360 degrees to make the hole wider.









Make the hole just large enough so that you can still cover it with your thumb. If it’s too small you won’t get sufficient enough airflow to pull a hit; if the hole is too big, or even almost too big, to be easily covered by your index finger, get a new bottle.

Alternatively, you can use a glass bottle. This will require you to use a drill with a glass-friendly drill bit, but the idea is the same.
 Use the lighter to soften up the plastic if you need to. When you have poked all the way through, rotate the scissors to make the hole rounder.









A small switchblade-sized knife is best because, generally, when you stab it through the top until it hits the desk, the slit it makes is the perfect diameter of the hole you want. Once you’ve stabbed through the top of the cap, slowly and deliberately twist the knife so that it carves out a perfect circle. However, scissors or your drill will also do the trick.
 There are a couple ways you can do this: with aluminum foil or an aluminum can.










Aluminum foil method: Tear of a small square of aluminum foil and lay it flat across the top of the bottle cap.

Push it down in the middle with your finger so that it forms an indentation in the hole that you just made.
Scrunch the aluminum foil around the edges of the bottle cap so that it stays on tightly.
Finally, use a pin or needle to poke small holes in the part of the foil that goes into the hole. Make them small enough so that anything you put in the bowl will not fall through.



Aluminum can method: Carefully cut a rectangular piece out of an aluminum soda can. It's probably best if the soda can is empty before you do this.

Bend this rectangle into a funnel shape. You want the top of the funnel to be large enough to put tobacco in, and the bottom to be small enough that nothing can fall through.
Slide the funnel into the hole in the bottle cap. The bottle cap should more or less bisect the funnel, so that the top of the bowl sticks out but the bottom will go down into the bottle when you but the cap back on.
Use hot glue or superglue to glue the funnel to the bottle cap and make sure that the hole is sealed airtight.
 Making sure you have a good seal, fill the bottle with water.









Fill up the bowl with tobacco and screw the bottle cap back on.
Light the tobacco in the bowl and release your thumb from the hole at the bottom. As the water drains, the vacuum will suck the air through the tobacco, into the bottle, and the bottle will fill with smoke.
When the water has completely drained, unscrew the cap and inhale.
If you have a funnel and a container to catch the water, you can keep recycling the water over and over again. (You can make a funnel out of a soda can the same way as described above, only larger.) This makes this method very portable and usable pretty much anywhere that you would normally smoke.

