 Creating a good study plan is essential to stress free studying. Make a list of all of the schoolwork and studying that you need to accomplish and the deadlines for each the item. Then, map out a plan to complete all of the work.Consider keeping a planner for your schoolwork. Add all of the assignments and tests to this planner when they are announced in the classroom. This will help to prevent surprises that could interrupt your study plan.;
, Don’t wait until the last minute to study for an upcoming test. Study a little bit every day and then review the entire topic before your test. Although it can be motivating to cram the night before an exam, it can also create a tremendous amount of stress.Review your notes every evening.
Keep up with your class assigned reading.
 If you are distracted by your phone, tv, or facebook, get rid of them. These distractions can make studying take longer. As the hours pass by you will become more stressed since you have not covered all of the material that you need to cover. Distraction free studying will give you more quality studying time.Log out of your Facebook, Twitter, email, and other social media so that you don’t receive notifications on your computer. You may even consider using an app to help keep you on track and reduce distractions while working on your computer.Turn your phone off or on silent and put it out of reach.
Turn off the tv.
 Being in an environment that will help you to stay focused is another great way to promote study success. This environment will depend on what usually works best for you. Experiment with different types of environments to find what works best for you.

For example, you might find that you can focus better when you are in a quiet environment, such as a quiet corner in the library or alone in your bedroom. Or, you might find that you study better when there is some background noise and commotion, such as in a coffee shop or at the kitchen table in your home.
Avoid studying in places where you typically relax or sleep.For example, studying on your bed might not be a good idea because your brain associates your bed with sleep. By studying there, you might get tired while studying, or you might start to have trouble sleeping because you have been studying in bed.

