 When a person uses caffeine regularly, they can become intoxicated from it. It can cause nervousness, rambling thoughts and conversation, and rapid heartbeat. It can even cause stomach problems, headaches, and muscle tremors., An average teen shouldn't have more than about 100 milligrams of caffeine a day, while an adult should generally limit themselves to 200p milligrams per day.A typical cup of coffee can have anywhere from 100 to 200 milligrams of caffeine. If a teen or even a young adult is craving more than that and drinking it regularly, that could be a sign of addiction., Caffeine is a substance the people build up tolerance to. That means that the more someone uses it, the more they need to take to feel an effect.If you notice a person taking more and more caffeine each day, that could indicate a problem with caffeine.
 If a person has caffeine pills or even caffeine powder laying around everywhere, that could indicate a problem with caffeine. Caffeine pills can have as much as 200 milligrams of caffeine per pill. Caffeine powder, in particular, can be problematic, because pure caffeine is very easy to overdose on.Energy drinks can also contain significant amounts of caffeine.
 While caffeine is a fairly mild stimulant compared to prescription drugs, it can still be dangerous. In fact, an overdose can kill you if you take too much at once,though it does take 5 to 10 grams.In addition, it can cause dependence, problems sleeping, and increased problems with conditions such as anxiety.In fact, many people experience withdrawal symptoms after being on caffeine regularly. Withdrawal symptoms can include tiredness, depression, flu-like symptoms, and the inability to focus. It can impair a person to the point that they can't perform day-to-day functions, such as going to work or completing schoolwork.While it would be difficult to take 5 to 10 grams of caffeine in forms like coffee and even caffeine pills, it would be much easier in powder form, as a gram of caffeine is a relatively small amount, physically.

