 Any drug store, grocery, or other store with a pharmacy will have a pharmacist on staff. The pharmacist can give you advice and recommendations on different brands of nasal spray. You can even ask them if it will interact with any other medications you are currently taking. You might ask:


Which medication is the most effective for my type of allergies?
Should I avoid certain sprays if I have particular medical conditions, such as glaucoma?
Is this safe for a pregnant woman to take?
Are there any side effects?
Let the pharmacist know if you have allergies to other medications or if you have any conditions that might make using a nasal spray difficult (such as a nasal polyp)., Medications run the risk of causing severe reactions if they interact poorly with certain other medications. Write down a list of all the medications you take, noting their generic name as well as their brand name. Take this list to a pharmacist. They will be able to tell you if there are any interactions between the drugs.


You can also consult the packaging of the medication or look online to see if there are any interactions. Some medications interact with several other drugs, so it is always good to get a pharmacist to help you.
You generally do not need to take both a decongestant pill and spray at the same time. One will work just as effectively, and some may cause side effects such as anxiety in high doses., Most medications have a slight chance of causing side effects. Side effects with nasal sprays can include nose bleeds, blockages, irritation, or drowsiness.Read the packaging of every spray before you buy it, and consider your personal risk. Some people with certain medical conditions are at higher risk of complications.


Pregnant women should always consult a doctor before starting a medication, including nasal sprays.
Children run a slight risk of slowed physical growth if they use nasal steroids. Avoid giving nasal steroids to your child for more than two months out of the year to help prevent this.If you have high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, glaucoma, or hyperthyroidism, you should not use a decongestant., Some nasal sprays need to be used only once a day; others must be taken three or four times a day for maximum effectiveness.Read each spray’s instructions to see how often you will be required to use the spray, and decide how often you will be able to use it.
 Generic brands of nasal sprays will have the same active ingredient, dosage, and strength as brand name medications, although they may have different inactive ingredients.These are typically cheaper options that you may want to consider when choosing a nasal spray. Refer to the generic name of a popular brand, and look for alternatives in your local drug store or pharmacy.


The generic name of a medication is typically listed after the brand name on the packaging. It will also be listed as an active ingredient on the ingredients’ list.
You can compare the active and inactive ingredients, found on the packaging, to see which medications are the most similar to one another.

