;
, What is meant, is don't seem weak to the bully and let your voice admit, "Yes, I'm ugly," or "Yes, I know I am stupid." It just makes the bully feel dominant.
), don't let them put you down because of a kind of culture. Your self-esteem can be raised by the fact that they have that turned-up, flared nose. Or their visible un-imaginably silly contact lenses.
, They just make you feel bad and unattractive. They are pretty, but also remember they have been "airbrushed," meaning getting something done to their face on a computer so they look perfect. They have also tinted color and elongated legs so they look slim, tall, perfect-complexion, and smooth-skinned. They look different, really

, But look at your glossy brunette hair. Or super-skinny guys, look at your elegant slender, tall form. Take no notice; it is just they cannot see the hidden beauty which we can.
 If someone punches you in the stomach, tell but before you go with a shake of your head,say, 'Nice muscles. But your fist is so tense. Loosen the muscles there.'

, Don't lie. Please!

, For example... Girl; "Like that hurt?" Boy; "Oh, I'll punch you again to make it hurt then, poo-face." *Punches girl's stomach.*

, Two and-a-half stone? Two-and a-half Pounds?" That will give you time. Run away, and the bully will be surprised.
, When some bully comes up to you in your new tough look, let them insult you once. Then say, in a tone that's got the edge of whisper, "I hate being talked to in that way," and raise your fists slowly. If people surround the fight, do not look around for help. It makes you seem weak. Let them help the tough best side: you. Bully: "And what are you going to do, chicken?" You then say, "Well, goodie-goodie, hang around much longer and you'll find out. The bully may back off or stay for a fight. Tips on fighting are below, and this is a dangerous subject. Make sure you have not been over-ambitious!

,


Always defend the most important parts of you: your head, neck, and jaw. Eye sockets are painful for the bully to punch. You will get a black-eye, maybe! But, keep it up.
Remember the penis (!!!) is a very painful part to hit. You may seem wrong, but it does hurt.
, Bye!

