 Before beginning a new exercise program, you should consult your doctor and ensure your exercise plan meets their approval. If you have any concerns, previous health conditions or past injuries, you should also discuss these with your doctor. Leg exercises in which you are lying down are often good options if you have joint or spine problems that prevent you supporting your own body weight (e.g. hip or knee replacement), or if you are unable to do high-impact activity.;
, A hip bridge is a great exercise for strengthening your upper legs while protecting your joints, since you remain lying on the ground. This move will mainly target your glutes and upper thighs. A hip bridge can also be done as a warm up or cool down stretch before and after high-impact exercise.Lie down on your back with your knees bent and facing upward.
Plant your heels into the floor and lift your toes towards your shins.
Lift your bum off the floor until there is a straight line from your knees to your shoulders.
Hold the hip bridge for two to five seconds and then lower.
Repeat this exercise 15 times.
There are variations of the hip bridge you can try such as raising one leg at a time while in the bridge position.
 This exercise strengthens your legs as well as your abs and chest.Lie on your back with your legs out straight.
Raise your arms straight out above your head and interlock your thumbs together.
Lift your upper body off the floor and reach forward with your arms.
At the same time, raise your legs off the floor in a V-shape, spreading your feet out wider than your hips. Your arms should go through the V and only your bum should be touching the floor.
Slowly lower back to the starting position.
Repeat the jack split 20 times.
 This exercise works your legs as well as your abs while allowing you to keep your upper body on the floor. By resting your arms and chest, you can focus your strengthening efforts on just your lower body.Lie on your back with your hands placed under your hips and your palms facing down towards the floor.
Straighten your legs and point your toes.
Lift your legs up in the air until they form a right angle with your upper body. Your legs should be completely vertical.
Slowly lower your right leg down towards the floor while keeping your left leg up in the air. Don’t allow your right leg to touch the ground; it should only hover near the floor.
Bring your right leg back up to the vertical position.
Slowly lower your left leg towards the floor this time. This completes one rep.
Do 20 reps of this exercise.
 his challenging move will target your inner thighs and obliques while you lie on your side.Because the exercise is challenging, complete the steps to the best of your ability. Take your time to ensure you are using the right form and targeting the correct muscles.


Lie on your right side, keeping your body in a straight line. Support your head and neck by bending your right arm at the elbow and resting your head on your hand. Support your chest by placing your left hand on the ground in front of you.
Stack your legs, with your left leg resting on top of the right, your toes pointed straight.
Pull your abs in toward your spine, squeeze your inner thighs together, and raise your right leg. This will also lift your left leg, which is resting on top and acting as resistance.
Keeping your legs together, lift as high as you can. Hold for one to two seconds, then lower.
Repeat 20 to 30 times on your right side and then switch to your left side and repeat another 20 to 30 times.

