 Get to know how your company is organized and learn about its key positions. Find out those positions' functions and identify who occupies them.Understanding the hierarchical structure will help you learn more about potential advancement opportunities. You'll also get a better feel for the company's decision making processes.;
, Do your best not to slack off or waste time while you're at work. Try not to waste resources like paper, electricity, and office supplies.For example, check and double check your work if you have to print dozens or hundreds of copies of a document. Wasting printer ink and paper due to a careless mistake will show your supervisors that you don't value the company's resources.
 Work efficiently and refine your output so it's of the highest quality. Complete projects to the best of your ability and in a timely manner to help the company’s bottom line. Your supervisors will see you as a more valuable employee if you show you care instead of completing projects just to get them out of the way., Go above and beyond your job description. From small tasks to initiating major projects, be a self-starter and don’t make your bosses have to micromanage you.Examples could include anything from picking up a piece of crumpled paper in the office to designing an easier way of taking inventory.
Continuing to learn about your current workplace is essential. The more you know about your company’s operations and goals, the easier it is to anticipate ways to make yourself useful.
 Having measurable data about your output will come in handy when you’re up for performance reviews and promotions. Keep a file of successful projects you've spearheaded, deals you’ve landed, or ways you’ve saved the company money.For example, if you helped negotiate a deal that cut your department’s cost of goods sold by 15%, be sure to keep a record of that achievement’s details for future performance reviews.
If you’re a designer or involved in a creative field, keep a portfolio of your output.
 Approach people who have achieved your goals and do your best to learn from them. Reach out to individuals both within and outside of your company, and ask for a coffee date, to pick their brain, for tips, and for honest feedback.If there’s someone at your company who’s mastered what you want to do, ask them, “Would you have time for a coffee or quick lunch? I’d be grateful for the chance to talk about your success in this industry.” Send them an email if you don’t have the opportunity to ask them in person.
Showing someone in a key position at your workplace that you’re passionate about advancement will help you stand out when a promotion is available or when you need a reference.
 Regularly showing your supervisors that you're grateful for the opportunities and guidance they offer will make a big impression. Avoid being insincere and try to be specific when thanking your supervisors and company's officers.Suppose your company's CEO sends out a weekly note to the workforce. In passing say to them, "Excuse me, I just wanted to thank you for the weekly notes of advice and encouragement. They're valuable and have made a difference in my work!"

