 To look good at the beach it’s important to feel fit and toned, and cardio is a great way to burn extra calories. Working in about 45 minutes to an hour of cardio 4-6 days a week will help speed up your metabolism. Cardio also releases hormones that decrease stress and appetite and boost your overall positivity!Be sure to pick an activity that you enjoy. Running, biking, and swimming are all fun cardio exercises for some, but if these aren’t for you, check to see if any zumba or spin classes are going on in your gym or neighborhood.
 The best way to get that toned body you’ve always wanted is to start including strength based exercises into your weekly workout routine. Strength training increases lean muscle mass, reduces body fat, and burns calories. Aim to do strength exercises 2-4 times a week, depending on your level of fitness.There are many ways to strength train. Lift weights, do yoga, do bodyweight exercises (push ups, pull ups, squats) – even ditching your car and walking back from the store with heavy groceries is a great strength activity!There’s a misconception that lifting heavy weights will make women too bulky. Straining your muscles is in fact the only way to get them the stronger – the unwanted bulk comes from eating too many calories. Next time you’re in the gym, ask a friend or trainer to show you how to do deadlifts, squats with weight, and kettlebell swings. These are both excellent workouts that will tone up your whole body.
 Adding a substantial amount of core to your workout will help your abs ready for swimsuit season. Be sure to do a variety of high intensity workouts. Mountain climbers count as both cardio and abs, and holding side and front planks for 30-60 seconds will target your abs, back and shoulders.
 Replacing unhealthy carbs such as sugar and starch (breads, pastas, pastries) with healthier alternatives reduces appetite, burns fat, and makes you feel and look more fit. Fill your diet with lots of lean protein (poultry, fish, legumes, and eggs) and as many vegetables as you’d like, and you’ll see and feel the results.Cutting carbs doesn’t mean completely eliminating them. The most important change you can make to your diet is getting rid of those processed foods that don’t provide your body with nutrients. Eating whole grains high in fiber such as oats, brown rice, farro, or quinoa in moderation will help you feel full and keep your diet balanced.
 Dehydration causes water retention, making you look unnecessarily bloated, puffy, and fatigued. Be sure to drink six-eight cups of water a day, and try cutting out diuretics (coffee and alcohol) a few days before you hit the beach to make your body as hydrated as possible.