 Older versions of WMP have fewer audio format options. XP and Vista users can update to WMP 11, while Windows 7 users and later can use WMP 12.


Click “Organize” then open the “Layout” menu. Choose “Show menu bar.” Click “Help,” then “Check for updates.” If you have the latest version, you’ll see a message that says so. If not, follow the on-screen instructions to install the update.
If you don’t see an “Organize” menu but see a “Rip CD” menu, click on it and select “Help” there. Check for updates and follow the on-screen instructions.
 Click “Organize,” then “Options.” Go to the “Rip Music” tab and look at the area of the screen beneath “Rip Settings.”


You’ll see a list of file types in the “Format” menu. As you browse different formats by clicking on them, pay attention to the box near the bottom of the screen that says “Audio Quality.” The higher the bitrate (kbps) and file size (MB), the better the file will sound.
Mp3 files are known for their portability and great sound within a manageable file size. FLAC files are preferred by audiophiles, but the sizes of the files can be double the size of an Mp3.
.WMA (Windows Media Audio) files are made to play only on Windows devices. You’ll have to convert them to make them playable on other devices.
If you plan to use audio files with musical instruments, such as a sampler or synthesizer, choose .WAV for optimal compatibility.
 On the same screen (Rip Music), note of the full path beneath “Rip music to this location.” You can change it to a different folder or drive by clicking “Change” and choosing a new location.
 If you ever want to rip music in a different file type, you’ll need to return to that menu to adjust the settings.
 Depending on your settings, you’ll start ripping the CD in one of two ways:


If a dialog box pops up asking if you’d like to rip the CD, choose “Yes.”
On the main screen of WMP, click “Rip CD” below the menu bar. Click “Yes” to start the process.
 Your files have been added to your WMP library so you can play them on your computer.

