 It's a white icon with a multicolored musical note on its front. If you don't have iTunes installed on your computer, first download and install it before continuing.

If a window pops up that tells you to update iTunes, click Download Update and wait for iTunes to update. You'll need to restart your computer after iTunes finishes updating.
 If it's already in iTunes, skip this step.

You can double-click the ringtone if iTunes is the default audio player on your computer.
 This option is in the top-left corner of the iTunes window, just above the "Library" column., You should see your tone here. If you double-click it and it begins playing, you're ready to proceed to uploading it onto your iPhone.

If you're prompted to find the file, click and drag the ringtone into your iTunes window before continuing.
 To do so, attach the large end of the cable to a USB port on your computer, then attach the charger end to the port at the bottom of your iPhone., It's the iPhone-shaped icon above the column of options on the left side of the iTunes window., This option is below your iPhone's name in the column on the left side of the iTunes window., If there isn't a checkmark in the box next to "Tones" at the top of the page, click the "Tones" box, then click "Remove and Sync" when prompted.

If you have to enable syncing, unplug your iPhone, then plug it back in to continue. You'll need to click the device icon again and then click Tones.
 This option is below the "Tones" heading at the top of the page. Doing so will bring up a list of your iTunes library's ringtones., This will select it for uploading to your iPhone., It's near the bottom-right corner of the iTunes window., This option is in the bottom-right corner of the iTunes window. When syncing finishes, you'll hear a confirmation noise, and the progress bar at the top of the window will disappear. Your ringtone should now be on your iPhone, which means you're now able to access it in your iPhone's Settings.

You may have to re-sync your iTunes library to your iPhone after this process. Doing so will not erase your ringtones.

