 Stomach problems including nausea and indigestion are more common if you experience high levels of stress. In order to lower your stress, try stretching slowly and meditating. These measures can all relax your body and mind while reducing your odds of future stomach pain.Recent studies suggest that deep breathing can also alleviate mild heartburn. Unlike most preventative medications, breathing exercises carry no unwanted side-effects, so there's no downside to trying it out next time you experience a bit of heartburn!, Frequent exercise boosts your metabolism and helps prevent constipation. Over a long period of time, your exercise regimen can even strengthen your digestive tract, making it more efficient and consistent at removing waste and clearing its bowels.If you take up long-distance running, you might find yourself more prone to bouts of diarrhea due to the sustained jarring impact and decreased blood flow to your bowels. You can limit these adverse side-effects by avoiding caffeine and sugar substitutes before setting off on a run., Writing down everything that you eat on a daily basis can help you identify foods which cause indigestion so that you can avoid them in the future. You don't have to do this indefinitely, but take at least a week where you note all the foods you eat and in what quantity, as well as when you get a stomach ache and what kinds of pain were associated with it.For example, don't just write, "Pizza. Stomach ache afterward." Instead, say something like, "Two slices of pepperoni pizza. Half hour later experienced sharp heartburn for about an hour."

, Studies have shown that even a little extra weight can increase your chances of painful heartburn. While the reason for this correlation is unknown, doctors speculate that it arises when fat around the belly presses against your stomach. This added pressure causes acidic fluids to rise up into your esophagus, ultimately causing heartburn.To shed some unwanted pounds, get regular aerobic exercise, cook healthy meals, hydrate frequently, and do resistance-based strength training.
 Your body needs plenty of water to accomplish effective digestion and regular bowel movements. Without sufficient water intake, your bowels can't excrete built-up waste, causing painful constipation, polyps, and hemorrhoids.Be sure to drink water at room temperature. Cold water can present a shock to your system, slow digestion, and even cause mild stomach aches., If you're fighting a stomach virus, your body needs to rest and conserve its resources in order to fight the virus. If you're simply suffering from acid reflux, sleep deprivation can make the problem worse by increasing the time that your esophagus is exposed to acid.If your stomach ache is keeping you up at night, ask your doctor what kind of medication or homeopathic remedies you can take to promote sleep.

