 Stretch marks are most likely to appear when you gain or lose a significant amount of weight in a short time. Research shows that traditional treatments like applying cocoa butter, olive oil or gotu kola extract to your skin are largely ineffective, and that the best way to prevent stretch marks is to control your weight, especially during times of growth such as pregnancy and adolescence.During adolescence, it is normal for your body to grow rapidly. Follow a healthy diet and talk to your doctor about what kind of growth to expect. Stretch marks that appear during adolescence are likely to fade in time because the body is still developing.Weightlifting and bodybuilding to gain weight and/or increase muscle mass can also cause stretch marks if it happens too quickly.This is because the rapid growth in size causes the connective tissues of the skin to break. Try to make weight changes gradually, and talk to your trainer and/or doctor about the best practices to follow. A common places to develop stretch marks is under your arm from doing upper body exercises.;
, If you want to lose weight, do so gradually by following a healthy diet and exercising regularly. Avoid "crash diets," and aim to lose no more than approximately half a kilogram (one pound) per week.The efforts required to lose weight rapidly can be unhealthy, whether they involve crash dieting, extreme exercise, or supplements and pills. In addition, sudden changes in weight can cause stretch marks, as your skin cannot accommodate such rapid shifts.
 Following a good exercise plan benefits your overall health and weight maintenance. In addition, it can improve your circulation and skin elasticity.All of this can help reduce your chances of developing stretch marks.


You should get 150 minutes (2.5 hours) of exercise each week. Adults should do moderate intensity aerobic physical exercise. Strength training should be done as well on 2-3 days a week. Examples of moderate intensity exercise include the following: biking slowly, canoeing, gardening, walking briskly, and swimming activities.