 You may think you dislike wine because the ones you've tried aren't compatible with your preferences. But by exposing yourself to a wide variety of wines, you’ll increase the likelihood that you'll find at least one kind that you truly enjoy.
 Don’t be overwhelmed by the amount of wines that are available. The easiest way to break them down is into white and red categories. From there, you can begin testing your palate on blends, ages, and even individual vineyards.Sweeter white wines like Viognier or Riesling may be easier for a novice to appreciate than a very dry Sauvignon Blanc or an oaky Chardonnay.
Similarly for red wines, Zinfandels with more pronounced fruit flavors may be more accessible than drier wines such as Cabernet or Pinot Noir.
Different blends of wine combine the characteristics of varietal grapes to create balanced and complex flavors.
There is more to wines than simply red or white. Blushes, ice wines, sparkling wines, madeiras, ports, and sherries are all different methods to process the fruit, juice, or the wine.
 Depending on where a wine is sourced will determine how it smells and taste. Some of the most popular and accessible wines come from France, Italy, Spain, Argentina, and the United States.


Different countries will vary in soil types as well as production methods. This creates a whole new world of options to try.
In general, new world wines from California and South America have more pronounced fruit flavors and are less dry than wines from France or Italy.
 The age of a wine will also determine its taste and aroma nuances. Try both young and old wines, and if possible purchase a batch of the same wine and drink one from each year to experience the subtle changes a wine goes through as it changes over time.
 Wine snobs turn up their noses at the idea of mixing wine with other things, but wine on ice, mixed with fruit juices, mixed with liquors or liqueurs, or other things often results in great tasting beverages.


Add ice, especially with heavier, sweeter, or very rich wines. The coldness of the ice slightly numbs your taste buds, easing the strength (and the astringent qualities) of some wines, especially reds.

