 Whatever it is you intend to do, assume you will get caught. Improve your chances of succeeding by knowing each and every way that you could possibly fail. Brainstorm every single way this might happen. For instance:If you plan on skipping school, the school may call your parents to let them know you are absent. Also, you may need to turn in a doctor’s or parent’s note the next day. Plus, any neighbors who stay home during the day may notice you doing the same.
If you’re cutting class, your escape to the parking lot might be in full view of classroom and office windows. If you do get away, you might bump into teachers or other staff who left campus for lunch break. In the meantime, your teacher that period might check the school’s absentee roll.
If you cheat on a test, your teacher may spend the test period patrolling the aisles. They may also instruct you to put all of your belongings in your bookbag, meaning that hiding a cheat sheet will be tougher. And even though your fellow classmates may want to help, they may be unsubtle about it and get you both into trouble.
 Start sketching out different plans that address each way you could possibly get caught. You may not find one that addresses them all, but try for it, anyway. Decide on which plan is the most foolproof. Don’t discard the others, though. Keep them as backup plans in case Plan A falls through.If you’re skipping school, consider these different actions: asking your parents directly for a mental health day; faking an illness; calling the attendance office in the morning and posing as your parent before the school calls them; putting a show on for the neighbors by leaving for school and then running back home as if you’re sick.When cutting class, think about: only skipping classes during lunch periods when kids are allowed to leave campus; avoiding businesses and other public spaces; risking a write-up for being late to homeroom so you end up on the absentee roll.
To cheat on a test, consider: using items that you are allowed (like tissues, beverage labels, or even your pen) to write or hide cheat sheets; writing answers on your skin and using clothes to hide them; training beforehand to read cheat sheets quickly while the teacher’s back is briefly turned; training with your friends so everyone is comfortable.
 Leave as little to chance as possible. Go over your plans with a fine tooth comb. Make sure that you aren’t forgetting anything. Try to think of any details, no matter how small or random, that might trip you up.Remember, your teachers can hit or miss, but you can’t miss, not even once! Think about things like:


Whether any special events (like assemblies or book fairs) are scheduled that day, which might disrupt the school’s normal flow.
Any student-teachers, special speakers, principals or other higher-ups, or any other new people who might be observing your class soon.
If a change in weather might spoil your plans (like, say, a sudden rainstorm soaking you wet when you cut class to hang out behind the football field).