 In general, corset belts are fairly wide, averaging approximately 6- to 7-inches (15- to 18-cm) in width. If you are tall and thin, you can experiment with even wider styles. If you are short-waisted and carry extra weight at your middle, stick to thinner corset belts to create a balanced look for your figure.Some corset belts are so wide that they end just beneath the breasts. They are best worn if you have a naturally small waist.;
, The color of a corset belt can affect how it looks on your body. If you are thin and have a small waist, any color will work for your figure. If you are thicker in your midsection, opt for a corset belt in a dark shade that will help minimize the appearance of your waist rather than light or bright colors that may make your waist appear larger.If you’re not sure what color corset belt to start with, a black belt is the most flattering option on all body types.
Patterned corset belts, such as an animal print style, can help add flair to your outfit, but they can have the same effect as belts in light and bright colors. They work best for small waists.
 No matter what your body type is, you can spice up the look of a corset belt by choosing an embellished style. Select a belt that features metallic, studded, lace, or cutout details to make even more of a statement piece.You may want to choose a corset belt that features actual laces so it is more reminiscent of an actual corset.
 Because a corset belt helps define the waist, it’s an ideal piece to wear over loose-fitting outfits. You might wear it over a baggy sweater, oversized dress shirt, or loose-fitting maxi dress  to help create a more flattering fit.If you’re wearing a corset belt with a loose-fitting top, be sure to choose bottoms that have a slim fit to create a balanced silhouette. Skinny jeans, leggings, and pencil skirts are good options.
You can use a corset belt to make a dress out of a large t-shirt. Wear the belt over an oversized white or black tee that falls to approximately your knees to create a casual-looking dress.
 When you’re new to wearing a corset belt, it’s usually best to create a monochromatic look with it and the clothing that you layer it over. For example, wear a black corset belt over a black dress or a white belt over a white dress shirt. It will help create a defined waist by won’t break up your figure at all so you’ll create the most flattering silhouette.If you want your belt to stand out a little more when you’re doing a monochromatic look, choose an embellished or textured style. For example, a studded black leather belt will stand out against a black dress more easily than a plain black style.
You can also use contrasting fabrics to help the belt stand out. For example, layer a white satin corset belt over a white cotton dress shirt for added definition.
 You may typically wear your belts over simple tops and dresses, but you can make an even bolder statement with a corset belt. Wear it over an item that you might not expect, such as a blazer, coat, or other tailored menswear-inspired pieces. The corset belt has a decidedly feminine look, so you can create a striking look by pairing it with clothing that has a more masculine feel.When you’re wearing the belt over heavier items, such as a blazer or coat, don’t cinch it too tightly. You still want the corset to be comfortable, so loosen it slightly if necessary.
 While belts usually sit at the waist, corset belts offer more versatility when it comes to placement. You can set it right at your waist to help define it for a traditional look, or position the belt higher up, just beneath the chest, so it accentuates that area of your body.Keep the type of fabric that your top or dress is made of in mind when you’re trying to decide where to place the belt. In most cases, thicker clothing, such as a wool sweater, looks best with the belt at the waist. Thinner items, such as a cotton dress, can work with the belt at the waist or higher up on your torso.
 When you wear a corset belt, you usually want it to be the centerpiece of your outfit. That means you should go for a minimal look when it comes to other accessories. Skip the statement necklace, heavy bangles, and dramatic dangling earrings so they don’t compete with the belt.Choose delicate jewelry, such as stud earrings and thin chain necklaces, when you’re wearing a corset belt.
If you want to wear a piece of statement jewelry, opt for a cocktail ring. It will add personality to your outfit without drawing too much attention from the belt.
 When you’re choosing shoes to wear with a corset belt, aim to create a contrast. Because the belt has a feminine look, footwear that has a more rugged or chunky appearance is the ideal option. Pair your belt with hiking boots, wedge heels, or menswear-inspired loafers.If you want to wear your belt with heels, skip stilettos and opt for a thicker heel, such as a stacked heel.
For a subtler look with your footwear, pair the corset belt with simple ballet flats.
 To keep attention on your corset belt, you don’t want to have an oversized purse or bag on your shoulder. Instead, choose a small handbag, such as a clutch or wristlet, so the belt remains the star of your look.Avoid crossbody bags, which may hide or compete with the belt.

