 If you have a lawn that you'd like to make Halloween-ready, there are many creepy things you can do to decorate the outside of your home. The lawn sets the tone for the rest of the home, so if it's spooky enough, it'll make people even curious to see what you have in store up-close. Here are some easy ways to decorate your lawn:Old crunchy fall leaves should cover the ground. If there haven't been many fallen leaves, you should avoid raking your lawn during the days leading up to Halloween to make the most of what you have.
Take an old pair of boots and have them emerging out of a big pile of leaves or dirt. This will make it look like there's a dead body on your lawn!
Stick tombstones out of the ground. Remember that Halloween is all about things being old, dingy, and falling-apart, so your lawn does not have to be perfectly arranged. Have a tombstone here, a tombstone there, and another tombstone that is completely crooked or falling over.
If you have trees, cover them with spider webs. Bonus points if you can stick some creepy-crawly critters in them, or if you can add a stuffed owl or raven to a low-hanging branch.
Don't underestimate the power of a scary scarecrow. You can get a special Halloween scarecrow, or take your ordinary corn-husk fall scarecrow and paint it with blood.
Throw some skulls around the ground. Kudos if one of your guests accidentally stumbles on one of them.
Have a skeleton popping out of your yard.
If you really want to do it up for Halloween, have your car parked out on the lawn. Paint the windows to make it look like they're cracked, and make it look like a person is trapped inside by putting in a dummy with its hands pushed against the windows.;
, Your front porch will be the portal to all of the creepy things inside your home, so it should be as scary as possible to lure your unsuspecting guests (or victims) inside your house of horrors. Here are some great ways to add some Halloween spice to your front porch:


Add some more spiderwebs to your porch. Your guests could get caught in them without knowing it.
The silhouette of a black cat or two will raise the creep factor.
A few stuffed rats on the floor will help set the scene.
A bucket of dead white flowers will look perfect on your porch.
Scatter some tree branches on the ground.
A few pumpkins will add a nice touch to your porch. They can be carved with ghoulish designs, or painted black, silver, or with glitter.
Hang a ghost from your porch. Just cut some holes in an old sheet and throw it over an old beach ball that you hang from the ceiling.
If you have an old rocking chair, cover it with spider webs and put it in a place where it will rock and creak as much as possible.
 The door and window are the eyes and mouth of your home's Halloween soul, so you should make the most of them. Adding just a few ghoulish touches to your front door and windows will make your house look haunted. Here are a few things to try:


Have a spooky doormat. It can have a picture of a spiderweb or a ghost on it.
Hang a wreath covered in bats on the front door.
Splatter some fake blood on your front door. Just make sure it can easily come off.
If you're really going all out, make it look like you've boarded up your windows by sticking some light wood beams over the glass and sticking them to the glass with duct tape. This will make your house look abandoned, and therefore spooky.
Take an old mannequin and cover it in a formal black or red dress. Stick it in a window that everyone will see, preferably a second-floor or attic window if you have one. Shine a flashlight under the mannequin to create a ghostly effect.

