 Maine Coons need vaccinations and regular checkups just like all other cats do. When you first get your Maine Coon, you will need to take her to see a veterinarian as soon as possible. During her first veterinary visit, your cat will have a physical exam and get tested for feline leukemia as well.


To keep your Maine Coon in good health, you will need to schedule an annual appointment for your Maine Coon and also take her to the veterinarian if you ever notice a problem., If you are not planning to breed your Maine Coon, then have your cat spayed or neutered to prevent unwanted kittens and protect your cat’s health. Spaying and neutering your pets helps to prevent pet homelessness and it also offers some health benefits for your Maine Coon, so your pet may live a longer, healthier life.Spaying and neutering prevents hormonal behavioral issues and may also protect your cat from some health issues, such as uterine infections, enlarged prostate, and some forms of cancer., Maine Coons tend to be quite healthy, but they are more prone to a few conditions than some other cat breeds. Some of the conditions that you and your veterinarian will need to watch for include:Spinal Muscular Atrophy. This condition is a type of paralysis that occurs mostly in Maine Coon kittens. If you notice that your Maine Coon is having trouble using his rear legs, then take him to see your veterinarian right away.

Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy. This is a thickening of the heart wall. Your veterinarian will need to perform regular heart exams to monitor the condition of your Maine Coon’s heart.

Polycystic Kidney Disease. With this condition, cysts form in the kidney and destroy the organ. The condition can be detected with a DNA test or ultrasound.

Hip Dysplasia. This is a type of arthritis in your cat’s hips. Watch your Maine Coon for signs that she is having trouble walking or jumping. If you notice that she is avoiding doing these things or showing signs of pain (yowling or hiding), then take her to see your veterinarian.

