 If she is willing to listen, make sure not to be too aggressive, confrontational, or blaming; otherwise she will be less likely to consider changing. Always talk in a calm collected manner, even if she begins to yell, keep your cool.Keep in mind that it is very difficult to change others’ behaviors and ways of thinking, particularly if they are self-absorbed or narcissistic., Think hard about what is motivating your mother to act selfishly.Perhaps your mother is going through hardships of her own and is not meaning to be 'selfish'. If your mother is elderly and is in poor health, she may genuinely need more attention and help; her selfishness may be a necessity of her new station in life. If she was neglected as a child, she may be insecure in her relationships with others and this may be contributing to her selfish, self-absorbed personality. If you understand where she is coming from, you may change your mind on how selfish she is actually being; or if not, you will at least have some sense on how to confront her when the time comes.For example, if you think she is selfish because she was neglected as a child you may remind her that you also feel neglected and that you two should work together to break the family cycle by improving your relationship, not letting her parents’ and her past determine your shared future.
 Instead of saying things like “you are selfish,” phrase your complaints more along the lines of “I think that sometimes you act selfishly by doing ____”. This puts the emphasis on specific behaviors and refrains from directly making a character judgment. Judging her character will just put her on the defensive and make her upset; if you isolate her specific actions she will more easily see how she has been acting inappropriately; calling her selfish doesn’t give her anything to work with., Saying things like “You’re selfish” or “You aren’t being a good mother” justly put people on the defensive. If you use “you”-statements with your mother, she is likely to shut down and feel attacked, even if otherwise she would have been open to listening. Use “I”-statements to keep the focus on your feelings. Remember: you can’t know your mother’s intentions, but you can know your own feelings.


For example, instead of saying, “You’re inconsiderate and selfish,” use a specific “I”-statement: “I feel neglected when you rush past my day to talk about your own all the time. I would feel more valued as your child if you asked me questions about my life.”
Avoid should/ought statements, too, such as “You ought to listen to me more” or “You should be a better mother.” Keep the focus on yourself and how you feel: “I don’t feel heard when you brush my concerns off” or “I feel upset when you don’t acknowledge my accomplishments.”

, If your mother is selfish, it can feel like she is literally the most selfish person in the world and is ruining your life. Even if that feels like the truth, you will have much better success in talking with her if you avoid hyperbolic and overemotional language.


For example, avoid statements such as “Your selfishness is ruining my life.” Instead, go for something calm and balanced, such as “I have a hard time socializing with my friends when you do not let me use the car, even on weekends.” The facts are the same, but the latter statement is less blaming and judgmental, and may get a better response.
 Your mother's selfishness may be driven by a lack of awareness about what you need. There is a chance that she would be willing to change but that she just is oblivious to her own behavior.Tell your mother what you need out of your relationship with her; focus on the things that you can't do without. For example, you may need her to listen to you sometimes, or you may need her to be more encouraging, or less critical and judgmental, or you may need her to quit making all of the things that happen in your life ultimately about her.When telling her a list of your needs, also let her know about other things you would like from the relationship some day but that are not necessary to focus on right now. This will let her know that you are willing to compromise and that you are not being unreasonable by expecting her to immediately adopt changes in every way that you would like.
For example, you could say, “Mom, I could really use a pep-talk from you every now and then. I feel hurt when you don’t acknowledge any of my accomplishments and don’t want to hear about my day. I’d like you to put some time aside every week to listen to what’s going on in my life.”

, If your mom is being selfish in an intrusive way, such as by showing up to your house unannounced when she is not wanted there, or by failing to give you privacy if you live with her, let her know this is inappropriate.Tell her that her behavior is very frustrating and unacceptable. Start by setting small boundaries. The trick is to start small, like getting your foot in the door, and then building up to bigger boundaries once she is used to the smaller boundaries.Here's an example: if your mom shows up at your apartment most nights without being invited and then acts angry or hurt when you’re busy, setting a small boundary would be to say that you need her to call you before she comes over to visit. Setting a bigger boundary might be saying that you want to spend time with her, but that she has to call before she comes over and she can only visit you on Thursdays.
Remember that your mother wanting to spend time with you or do things with you isn’t inherently selfish. It is only selfish if she refuses to acknowledge your needs and desires when you talk to her about them. Often, some clear communication will make both of you happy.
 Let your mom know that you mean business when you talk to her about her selfish behavior so that she can better understand the gravity of the situation.Assertive communication is not the same thing as aggressive communication. Rather, it involves being direct and open about your feelings, thoughts, and beliefs in a way that is respectful of others' needs and points of view.Don't say something less assertive such as "Mom, sometimes you may do things that seem to focus more on you than on other people, I could be wrong but it seems that way to me. Maybe we can talk about it sometime?"
Instead, be more assertive with something along the lines of: "Mom, I feel hurt when you make inflexible demands of me even when I have other plans. I want to talk to you about this. I think we can have a better relationship than we currently do. I am willing to put in the effort if you are."
You can avoid being unassertive by changing the way you think prior to speaking. Avoid thinking things such as "I should keep quiet because I don't want to burden Mom with my thoughts" or "It could be embarrassing or awkward if I say what I think"; instead, think more assertive thoughts such as "I have the right to say disagree with what Mom thinks". , Sometimes family problems are too difficult to solve on their own and it can be much easier, more efficient, productive, and helpful to get outside assistance to deal with the underlying issues.


If you suggest family counseling, bring it up with your mother as the family having relationship issues that you think could use improvement; do not put the entire blame or emphasis on her.
 Selfish people fail to remember that relationships are not destined to permanency. Relationships, of any nature, involve some give and take, some reciprocal back and forth. If your mother is selfish, let her know the specific ways she treats you that you dislike and tell her that if she does not change you will not be able to be around her or treat her like a mom anymore. This may work better if you are an adult or no longer live with your mother.
 Save this as a last result, assuming it is an option for you. Sometimes you cannot salvage a relationship, even with your own mother. Keep that in mind as you attempt to navigate the tricky situation that you are in.If you live at home and do not have the means to move out, rather than letting your selfish mother get you down, make a focused plan for how to move out of the house or do well in school so that when the time comes, you can position yourself in a way that will allow you to remove yourself from the negative situation you are in.If you are a parent and have a family of your own, cut your losses with your mother and focus instead on being the most loving parent to your children that you can be. Turn her negative into your positive.
Let yourself grieve. If in evaluating your situation it seems that your relationship with your mother is dead or dying, allow yourself time to process this. Losing a mother to her own selfishness, self-absorption, or narcissism is a very real and painful experience. Do not deny the idea that it is a serious issue; instead, allow yourself to feel sorry but then focus on actionable, goal-directed change and improvement for how to improve your situation and your feelings.