 You may want to throw your Harry Potter party at your place, but it may also be easier to have it at a venue or someone else's house. Additionally, you'll need to consider what the best time is to throw the party based on who is going to be attending.Before deciding who to invite, you'll want to know how much space you have to work with. You don't want to invite so many people that can't fit them inside a tiny apartment.
Timing is everything when it comes to parties. You'll want to choose the best time that will get many people to come, even if they have other plans during the day you are having the party.;
, Planning and throwing a party can be expensive, especially if you're using thematic decor. If you have a small budget, you'll want to make different choices than if you have a large or unlimited budget.If you have a small budget, try making more of the decorations or food yourself. Harry Potter themed decorations and food are plentiful, but this can be more expensive than making your own homemade decorations and food.
You'll also want to limit the guest list if you have a small budget. More people invited means more food, space, and decorations.
 This is especially important when planning food and beverage choices, music, and entertainment.If you're throwing a kid's party, you'll also want the time and location to be different than if it's for adults.Kids parties will need to start earlier and probably be smaller in number and scope. Too many kids at once can be crazy, but also too much to handle as the party planner.
If you're having adults over for Harry Potter party, it should be later in the day and probably on a weekend. Additionally, you may want to include alcoholic beverages as part of your menu.
 Be sure to include extra information on the invitations such as whether or not it is a costume party and if guests are welcome to bring along other people to the party. People should be excited about the prospect of a Potter party based on your invite.Make the invites even more like Harry Potter by making them like the acceptance letters. You can make the invitations say that guests have been accepted into Hogwarts and when they have to come to the party locations.
While you may be able to buy acceptance letter invitations, you can easily make them. Include a return envelope so you can get RSVPs from your guests., There are a wide variety of a decorations you can use for your Harry Potter party. For wall hangings and Potter-themed trinkets, you should be able to find them on the Internet, local department stores, and book stores.Harry Potter accessories are popular and available just about anywhere. Check at party stores and book stores. You can also find plenty of Harry Potter themed party accessories online.
If you are looking to get creative with the decorations while saving money, making your own could be a good option. Making your own decorations can be as simple as cutting out Golden Snitch and sorting hat shapes out of poster board. You can also place starry-looking fabric over the windows, and finding old brooms to create flying broomsticks. Collect some sticks and distribute them between the guests to pretend they are wands.
 Since the dorms are linked to the various “houses” in Harry Potter, it will be a fun way to introduce your guests to the party’s theme.As people come in, you can ask them a couple of questions to "sort" them.If you want to “sort” your guest, you’ll need to get a sorting hat that tells each guest which house they belong to. The sorting hat speaks in rhymes, so try to write out a script for different houses or guests.For each house, you’ll want to use the house colors. In Gryffindor, you’ll use red and gold; for Hufflepuff, yellow and black; for Ravenclaw, blue and bronze; and for Slytherin, green and silver. You can do this with the curtains, interior decorations, or general color scheme., If you don't want to theme your home as dorm rooms, you can use a variety of different themes throughout. There are many different places in Harry Potter, so it can be fun to try to recreate them in your own home.


Olivander's Wand Shop can be a fun room. You can create the hanging sign, as well as various "wands" set up throughout the room.While your home is likely not big enough to have a great hall to eat in, you can set up your dining room to look like the dining hall. You can rent long tables and set up the room so the tables go the length of the room like in the movies., The Harry Potter world is very rich with all kinds of references. You can decorate your walls or door to draw your guests into the Harry Potter world.


On your door, you can try a variety of different signs. A 9 3/4 sign on the door can be fun, as could enchanted dragon eggs. You may even hang a portrait on the front door and a ask for a password you mentioned in the invitations.You can also put signs on your walls from the books or movies. Educational Decrees can be a fun way to put things on your wall throughout your place.

