 Routine is comforting for all people, and especially children. The importance of grieving is matched by the necessity of recognizing that life goes on despite the death of a loved one. While the loss of a significant person in anyone’s life often leads to a sense of emptiness that may never fully go away, your life and the life of your child will continue. A period of grief will deeply affect the way your child is feeling for some time, but grief cannot be allowed to dominate a child’s life.
If you are struggling with the weight of the grief you are experiencing, find a relative or friend that may be able to help keep your child’s normal routine. This may simply include having someone perform some daily task, such as bringing the child to a park or to school.
 The loving thoughts and memories associated with a lost loved one should be cherished and maintained.Keep and share photos. Consider making a scrapbook specifically in remembrance of the person the child lost.
Recall funny or otherwise enjoyable things the person that has passed had said or done.
Don’t avoid positive experiences based on the concern that it might sadden a child who may be reminded of someone they lost. Positive memories, though potentially emotion-inducing, actually contribute to a healthy grieving process.
 In order to be there for a grieving child and to set a good example of healthy grieving, you need to be able to cope with the loss you’re suffering from as well. Give yourself time to reflect and recover. Don’t rush the healing process for either yourself or your child. Live right. Sleep enough, eat a balanced diet, get some exercise. Get in the habit of maintaining your own routines.
Reach out to friends and other family members for emotional support. Be honest with those that care about you. Tell them about your frustration, anger, and sadness about what has happened.
Ask for help with everyday responsibilities, especially in terms of childcare, if you’re not able to keep up.
Speak with a counselor or therapist is you’re experiencing persistent depression or melancholia. ·
Join a group, either in person or online. There are helpful online communities that can help, particularly GriefNet.org.
The better you are able to handle your own grief, which includes being honest to yourself and others about the pain you’re experiencing, the better a child who is close to you will be able to cope with grief as well.