 Find a good hiding place to keep your purchase and only bring it out when your parents aren’t around or won’t notice. Try places with small openings, like underneath furniture.


Be careful not to choose a place that your parents might go to clean, pick up laundry, or otherwise have a reason to go from time to time like your closet, dresser drawers, or other storage areas.
If the item you purchased is too big or hard to hide, consider keeping it at a friend’s house that you trust, and only using it there or carefully transporting it to your own house when you can.
 Also hide receipts or any other evidence of your purchase so your parents don’t come across them and ask about it.


You should still keep any receipts and packaging from the item you purchased and not throw them away, because you may need them later if you need to return or exchange it.
If you ordered online, keep any packing receipts that came inside, but get rid of the other packaging by throwing it away where your parents won’t notice it. A trash can at school or a public place is better than one at home.
 If you purchased online, or if you did any other searching on the internet before or after buying, delete your history from your browser, particularly if you share a computer with your parents.


Go into the settings or history tab on whatever internet browser you use and clear all the recent history of websites visited, or select and delete just the ones you don’t want your parents to come across., Take your item out of its hiding place only when your parents aren’t around or won’t catch you with it. Or use it, wear it, or look at it only when you’re at a friend’s house or at school.


Make sure you have your purchase in a backpack or well concealed whenever you move it from place to place.
 If your parents find your purchase and get suspicious about where it came from, and you don’t want to confess that you bought it, tell them about a rewards program or other contest, like collecting bottle caps or finding a winning code on a food or drink item.


You may want to have a small collection of bottle caps or other proof to show you really are participating in what you say you are.
Note that lying to your parents is not a good idea, so avoid using this step or making up any other excuse if you can. If your parents ask about where your purchase came from, the best option at that point is just to be honest about where and how you got it.
 You might decide you just want to ‘fess up to your parents about your purchase. Consider that they could be mad if they told you not to buy it, but it might be worse if you try to hide it from them and they find it anyway.


If you’ve already asked your parents for permission to buy something and they said no, you can tell them, “Hey, I know you didn’t want me to buy this, but I did on my own with my own money. I’m sorry I went behind your back, but I want to be honest now and not hide it from you.”
If you haven’t asked your parents for permission previously, you can casually mention your purchase to your parents, and hopefully they will not see it as a big deal if you’re of age to own it and you paid for it with your own money.

