 Whether required, optional, or just for fun you will want to review or create a list of titles to read over the summer. By knowing exactly what you can expect to read over the summer you will be able to obtain all the necessary titles and create a reading schedule. If you have the freedom to pick your own books, choose ones that you will love, making your summer reading fun and enjoyable.Some books might be required reading. These should take priority over any personal reading goals.
Optional and personal reading goals can take any form you want them to. Pick some of your favorite types of books to create a fun summer of reading.;
, Before you start to read the books found on your summer reading list you will need to obtain them. There are a few methods you can use to obtain your books including a visit to your local library, shopping at a book store, or purchasing the books from an on-line vendor. Whichever method you choose make sure to get your books as soon as possible so that you have enough to time to read them over the summer.Libraries are a great place to find the books you need and won't cost you any money.
Book stores can be a fast way to find any books you might need and want to keep.
Shopping on-line is an easy way to find books. However, you will have to wait for them to ship to your house and will likely need a credit or debit card to purchase them.
Both libraries and online vendors offer e-Books which can be instantly downloaded to your tablet, e-reader, computer or other digital device.
 Once you have your books you will want to create a schedule for your summer reading. Having a good schedule will help keep you on track and ensure that you finish all of your reading by the time summer is over.Find out exactly how much you have to read over the summer and break that total up into daily and easy to meet goals.
For example, let's say you have four books to read and each book has 100 pages. This means you have 400 pages total to read over your summer break.
Think about how long your summer break is. Most summer breaks are around 90 days.
You will have to read 400 pages in 90 days then. Dividing 400 by 90 results in a reading goal of at least 5 pages a day.
Don't forget to leave time for fun and breaks in your schedule. You might not want to read on the weekends, requiring you to read more during the days you are reading.
 Not everyone has the same reading style. Some people prefer a certain type of environment around them that helps them focus on what they are reading. Ask yourself some of the following questions to find out what environments might be a good fit for your reading style:Do you like to have music or some other sounds in the background while you read?
Do you need an absolutely quiet space to focus on what you are reading?
Do you read better in a brightly lit space or somewhere with low lighting?
Multitasking is a myth. You cannot focus on your reading and something else (like TV or Facebook) at the same time. Make sure your reading style helps you focus on your reading., Once you have discovered your own personal reading style and preferences you will need to either find or create a space that meets those needs. Making a great reading space will help you to focus and fully enjoy your summer reading.Your can easily set up your own room to meet your reading needs.
If you like a lot of background noise you might enjoy reading in a café or coffee shop.
Libraries can be quiet places that are generally brightly lit and free from loud or distracting noises.
A public park can be a good spot to enjoy your summer reading.
 As you work through your summer reading you will want to make sure that you are sticking to the schedule you have created for yourself. Check your schedule at the end of each day to make sure you are meeting your goals and to ensure that you will be able to complete all of your reading before the end of summer.


Review your goals at the end of each day to see if you have read the amount you had planned.
At the end of the day review your goals for the upcoming day so you know what to expect.
If you find yourself falling behind try to read more the next day in order to catch up.
Try to read at least a little bit every day.
 As you read your books over the summer try talking about them with friends and family. Talking about what you read is a great way to share the interesting stories or information you've come across as well as gain a deeper understanding of the reading through conversation.Try getting your friends or family to read the same things you are.
Share the stories or information you've come across.
 Like most activities, reading with a friend can be more enjoyable than doing it alone. Ask your friends if they want to share your reading goals and have regular discussions with you about your reading. You might even want to have a friendly competition to see who can read more over the summer.Reading with a friend can help you keep on schedule during your summer reading.
Talking with your friend about what you have read can help you remember details or have a deeper understanding of that reading.
 Meeting a goal or accomplishing something challenging is an important achievement. You might want to consider setting rewards for yourself once you meet your reading goals. Think about some of your favorite things and allow yourself time to engage in them after you successfully meet your summer reading goals.


Enjoy a healthy snack or treat after meeting your goals.
Reward yourself with some free time to watch your favorite show or play your favorite video game.

