 Contacting your friend after an important meeting, test or other event can show that you care and were thinking about them. Always reach out to your friend after they've gone through something big to help make your bond a lasting one.For example, if your friend had an important exam that day, calling them and asking how it went would be a good idea.
Your friend may have had an important business meeting. Texting them to see how it went would be a good way to show that you were thinking of them.
Maybe your friend had a performance that they were nervous about. Asking the how it was can be a great way to show that you care.
 Sharing your genuine feelings with your friend can demonstrate that you trust them enough to open up. Listening to your friend's feelings and concerns can demonstrate that you are a trustworthy person. Always try to facilitate an open and honest sharing of your thoughts, feelings and personalities to help create a long lasting friendship.


You may be going through a tough time in a romantic relationship. Talking about it with your friend can help you both feel more connected.
Always actively listen to your friend whenever they are sharing something important and personal.
Don't be afraid to tell your friend something that you think they might not want to hear. For example, if they are considering buying something they can't afford, you might try telling them why it's a bad idea.
 Being there to help your friend out with practical issues can help create a stronger bond between the two of you. Although studies have shown these practical shows of support aren't as bonding as emotional support, helping your friend out can still make your friendship stronger. If your friend needs help with a challenge, task or other practical issue, offering your help can be a good way to make your relationship a lasting one.For example, you could help your friend move some new furniture into their house.
If your friend's car broke down, you could try giving them a ride.
Loaning your friend a couple of dollars can be a good way to show your support.
You might try throwing your friend a birthday party.
 Research has shown that the longest lasting friendships are based on how well they reinforce a person's sense of self and identity. Because of this, you'll want to show your friend that you are aware of how they identify themselves and support them in these roles. By showing your friend that you understand and support them, your friendship can be a lasting one.For example, you might say something like “You are such a good mom!” to help boost your friend's self esteem.
You could try offering your friend praise for their professional lives. For example, you could say "I don't know how you landed that deal. I'm really impressed that you pulled that off."
Maybe your friend is a musician and has written a new song. Telling them how much you enjoyed it could be a great way to strengthen your friendship.

