 Working with a registered dietitian is the best way to develop a customized eating plan to help overcome anorexia. The primary focus, however, is to stop dieting. Dieting builds an attitude of restriction. Avoid this and focus on nourishing your body with healthy foods.Learn to listen to your body and eat when you are hungry. Choose whole foods that provide essential vitamins and nutrients like fruits, vegetables, lean sources of protein, healthy fats, and whole grains.
Ensure that you are eating several small meals throughout the day and getting the necessary calories as suggested by your dietitian.
 Many people associate health with a number on the scale. However, every body is different and the scale doesn’t really tell you anything about health. If you have an obsession with weighing yourself—which leads to unhealthy behaviors like restricting calories or over-exercising—get rid of your scale., Physical activity is an important ingredient to a healthy body and lifestyle. However, if you tend to overdo it to control your weight, you will need to find a healthy medium. Work with your treatment team to determine the right amount of exercise for you.This may involve doing gentle restorative exercises like yoga, walking, or physical chores like gardening. Take your workouts outside to reap the mental health benefits of nature.
Be wary of guilt-inducing behaviors that can trigger a relapse like punishing yourself for missing a workout by skipping meals. If this happens, seek out your therapist for help.
 Fashion magazines and beauty blogs can be ripe with unrealistic ideals of the human body. Exposure to such negative media can further distort your body image and compromise anorexia recovery. End your subscriptions to such media sources and become a critical observer of other forms of media.Remind yourself that human bodies come in all shapes and sizes. The bodied features on TV and in magazines have often been retouched to appear thinner and flawless.
Embrace media sources that emphasize a variety of bodies like the Project HEAL campaign, #WhatMakesMeBeautiful.You might also look into the “Embrace” campaign, which is aimed at helping people accept their body image.