 Most cell phone fires are caused by what’s known as “thermal runaway” in the lithium-ion battery cell. When this happens, the first thing you’re likely to notice is dense, black smoke accompanied by a distinct burning odor. The battery itself will then ignite, often emitting small white flames or a faint reddish glow.You may also hear a loud popping or sizzling sound as the chemical-infused metals in the battery continue to burn.When a phone catches fire, it can cause the surrounding materials to bubble, melt or even explode, making it very unsafe to be around.
Don’t hesitate to dial emergency services if you have reason to believe that your phone is an immediate hazard.;
, Keep the burning phone far away from other flammable objects. If possible, take it outside or place it on a non-combustible surface like concrete, stone or metal. This will keep the flames from spreading or damaging materials that are vulnerable to heat.If the phone is in your pocket when you detect smoke or a burning smell, don’t attempt to take it out. Instead, remove your pants and shake it free to keep your clothing from catching fire.Do not attempt to grab a burning phone by hand. You could become seriously injured.
 Pull out the pin at the top of the extinguisher. This will break the safety seal and ready the extinguisher for use. Grip the metal handle in one hand and the end of the nozzle in the other. Point the nozzle at the fire and squeeze the handle to activate the C02.Ideally, you should use a Class D fire extinguisher, which is intended specifically to put out fires caused by reactive flammable metals.Substances like ABC dry chemical, powdered copper and graphite or sand can also be used to stifle metal fires, if you happen to have them on hand., Aim for the base of the flames to smother the fire at its source. Sweep the nozzle back and forth over the flames. Keep spraying until you’re certain that the fire has been put out—lithium ion battery fires have been known to spontaneously reignite, even after they appear to have been stopped.Intense heat can cause adjacent battery cells to catch fire, beginning the burning process all over again.