


Use lotions and soaps from pump-bottles. Dipping your fingers into a jar of lotion or sharing a bar of soap with others can spread MRSA.
Don't share personal items like razors, towels, or hairbrushes.
Wash all bed linens at least once a week, and wash towels and washcloths after each use.
 These might include shared areas of a home or crowded public spaces like nursing homes, hospitals, prisons, and gyms. Though many common areas are regularly disinfected, you never know when the last cleaning was or who may have been in the area before you. It's wise to place a barrier down if you're concerned.


For example, bring your own towel to the gym and place it between yourself and the equipment. Wash the towel immediately after use.
Make good use of antibacterial wipes and solutions provided by the gym. Disinfect all equipment before and after use.
If showering in a shared space, wear flip-flops or plastic shower shoes.
You are at increased risk of infection if you have any cuts or have a compromised immune system (like with diabetes).
 It may be that the person who touched a doorknob before you had MRSA, and touched his nose just before opening the door. It's a good idea to use hand sanitizer throughout the day, especially when in public. Ideally, the sanitizer will contain at least 60% alcohol.


Use it at the supermarket, when receiving change from cashiers.
Children should use hand sanitizer or wash their hands after playing with other children. Teachers who interact with children should follow the same standard.
Whenever you feel you may be exposed to potential infection, use hand sanitizer just to be safe.
 Incorporate it into your housekeeping routine during community outbreaks to decrease your risk of infection.


Always dilute bleach before cleaning with it, as it could discolor your surfaces.Use a 1:4 ratio of bleach to water. For example, add 1 cup of bleach to 4 cups of water to clean your household surfaces.
 Studies have not been able to show that vitamins and natural therapies can improve our immune systems enough to ward off MRSA. The only study that seemed promising, in which subjects were given "mega-doses" of vitamin B3, had to be disavowed because the dosage itself was unsafe.