 To begin the installation process, put the San Andreas installation CD in your computer. Most of the time, this will cause an autorun window prompting you to begin the installation process to appear immediately.


San Andreas is a decade-old game and, as such, has relatively low system requirements. Most modern computers should be powerful enough to run it. However, if you're not sure of your computer's suitability, consult Rockstar Games' official system requirements for San Andreas.;
, For a number of reasons (for instance, because the game isn't designed for modern hardware), it's possible that the autorun prompt won't immediately launch when you insert the San Andreas CD. If it doesn't, try opening the game disc via "My Computer" and running the executable (.exe) install file.
 Follow the installation wizard's prompts as directed. Eventually, you'll be asked to specify a location to install the game in. The vast majority of users will want to go with the default location, but if you'd like to install the game elsewhere, specify your desired file location in the text box.
 Eventually, you will be asked to choose whether you want a "complete" or "custom" installation. Most users will want the pre-selected "complete" option, as it's simpler and easier. However, if you'd like to save disc space by choosing which specific game components you'd like to install, choose "custom" and follow the additional instructions.
 When you've finalized your installation choices, the game will begin to install. This process can take several minutes to complete.
 Once the installation has completed, you should be able to play your game. Insert the "Play" CD and begin playing your game via the onscreen Autorun menu that should appear.


If the autorun doesn't appear, try manually running the game's .exe file with the disc inserted.
 As noted above, San Andreas is a fairly old game. Because of this, you may experience difficulty getting the game to run even after a successful installation. If you're having trouble, try visiting Rockstar Games' support forumsfor help.

