 Access the website at http://www.teamviewer.com on your web browser.


Click on the green button labelled “Start Full Version, It’s free.” TeamViewer will begin to download.;
, The file is generally saved in the Downloads section of My Computer. Search for the file and double-click on it.


Click the “Run” button on the dialog box that opens to continue.
 Select the “Install” option on the TeamViewer setup dialog box that appears and click “Next.” Select “Personal/Non-commercial use” then click the “Next” button at the bottom right side of the screen.


Accept the license agreement by checking the two boxes next to the two statements given at the bottom of the window. Then click “Next” to proceed.
After that, click “No” then “Finish” located at the bottom of the screen to begin the installation process.
 Wait until the process is over, and click the “Close” button below the screen to close the window.
 To do this, tap the Play Store icon found in your Apps drawer or home screen.


The Play Store icon looks like a bag with a colored triangle on it.
, Select the app from the results list. On the app description page, tap the “Install” button.


Agree to the terms and conditions by selecting “Accept,” and the app will begin downloading and installing onto your Android device.
 To make remote access work, both your Android device and your computer should be connected to the Internet at all times.
 To open the app, double-click its icon on your computer’s desktop screen, and tap on the app’s icon on your Android’s home screen. The icon is blue with a white circle, and in the circle is a blue arrow pointing both ways.


A TeamViewer window will open on the computer while a TeamViewer screen with a Partner ID will appear on the Android device.
When the app on both your computer and Android device is launched, it will generate an automatic Partner ID on your Android. The Partner ID is a unique 9-digit identification code.
 The Partner ID is found under the “Control Remote Computer” label that appears on the right side of the Team Viewer screen on your Android device.


Enter the Partner ID in the text box labelled as “Partner ID” on your computer.
 To do this, select the “Remote Control” option on the computer. You’ll find this option under the Partner ID textbox.



In selecting this, a message will appear on your Android device indicating that a computer is trying to access it.
 Do this by tapping on “Allow” below the pop-up message on your Android device.


You’ll notice a new window will appear on the computer.
 You’ll find this at the top left corner of the screen. This time, a message will be received on your Android device.
 Now both devices are connected; this will lead to real-time screen sharing. Your Android’s home screen will now be displayed on the computer.


Whatever change you make on your Android from your computer will be reflected on the actual Android device, wherever you left it.
 You’ll find the icon on your desktop screen; double-click on it to launch it.
 With this option you can remotely access your Android and transfer files from your Android into your computer.


A new screen will appear with 2 windows: the left window will show the files and drives in the computer, and the right window will show the files in the Android.
 Browse through the Computer window (left side) until you reach the destination folder where you want the Android files to be saved.
 Navigate through the folders in the right window until you find the file(s) you want to transfer to your computer.
 Now you can access the transferred files from your computer.

