 Are you buying brandy for a wedding or holiday party, or for a casual night in? For yourself or as a gift for a friend? Decide if you want something plain and inexpensive, like plain brandy to chug, or if you’re looking to invest in a finer, more expensive brandy that you can sip on like champagne. This will help you to set your sights on a brandy that’ll meet your needs and tastes.;
, Pay a visit to your grocery store, or liquor mart. If you prefer to buy online, visit a wine distillery site, or a cocktail website and do a search for “brandy”. Read the labels and descriptions for each bottle of brandy. This will give you an indication of whether it is where it came from, and how it’s been distilled. Note that the longer a brandy is aged, the more valuable and finer tasting it will be.


Understand that the brandy you purchase will either be fruit brandy, pomace brandy or grape brandy. Fruit brandy is most often used as a digestif or for cooking. It is the cheapest, most common type of brandy, and is distilled from fruit wine, and any fruit with the exception of grapes. This type of brandy will be colorless, un-aged and light on taste. Pomace brandy is also un-aged, and is usually harsher tasting than aged brandies.
 Look out for special characters or fine print in the label or description for each type of brandy. Recognize that the finest of brandies, Cognac and Armagnac, for example, will be branded in a particular style category. This includes: VS (very special); also known as 3-star, VSOP (very special old pale), and XO (extra old).


VS Cognac is aged at least two years, VSOP Cognac is aged for at least four years, and XO Cognac is aged for at least 20 years. XO is considered the most high-end of Cognac, or brandy.
Understand that Armagnac is classified slightly differently from Cognac, in that VSOP Armagnac is aged for a minimum of five years. Armagnac that is considered Hors D’ Age is aged for a minimum of 10 years. , Look for special words on the bottle that tell you where the brandy was distilled and how long it was aged. For example, Marc is French for pomace brandy. A term like Grappa lets you know it was made in Italy or California. Recognize that a term like eau-de-vie is French for colorless, and often times, tasteless.


If you’re having trouble with figuring out the meaning, ask for clarification from a store clerk or someone else who’s knowledgeable about the product.
 Find a wine distillery or beer pub near you and sign up for a spirits tour or tasting. Or, enroll in a wine tasting class. Ask if you can try aged and mature brandy spirits, such as whiskey premium brandies. See what you can observe by examining the color and consistency.


Purchase a brandy cocktail from a bar when you’re at a restaurant or out with family or friends. Ask your server for a brandy cocktail classic, such as the Sidecar, Pisco Sour or Jack Rose, if you’re in the mood for late-night drinking, and are looking for something less expensive than aged brandy.
 Choose a few different types of brandy to sample in a small glass, or in a brandy snifter. Begin with your nose far away from a glass, at recommended chest height. Then, bring it up to your chin. And then lastly, to your nose and mouth. This will allow you to sniff out pepper, cinnamon and other fruit aromas in the brandy. Give your nose time to adjust to the smell of alcohol in the brandy.


The smell of brandy can be overpowering if you’re smelling it for the first time. Keep in mind though, good brandy will have a strong, flavorful aroma.
 Using a brandy snifter or other kind of brandy glass, swirl the brandy at eye level to get a sense of its contents. Be sure to take at least two slow sips to give your tastebuds a sense of like or dislike. Taste each multiple times to give yourself time to adjust your taste palette. If you find the taste is too strong, consider cutting it down with vodka.


Go blind with brandy tasting by pouring out several types of brandy in several different glasses. Mark the bottom of each glass, and then mix them up so you don’t know which kind is which. , Don’t give up on drinking brandy altogether if you don’t enjoy the taste the first few times you’ve tried it. Continue to sample different types of brandies until you find a few that tickle your fancy. This can lead to interesting discoveries and revelations.


Try drinking the brandy unadulterated, without ice or water. Pomace brandies, like grappa or Marc may call for an acquired taste, and at the same time taste fruitier to you, due to its lack of age. You may find your taste leans toward cognac. At the end of the day, it’s all a matter of personal preference.
 Do an online search for the most popular types of brandies enjoyed in your area, or ask a store associate for insight. Opt for a high-end like French Cognac, Armagnac and Calvados if you’re searching for a crisper, finer taste. If you prefer something fruitier or cocktail friendly, look into purchasing Greek Metaxa and South American Pixo brandy. Opt for Brandy de Jerez, Apple Jack or Apple Brandy, Pisco and Eaux-De-Vie if going for a more aromatic taste. Determine what foods you’ll pair it with. Certain brandies, like Apple and Calvados, go especially well with cheese and white-chocolate. , Look up the cost of different types of brandy online. Select a few brands you’re interested in and create a budget. Factor in the expenses of brandy that’s been aged for long. Brandy aged for a year or so can cost $20 a bottle. Cognac and other high-end brandy can be a bit pricy, and run you as much as $60 a bottle.


If Cognac has been aged for 20 years or more, it can get as expensive as $150 a bottle. Cognac that’s been aged for 100 years can run as much as $10,000 dollars per bottle. , Ask your friends and family for suggestions on what brandy you should purchase. Visit distillery and wine sites online and read over their recommendations for the best type of brandy for first-time buyers. Log into a site like Yahoo Answers or Ask.com and ask for suggestions. There will be many opinions, but you’ll ultimately have to decide what you’re willing to try, as well as what works best for your desires and budget.

