 Different types of goldfish have different characteristics. Understanding what breed you have can help you determine the proper adult coloring and growth for your fish.


If your goldfish is metallic yellow or orange with white markings, it may be a common or comet goldfish. These are marked by their sharp, forked tail.
If your goldfish is metallic yellow or orange but has a double, flowing tail, it may be a veiltail or a fantail.
If your goldfish is black with bulging “telescope” eyes, it is probably a black moor.
If your fish has calico markings, it is likely a shubunkin. These colors might include orange, white, gray, blue, and yellow with black speckles.;
, The color of your goldfish can determine its age. It is very common for a goldfish to change color through its life, although it is most common in the first year of life.For most varieties of goldfish, a bronze or brown coloring may indicate that it is under a year old. If it has a gold metallic coloration, it is probably an adult between one or two and ten years of age.Black Moor juveniles may be silver or dark gray before darkening to black as adults.Shubunkins will be multiple colors, but blue is often the most prominent color in adults.Some goldfish begin to turn white as they grow old.
 The caudal fin is the fin at the back of the fish. For most varieties of goldfish, this can indicate the age of the fish. A young goldfish will have a rounded caudal fin. The adult's caudal fin is sharply forked, and the points look well defined.Goldfish with flowing tails or double tails will not have a pronounced caudal fin. These include the veiltail and fantail varieties. Instead of changing shape, its tail will grow in length as it grows older. Veiltail’s caudal fin can grow up to two inches long as an adult., If kept in proper tank or pond conditions, a common goldfish will be around 5 inches (12.7 cm) after a year and 9 inches (22.9 cm) after two years.You can eye your goldfish to see how large it has become.


If you keep your goldfish in a small bowl, you may find that its growth is stunted. In this case, size may not be a good indicator of maturity.Some goldfish can grow over 12 inches (30.5 cm) in length.

