 While pesticides and similar chemicals used in food production do not necessarily produce more estrogen, they do have estrogen-like effects when your body absorbs them. Eating organic food will prevent these chemicals from entering your body., The liver dumps estrogen into its bile acids, and these bile acids pass through your intestines during digestion. Dietary fiber can help eliminate the estrogen found in bile.Fiber-rich foods include fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.
 Polyphenols are derived by plant sources of food. Current research suggests that they help reduce estrogen levels in the blood.Flax seeds can be especially beneficial. In addition to polyphenols, they also contain lignans, which can counteract the effects of estrogen in the body and interfere with estrogen production. They do contain plant derived estrogens known as "phytoestrogens," however, so you should not eat them in excess.
Other seeds, like chia and sesame, have similarly beneficial properties.
Many unrefined grains also contain large amounts of polyphenols. Some of the best whole grains include wheat, oats, rye, corn, rice, millet, and barley.
 Sulfur can help detoxify the liver by getting rid of substances that cause liver damage.As a result, the liver becomes more productive. Since the liver is responsible for metabolizing and breaking down estrogen in the body, a healthy liver can help decrease estrogen.Sulfuric foods include onions, leafy green vegetables, garlic, egg yolks, and citrus fruits.
 Cruciferous vegetables have high levels of phytochemicals, and these phytochemicals work with the body to help block estrogen production.A few beneficial cruciferous vegetables include broccoli, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, bok choy, kale, collard greens, turnips, and rutabagas.
 Many mushrooms help prevent the bodily product an enzyme called "aromatase." This enzyme can convert androgen into estrogen. By eating more mushrooms, you can restrict this conversion process and decrease estrogen in the body.Some of the most helpful varieties include shiitake, portobello, crimini, and baby button.
 The skin of a red grape contains a chemical known as "resveratrol," and the seeds contain a chemical called "proanthocyanidin." Both of these chemicals have been known to help block the production of estrogen.Since both the seeds and skins have estrogen-blocking properties, you should eat red grapes that still have seeds rather than choosing seedless varieties.
 Green tea contains phytochemicals which may help reduce estrogen production in the body. Research is still in its early stages regarding this notion, but early results appear promising., Pomegranates contain phytochemicals, as well. As noted earlier, phytochemicals are thought to have estrogen-blocking properties.


In addition to eating pomegranates fresh, you can also drink pomegranate juice and juice blends to obtain the same health benefits.
 Dietary supplements should never be completely relied upon, but including them in your routine can still be a wise decision.


Take a 1 mg folic acid supplement and a B-complex vitamin to help improve your liver function. This can be especially helpful if you drink alcohol on a regular or semi-regular basis.
Bacterial imbalance can interfere with the elimination of estrogen from the body, but probiotics help balance your digestive tract. Take a daily probiotic containing 15 billion units. Keep the capsules refrigerated and take one or two twice daily on an empty stomach.
Consider taking a fiber supplement to help boost your intake of dietary fiber.
Taking a standard multivitamin on a daily basis can be a good idea. These supplements contain zinc, magnesium, vitamin B6, and other nutrients, and these nutrients can help break down and eliminate estrogen in the body.

