 All vinaigrettes are a mixture of oil, vinegar, a seasoning, and a sweetener. Play with different vinegars and seasonings to find the perfect dressing for you.



Try your hand at making balsamic vinaigrette. This dressing can be prepared with oil, balsamic vinegar, Dijon mustard, salt, and pepper.

Mix up a sweet strawberry dressing. Strawberry vinaigrette can be made by combining berry vinegar and olive oil with cornstarch, black pepper, and fresh strawberries.
Opt for a simple citrus vinaigrette. You can make a lemon vinaigrette or a lime vinaigrette by simply replacing the vinegar usually used with lemon juice or lime juice, respectively.
 French style salad dressing can be made by whisking together corn oil, vinegar, ketchup, sugar, and seasoning.
 Ranch dressing is a simple combination of mayonnaise, buttermilk, salt, garlic salt, pepper, and dill weed.
 Italian dressings contain various spices and seasonings, including sugar, dry mustard, salt, garlic, red pepper, black pepper, oregano, onion powder, and paprika. Combine these spices with vinegar and water to make your dressing.
 Russian salad dressing is similar to French dressing, but it tends to be a little spicier. Whisk together mayonnaise, ketchup, onion, vinegar, and hot sauce.
 There are multiple ways to make this dressing, but most generally involve the use of mayonnaise, ketchup, vinegar, sugar, and pickle relish.
 Blue cheese dressing can be made by mixing mayonnaise, blue cheese, half-and-half, and hot sauce.
 The perfect dressing for a Caesar salad can be made by combining Dijon mustard, anchovies, garlic, egg yolk, lemon juice, and olive oil.
 You can make a quick and flavorful salad dressing by combining Dijon mustard, cream, honey, salt, pepper, and herbs.
 For an Asian-inspired miso dressing, mix miso paste, Dijon mustard, water, lemon juice, olive oil, ginger, and chopped scallion.
 This is another Asian-inspired salad dressing. You can prepare it by mixing ground, toasted sesame seeds, dashi, soy sauce, and sugar.
 Combine balsamic vinegar with dried basil, dried tarragon, lemon zest, oregano, Worcestershire sauce, olive oil, and toasted garlic.

