 For a sturdier drum, you can use a garden pot or planter pot. This activity requires a bit more skill. It might be fun to use with slightly older children. To begin, gather the necessary supplies.


You will need a garden pot or planer made with a terra-cotta covering. It should have a seven inch diameter. You should be able to find this at a local gardening or craft shop.You will need a plastic lid big enough to fit over the pot. You can use a disposable food storage lid.You will also need another lid that goes with a sturdy plastic container. The pot should be able to sit comfortably on this container. You can buy a plastic container at a local craft shop. However, you can also use a deli container or a takeout container for soup.You will also need dry beans, twine or string, medium weight twine, a glue gun, craft glue, and brown acrylic paint., To start, loop the twine around the planter in a zig-zag pattern. To do this, use the glue gun to add a dab of glue to the top and bottom of the string on the points forming the zig-zag. Press down on the string for a few seconds after applying glue to make sure it stays in place.If you're working with a child, help him during this process. It can be helpful to show him zig-zag patterns online to get a sense of what he should be creating. A child should not operate a glue gun without supervision. If your child is very young, it's best to operate the glue gun yourself.
 Once the zig-zag pattern is created, you can add the top of the drum. To do this, you'll need your plastic lid.


Apply a thin line of glue running along the rim of the storage container lid. You can have your child do this as well, with your supervision.Press the lid onto the top of the planter. Hold for a few seconds., The plastic container will form the bottom of your drum. This should be painted brown to match the pot. You can have your child paint the container or you can do so yourself if your child is too young. Allow the container to dry completely before continuing. How long the drying process takes depends on how much paint you used and the specific brand., Once the paint is dry, you can create the base of your drum. To start, apply glue to the bottom of the planter. Use a generous amount. Press the bottom of the plastic container against the bottom of the planter. Hold until secure.From here, fill the container at the bottom with dry beans. this will weigh down the drum, allowing it to be more stable when played. Seal the container with the lid when you're finished.