 Most elementary schools in India wear uniforms and it is compulsory to wear them. Huge earrings, sparkly necklaces, bracelets and anklets are prohibited. You might find it a little strange that Indian Elementary Schools are so strict in dress codes, but in India it is quite common. It may take time to adapt. Sometimes, during special occasions and festivals, you are free to wear colored clothing but again, some (not all) schools don't allow revealing clothes.;
, This is a strictly enforced rule: no makeup allowed. This means you are not supposed to wear lipstick, blush powders (normal powders are allowed) and eye shadows etc. Kajal is allowed in most schools, but some schools don't even allow them. However, don't feel shy to wear these during special occasions.
 Most students are very friendly and they will help you to get adjusted. In return, help them and be understanding. Don't be mean to them. In Elementary schools, there aren't anything called 'Cool Kids' or the 'It fashion'. Some kids gossip, but it is usually about some other student and not about popular culture.
 This is very important. Students in all Indian elementary schools greet their teachers like ' Good morning Ma'am ' or ' Thank you Sir '. They don't greet teachers like ' Hey Miss. Ria' or like 'Bye, Mr.John'. You are not allowed to practice commenting teachers, but you can politely express your opinion of them.
 on time, every time.
 Most teachers are very nice and understanding, so they don't yell at you unless and until you make them to do that! Whatever it is, remember this: No matter how disrespectful you are, unruly you are, disobedient you are, teachers are not allowed to practise corporal punishment. Some teeny weeny slaps are OK, but when it becomes too much, report that again to the school's office. However, this does not mean you push the limits of the teacher.
 In Indian Elementary Schools, you needn't move from class to class for every period, instead teachers will come to your own class. You are strictly not allowed to go outside the class without the teacher's permission. You can also find that it is nearly impossible for Elementary and Middle school students to bunk classes here.
, Be confident, because, one fine day, you might be saying all this to a student new to an Indian Elementary school!

