 Choose a plate that’s either ceramic or glass. Make sure the plate doesn’t have any metal embellishments or decorations on the rim. Metal should never be used in a microwave as it can cause fires.


If you have nothing else, use a paper plate. Make sure the plate doesn’t have a plastic coating on the surface.
Never use plastic containers. When microwaved, these containers can leak hazardous chemicals into your food.;
, Place a paper towel on the plate to help soak up excess moisture.If your pizza is really dried out, you may want to skip this step. Next, break the pizza down into sections so that you can microwave two or three pieces of pizza at a time. Spread the pieces apart so that they’re not touching to help them heat evenly.


If you have more than two or three pieces of pizza you should plan to microwave them in batches. If you microwave a lot of pieces at once they won’t heat through properly and you’ll have to eat cold, rubbery pizza!
If you like your crust really crispy, skip the paper towel and put your pizza on parchment paper instead. , Choose a ceramic cup with a handle. Don’t use any other kind of cup; glass can crack in the microwave sometimes and the plastic may emit harmful chemicals. Fill the cup about two-thirds full of fresh tap water. The water will help fluff up the pizza crust and revitalize the toppings.Make sure the ceramic cup fits inside the microwave with the plate. If it doesn’t fit side-by-side, stack the plate on top of the cup.
Try to use a mug with a handle so that you can safely retrieve the hot mug when you’re done microwaving your pizza. If you don’t have one, wait for the ceramic cup to cool completely before removing it.
 Microwave everything in one minute intervals at half power until the pizza is as hot as you like it.By reheating the pizza slowly, you give the ingredients more time to come to the same temperature. Toppings that would normally heat up faster than the rest of the pizza won’t be lava hot when you try to eat them. Similarly, the inside of the pizza won’t be cold either.


Check if the pizza is hot enough by placing a finger near the pizza. If you touch the pizza, you may get burned.
If you need your pizza in a hurry, microwaving in thirty second intervals at normal power will work as well. However, your crust may not be as soft.

