 Your hair is easiest to tease when it has some texture and grip to it. That’s why it’s best to tease it when it hasn’t been freshly washed because there is some oil and product buildup to help with the process. If possible, wait until the day after you’ve shampooed -- or even two days -- to tease your hair.Having oils and product build up on your tresses makes it easier for your hair to hold the shape that teasing requires.;
, You can wash your hair before you tease, but it’s important to use the right product. Use a volumizing shampoo that will add texture and body to your hair so you can tease it more easily.Be sure not to use a moisturizing shampoo. It usually contains emollients that coat your hair and give it too much slip, so it’s more difficult to tease.
 While conditioning is an important step in keeping your hair smooth and soft, it can interfere when you’re teasing your hair. Conditioner is loaded with hydrating ingredients and emollients that leave your hair extremely smooth. As a result, it doesn’t have the grip necessary for effective teasing.If you have extremely dry hair that requires extra moisture, use a conditioner -- but apply it only to the ends of your hair, which you’ll be less likely to tease.
 If you normally add styling creams, serums, or other anti-frizz products to your hair after you’ve washed it, make sure that they don’t contain silicone. Silicone coats the hair and gives it a smooth surface that doesn’t lend itself to teasing., Start the teasing process by choosing where to part your hair for the overall look that you’re going for. If you plan to brush your hair straight back, you don’t need to part it. Comb your hair into place following the part.








If you’re having trouble deciding where to part your hair, choose the area where you want to add the most volume.
 Once you’ve parted your hair, use a texturizing or teasing spray. It helps add volume to your hair without damaging it, so apply it to the areas where you plan to tease and work it through gently with your fingers.








If you don’t have a texturizing or teasing spray on hand, you can substitute dry shampoo.
 Before you tease your hair, divide it into two sections, a top layer and a bottom layer. The bottom layer is the hair that you’ll be teasing, while the top layer is the hair that you’ll brush over the teased section to hide it for a smooth, polished look.The bottom layer of hair should be larger than the top. However, make sure that there’s enough hair in the top layer to smooth over the teased sections when you’re finished.
 When you’re teasing your hair, the top layer can easily get in the way. To make the process easier, use a clip or bobby pin to separate the top layer from the bottom layer and keep it out of the way.
 Once the top layer is clipped out of the way, take a small section of hair that’s approximately ½-inch (13 mm) wide from the bottom layer. Lift the hair away from the scalp, pulling it so it’s taut.








Keep in mind that the tighter you pull the hair away from the scalp, the more friction that you’ll create. That will give you more volume when you tease.
 With the section of hair still lifted, take a long tail comb and brush the hair against the grain toward the root. Start approximately 2-inches (51 mm) from the root when you backcomb, and gradually move further away if you want even more volume.








Use short strokes when you’re backcombing your hair.
Moving the comb back and forth as you tease can add even more texture and volume.
 When you’re finished teasing a section of hair, you’ll want to lock in the volume with hairspray. Apply a firm hold hairspray to the teased hair before moving on to tease the next section.
 After you’ve finished teasing your first section, move on to the next ½-inch (13 mm) section and repeat the process. Continue backcombing and applying hairspray until you’ve finished teasing all of the hair that you want to.








Depending on the look that you’re going for, you may not need to tease the entire bottom layer of hair. Consider your finished style to determine where you need the extra volume.
 Once you’ve finished teasing your hair, remove the clip that’s holding the top section out of the way. Comb the hair smooth, and lay it back over the teased section to hide it. Style your hair as you desire.








You can pull your teased back back into a ponytail, bun, French twist, or add a headband.
You can also lightly brush out the teased sections to soften them and make the volume appear more natural

, When you’re happy with the way your hair looks, you’ll want to add more hairspray to lock the style in place. Use a flexible hold spray, though, to avoid weighing your hair down with too much product.
 When you’re ready to get your hair back to normal, use a natural bristle brush to gently brush it out before washing it. You’ll want to start brushing your hair at the ends and gradually work your way up to the roots.Don’t worry if you can’t work all of the teased sections out of your hair by brushing them. The next step will help unmat them.
 Get into the shower, and wet your hair as you normally would to wash it. However, instead of applying shampoo, saturate your hair with conditioner. Allow it to sit for 2 to 3 minutes before rinsing it out.








The conditioner will moisturize and soften your hair, so it’s slippery enough to brush out the teased sections.
 After you’ve rinsed the conditioner from your hair, use your usual shampoo to wash your hair. Follow up with a normal amount of conditioner, and rinse your hair completely. Blot your hair dry with a clean towel.








If you hair still feels at all matted or rough, apply a leave-in conditioner to help moisturize and soften it further.
 After towel drying your hair, use a wide tooth comb to detangle your hair. Be especially gentle when you’re going over the areas where you teased. Continue working until your hair is completely smooth.








Don’t use a brush on your wet hair. It can easily snag your hair and cause breakage.

