 There are many delicious and kid-friendly recipes that incorporate vegetables and fruits. If kids find that there are fruits or vegetables in the food that is being served in front of them, they may be more inclined to eat the fruits or veggies.


If your children dislike seeing the vegetables in their plates or bowls, serve them in an unrecognizable form. For example, run the vegetables through a blender to make them less noticeable, then mix the veggies into a soup or a curry.
 If you kids haven’t enjoyed vegetables in ways they’ve eaten before, change the way you’re cooking veggies. Try roasting them: roasting vegetables brings out their sweet flavor and changes the texture as well, since the vegetables become crispy and slightly caramelized in the oven. Roast items including: bell peppers, carrots, broccoli, zucchini, and tomatoes.Try cooking vegetables in a soup: butternut squash soup is delicious and kids shouldn’t mind the texture. Broccoli cheddar soup is another vegetable-heavy option that kids may enjoy, especially if they get to add more cheese to their own bowl of soup.
 This will have two benefits: (1) you’ll expose your child to a larger number of healthy foods, and (2) you’ll be able to feed your child different types of nutrients. When planning daily or weekly meals, plan to offer at least one veggie or fruit that’s high in vitamin A (like carrots or sweet potato), one that’s high in vitamin C (like oranges, bell peppers, or broccoli) , and one that’s high in fiber (such as celery).Just like adults, children will have natural likes and dislikes when it comes to fruits and vegetables. If your child sincerely dislikes broccoli, serve more dishes with a vegetable that you child prefers.
 Kids often get hungry during the day, and will ask for a snack. Although they’re likely to prefer an unhealthy option—such as potato chips or a candy bar—you can influence your kids to eat healthier by serving them fruits and veggies. Rather than giving them the option to choose the snack, simply set a plate of fruits or vegetables in front of them.


If your kids are surprised and ask for a sugary snack instead, try saying, “Maybe you can have that next time you’re hungry—but right now we’re having apple slices as our snack.”
Occasionally, you may need to reward your children for eating healthy food, such as fruits and vegetables. Rather than threatening to punish kids if they don’t finish their vegetables, say something like, “After you eat your corn, you can have a cookie for dessert.” Or, better yet, reward them with a non-food item such as a sticker or time to play their favorite game.
 Children are often put off by the limp, soft, or mushy consistency of cooked vegetables. Letting them eat the produce raw will let the vegetables retain their crunch—a texture that kids often find amusing or fun. If they like the texture well enough, kids may even start asking for raw veggies as a snack.Cut up raw fruit and vegetables to make them easier and more fun to eat.
If your children struggle to eat raw vegetables such as carrots or celery, serve them with a side of ranch dressing, hummus, or peanut butter. Although this will add some fat and calories to the raw veggies, it may motivate your kids to eat the veggies., For parents with the pickiest children, who may refuse to eat fruits or vegetables in any form, you may need to add vegetables to your child’s food without telling them. For example, if you’re preparing kid-favorites like pizza, macaroni and cheese, or hot dogs, top the dishes with veggies before serving: basil leaves and chopped tomatoes for pizza; peas and chopped carrots for mac and cheese; and pickles, onions, and bell peppers for hot dogs.Smoothies are also a great way to add fruit and vegetables to your child's diet. Try making your child a smoothie with some fresh or frozen fruit and a handful of greens, like spinach or kale.
Some vegetable-based breads are sweet and may remind children more of eating cake than of eating vegetables. Banana bread or muffins, carrot bread (or carrot cake), and zucchini bread—or variations on these breads—may be tasty enough to make kids forget that they’re eating vegetables.
If you’re desperate, pureed vegetables (such as tomatoes, squash), can be served in pasta sauce. Kids usually won’t notice the slight change in texture and flavor. Another option is mixing some carrot juice into orange juice. Kids shouldn't notice the difference. You could also try prepared vegetable and fruit juices such as V8.

