 Manhunt puts a more exciting spin on the ordinary game of hide and seek and tag. To play one version of manhunt, wait until the sun starts to set and designate one person to be “it.” Then, have the rest of the people hide in a designated area and have “it” count to 20. Then, the person will work to seek out the people who are hiding; if you’re hiding and you see that person coming toward you, you can run to your heart’s content. When the person who is “it” tags the person who is hiding, that person joins his team as part of the manhunt.


The idea of the game is for the person who is “it” to have as many people on his team as possible; these people will also help find people who are hiding once they’ve been tagged. Once everyone but one person has been tagged, that person wins the game.
Typically, the person who was tagged first becomes “it” first during the next round of the game.
 When was the last time you and your friends went to the beach? If you leave relatively close to the ocean, then you should plan a day trip to the beach so you can hit the waves, get a tan, play some carnival games if they’re out there, or throw around a Frisbee or kick around a soccer ball. Even if it’s not quite swimming season yet, then you can have a low-key barbecue or play some beach volleyball. Just a change of scenery can help you and your guy friends have some fun; what’s more, the beach is a great place to meet girls.


If you don’t have a beach to go to, see if there’s a lake or river nearby that is easy to visit. If not, you can set up a fake beach in your backyard, complete with beach chairs and a beach ball.
 Dodgeball doesn’t have to just be a game you get really excited to play in gym class. Find a big, open field, some balls that are not too heavy and are easy to throw, and have yourselves a dodgeball tournament. You can even open this game up to more people in your school and can even invite a whole bunch of people in your class to play, whether you text them or invite them through Facebook, to have more people to play with.


Get an “official” whistle and make sure the rules are clear at the before you start the game. Prepare some rules for safety, such as saying that hitting people in the face doesn’t count and can even result in a penalty.
Prepare for injuries just in case. Prepare some bandages, ice packs and towels just in case.
 This is another silly thing you can do if you and your friends are bored with your usual trips to the same old restaurants. A lot of restaurants, especially chains that are used to catering to people your age, will give you a small piece of cake with a candle and will sing happy birthday to you if someone tells them, sneakily, that it’s your birthday. If you don’t feel guilty about getting the free cake, then doing this can make you and your friends crack up on the inside.


Of course, you shouldn’t tell the waiters that it’s your birthday yourself. Have one of your friends tell them by saying, “My friend is really shy about it, but actually it’s his birthday today…”
Don’t worry too much about being found out. They won’t ever ask for proof of ID. And hey, if they do, what’s the worse that can happen?

, Who says you have to be a kid to go to the playground? Hanging out at the playground can be a fun and goofy way for you and your guy friends to pass the time, especially if you haven’t been there in a while. Wait until most of the kids have left and have fun playing tetherball, going on the tire swings, or playing lava tag, where you can’t touch the ground of the playground or you’ve stepped in lava.


You can also see how high you can go on the swings, as long as you don’t hurt yourselves.
Don’t be self-conscious about it. As long as you and your friends are game, this can be surprisingly fun.
 Four Square is another underrated game that can be fun for boys of any age. Just draw four squares on a cleared-out, concrete place, get a big ball that bounces, and have fun bouncing the ball in your friends’ squares and work on getting them out until you’re the Four Square champion. There are a lot of additional rules you can add to this game, such as “Popcorn,” where you can keep the ball going by moving it back and forth between your hands, and you can add more rules as you go.


You should have at least five friends to play this game, so that it means something when someone’s out.
 You and your friends can also have fun if you go to the gym together. Though you don’t need to work out right next to each other, if you find a quiet gym at off-peak hours, then you can have a great time with your friends and can even make some hilarious conversation while you work out. You’ll be having such a great time that you won’t even notice that you’re actually exercising.


Having workout buddies can be a fun way to motivate yourself to stay fit.
 Whatever your age is, you and your friends can always have a fun boys’ night out. If you’re not of drinking age yet, then just hit up the mall with your friends and talk to some cute girls. If you’re old enough to drink or just old enough to go to a club, then hit up the dance floor with your friends all night long. You can also go to an evening baseball game, see a thriller or watch a boxing match at a restaurant or bar.


Though you don’t have to do something “boy-centric” when you hang out with your friends all the time, it can be fun to plan an event that is “boys only.”

