 Never directly answer the phone, handle it or fiddle with its dials. Dialing while using a hand-held phone and driving makes you 2.8 times more likely to crash.Speak and listen only using the bluetooth. Use voice-activation rather than having to touch any buttons. Check that this equipment is legal in your jurisdiction.


The safest approach to doing this is to start the call before you set off driving. That way, you don't need to touch any controls to get the call started.;
, Turn your phone off or set it to silent. That way, it cannot distract you at all and you won't feel compelled to answer it if it rings. Whatever it is, it can wait until you've stopped driving.


Never text while driving. Sending a text takes your eyes off the road for four to five seconds, on average.This means that, if you were traveling at 90kmh, you'd travel the length of a rugby (football) field blindfolded.Consider using a text response service.
 If you really must answer or make a call, pull over safely to the side of the road and deal with your call while stationary.


Talking on a cellphone while driving decreases the driving concentration ability of your brain by over 37 percent.Your reaction times slow down too, by fifty percent!Put your phone out of reach. Put it somewhere that will force you to pull over and stop in order to deal with the call rather than continue driving.
 Do not make young children do this, however, as this can be both even more distracting for you and an unfair burden on them.


A passenger can send texts on your behalf, if necessary. Ask the passenger to clarify with the recipient that they are the sender, to discourage more texting.
 If you really need to get through to someone, think ahead and deal with it before driving. Alternatively, talk or text on arrival at your destination.

It can also help to tell the person waiting for a call that you're about to drive and can't answer until the trip has ended.
 The more people are aware that you don't talk and drive or text and drive, tell them. The sooner they know, the sooner they'll accept that they can't expect you to be constantly available by phone and that it's okay to wait to hear from you. This will also help them to copy your example and feel okay that they don't have be available by phone when driving either.