 You will need 1 to 2 shots (44 to 88 milliliters) of espresso or 2 to 4 tablespoons (30 to 60 milliliters) of double-strength/strongly-brewed coffee. You can also mix 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 grams) of instant coffee with enough water to dissolve it.


The coffee needs to be really strong because you are only using a small amount. If it's not strong enough, then your frappuccino won't have that traditional coffee flavor.
Skip this step if you are making a crème frappuccino.
 Let the espresso or coffee reach room temperature fist, then chill it in the fridge or freezer. Once it is nice and cold, take it out and pour it into a blender.
 ¾ cup (180 milliliters) would be ideal, however. Whole milk is the standard, but you can also try 2% or nonfat. If you can't have dairy, you can use soy milk or another type of non-dairy milk. Other options also include:

1 scoop of ice cream (preferably vanilla or coffee)
¾ cup (180 milliliters) of sweetened condensed milk
¾ cup (180 milliliters) of milk mixed with heavy whipping cream

, Vanilla smoothie or vanilla soft-serve ice cream mix will get you pretty close to the actual flavor. You can also try ½ pack of vanilla instant pudding mix or 2 tablespoons of maple syrup.

A pinch of xantham gum can also be used a thickener.Skip this step if you are using ice cream, sweetened condensed milk, or creamer as your dairy.
 For a smoother frappuccino, use just 1 cup (140 grams). For a thicker one, try 2 cups (280 grams) instead. Make things easier on your blender by using crushed ice, if you can., Start with 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of your favorite syrup; if you decide that the drink is not sweet enough after you blend it, you can always stir in more later. Chocolate is a popular choice. Other popular choices include: caramel, hazelnut, and vanilla.You can use vanilla extract instead of vanilla syrup. Start with 1 to 2 teaspoons.
 If you need to, pause the blender and scrape down the sides with a rubber spatula. Keep blending until the mixture is smooth. This should only take about 30 seconds or so.
 Many people like garnishes on top of their frappuccinos, but you can leave yours plain if you want to. You can drizzle some chocolate or caramel sauce on top for something simple. If you want a fancier drink, add a swirl of whipped cream on top, then add some chocolate or caramel sauce. You can also add tiny curls or shavings of chocolate instead.


Match the sauce to the flavor of your frappuccino. If you made a mocha frappuccino, use chocolate syrup on top.
If you made a different flavor, such as vanilla or hazelnut, you can skip the sauce altogether, or you can use a complimentary flavor, such as chocolate.

