 Many tropical locations have ideal weather year-round, but rates soar upwards when cold climate residents are looking to escape the winter blues. If you want to hop on a flight immediately following your wedding, consider booking your honeymoon travel arrangements at an off-season location; if you have your mind set on a particular destination, be flexible with your either your wedding date or your departure date to reap big savings.;
, Travel agents provide all sorts of money-saving expertise and can often access on-going sales or last-minute deals on honeymoon travel. They'll work with you to find the best vacation packages to suit your preferences and budget.
 Start thinking about your vacation once you have established a wedding date, and keep your eyes peeled for deals posted online or in the paper. Give yourself plenty of time to comparison shop.
 Start charging your wedding-day expenses, and cash in on the bonuses for airline tickets, hotel rooms, car rentals, and other upgrades. Be careful here though; you should be able to pay off all expenditures at the end of every month to avoid finance charges and racked up debt. Also be sure to check black-out dates before making your travel arrangements.
 While all-inclusive resorts once carried a negative connotation with "mandatory fun" activities, their inclusive honeymoon packages afford you the luxury of a flat-rate and a carefree experience. Bed and breakfasts, on the other hand, offer romantic retreats at typically affordable prices, but can lack exclusive privacy. The point here is that you should do your research, discuss the types of honeymoon vacations available with your fiancé, and decide which priorities take precedence. Our guide to honeymoon accommodations can help you weight the options.
 Research conducted by Caxton FX, found customers would be €60* worse off if they bought euros at an airport rather than getting a prepaid currency card. All Caxton FX currency cards can be used anywhere you see the MasterCard® acceptance mark, whether it be online, in store or at an ATM. You’ll get great rates and won’t be charged overseas ATM fees.
