 Fractures can affect your cat’s ability to walk. For example, if she has fractured a leg bone, she may hold the injured leg up in the air and hop around on the other legs. Or, if she can put weight on the injured leg, she may walk with a limp. If your cat has fractures in multiple legs, she would likely be unable to walk at all.A pelvic fracture would make it very difficult for your cat to walk.
If your cat has a spinal cord fracture, she may be unable to walk due to paralysis.With an injured tail, your cat may drag her tail when she walks or lack coordination in her back legs.If your cat has a jaw fracture, she may not be able to chew or keep food in her mouth. Not being able to eat could be just as serious as not being able to walk.;
, Fractures are painful. As sweet as your cat may be under normal circumstances, the pain from her fracture may cause her to lash out at you. In addition, she may be frightened.To get close enough to your cat to examine the fracture, approach her calmly.Examine the area for swelling and bleeding.Your cat may be very vocal due to the pain. Don’t be surprised if she howls, moans, or cries, especially if you try to touch her.Several classifications exist for fractures, including hairline (bone is not completely broken), closed (bone doesn’t penetrate the skin), and compound (bone penetrates the skin).Don’t worry if you can’t determine what kind of fracture your cat has—your vet will do that.
 When your cat has a fracture, she will need immediate treatment by your vet. If you cannot get her to your vet right away, you can perform a few first aid measures at home to stabilize her. If the fractured area is bleeding, or if the fractured bone is sticking out from the skin, place a clean towel or sterile gauze over the area.Sterile gauze is available at your local drug store.
If there is bleeding, you do not have to stop it completely.

Do not try to move the fractured bone. Doing so could make your cat’s injury worse.If you are unsure what you can do for your cat, call your vet first. Do not give your cat any pain medications unless your vet has advised you to do so., Keeping your cat as still as possible, wrap her in a thick towel and transport her to your vet.Your vet will perform a physical exam and examine the fracture. X-rays will help your vet determine the fracture’s type and severity.Provide your vet with a detailed description of your cat’s injury, including how and when it happened and any first aid you performed.
The fracture may not be your cat’s only injury—she may have internal injuries (e.g., internal bleeding, organ damage) and/or other external injuries (e.g., cuts, bruises).Your vet would use the physical exam and imaging tests (x-ray, ultrasound) to identify other injures.
Depending on the extent of your cat’s injuries, your vet may assess these other injuries before examining the fractured area.
 If your cat’s life is in danger from her injuries, your vet will perform aggressive and immediate treatment to stabilize her before tending to the fracture.Emergency treatments include intravenous fluids, ventilation, and pain relief.Once your cat is more stable, your vet will devise a treatment plan for the fracture.
 Various surgical and non-surgical treatments are available to treat cat fractures. Non-surgical options like splints, casts, or cage rest may work for some fractures; other fractures may need surgical placement of implants (e.g., screws, pins).The type of treatment your cat needs will depend on several factors, including her age, overall health, and the nature of the fracture (which bones are broken, the type of fracture).Be proactive in asking questions about treatment options and deciding on the best treatment plan for your cat. Being actively involved in the decision-making process may help improve your cat’s treatment outcome., When you and your vet have decided on a treatment plan, allow your vet to do what is necessary to treat the fracture. In many cases of fracture, surgery is the best treatment option.If the fracture is complex, your vet may refer you to a veterinary surgeon.If your cat needs to be hospitalized for fracture repair, ask your vet about visiting your cat. Spending time with her and talking to her can help reduce her anxiety and stress about being hospitalized.Some fractures are so severe that they are beyond repair. If your cat’s fracture is this severe, your vet may suggest amputation, especially if the tail is fractured., Fractures heal best when the affected bone is kept still and undisturbed.Following veterinary treatment, you will need to keep your cat relatively still at home—no running or jumping. If she usually roams freely throughout your home, consider restricting her to a smaller area when you cannot supervise her.If possible, put your cat in a room that does not have any furniture or counters on which she could jump.If this is not possible, consider using a tall plastic gate to confine her within a larger room.
If she has a jaw fracture, you may need to feed her by hand and give her soft foods so she does not have to use her jaw too much.
There is no set amount of time for restricting your cat’s activity. Your vet can advise you on when your cat can get back to her normal activity level.
 Even if she tries to hide it, your cat will likely be in a lot of pain. Your vet will prescribe a pain medication for your cat. If the fractured bone penetrated the skin, then the injured area may have gotten infected. In that case, your vet would also prescribe an antibiotic.Follow all prescription instructions carefully. If you are unsure how to give your cat the medications, ask your vet to demonstrate how to do so.
 If your vet has bandaged the fractured area, you may need to replace the bandages when they become wet or dirty. Urine is a common reason for bandages to become wet.Your vet can show you the proper way to remove the old bandages, clean the affected area (if necessary), and put on new bandages.


When bandaging, it is important not to wrap the bandages too tightly—this would cut off circulation to the affected area and delay healing. It would also be very uncomfortable for your cat.
Bandaging material is available at your local drug store. Your vet can recommend which materials to purchase.
If you are uncomfortable with changing your cat’s bandages, have your vet do this for you.
 Following fracture treatment, a follow-up appointment will be necessary for your vet to assess your cat’s improvement. For example, your vet may want to take x-rays to see how well the bone has healed. Bones usually take between 4 and 6 weeks to heal completely, so your follow-up appointment will probably be about a month after initial treatment.If you notice any redness, swelling, or discharge from the affected area, take your cat to your vet before the follow-up visit.The affected area may be infected and need additional treatment.

