 To diagnose dissociative fugue, your doctor must first rule out any medical causes. When examining you, a medical doctor may run a series of tests to rule out medical causes for the fugue. Some medical diagnoses, such as head injuries and brain diseases, can include memory problems or identity problems.A physician may run blood tests, x-rays, other other diagnostic tests to rule out medical causes.
The doctor will likely ask about your use of alcohol or other drugs. Some alcohol users note “blackouts” or periods of time when no memory is present to account for their actions.
Dissociative amnesia can sometimes show itself as unexplained, non-epileptic seizures, paralysis, or sensory loss.Let your doctor know if you have ever experienced these symptoms.;
, If no medical causes are found, it is advised to see a psychologist for a diagnosis. A psychologist can use diagnostic assessments as well as interview to diagnose dissociative fugue. A licensed mental health professional is the only person who can diagnose dissociative fugue. The criteria for dissociative amnesia as outlined in the DSM-V include:Being unable to recall autobiographical memory associated with a traumatic event. The recall of traumatic events is usually unconscious.
Inability to recall traumatic events creates distress.
Memory dysfunction does not have a physiological cause, nor is it due to dissociative identity disorder (formerly multiple personality disorder).
Memory loss is not a result of substance abuse or other substance.
 Dissociative fugue occurs spontaneously in response to extreme stress. This may be a traumatic event the person experienced or witnessed, such as an accident, war, abuse, or even something like a personal financial catastrophe or a volatile custody dispute.Dissociative fugue cannot be predicted or controlled, and generally cannot be treated until the person is no longer in this state and recalls her original identity.Following the incident, the person may experience confusion and distress if she cannot remember what happened during the fugue.She may also experience depression, discomfort, grief, shame, intense conflict, and suicidal or aggressive impulses after the fugue, as she must now deal with the trauma and/or stress that triggered the incident.The person may not remember what happened during the fugue, and she will have diminished self-awareness during the incident. It may not be obvious or apparent to outsiders that anything unusual is happening.
 Trauma should not be dealt with alone, especially if it has caused enough stress to trigger dissociative fugue. Psychotherapy is generally recommended, but there are multiple options for treatment, and you can combine different forms of therapy to help you cope with the stress of trauma and any fallout from a dissociative fugue. Whichever type of therapy or treatment you select, it should be empowering and help you feel you can reclaim control of your life, should be validating, help you connect and develop relationships with others, and take personal responsibility for your life and actions.Psychotherapy may involve dream analysis, memory training, and use visual aids to help with memory recall.Other methods to encourage memory recall include hypnotism and interviews performed under sedation.
 Trauma-focused cognitive behavioral therapy has been shown to be the most effective method for treating trauma.Your therapist will help you identify and challenge distressing thoughts about yourself and the world.You will learn new, healthier ways to cope with stress and trauma, and help you have a more accurate and balanced view of the world.Your therapist may gradually expose you to thoughts and situations that remind you of the trauma to help you grapple with the emotions that arise. This can be a frightening experience, which is one reason why it is important to always seek the help of a professional when dealing with trauma.
 This type of therapy can have many benefits — the family can be helpful in piecing together memories for the person who has lost memories; family therapy can also help the family understand dissociative fugue, which can be scary and confusing. In addition, if there is trauma the entire family is dealing with — for instance, spousal abuse triggered the dissociative state, then the children might also be dealing with the trauma of witnessing abuse.The therapist can also help the family identify any triggers that may have caused the event and together they can learn how to deal with those triggers, hopefully preventing any future instances of dissociative amnesia.It can be confusing to be a family member of someone with dissociative fugue, and having support can be immensely helpful.
 EMDR is a technique used in conjunction with cognitive behavior therapy and and movement of the eyes. It’s used to retrieve traumatic memories and lessen the emotional impact of them. It is commonly used to relieve stress associated with traumatic memories. It also helps replace negative beliefs with more positive ones.For more information, check out How to Prepare Yourself for EMDR Therapy.
 Art therapy, music therapy, and other creative therapies allows people to explore their thoughts and emotions in safe and creative ways.Art is one expression to explore oneself and can be highly therapeutic. An art therapist will guide, facilitate, and respond to your art process and expression., No medication is available to treat dissociative fugue. Some physicians or psychiatrists may choose to prescribe medication for resulting emotional problems, such as anxiety or depression. The most commonly prescribed medications include antidepressants and anti-anxiety medications.Talk to your prescriber about medications. It is recommended to receive a diagnosis from a therapist or mental health worker prior to seeking medication to treat mental or emotional disorders.
 Learn to handle stress in healthy ways each day. When stress arises, deal with it as soon as possible. Engage in daily relaxation practices, such as breathing techniques, meditation, or yoga. Make time for stress release every day and think of it as sacred time not to skip or ignore. It can be helpful to deal with stressors daily through relaxation rather than let them pile up.Find activities that help you relax. They can be as simple as taking the dog for a daily walk, reading, listening to music, or praying. Find what works for you and stick with it.
It may not be possible to prevent another instance of dissociative fugue, but learning healthy ways to cope with extreme stress or traumatic events may decrease the risk of another fugue., Writing about your trauma or the traumatic event is a safe, private way to process your emotions without judgement. It can provide some relief for anxiety or distressing emotions because it signals your brain that you are dealing with the situation.Because stress may trigger a dissociative fugue, decreasing anxiety may help prevent dissociative fugue.


Journaling can be healing when enduring a stressful situation. If you are experiencing stress, it can help cognitive, emotional, and physical health. Writing about stress and trauma can also decrease the emotional impact.Spend 20 minutes each day writing in a journal to help work through emotions and thoughts.
Don't worry about the quality of the writing, spelling, or whether it makes sense. Just allow yourself the freedom to explore your thoughts and what ends up on the page., This can also be considered "living in the present." You may have never really learned to identify your emotions or may have tried to ignore them or pushed them aside until they were too extreme to ignore any longer,perhaps until they were so extreme they triggered a dissociative fugue. When practicing mindfulness, you listen to your thoughts and feelings, but observe them without engaging them or judging them. Don’t engage the thought, fear it, or react to it. Just observe it.


When you become mindful and aware of your emotions, you may recognize signs of extreme stress before you reach a point at which you lose control. You can deal with your emotions in a healthy way before they trigger a dissociative fugue.Tune into your senses. Start looking around and tune into what you see. Use your sense of touch to experience different textures, such as clothing. Use smell to notice what smells are near you. Listen to any sounds such as the hum of the air conditioner or birds outside. If you have food, taste each ingredient and describe the flavor.