 You will want about 1 lb/person. These instructions are for 4 pounds or four people. But feel free to multiply or divide the recipe to accommodate your guest's needs.






;
, Remove your baby back or spare ribs from their packaging. Turn them over to the back side. Pull the membrane off. The membrane is a white/grey film on the underside of the ribs.
 You may either do a wet marinade, or a dry rub, depending on your culinary preferences.









Dry Rub your ribs. If you choose to do a dry rub, Pick your favorite spice rub. The dry rub may be store bought, or homemade. Apply your rub of choice to the front and back of your ribs. Wrap the ribs in plastic wrap, place on cookie sheet. Let sit for overnight in the refrigerator.

Spice Rub Recipe: Mix Brown sugar, beer, Worcestershire sauce, apple cider vinegar, molasses, garlic, cayenne pepper, smoked paprika, black pepper and salt together in small bowl.


Marinade your ribs. If you prefer a wet marinade, follow these instructions. The marinade can be any barbecue sauce, store bought or homemade. Apply your marinade of choice to the front and back of your ribs. Wrap the ribs in plastic wrap, place on cookie sheet. Let sit for overnight in the refrigerator.

barbecue Sauce Recipe: Mix onion, ketchup, apple cider vinegar, hot sauce, brown sugar, garlic clove, salt and pepper in small bowl.
 There are numerous methods to cook your ribs. What you choose will depend on what you have.









Charcoal barbecue. Place charcoal on half of your BBQ pit. Start your coals, and allow to heat for at least 45 minutes until white. Remove the ribs from the refrigerator. Place on grill, meat side up, away from direct heat on non-coal side. Cover your grill. barbecue for 2 to 4.5 hours.

If you want to add more smoke flavor, add wood chips to the barbecue pit. Before adding wood chips (hickory, mesquite and other) soak them in water for an hour, so they smoke rather than burn.
Some may choose to place a pan of shallow water below the ribs to add moisture. If you do this, consider using a disposable foil pan, as it will get very messy. This water will help steam your ribs, and may create a "fall of the bone" result, but steaming is arguably less flavorful than cooking dry .


Oven Bake. Preheat the oven to 300 degrees Fahrenheit (149 degrees Celsius). Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil. Place a cooling rack on the lined baking sheet. Remove the ribs from the refrigerator. Place them on top of the cooling rack with meaty side up. Cook for 1.5 to 2 hours

It is recommended that halfway through cooking you place a layer of aluminum foil over the top of the baking sheet. Otherwise your ribs may burn.
 An easy way to tell that your ribs are done is "The Bend Test". To do the Bend Test, pick up your rack of ribs, on one end, with a pair of tongs. When properly done, the far end of your ribs, will start to split apart.
 You may choose, you made add barbecue sauce to your ribs using your culinary brush. Do this during the last 15 minutes of cooking. Do not add sauce earlier or the sauce will burn.









barbecue Sauce Recipe: Mix onion, ketchup, apple cider vinegar, hot sauce, brown sugar, garlic clove, salt and pepper in small bowl.
 When done cooking, remove ribs from heat source. Let rest for 15 minutes. If you do not do this, when you cut the ribs flavor will be lost. Letting meat sit after cooking "traps" the juices and the flavor.
 Separate the ribs with a sharp knife into serving sizes. Approximately a half rack per person. Serve with barbecue sauce if desired.








