, TBI symptoms may be hard to recognize and can take some time to show up. When the brain is bruised the bruise will keep spreading, thereby worsening symptoms before it starts to heal.


Someone with TBI may look OK, but not act or feel right.
Symptoms often vary between children and adults. See below for guidance regarding symptoms particular to children.

Persistent head pain in a specific area of the head. (Not headache)
Persistent neck pain. Sometimes whiplash accompanies brain injury.
Memory impairment / amnesia.
Disorientation, being lost, forgetting where you are, forgetting how to get home.
Issues with decision making or concentrating.
Lessening of inhibition, saying inappropriate things in inappropriate places.
Forgetting where you are and how to get home.
Forgetting how to do simple tasks such as tying shoes or buttoning buttons.

Ringing in the ears.
Dizziness.
Balance problems.
Decreased coordination.
Confusion.
Difficulty knowing directions i.e. up, down, left, right and getting your body to move in the direction you want.
Aphasia or Dysphasia; language disorders that impair language comprehension and expression. It often doesn't affect "thinking" and "intelligence", only language.
Slurred speech.
Fatigue, lack of motivation, reduced energy.
Light/noise sensitivity, sometimes to the point of triggering seizure.
Disruption of normal sleep schedule (more or less sleep than usual) and trouble falling asleep.

Nausea/vomiting.
Vision problems (blurring, double vision, eye fatigue)

, A doctor is needed to confirm the diagnosis and recommend the correct treatment. If TBI is diagnosed you may need to see a very good specialist.
 Very small children also may lack the ability to explain what they are experiencing. Take your child to the doctor if you see any of the above symptoms or the following after any blow to the head.


Child is inconsolable/continues to cry
Excessive irritability
Child refuses to nurse or does not eat
Fatigue or lack of interest in usual activities
Issues with balance or unsteadiness when walking
Loss of recently-learned skills (e.g., potty training)
School problems
Sleep disruption;
