 First-degree burns only affect the top layer of skin, the epidermis. First-degree burns are a little bit swollen and red. They also are painful. When you press on the skin, they might turn white for a few moments after you release the pressure. If the burn has not blistered or opened but has just reddened the skin, you have a first-degree burn.If a mild burn covers the hand as well as the face or airway, most of the hands, feet, groin, buttocks, or over major joints, a trip to the doctor is recommended.
Sunburns are common first degree burns, unless there is blistering involved., If you determine that the burn is first-degree based on the way it looks and feels, quickly but calmly get to a sink. Put your hand or arm under the faucet and run cool water over it for 15-20 minutes. This will help pull heat away from the skin, which will help reduce inflammation.You can also take a bowl of cold water and place the affected area in it for a few minutes. This will also help pull heat away from the skin, reduce inflammation, and prevent as much scarring.
Do not use ice because it can lead to frostbite on the burned skin if it is left on the skin for too long. Also, if the skin around the burn has ice on it, it too can be damaged.You should also not apply butter or blow air on the burn. This will not help and can increase your likelihood of infection., Burns can cause swelling, which could cause jewelry on the burned hand to become uncomfortably tight, cut off proper circulation, or dig into the skin. Remove any jewelry on the burned hand, such as rings or bracelets., If you have an aloe vera plant, break off one of the lower leaves near the center of the stalk. Slice off the spines, split the leaf lengthwise, and apply the gel directly to the burn. It will immediately provide a cooling relief. This is a good relief for a first-degree burn.If you don't have an aloe vera plant, you can use store bought 100% aloe vera gel.
Do not apply aloe to an open wound.
 Over-the-counter pain relievers such as acetaminophen (Tylenol), naproxen (Aleve), or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) are all considered safe for short-term use., Burns can become worse over the course of a few hours. After rinsing and treating your burn, monitor your burn to make sure that it does not develop into a second-degree burn. If it does, consider seeking medical treatment.