 These life events usually require changing your will. For example, if you recently divorced, you probably want to remove your ex from your will. Also, if you recently married, you’ll want to provide for your spouse in the will.


Don’t assume that getting divorced will revoke an existing will. That used to be the rule in many states and countries. However, the law has changed. Instead, you really need to amend your will.
In most states, a spouse can take a share of your estate even if not named in the will.However, you should still plan for your spouse by revising the will. You might want to give them a larger or smaller share than the law entitles them to.;
, Children don’t automatically take a portion of your estate if you forget to include them. You can clear up any confusion by updating your will when you adopt or give birth to a child.You should also review your will if grandchildren are born. You may want to provide for them also.
 You probably left most assets to specific people. But what happens if they die before you? In some situations, their heirs will take the assets. For example, if you left your truck to your brother, then his children might inherit the truck if he dies before you.


However, you should probably update the will if you want to leave the asset to someone else.
 Sometimes, your assets appreciate or depreciate substantially. Revisit your will in the following situations:You’ve sold significant assets. If an asset isn’t in the will, then the beneficiary can’t receive it. Nevertheless, you might want to shift around assets. For example, you might be trying to leave an equal amount to your three children. If you sold the home you intended to leave to your daughter, you’ll need to revise the will to keep things equal.
You’ve obtained significant assets. Anything not given to a beneficiary passes to your residuary beneficiary.However, you might want to give a major asset to someone in particular. If so, you should revise your will.
Your property has increased or decreased in value substantially. For the reasons described above, it might be time to revise your will if assets you own increased or decreased in value.
 You should have named someone to oversee the administration of your estate. This person is called the executor (or “personal representative”). You can also name someone to serve as guardian of your minor children when you die. Update your will if you need to change either the executor or guardian.


For example, your chosen guardian might have died or told you that they are no longer willing to serve. In that case, you’ll need to name new guardians in the will.
 You could jeopardize a disabled heir’s ability to get public benefits if you leave them assets in your will.These assets will be counted by the government and may disqualify your loved one from needed public assistance.


You can instead create a special needs trust. Any assets put in the trust won’t be counted against your loved one when they apply for benefits., Just to be on the safe side, you might want to review your will every three to five years.You never know what might have changed in the interim. For example, your state may have changed its tax laws which can impact whether you revise your will.You can have your lawyer call you to remind you when three or five years have passed. Schedule a meeting to talk about your life.
You can also have your lawyer notify you whenever your state adopts new laws that might affect your will.
 Many retirement accounts require that you take distributions by the time you reach 70.5 years of age.Once withdrawn, this money becomes part of your estate. You should plan who will receive it.


Unless disbursed, money in your retirement accounts do not pass through probate court. Instead, they go to whoever you named as your beneficiary on the account.
 You might draft your will in one state and then move to another. However, your will goes through probate in the state where you die. Accordingly, you want to make sure your will complies with the laws of your new home state., You might have had a lawyer draft the first version of your will. If you did, then call them back up and schedule an appointment. You’ll want to discuss what has happened in your life and how you want to update your will.


If you’ve never met with an attorney, contact your local or state bar association and ask for a referral. Mention that you need an attorney who specializes in estate planning. You can find your nearest bar association here: http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/abagroups/divisionforbarservices/barassociationdirectories/statelocalbarassociations.aspx.
Schedule a consultation and discuss changes to your will. Ask the lawyer what is the easiest way to make changes—codicil, new will, or trust.
You can update your will without a lawyer if you have a simple will. However, you need to be careful. It’s possible to invalidate a will accidentally.
 A codicil is an amendment to a will. You can choose to draft a codicil if you want to make a couple small changes.For example, you might want to change the beneficiary for an asset because the beneficiary has died.


The codicil should identify the will it is amending. For example, your opening paragraph should say something like: “I, Jane Smith, residing at 1234 Park Avenue, Any City, California, being of sound mind, declare that this Codicil to the Last Will and Testament of Jane Smith is effective on this date and amends my Last Will and Testament dated June 22, 1995 as follows.”
Also identify the article in the will you want to amend and state how it is amended. For example, “Article 12 shall be amended to remove James Smith as beneficiary and substitute Kyle Smith as beneficiary.”
Remember to include a statement that you are republishing your will.
You’ll need two witnesses to sign the codicil, just as you did for the original will.Remember to store the codicil with the original will.
 You can also revoke an old will and draft a new one if you want to make substantial changes. For example, you should draft a new will if you’ve recently divorced.If you saved your will in a word processing document, then making changes should be easy.


If you used will drafting software, then you may have saved your information in the software.
Remember to draft the new will using the same formalities that you did in your original. If you don’t, then you might end up revoking your old will but not having any new will in place.
Ideally, you should show your draft will to an attorney before signing it.
 Now that you are thinking of revising a will, you should also consider creating a trust. You can transfer assets to the trust, which will hold title to them. A trustee will manage the assets in the trust. A trust has many advantages over a will, which you should talk about with your estate planning attorney.


With a trust, you can avoid probate court. This means your trust won’t be made public.Also, probate court slows down the administration of your estate, so your heirs will receive their inheritance faster with a trust.
Some trusts offer tax advantages which could be beneficial if you have a large or complicated estate.
You can create a “pour over will” at the same time you create the trust. At death, all of your assets “pour” out of the estate and into the trust. In other words, you fund the trust at your death.Talk about this option with your lawyer.

