 One way to encourage more people to get involved with assisting refugees is to increase their knowledge of crises and refugee situations. A direct and meaningful way to do this is to invite refugees to talk about their experiences (on their own or through an interpreter) to community organizations, churches, government agencies, schools, etc.Get in touch with aid organizations and your community to see about hosting a “share your story” or Q&A event with refugees.
 Your goal might be to generally increase knowledge of the plight of refugees, rather than respond to a particular natural or political disaster. In this case, one way to memorably and visibly make an impact is to be on the ground in your area, telling others about refugee situations.Stand at busy intersections and ask pedestrians if they have a moment to talk about refugee situations.
Pass out flyers to pedestrians on city streets, college campuses, etc. that have information about refugee aid organizations.
Organize a march to heighten awareness of refugee situations.
Whichever method you choose, band together with others to increase visibility. Things like wearing matching brightly-colored t-shirts with your organization’s logo and carrying picket signs will also draw more attention to your cause.
 Making calls or writing letters to government officials can be surprisingly effective, especially when many concerned people make the effort. Contact the U.S. congressman in charge of your district or other government officials concerning current and future refugee resettlement programs.Make sure that everyone involved in your organization does the same.


To be most effective, don’t just tell the senator, representative, or other official that you are concerned about the plight of refugees. Tell them exactly how you want them to respond (supporting a new bill, increasing funding for aid to refugees, etc.).
 Individual donations matter, but corporate contributions can be larger and more visible. Talk to area businesses about making financial contributions to refugee aid organizations, or get in touch with those organizations about helping with their plans to seek corporate contributions.If you have connections to any businesses, chambers of commerce, or development authorities, lean on these to drum up aid for refugees.
Offer to prominently acknowledge corporate donations in an aid organization’s website, emails, promotional materials, etc.
 When local, state, and national refugee stories come up, contact your local media and encourage them to report on those stories. If you are especially knowledgeable about refugee crises or have experience working in the field, you can also offer to be a point of contact for the media.


Local media can include television news, radio news, websites and newspapers.

