 Whatever you choose to display must not extend past the edge of the mantle. If the mantle is too narrow and the object is too wide, you risk having the object fall off and break.


This section will give you ideas for what you can place on top of your mantle. You do not have to use all of these ideas. Instead, pick out a few that appeal the most to you.
 Hang something large and bold above the mantle, such as a large photograph, mirror, or painting. Make sure that the frame matches the style of the mantle and the rest of the room. For example, if the mantle is very ornate, use an ornate frame. If the room is very modern, go for a sleek, modern frame.


Mirrors are great for smaller rooms because they can make them appear larger than they actually are.
 Try to choose objects that match the style of the room that the fireplace is in. For example, if the room has a Victorian feel to it, try to choose some vases or statues from the Victorian era. This will help prevent clashing. Also, try not to overcrowd the mantle. Less is more. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Statues or busts, particularly those of famous composers and historical figures
Pretty, porcelain bowls or vases, which you can later fill with cut flowers or potpourri.
Glassware, such as glass vases, bowls, and statues, which you can also fill with cut flowers or potpourri.
 Get some candles that you like, and arrange them on the mantle. To protect the mantle, place a coaster, charger, or tray beneath the candles. Whatever you decide to use should not extend past the edge of the mantle. Here are some more ideas to get you started:


White or ivory candles will fit with most rooms.
Match the candle to the room. For example, if the room has lots of blue in it, try to choose a blue candle.
Match the candle to the other items on the mantle. If the other items are mostly blue with a bit of cream, try picking out cream or ivory colored candle.
Mix and match the heights. Consider having some tall candles and some shorter ones.
Consider getting candles that match the holiday or season. For example, you might use a fresh, fruity scent for summer, and a warm, spicy scent for winter.
 This will help draw attention to some of the more sentimental items, such as a special family photograph, or a wedding portrait. Place photographs into frames that match both each other and the mantle. Keep the colors muted so as not to detract attention from the photos themselves. You don't have to just put up photographs. Here are some other ideas as well:


Children's artwork, diplomas, and awards can also work. Be sure to frame them first so as to protect them from soot.
Cards, such as birthday and Christmas cards, can make great seasonal decorations.
Handmade items, crafted by family members, can also be very special. Such items include figurines, wood carvings, and even handcrafted dolls. A fireplace mantle is the perfect place to display them.
Don't be ashamed to display personal awards, such trophies, ribbons, and paper awards.
 Natural things, such as rocks and pinecones, are great as breaking up the symmetry and monotony of a fireplace mantle. Their organic forms offer a spark of interest, and some can offer a flash of color. Here are some examples of what you can use:


Rocks and stones are great for adding that organic shape to your mantle. Crystals are great for adding that bit of sparkle.
Shells, pebbles, and sea glass look lovely displayed in a wide, shallow, glass bowl. You can also display larger shells on their own.
Pinecones are great for the fall and winter seasons. You can pick some up outside, or buy scented ones from the store.
Cut flowers in vases or potted flowers can add some color and fragrance.

