 If you have recently been hospitalized or received care from another physician for any reason, bring the medical records with you so that your doctor can review these and be fully up to date with any medical care you have received. Also bring with you a full list of your medications, including doses as well as the reason you are taking each medication. Finally, you will want to ensure that your doctor is aware of your complete medical history, including any past surgeries, any past hospitalizations, and any ongoing chronic health conditions that you are experiencing.


Depending on how long you have known your physician, he or she may already have this information on file; however, if not, it is important to be organized and to present all of it upfront.
Also, write down all of the information regarding your current health concern in an organized way before your appointment. It can be frustrating for both you and your doctor if this information is not readily available, or if you forget important details because you were not prepared. This, in turn, can take away from the quality of your doctor-patient relationship.
 In order to maximize what can be achieved in one visit, and to in turn achieve the highest level of satisfaction for both you and your doctor, it is important to prioritize your problems before arriving for your appointment and to let your doctor know right away what issues you have. It is ideal if you can bring a numbered list with your concerns listed on it, if you have more than one. Show this list to your doctor when you arrive, and ask him or her how many issues can be covered in one visit.


This is important first of all because it allows your doctor to identify what he or she deems to be the most concerning issue first, and not to let something that could potentially be hazardous to your health slip under the radar.
It also allows your doctor to know ahead of time what issues there are so that he or she can cover as many as possible during one visit.
If you have lots to cover, it is important to respect your doctor's timeline and to book a second appointment if everything cannot be covered all at once.Having this respect for your doctor's timeline will help your him or her to be through and complete in the issues covered during this visit. It will also allow him or her to relax, knowing that the rest of your issues can be addressed in subsequent visits.
 It can be frustrating for both doctors and patients to have important instructions missed for this reason. If you bring a pen and paper to your appointment and write down important instructions, it can help to maximize the benefit you obtain from the visit, as well as allowing your physician to feel effective and valued in their advice and recommendations.


You can bring a family member to your appointment to take notes for you, if this helps.
It may be especially helpful to bring a family member if the appointment is discussing an emotional issue, such as relaying a challenging diagnosis, or planning treatment for a condition such as cancer.
When your emotions are heightened, it can be much more challenging to remember details after the fact; for this reason, having a family member or a friend present can help.

