 If your child hasn’t played with regular playing cards before, you should make them comfortable with cards before introducing card-based math games.
 Once you’ve familiarized your child with some basic card games, get them acquainted with the idea of completing short arithmetic equations as part of a card game. You can do this by starting with an easy game, such as fast figuring. In this game, players race one another to create equations which result in a ‘target number.’ They can use any of the four operations (addition, subtraction, multiplication, or division) to make this equation.Make sure your kids have learned all the requisite operations, as well as the order of operations, before attempting this game. Ignoring the order of operations will cause confusion later when your child learns it in class., Before beginning play in earnest, deal five, face-up cards to every player. Deal a final card face-up into the middle of the table. This card shows your ‘target number’—that is, the solution which all players are trying to make with their equations.


Before you deal the practice round, be sure to filter out the face cards, aces, and jokers.
Once you’ve dealt the dummy round and explained the basic rules, go over each person’s hand and discuss how each player could hypothetically solve the equation.
 Once your children understand how to play the game, you can keep them interested by implementing time limits for each hand. If a couple of players are struggling, set up a one- or two-minute minimum, meaning that no player can present their equation before the two-minute mark.


Even if everyone is doing well at the game, be prepared in any case to encounter hands which trip everyone up. Keep the game exciting and snappy by establishing a three-minute time limit. At this point, have everyone turn over their cards so that the group can try to brainstorm and build equations together., Since the standard deck of numbered cards only goes up to a ten, your children might quickly outgrow your existing deck. This doesn’t mean you have to say goodbye to fast figuring, though! Just create your own decks—for example, a 1-100 deck or a fraction deck—and you can keep the game going throughout several units and even years of your child’s math schooling.

