 Your bulldog will need a good brushing with a soft bristled brush once a week. This brushing will remove loose hair and skin flakes, and also encourage good skin circulation.


This will also give you time to bond with your dog.
 One problem most bulldogs have is dirt and yeast collecting in their skin folds. The wrinkles should be taken care of and wiped out as needed to prevent skin irritation and possible infections. If you fail to clean your bulldog’s wrinkles, he can end up with foul-smelling yeast or infections.Make sure to clean the wrinkles on the face, body, and tail.


Use a soft cotton ball soaked in an ear or eye cleaning solution to gently wipe out the fold. Follow this by a gently drying with a clean, soft towel. Don’t use peroxide or alcohol because they can irritate the skin.
Follow up by placing cornstarch on the wrinkles to help dry excess moisture.
Scabs, redness, or itchy skin should also be addressed by a veterinarian if they persist after being watched for a few days.
 As part of the grooming routine you will need to trim your bulldog’s nails. The biggest problems is to avoid nicking the quick, the part of the nail where the blood vessels and nerves grow. If you aren’t sure how to clip the nails, ask your veterinarian technician to show you how to do so on your dog., Brush your bulldog’s teeth regularly. It takes less than a minute to do this and removes bacteria and plaque from the surface of the teeth. Brushing also lets you check for mouth problems like sores, growths, or loose or damaged teeth.Only use dog toothpaste on a dog. You can purchase a dog toothbrush and toothpaste at pet stores or veterinary clinics.
Get your dog used to brushing by letting her lick the dog toothpaste off your finger. Next put a little paste on the brush and wipe it along the gums. Each day try to brush a little bit of the teeth until you work up to being able to brush all the outer surfaces of the teeth. You don’t need to try to brush the inner teeth as most plaque attacks the outer teeth.
You can also supplement brushing with dental formulated foods and teeth which help to remove the bacteria and plaque.
 It is vitally important to properly socialize your bulldog when he is a puppy. This gets him used to other people, dogs, pets, and novel situations in a healthy manner. From day one, introduce your bulldog puppy to people, other animals and dogs, and situations outside your home. Take him for car rides, walks around the neighborhood, and to parks to let him meet new people and other dogs.Large pet stores, humane societies, and community groups frequently hold puppy socialization classes. These are a great way for young pups to meet other puppies in a safe and controlled manner. As the puppy gets older, a basic obedience class is a good supplement, plus it teaches your bulldog good manners.
You can also take your dog to the dog park.

