 Diarrhea dehydrates your body. To prevent dehydration, you need to drink plenty of clear liquids. Water is important, but you should also look for beverages that contain electrolytes like sodium, chloride, and potassium. Water alone does not contain enough electrolytes to replenish your body when you’re severely dehydrated.Healthy adult males should consume at least 13 cups/3 liters of water per day. Healthy adult females should consume at least 9 cups/2.2 liters of water per day. You may need to drink more than this to combat dehydration while you have diarrhea.Water, vegetable juices (particularly celery and carrot), sports drinks, electrolyte replenishment preparations, herbal (non caffeinated) teas, flat ginger ale, and salty broth such as miso are good options for adults.Barley water can also be a good way to rehydrate. Use 1 cup of raw barley to 1 quart of boiling water. Allow to steep for 20 minutes. Drain and drink throughout the day.Children should drink oral rehydration solutions such as Pedialyte and Infalyte. These are balanced for childrens’ nutrient needs and are sold in most grocery and drug stores.White grape juice may also be good for children who are dehydrated due to diarrhea., Drinks such as coffee and soda irritate the bowels and could make diarrhea worse.If you want to drink a beverage such as ginger ale, stir it or let it sit open overnight to allow the carbonation to dissipate.


Avoid alcohol when you have diarrhea. It dehydrates the body and can worsen diarrhea symptoms., Peppermint, chamomile, and green tea are very effective at curbing the nausea that can often accompany diarrhea. You can use tea bags or prepare your own.Chamomile tea is safe for children and adults, unless they are allergic to ragweed.You should not give children any other herbs without first consulting your pediatrician.You can make fenugreek tea by adding a level teaspoon of fenugreek seeds per cup of hot water. Although there is not enough scientific evidence to confirm fenugreek’s effectiveness, it may help settle upset stomachs and fight nausea.Contact your doctor before trying other types of herbal teas. Teas made of blackberry or raspberry leaves, bilberry, or carob may help calm stomach and bowel inflammation. However, they may also interfere with medications and can cause complications with existing medical conditions. Ask your doctor before trying these herbs., Ginger can help fight nausea and inflammation.You can drink flat (uncarbonated) ginger ale or ginger tea to help settle an upset stomach and ease bowel inflammation. If you drink ginger ale, make sure to find a brand that uses real ginger; some ginger ales do not use enough real ginger to be effective.


You can make your own ginger tea by boiling 12 slices of fresh ginger with 3 cups of water. Simmer and allow the tea to reduce for 20 minutes.Stir in a little honey before you drink the tea; honey may also help diarrhea symptoms.Ginger tea is safe for pregnant and breastfeeding women.However, pregnant women should not take more than 1 gram of ginger per day.Do not give ginger to children under 2 years of age. Children over 2 years old may benefit from small doses of ginger ale or ginger tea to treat nausea, upset stomach, and diarrhea.Ginger can interfere with blood-thinning medications such as aspirin or warfarin (Coumadin), so don’t use ginger if you are taking blood thinners.
 If your diarrhea is caused by a “stomach bug” or accompanied by vomiting, drinking a lot of fluid all at once could make it worse.Try to take small sips regularly throughout the day to keep your stomach settled.


You can also use ice chips or frozen popsicles to stay hydrated.These are especially good options for children, who may want to gulp fluids if they’re dehydrated.
 If your breastfeeding child has diarrhea, continue breastfeeding her or him. This will help comfort the child and keep him/her hydrated.Do not give an infant with diarrhea cow’s milk. This can cause gas and bloating.

