 First, take a peek under the hood. If it looks like you have your work cut out for you up there, fill a large pot three-quarters of the way with water. Bring it to a boil, uncovered, on the stovetop and keep it boiling for a half hour or more, as needed. Let the steam soak into the crud so it starts to loosen from the hood.Wait for the stovetop to cool before proceeding. Keep in mind that you’ll probably have to lean over the stove to reach up and under the range hood. If you boiled water to work the crud loose with steam, remove the pot to a heat-safe surface. Wait for the burner to cool down before moving on.
 If the dirt is light enough for your regular surface cleaner to work, great. If, however, you need a tougher chemical for degreasing (like Super Clean, OxiClean, or Mrs. Myers’ All-Purpose Cleaner) to get the job done, give a small area of the hood a test spray before using it all over. Make sure it doesn’t cause any adverse reactions with the hood’s paint or other materials.Again, always double-check the cleaner's recommendations regarding which materials it's safe to use on.
 First, read your cleaner’s instructions for proper use. Wear safety gloves if advised. Open windows and turn the exhaust fan on if strong ventilation is recommended. Then spray the hood’s interior as directed and wipe it down with a sponge, cloth, or paper towels.Some cleaners may recommend wiping down immediately. Others may advise letting it sit for a period of time so it can soak into the dirt, grease, and crud., Expect strong cleaners to leave streaks and odors if any traces are left to linger. Once the area is clean, dampen a cloth or paper towels. Wipe the interior again to remove any chemical residue. Then repeat with a dry cloth to dry it., Expect the job to be tougher the longer you wait in between each cleaning. Make washing the hood part of your daily or weekly routine when doing the whole kitchen. If a particular meal used a lot of oil or caused a lot of splatter, clean it up immediately afterward, as soon as the stovetop is safe to work around.