 Remember that, above all, this is your day. Speak with your partner and try to settle on a theme that seems fun and interesting to both of you - a common interest or something you are both passionate about. You can structure your wedding around virtually anything., Your decorations, location, and even attire can all be themed around your favorite book series. Programs can have your favorite quotes and you can dance to the soundtrack of your favorite film for your first dance.


Make it medieval with Lord of the Rings or Game of Thrones.
Embrace fantasy with Harry Potter or Alice in Wonderland.
Go futuristic with Star Wars or Star Trek.
 And also the places that you’ve been! A travel themed wedding could be a cute way to go through all the special locations and moments in your relationship while also showing where you want to go next.Programs could be made to look like maps and each table at your reception could have an object related to future destinations.
 Get decorations that show your team colors and maybe even divide your guests by who likes who. Some sport arenas and gyms are even available for booking wedding venues, so you could have a sport themed wedding in that kind of stadium., If you and your partner are really interested in music or theater, you could hold your wedding ceremony on the actual stage of a theater.Setting up the venue is easy because there is already a middle aisle to walk down and plenty of seating. Programs could be made to look like performance programs and you could hold your first dance right there on stage.
 Use traditional clothing and foods from your heritages to create an interesting clash of cultures.The rich history and traditions of your families will combine and your older family members are bound to love it. Serve dishes from both of your heritages at the reception, regardless of how well they go together.
 There is nothing wrong with choosing to hold a simple traditional wedding! It may not be the most unique and original starting point, but your wedding is what you make of it. Even if you do not want to have a particular theme, there are still so many other ways to add your own personal twist to the ceremony or reception., Depending on how many people you plan to invite, this may become physically exhausting. Handwritten invitations are immediately more personal than any typed font could be - it’s your own personal font! Agree on a format, split a stack of invitations with your partner and start writing. They will not all look the same, but that’s the point! Each invitation will be one of a kind.If writing the full invitations by hand is too time consuming, you can always type up the actual invitation and only write the name and address by hand.
 Envelopes can take many forms, both manufactured and homemade. The invitation itself can be folded into a type of envelope, but it’s recommended to place it inside of something else to avoid being damaged. But why use regular envelopes when you can make your very own personalized invitations!Create your own personalized envelope by vertically folding a standard sheet of paper into three equal sections. Unfold the paper then fold the two long edges in by an inch. Refold the bottom third onto the middle third and glue it in place on the edges. You now have a sealed pocket in which to place your invitation, then fold the remaining third down and seal it in place with tape or glue.
 If you are feeling more tech savvy and want to avoid the whole process of mailing invitations, create a website for your special day and share the link with those you want to invite.The website should contain details regarding time and locations of the ceremony and receptions. It should include further information for expected attire, parking, and a gift registry. You can include an option on the site to RSVP for themselves and whoever they are permitted to bring.


Certain websites like The Knot have resources that can help you create your own site regardless of technical skill.
 The location of your wedding ceremony is important for many reasons, but it also lets you build on your wedding theme. Churches are the default option for many weddings, but choosing a unique and special location can add a more personal feeling to your ceremony.


For example, rustic themed weddings can be held in the countryside or on a farm while nautical weddings could be held on a beach.
 Go back through your relationship and see if there are any special moments that happened in a place that you could revisit and could hold the venue. If you like the idea of revisiting important locations but none of them seem to work, you can always turn it into your wedding theme and include references to important places as decorations or table centerpieces.


Special locations can include where any of your first moments happened, like where you first met or went out.
 Depending on where you choose to hold your wedding, seating could either be troublesome to find or automatically included. Churches are convenient for that reason because they have pews to hold many people, but there are other spaces that have just as much seating. For example, some theaters, schools, and sport stadiums are available to book for your venue.


If you want to hold your wedding outdoors, get creative and make the seating part of the theme! Hay bales, for example, can be used to reinforce a rustic theme and provide interesting places to sit.
 Decorations are where your theme really shines. The three greatest places to decorate at a wedding are the aisle, the altar, and the tables at the reception.For the aisle you can roll out a red Hollywood carpet or attach beautiful bouquets to the end of each row.
The stage or altar that you are getting married on should be simple enough that all the focus is on you, but have enough character so that all the picture will be uniquely yours.
Table centerpieces at the reception are limitless when it comes to decorative potential. You could use simple items like candles, river stones, or vases with flowers, or you could place a prop or item relevant to your theme on each table.
 Vows are a perfect way to add a personal tone to the ceremony and be yourself with your partner. If you want to write your own vows, agree on a format beforehand with your partner so they match in terms of tone. You can make them funny or personal and sentimental. Just be creative and read other vows for inspiration., If you happen to have a close mutual friend who is a talented singer, consider asking them to sing at your wedding. If you have a close friend who could not be a part of the wedding party but you still want to include, offer to let them read a particular passage from a religious or otherwise significant text., It’s a relatively simple process to become an ordained minister. If you and your partner have someone special that you would love to officiate your wedding, they can! It’s a quick and free process to become an ordained minister online and in return they’ll be able to officiate weddings and sign the marriage license.


Be careful, though, as some states do not officially recognize marriages officiated by someone who became a minister for a day to do so.Check your state’s requirements to ensure that you can pursue this option.
 One of the best parts of any reception besides the music and conversation is the food. If you have a particular food in mind, chances are you will be able to find someone willing to cater it. Many business and restaurants have special catering deals, so scout around and see who you could afford.If you have a close friend who is a great cook, consider asking (and paying) them to cater your wedding. If they could not feasibly cook for your entire venue, they could also just cook for your rehearsal dinner instead!

, You can start off your first dance by dancing to a classic wedding song like “Amazed” or “At Last” then switching halfway through to a more exciting and modern song instead!If you want to really impress your guests, consider taking some dance lessons with your partner before the wedding and impress everyone with your new skills.
 Obviously choose a flavor that you and everyone else will enjoy, but take some creative liberties with ordering or making a very unique cake. Custom wedding cakes can come in any size or shape, so browse several sites and try and find one that is fun and has something to do with your theme.


Cakes can be customized using little decorations and cake toppers that relate to your theme. If you cannot find official toppers, you can just use figurines or make your own references by drawing them in frosting.

