 Dog parks are also a great way to socialize your new Border Collie. Take your puppy to your local dog park and let them have the opportunity to interact with other dogs and to run freely. Keep a close eye on your dog while you’re at the park to make sure they are interacting positively with other dogs and are in your sight at all times.Do not take your puppy out in public before they’ve received all of their vaccinations. They should not interact with other dogs before they’re fully vaccinated.;
, Border Collie puppies have a tendency to compulsively stalk and chase anything that moves. That might be a passerby, a squirrel, a kid, or a bird. They can roam free in a fenced-in yard, but should still be under your supervision.Large fenced-in yards are great areas to play games like fetch with your Border Collie puppy. Many Border Collies enjoy fetch or playing with Frisbees, and these are great ways to burn off some of your puppy’s energy.


Make sure your fence is very secure. Border Collie puppies can be escape artists and have been known to dig under fences or virtually pick locks to get out., Set up a puppy play date with a friend or family member that has also has a dog. If the two dogs haven’t met yet, give them some time to become familiar with each other before allowing them to play. You can either let them play outside in a fenced-in area, or inside.Socialization is an important aspect of a young puppy’s development, and playing with other dogs in a safe and controlled environment will encourage positive and healthy behavioral traits.


Like with the dog park, your puppy should be fully vaccinated before they are allowed to interact with other dogs., Swimming is a great aerobic exercise for your puppy, and many Border Collies enjoy the water. You can take your puppy to a dog-friendly area, like a beach or pond, and let them swim. Make sure to follow any guidelines and rules that area has and keep a close eye on your puppy. Some dogs are naturally strong swimmers, but you may need to teach them how to swim.


You can bring a buoyant plastic toy, like a retrieval toy designed for use in water or a Frisbee, to toss into the water for your puppy to retrieve.
While most Border Collies are adept swimmers, you can purchase a doggie life vest to help your puppy float while they swim.
 You may have gotten a Border Collie puppy with the intention of having a training and exercise partner. You can start to train your new puppy to exercise with you early on, so they can become lifelong training partners. Whether you walk, run, or bike you can take your puppy along with you.Gradually increase the duration or distance of your exercise routine over time, keeping a close eye out to make sure your puppy isn’t being overexerted.A good rule of thumb is to increase your workout five minutes each month as your puppy ages.You’ll need to leash train your Border Collie puppy before you begin running or biking with them, but they learn quickly.
With their natural energy levels, your Border Collie puppy can challenge and push you to beat your training records! Puppies can become overexerted, so keep a close eye on them and take breaks when they need one.

