 If you are a sergeant, make sure you have enough players to get a certain job done. Also, do not assume a sniper will save you in every situation! A sniper is a valuable asset, but can't save you from everything. If you are a sergeant, make sure you know your team's guns and abilities well.;
, Taking a martial art like karate or fencing is a great way to improve your reaction time. If you're unable to do this, try having half of your team open fire on the rest of your team. Tell the team under your command when to open fire, move, counter-attack, fall back, etc. Even if you aren't a sergeant, if you tell team members what to do in a tough situation, they will most likely listen to you.
 If there is movable cover, use it to move troops out of heavy fire. Think outside the box. If there is no cover available, don't run. If you have to retreat, run in a different direction than to your HQ. Use retreats as a last resort. You may often find that you can repel an enemy invasion if you use simple flanking and suppressing techniques.
 Using the same plan over and over is a terrible decision. The enemy will undoubtedly find a way around your tactics and force you to either stand and lose or retreat. Try different plans, even if you don't think they will work. If they do work, don't get cocky and do it again. Think over every option.
 Even if you might have to sacrifice yourself for a plan, do it. Make yourself get taken prisoner of war if you must. For example, and enemy HQ is completely in-penetrable. You know no way to get in from the outside to get their Intel and win the round. You offer yourself to be taken POW. From there, your teammates can go to another enemy base, forcing the enemy to send all of their troops to the assaulted position. Amidst the chaos, you escape, steal the Intel, and win the round.
 Never stay pinned in one spot.
 One of the best tactics you can use is sabotage enemy equipment. It's mean, but if you've got the force to do it, do it.
 Hit and run: Use stealth to slam enemies and then escape. Infiltration: Using two operatives of your choice, move into enemy territory and get Intel on patrols, equipment movement, etc. Counter-Attack: Quickly retreat and hide your troops. If the enemy is dumb enough to follow, ambush them and make them surrender.

