 The type of skiing you plan to do will determine how you need to size yourself, as each has slightly different uses and designs.


Traditional or Classic skis are for groomed trails and all skill levels. They come in either normal or compact.


Skate Skis are used for racing/speed skiing, and are usually preferred by intermediate or advanced skiers. They are shorter and thinner than traditional skis.


Off-Track Skis are a hybrid between traditional and skate. They are wider than traditional skis and are used for open, ungroomed territory.


Backcountry skis are shorter and used for longer off-trail explorations. They can be used in many terrains, and are light-weight as possible.
;
, Before you get to size and length, make sure you're in the weight range for each set of skis before buying them. In many ways, weight is more important than height for determining the right size skis, as bigger skis distribute more weight than smaller ones.Some ski companies have even stopped using height to determine ski size, instead using unique weight ranges for each set of skis they produce.Most skis will have a "recommended weight range" in their specification section.
 Note, however that this because most skis are sold in centimeters, not inches. If you're 6", you are 72 inches tall, meaning you'd aim for a 210cm set of skis.

Note that this is an approximation -- you should try out a few pairs to see what you prefer whenever possible.

The skis should always be 10-15 cm taller than you, never shorter., Compact skis are less varied, and usually come in four sizes, small through extra-large. These sizes change based on the company making them but are usually recommended based on weight ranges. Note, however, that there is some overlap. If you have shorter legs and fall between two ranges, take the smaller skis. If you have long legs, grab the bigger size, but know that this is mostly up to preference:


Under 140 lbs --  Small


135-190lbs --  Medium


175-210lbs --  Large


Over 210 lbs --  Extra Large, For racing skis in particular, the longer skis are essential to build up speed. But more important than length alone is "camber," or the curve of the ski. The right camber can be found using a percentage of your body weight. To take percentage of you body weight, simply multiply your weight in kilograms by the percentage. So, if you're and intermediate and weigh 100kg, you would aim for a camber around 125 (100kg∗1.25=125{\displaystyle 100kg*1.25=125}).


Beginners: Aim for a camber around 100-115% body weight in kg


Intermediate: 110-125% body weight in kg


Advanced: 120-130% body weight in kg., Again, the exact size is up to comfort level, but you do want to make sure the skis are taller than you are by a few centimeters. Backcountry skiing is often for more experienced skiers with established preferences and comfort, and you should test out skis before buying. When in the backcountry, you'll be on those skis for hours at a time. Make sure they are the right size for you and your ski style before spending a ton of money.

Backcountry skies should be wide, and may be a bit shorter than other types of skis.


