 Visualize and plan. Whether you're selling items, providing a service or simply writing an entry in your blog, know what you want your users and visitors to know. Brainstorm and list everything up. Whether if it is a promotional piece or simply a product description, leave no stone unturned and cover everything important.;
, Do keyword research using Google's AdWords tool. But wait, we're not writing for search engine optimization purposes, right? Well, here's the thing, writing for users means that you're writing for search engines as well. Keywords play an important role – it gives users (and search engines) an idea of what your website is all about. If you're selling online sports apparel, make sure to mention “basketball jerseys, football gear and cricket equipment in your write-ups!

, Remember, you're not writing for doctorate degree holders or people with extensive vocabulary – you're writing for everyone. Cut the jargon, deep words and unnecessary adjectives. Your writing teacher may appreciate it, but Internet users won't. If you want to incorporate jargon and flowery words, there are proper avenues for that, like your blog for example. Also remember to keep it conversational, like how you talk to your friends and family.
 The Internet is an open book – millions of gigabytes of content are being added every day. Even if it is figuratively a book, don't make it look like one: AVOID long lines and paragraphs. Remember, users want information in a quick and straightforward manner – long paragraphs don't give that. Use short paragraphs and bullet and numbered lists instead. A user rarely reads while surfing the net – he scans.
 Don't just post your article or write-up without checking for errors. Even if you are a gifted writer, you are still prone to committing even the simplest grammatical errors. Most errors, especially typo ones, are done unconsciously. Factual errors are a result of poor research, so be sure to master the subject matter before writing about it!

