 Making your own lunch bag is easy, but you will need some special materials to do it. Before you get started, you will need to get:Vinyl or oil cloth
Fabric in the print of your choice
Accent fabric (a very small piece for adding a pocket)
Ribbon
Velcro
Spray adhesive
Sewing machine
Scissors
Ruler
Chalk;
, You will need to have different cuts of the vinyl, printed fabric, and accent fabric. Cut the fabric into the following pieces:








2 - 8 ½” by 4” pieces of vinyl.
2 - 8 ½” by 4” pieces of printed fabric.
1 -25 ½” by 7” piece of vinyl fabric.
1 - 25 ½” by 7” piece of printed fabric.
1 - 4” by 4” piece of vinyl fabric.
1 - 4” by 4” piece of accent fabric.
 You will also need to cut your ribbon and Velcro into some special pieces to create your reusable lunch bag. Before you get started, you will need:








1 – 3 ½” piece of Velcro
2 – 7 ½” pieces of ribbon

, Vinyl is thicker than normal fabric, so a standard needle may not be strong enough. If you have a heavy duty, then you may want to use it for this project.If you do not have a leather needle, then you can try using a heavy duty needle or test stitch a small piece of the vinyl with your other fabric to see how your machine handles it.
 The vinyl is what makes your lunch bag waterproof and it needs to be on the entire inside of the bag. To line the inside of the lunch bag with vinyl, you will first need to match up your like-size pieces of vinyl and fabric. Then, spray the wrong sides of the vinyl with spray adhesive and press the wrong sides of the fabric onto these pieces.








Start by spraying the adhesive onto the wrong side of one of the vinyl pieces.
Then, carefully line up the wrong side of the fabric with the side of the vinyl piece you just sprayed.
Make sure that the edges are even and then smooth out the fabric with your hands.
Trim any excess fabric from the edges.
Repeat this for all of the matching vinyl and fabric pieces that you cut out.
 The pocket will need to be placed on the fabric side of the vinyl and fabric combo piece that you just created. Measure from the short end of the piece and use your chalk to mark the fabric at 7 ½” from the end. Then, measure again from the side of the fabric and mark at 1 1/8” from the edge.The areas you have marked will help you to place the pocket when you are ready.
The 7 ½” mark will indicate the top of the pocket and the 1 1/8” mark will indicate the side of the pocket.
 You should have a 4” by 4” vinyl piece and a 4” by 4” accent fabric piece that you connected with spray adhesive. Take this combo piece to your sewing machine. Then, sew along the outer edges of these two pieces.








Stitch these two pieces close to the edge, about 1/8” away from the edges.
 Next, place the pocket on the location you marked. Make sure that the vinyl side of the pocket piece is facing the fabric part of the bag piece. Then, sew along three of the edges to create the pocket.








Make sure to leave one edge open. Do not sew around all four edges.
 Before you sew the Velcro onto the vinyl and fabric sides of your vinyl and fabric combo piece, pull the strip apart. Then, take a moment to mark the vinyl and fabric with the chalk. This will help to ensure that the Velcro is centered and placed in the correct locations.








Mark the vinyl about 3/4 of an inch from the short edge. Make this mark so that it is above the opening of the pocket on the opposite side.
Then, mark the fabric about 3 ½” from the other edge on the side below the bottom of the pocket.
 Next, you can sew the Velcro onto the locations you have marked. Double check to make sure that you have placed the Velcro where you marked your fabric and vinyl. When you are ready to sew, sue your sewing machine to stitch along the edges of the Velcro.








Go around the Velcro a couple of times to ensure that the Velcro pieces are secured.
Velcro is available in sew-on and adhesive backed types.Since you will be sewing the Velcro on, you do not need the adhesive type.
 The handle will just be made from the two pieces of ribbon that you cut. To make the handle, line up the two pieces of ribbon and then use your sewing machine to sew the edges together. Sew a line down the center of the ribbon pieces as well to make the handle extra durable.








Make sure that the two pieces of ribbon are lined up evenly before you start sewing.
You might want to go around the edges twice to ensure that the stitches are secure.
 Next, you can attach your handle to the bag. The handle will need to go on the fabric side of the vinyl and fabric combo piece. Place the handle a few inches above the pocket, but below the Velcro that is attached to the vinyl side.








Push the edges of the ribbon in so that the ribbon creates a handle shape.
Then, sew along the ends of the handle, but not in the center. Go over the ends of the handle multiple times to ensure a sturdy handle.
 To finish the bag, you will just need to connect the side pieces to the main bag. Sew one edge at a time, starting with one of the 8 ½” edges.








Line up one of the side pieces with your large bag piece. Start by sewing a side piece to the side of your bag that does not have the Velcro on it.
Line up the top edges and sides and make sure that the vinyl sides are facing each other.
Then, sew along the side edge where the two pieces meet. Do not sew along the top (short) edge.
 Next, you will need to sew the short edge of your 8 ½” by 4” piece to the side of the large piece. To do this, bend the large piece and line it up with the short edge of the 8 ½” by 4” piece. Then, sew along this edge.








Make sure that the vinyl sides are still facing together as you sew and line up the edges evenly.
You will have to manipulate the fabric and hold these pieces together tightly as you sew them.
 To complete one side of the bag, you will need to bend the large piece up again and match it up with the remaining long side of the 8 ½” piece. Sew these pieces together.








The vinyl sides should be facing each other and the edges should be even.
Hold the fabric tightly as you sew to prevent the pieces from slipping.
 To complete your bag, you will need to sew the second side piece onto the other side of the bag in the same fashion. Repeat the same sewing pattern of sewing along the side, short end, and remaining long edge of the side piece.








Remember to make sure that the vinyl sides are facing each other.
 After you finish sewing the second side piece into place, your lunch bag will be ready to use! You can fill it with lunch items for yourself or for your child.

