 Reverse glass paintings must be painted from front to back (reverse painting order) because of how the image is viewed through the glass.Keep this in mind when setting up paint colors and selecting brushes. You want to start with the small details and end with the big things. It’s the opposite of how you would paint a typical painting.
Use a variety of brand-name, good quality paint brushes to avoid streaking. You can go to an art store and ask the people who work there which brushes are best for your purposes.
 The lines are important because they will help you fill in the rest of the painting. Try using radiography pens for extra fine line work.Use the original image as a reference to make sure that you only paint solid lines where they should be. Sometimes, you may trace lines in an image because they indicate a color break or change, but you must remember they may not be actual solid lines.
Once all of the lines have been painted, wait 24 hours before continuing. This will allow the paint to dry properly and avoid smudging., You want to paint the details before you paint the foreground. You want to paint the background last.


As you paint, make sure that you avoid painting adjacent areas at the same time. If there are areas close to each other that are included in foreground but are different colors, wait for the first area you paint to dry before continuing. Placing different colors of wet paint next to each other may cause unwanted color mixture.Allow the painted areas 24 hours to dry.
 Paint the medium sized areas that are larger than the detailed foreground. This is generally the main image within a painting. The “main image” should not be the small details of a painting or the background of the painting.


Make sure that you wait 24 hours after you complete this section.
 The last area to be painted on a reverse glass painting is the large background, such as a landscape.


If the background is a landscape, paint grassy areas first. Allow drying time before doing sky and water.