 Check the human resources directory and see if there’s a person assigned to handle the type of problem you need addressed. There may also be a point of contact assigned to your department in the company. If you’re concerned about your issue being taken seriously, you can also reach out directly to the head of human resources.


Double check that only the person you want to contact is addressed in the email. Especially if this is a private or sensitive issue, you don’t want to send it to the wrong person by accident. Be especially careful to remove any lists that would send the email to a set group of employees.;
, A clear subject line communicating both your problem and the level of urgency you’re assigning to it will help human resources prioritize your problem. If you leave this line blank or unclear, your correspondence may get buried in someone’s inbox.Use lines such as: “Legal Problem - Action Required,” “Personal Circumstances Changing - Immediate Attention Needed,” “Urgent Policy Question,” or “Recent Interview - Thank You.”

, You want to set a formal and professional tone early on in this conversation. This will help human resources know that you’re treating the issue seriously. Even if you know the representative personally, remember that this is a professional, rather than just a friendly, discussion.Start with “Dear ” and end with “Sincerely” or “Thank you for your time, .”

, Keep your sentences short and to the point. Don’t provide more information than is necessary, as you don’t want the reader to get bogged down in the email. Don’t include any details that could confuse human resources about your issue. You can address complicated details in person., Explain the exact nature of your problem. Provide a timeline of when the issue started, or will start. Clarify whether you think this is a legal problem or an issue that can handled by the company itself.If you’re contacting human resources to ask about job opportunities, you won’t be introducing a problem. Rather, introduce yourself, and explain your past contact with the company. Be clear about what actions you expect or would like the representative to take.
 Human resources will want to know right away how to address legal or policy problems. Your documentation may affect their response, as it will help clarify both the seriousness of the issue and the legal repercussions a particular employee may be facing. Make your representative aware of any and all “proof” you have in your possession, and offer to bring it to an in-person meeting.


If possible, you’ll want proof of any legal problems to present to human resources. Unfortunately, most human resources departments will try to protect the company if they can.If you’re experiencing harassment or discrimination, keep a record of the dates of the incidents and save any written correspondence that includes incriminating language.
Retain both electronic and paper copies of any documentation you provide to human resources. You should keep the original, and provide human resources with copies.
 You may have already tried to solve the issue before you contacted human resources. Perhaps you had a conversation with your boss or co-worker, or even notified them that you’d be contacting human resources. The representative will appreciate having this information, as it will help them understand who’s already aware of the problem.For issues of changing personal circumstances, this communication may feel less formal. If you’re going on maternity or paternity leave, for example, you’ve likely already informed your boss of your status and are simply following through with human resources.
 A meeting where you sit face-to-face with your representative will help you discuss the problem in detail. This will provide the representative with the opportunity to ask any follow-up or clarification questions. Your email is the perfect place to begin scheduling that critical meeting. Inform them of blocks in your schedule, and ask them to plan accordingly., Human resources may want to contact you via phone, so include several methods of contact at the bottom of the email. This information can go directly below your name after you sign off from the correspondence. Double check the accuracy of the phone numbers and emails you’ve provided., Most email services have a spell-check service. Next, read through your email to catch grammatical mistakes, missing words, and issues of clarity.