 Boys and girls experience puberty at different times. You may choose to tell your child about puberty as you notice their bodily changes or start earlier in order to prepare them. It’s recommended that by age eight, children know about puberty and the associated physical and emotional changes.While you may choose to have a single conversation about puberty with your kids, keep conversations about development and coming into adulthood ongoing.
Girls experience puberty around age eight. If you notice an initial growth spurt, this can indicate the onset of puberty and mean that it’s time to talk.Boys experience puberty later than girls, usually around age ten or eleven.;
, It’s on you to open a discussion, so don’t wait for your children to come to you with questions. If you’re waiting for your child to come to you, you may be waiting forever.In fact, if you don't address it yourself, you may be unintentionally telling them that it's not okay to talk about or that it is something you're unwilling to discuss. This can hinder communications between you and your kids and drive a wedge between you, so make sure to be the adult and start a conversation with them about it.


Even though kids may hear information about sex and puberty from outside sources such as older siblings, friends, television, or the internet, it’s still important to have a talk with them yourself. Give them reliable information that is valid and true.Often, children receive untrue or unreliable information about sex and puberty. They might hear something from an older sibling or friend that is outright wrong. Make sure they get good information about the changes ahead from you.
 You may wish to plan an event around your discussion to make it more enjoyable for both you and your child. For example, take them out to lunch or dinner, go ice skating, or spend a day at the museum. Spend quality time together before or after the talk.


Keep the discussion brief and then get back to having fun. You don’t need to have a long, drawn-out conversation. You can always revisit the conversation later.
 Talking about puberty is not thought of as fun by either parents or children. If you’re nervous or anxious to talk about puberty with your kids, get informed. Gaining knowledge can help you speak with clarity and without getting too embarrassed. Stick with the facts if you’re nervous.


Try not to laugh or get embarrassed in front of your child. You want to normalize puberty without adding shame or embarrassment to it.
Make sure that you keep breathing and keep your body relaxed and softened. Avoid pacing, clenching, or holding tension in your body in other ways.
 You may wish to hand your child a pamphlet or book about what to expect with puberty. Get any books, pamphlets, videos, or other resources prior to sitting down with your child. You may want to give your child the name of a website they can check out, or go through the website together. If you want to use pictures, print them ahead of time. Gather a toolkit to help you explain things to your child.


Find helpful resources through the internet or books. There are a number of websites with helpful information regarding puberty and how to talk to your child. You could also give your child a copy of the books “”The Puberty Book: A Guide for Children and Teenagers” and “It’s Perfectly Normal.”

, Start by creating time to talk to your child when neither of you are rushed or distracted. Share some facts and allow your child to share their thoughts, feelings, and concerns. You may wish to begin by asking your child what they’ve heard or been told by others about puberty, then addressing what is right or wrong.If your child is nervous or anxious, keep your conversation brief and focus on building trust and openness for future conversations.
You can say, “You said that your friend told you a girl cannot become pregnant before she’s married. That’s wrong. A girl can become pregnant any time after her first menstrual cycle, even if she’s really young. How is that different from what you heard from your friend?”

, Talk about hormones and their role in puberty. Say that the body needs to go through puberty in order to be sexually mature, and the changes help that process to occur.Be sure to frame these changes in a positive way and make sure your child knows that it is nothing to be ashamed of or that they need to hide.


Say, “Hormones are chemical messengers in your body that are responsible for the changes that both boys and girls experience. These chemicals kickstart puberty and allow both boys and girls to mature into an adult body over time. That way, your body will be prepared for making the decision of having kids of your own one day.”

, Having changes in moods and emotions are a normal part of puberty. Changes in hormones can lead to emotional changes and mood lability. If your child is moody or experiencing mood swings, give them some space.Encourage your child to engage in exercise and physical activity, talk to friends, eat healthy foods, and get plenty of sleep. Encourage your child to turn off their electronic devices to help make sleep easier.

Sometimes, children may begin to show signs of mental health problems and experience depression, anxiety, or other more serious mental health disorders. For example, irritability and changes in temper can indicate depression. If you are concerned about your child’s moods or behavior, talk to a therapist or mental health provider., Children should know when something is not okay and how to talk to a trusted adult. This discussion should be ongoing and continue throughout your child’s life. Their changing body may attract attention that is new for them. Remind children that their body is their own and nobody else’s. Whether you wish to talk about sex or not, do bring up consent and that each person has the right to say “no” to any touch that feels uncomfortable.


Keep in mind that these discussions will need to change as children get older. For example, when they are young, they need to know what kinds of touching are inappropriate, but when they are older, they will need to know about consent for sexual activity.
From a young age, teach children the underwear rule: a person cannot touch them in places where underwear is worn and they cannot touch others in these places.Tell your child, “It’s exciting to see your body change as you move through puberty. However, your body is your own and nobody has the right to touch it without your permission. If someone tries to touch your body, say, “No.” Tell me or another adult you trust about it so that you can stay safe.”

, Many children fear that their bodies are no longer normal or are different from their friends’ bodies. Tell your children that everyone develops at different times and in different ways. Kids going through puberty want to be normal and fit in with their friends. Assure them that all of the changes they are going through are totally normal and won’t go on forever.For example, your daughter may develop breasts before her friends. Assure her that it is normal to develop breasts and her friends will develop them, too.
Say, “You’ll notice that most of the kids in your grade have or will start to change. It can be scary, but it’s totally normal for boys to grow taller and develop deeper voices. Girls will grow breasts and start their periods. Whenever it happens, it’s normal.”

, Both boys and girls develop body hair during puberty. Tell your children that it’s normal to have hair in places it wasn’t before. Tell children that hair growth is normal. In some cultures, shaving body hair is socially acceptable and boys may start to shave their facial hair while girls may start to shave their underarm hair.Say, “Body hair is a normal part of puberty and you may start to notice it in your genital area and underarms. Boys start to develop facial hair.”
Sometimes body hair comes alongside body odor. Talk to your children about body odor and bring up options like deodorant. Say, “When body odor becomes unpleasant, it’s time to start using deodorant. We can go pick out some if you’d like.”

, You may choose to talk about menstruation to boys and girls differently, although it’s important that both boys and girls understand menstruation so that shame, embarrassment, and misunderstanding don’t cloud perceptions. It’s vital to talk about menstruation with girls prior to them having their periods so that don’t feel fearful or frightened by the sight of blood in their underwear.For example, say, “Menstruation is a normal and healthy part of being a woman and is nothing to be afraid of. Boys shouldn’t be scared of it, either. It is part of reproduction and helps a woman know if she is pregnant or not.“
For girls, you may want to explain menstruation in more depth to let them know what to expect and how to handle their monthly changes. Give a brief, age-appropriate explanation of feminine hygiene products. You can revisit this conversation later on when they start menstruating, but laying the groundwork will help to combat any fears they might have about it.
 Let your children know that spontaneous erections occur at times, which can feel embarrassing in public. Let boys know that the erections will go away, and a well placed bookbag or jacket can cover it if they feel embarrassed.Talk about wet dreams before they start happening, around age 12-16. Left misunderstood, wet dreams can frighten or embarrass a boy or make him think something is wrong.
To boys, say, “Erections are normal, even if they’re uncomfortable. If you get an erection, don’t worry. It will go away.”
Tell your child that if they notice a boy’s erection, they shouldn't make fun of him.
 Children often feel insecure or embarrassed about their changes. Reassure your child that they will get through puberty. Children may begin to feel more self-conscious or awkward in their appearance. Some children may become irritable or moody. Help them understand these changes and reassure them that it won’t last forever.Let them know that you are there for them and that you care.


Remind them that you love them and support them. Even if their moods upset you, be gentle and loving toward them. Do not match their mood or tone with yours. Remember that you are the adult, and it is up to you to model good emotional self-control for them.
 Let your children know that you’re here for them and are available to answer any questions or concerns that they have. Girls may ask why they haven’t gotten their periods yet or why their breasts are different sizes. Boys may ask about wet dreams or changes to their testicles or penis. If you don’t have an answer for them, say, “That’s a great question. Let me get back to you on that” and do some research to adequately address the question.Give your child the time and opportunity to ask questions. Tell them that their questions are important and answer them as honestly as you can. Do not smile, laugh, or joke about their concerns. This may minimize their concerns and make them feel foolish. It will not lighten the mood.
 Children may come to you with embarrassing questions that may make you want to run and hide. Instead of making up a story about storks or magical lands, answer their questions as honestly as you can within an age-appropriate framing. Use these moments to talk to your child about puberty and sexuality in a matter-of-fact way that shows that you’re not afraid to answer their curious questions.For example, if your eight-year-old asks you about oral sex, say, “That’s something that grown-ups do by putting their mouths on each other’s genitals.”

