 Choose a look that will make you stand out in a crowd. Consider these ideas for creating a wild look:


Get a blunt cut from your stylist and ask him or her to add bangs.
Arrange your hair into dreadlocks if that works for your hair type.
Dye or streak your hair with a unique color. If you're wary of making a major change to your hair color that you can't undo, then use a temporary dye. If your hair is braided or dreadlocked, one or two strands dyed a bright color will really pop. When adding a streak to your hair, having it closer to your face will have the biggest impact.

Back comb or "tease" your hair with a brush and some hairspray to give it volume. While most people who tease their hair today hide the knots with unteased hair, a popular "artsy" look is to make your back combing look obvious.
Stop straightening or curling your hair. Let it return to its natural state.
Choose a style that defies gender stereotypes. If you're a girl, go with extremely short hair. If you're a guy, grow your hair long.
 You can pierce your eyebrow, your lip or your nose for dramatic effect. Gauged earlobes are another popular piercing choice. Just remember that, unlike most other types of piercings, earlobe stretching is likely to be permanent.If you want something more subtle, pierce your ear cartilage.
 Tattoos themselves are an art form, and having a few may show off your creative side. If you consider your body a canvas, you might want to get tattooed in a way you find meaningful. Don't be thoughtless about it, though; you don't want to get a tattoo you'll regret.


If you are a visual artist, consider drawing your own design for your tattoo artist to use.
The modern artist stereotype often includes full sleeves and/or neck tattoos.
If you don't want to commit to the artist look for life, try temporary tattoos instead.
 You may want to grow out your facial hair or change your other shaving habits. Do what you want, and don't conform to social pressure. Shaving is a personal choice. Some artists shave, and some don't. However, the popular image of an artist usually has a beard or at least some stubble.
 While skinny jeans may be the fashion, remember that as an artist you want to set yourself apart from the crowd. Your jeans can also be ripped and faded. However, artsy guys should never wear ill-fitting or ruined dress pants.
 Artists dressing all in black is a stereotype for good reason. In addition to flattering any figure, black also shows dirt and stains much less compared with other colors. When you're an artist with a limited budget, black clothes will save you cleaning and replacement costs. Artists also often wear black to events where they showcase their art. The monochromatic look draws attention away from them and onto their work., A black beret is the ultimate artist fashion cliché.Fortunately, it also happens to be stylish. Berets look good on both guys and girls and can be worn a variety of ways. Get one for yourself to really sell the artistic look you're going for.

