 There are few regulations controlling the manufacturing process of dog food. That makes it very important to locate a company’s name on the food and investigate their quality control measures and ingredient sourcing. Find their consumer relations number as well and give it a quick call. Ask them about food testing measures or the history of the company.Look for a company that uses its own facilities for manufacturing and shipping, as opposed to hiring other companies for these areas. One company controlling the process from start to finish leads to a safer final product.
Large companies often get a bad rap in favor of smaller ones. However, be aware that more sizeable companies often have additional funds to invest in food science research and safety and quality control measures.;
, Once you’ve narrowed down your choices to a handful of possible brands hit the internet and search for reviews. You will find many websites that provide up-to-date rankings of dog foods based on a wide variety of factors. Read the reviews to see if any one brand stands out above the rest.Look for more specific reviews. A user that states, “My dog didn’t like it,” is much less helpful than a review that says, “My dog liked the beef flavor better than the chicken. Avoid the turkey if possible.”

, Get ahold of your friends or family who own dogs and ask them for food suggestions. They can also tell you which foods to avoid. Or, go online to a pet owner’s forum and ask the users to recall their dog food experiences.


An example forum post might be, “Hello everyone, I am looking for food suggestions for my 5-year-old lab. Thank you!”

, Unfortunately, the dog food world is plagued by fairly frequent recalls. To stay updated it is a good idea to sign up for a pet forum’s recall email list. Another option is to check the FDA website where most major recalls will be posted. If the recall is widespread, some major new agencies might report it as well.Make sure that whatever recall list you check is current with the present date and covers both dry and wet dog food., You will find that many companies offer both dry and wet dog food options. It is a good idea to look at both when you start shopping. Dry kibble is popular due to its low cost, convenience, and benefits for the teeth. However, canned food is tastier, better for hydration, and often made with better ingredients.Don’t forget that you can always mix the two together in order to give your dog the best of both worlds.

