 This is a really sweet and romantic gesture that will let them know you are leaning in for a kiss. You don’t have to do this step, but it might give you that little extra courage to go in for the kiss. Put your hand on their jaw or push their hair behind their ear. You can even softly angle their face towards yours., If they lean in with you, they want to kiss just as badly as you do. When you touch them and get closer, make sure they seem genuinely interested and happy about these advances. Look to see if they’re glancing at your lips. Finally, see if they’re licking their own lips, as if to prep them for a smooch. Use your common sense to make sure that you have permission to go ahead!, In other words, lean down if your partner is shorter than you, or lift your head upwards if they're taller. If they're much taller, you may even need to get on your tip toes! It can be intimidating to kiss someone who is much shorter or taller than yourself, but it's very manageable. The important thing is to "meet halfway," so make sure you angle yourself so that you're closer to their height.


If you're still nervous about a big height difference, Google "Shaquille O'Neal and Nicole Alexander kiss." If the 7'1" basketball star and his 5'2" girlfriend can kiss, you won't have a problem., One of the biggest concerns when it comes to leaning in for a kiss is bumping noses. To avoid this, you need to make sure your face and your partner's face are cocked in opposite directions. You don't need to bend your neck at a ninety degree angle– keep it natural. If their head is already leaning to one side, casually tilt your head to the opposite side. If they are looking straight at you, with no tilt, choose a side, tilt your head, and they will take their cue from you.
 Despite calling tightly pursed lips the "kissy face" in photos, this is not how you should actually kiss. Close your lips, but keep them relaxed. If you form your mouth into a tight pout, you'll look like a cartoon fish coming in for a kiss, and that won't entice your crush. Keep your lips relaxed until they're almost touching your partner's, and then you can slightly purse them. Just try to keep them feeling soft and gentle.


It may sound silly, but practice kissing the back of your hand. Practice kissing gently, avoiding a tight pucker.
 Once you’re close to their face, it’s time to shut your eyes and go for it.Keeping your eyes wide open is a rookie mistake. As soon as you know where your mouth is going, shut your eyes. Don’t close them prematurely, or you could end up kissing their chin or their nose.
 Whether it’s a quick peck or a long, movie-quality make-out, you’ve successfully leaned in for a kiss. Congratulations! Once you’ve had that initial kiss, you will probably feel more comfortable reading their signals and leaning in for a kiss in the future.

