 This is the most commonly known but also one of the hardest, if not the cheesiest, step when you set out to solve a problem. Yes, today you have decided you want to do something about your habits, but what about tomorrow? How about next week? What about when you log on to the internet while your homework lays on the table? Will you be motivated to change then? Of course not. You have been there. You got tired, then distracted, and soon were on the internet. You felt guilty, but swallowed your guilt saying "I'll commit tomorrow." NO! Do not do this. If need be, write down everything you are committed to do and post reminders everywhere. Post-it notes can do wonders. By constantly seeing the phrase "I need to change", your brain is, primed for change. Please, please, please commit to this. Post it as your status on all your social networks. Truly become committed to change. And do not feel embarrassed by your postings, feel empowered. Post your intentions on the background of your computer and as your screen saver. If you don't have your own user account on your family computer, explain to your family members, the extent of your commitment and your need to post reminders to motivate yourself. If they are like most families, they will understand, and will stand beside with support you had never imagined. You will definitely gain a load of respect from them.;
, This is very important. You must write down a many different things. You should write down these things in this order and on different pages in your notebook. What classes and activities you are in: This is to sort out your life a bit. If you want, you can also write down the days and times that you have these classes and activities. What things you are behind in and/or are missing: This gives you a sense of what you're up against. As the list gets smaller and smaller, you'll find yourself more motivated to get it completely cleared up. What your mark is in each class: This way you know what things you are great at, and what things you might need to study extra hard on. It's sometimes depressing seeing your marks, but you must write these things down. All things that do not benefit you (nose picking, alcohol, drugs, computer, etc.): Commit to gradually reduce the number of times you participate in these activities. A healthier life style and better you focuses the mind, can lead to great, inspiring things, and is over all better for you. If you're having trouble with these, please see other articles on wikiHow. All the things you want to accomplish: These are your goals. Without goals set out, you might improve and stop after you've improved a little bit. This is not good. You should ALWAYS try to improve, no matter how good you get or how tired you are. After you have completed a goal, write out a greater goal. Think of it like this: You set out to run a mile, and complete that goal. If you keep improving on it, you could be in the Olympics! Finally, the great things about yourself: After a bit of depression writing out all that other stuff, you need to focus on the positive. Otherwise this mountain you are trying to climb with seem insurmountable. Feeling good about who you are is a great motivation. It could be as simple as "I have nice fingers", as great as "I am the strongest person in my family", or as average (to you) as "I have the skills to cook food for my family every night". Never put yourself down in here. Focus on the positive. Don't think "I have amazing lips... but my skin has lots of acne." It isn't the point of this.
 This is very hard, especially if you are like I am, where you love chocolate, are picky about vegetables, and aren't very athletic. However, it is possible. Perhaps you have a wii, and have a bit of anger issues. You could always take out your anger by practicing every day at boxing on Wii Sports. Or maybe you live on a farm and own a bike. You can always go for a bike ride. If you're picky about foods, try to eat something each day that you do like. Perhaps you like bananas. Try eating one every day. You don't have to eat a salad and run a marathon to exercise and eat healthy. Perhaps you'll grow addicted to it all. :]

, It's most likely you have someone weighing you down. Whether it be your friends, parents, siblings, or enemies. They say you can't do it. They say you'll fail at life. Prove them wrong. Anger is a common emotion you feel when you think of when they say this. Take that anger and channel it. Focus it so that instead of a comeback, you can prove them wrong. Make them feel foolish. This is a very evil step, it seems, but this is what got ME motivated.
 This is the fun part. Find a few friends in your grade, four will do, to study with on the weekends. You could make a group out of it, or you can study with one friend each weekend of the month. Two brains ARE better than one, and if you can refrain from talking the ENTIRE time, you can both be beneficial to each other. You can even make a sleepover of it. That way, after your hard work, you have the night to chat away as a treat. If you're like me, you may be home schooled and do not have classmates to interact with. No problem! Your area will most likely have a homeschool group. You can join some activities with the group, make friends, and gain study buddies! Even older friends will do. They most likely see the stuff as easy by the time they're in a new, more difficult grade, and they'd probably be willing to help you.
 Have you ever thought of the perfect student? The one person you imagine in your head who goes to Harvard, got straight A's in school, they're popular and nice, go to the gym every day, and they just so happen to have perfect hair? Well, no one can be perfect, but "play" this as a game. On your adventure to motivating yourself, you could see it as "leveling up". Every time you get better, you gain a level, trying to achieve the final level, "Ruler of the school". Aim to be that perfect person. I realize you cannot be perfect, but you can get pretty close if you aim for Pluto (the distant not-a-planet).
 Life is not all work, although it seems like it when you're trying to do better. Every time you achieve a goal, improve your grade drastically, go two weeks sober of a bad activity, or hand in at least half of your missing assignments in a class, give yourself a good day off. Do something you love to do. You deserve it. Just try not to do it too often. You don't want to go into the habit of days off, or get used to pampering yourself. This is a reward for doing something big and challenging.
 Let go of any bad, embarrassing moments, mistakes, or worries. Let go of things you've done or situations you've been in. Let go of it all. That was the old you. Think of it as you were possessed. You were possessed by stress. Don't think about it, be embarrassed by it, or regret it. You've obviously learned from it, and you're changing. Let go of it all. You are no longer the you you originally knew. You are new in the eyes of everyone.

