 It is important to pick one that you are familiar with, so you can create many interesting articles about it.;
, Make sure your domain name works well with the topic you have chosen.
 Most hosting companies give you simple tutorials on how to build a website.
 Add photos to your articles and set up a mailing list. Make your site look as nice as possible. If you dread writing a lot of articles, hire a freelancer to write the articles for you. It is very cheap, and a fast way to get great articles on your website.
 You could promote an affiliate product related to your site's topic, or you could use Google Adsense. Your goal is to get your site to make the most money possible, so if you have lots of ways to make money on your site, then you will most likely make lots of money.
 Create Facebook, Myspace, and Twitter pages for your site. Write articles on Article Base about your site. Post flyers and create business cards. In simple words, just get your site out there.
 After around a week or so of promoting, you should start to see lots of money coming into your PayPal account. Just try to make as much money as possible. Also, keep promoting your site and keep adding articles.
 You will need this info for the last few steps.
 Assuming that you leave the site the same, the next six months will probably bring in the same amount of revenue if not more. Instead of keeping your website, sell it.
 Instead of posting your site for sale on a marketplace, think of types of companies that could use your site. For example, if you have a blog about dogs, a new dog toy company may be interested in it.
 Usually, websites sell for 3-5 times the yearly revenue. So if you had a blog for six months that made $30,000 in those six months, your yearly revenue would be about $60,000. You could then sell your site for $180,000 or more depending on your buyer. Bigger companies are most likely to spend larger amounts of money on a website than small companies are.
 Congratulations! You could take that money and spend it, or if you are smart, you could reinvest some of it back into another website. If you repeat for the next six months, you will have a very healthy income. Do this yearly, and you could eventually be flipping websites for millions of dollars.

