 A conflict occurs when a difference in opinion escalates to the point of interfering with an interpersonal relationship. There are often strong emotions associated with conflicts. Conflicts generally don’t go away on their own without specifically dealing with them., Framing your approach to conflict resolution with the idea of helping your relationship with the person

, Staying calm will help you listen and respond reasonably to other people’s perspectives.Remaining calm will also likely keep the conflict from escalating, as the other person involved in the conflict may respond positively to your calm demeanor.
 This can be quite difficult, but it is important to maintain control over your emotions when involved in a conflict. This does not mean that you can’t feel or even express your emotions; it just means that you shouldn’t allow your emotions to inform your actions or demeanor.


Additionally, being aware of your own emotions can help you understand the emotions of other parties involved in conflict. This can help you sympathize with others’ perspectives., Again, this can sometimes be difficult if you are in conflict with someone who you don’t like. However, accepting and allowing for the feelings of the other person involved in a conflict can help you resolve a conflict. It helps you understand why the person may be acting the way he is. Acknowledging another’s feelings aloud can help him see that you understand where he is coming from, which may de-escalate the situation.
 Some conflict arises from a difference of opinion that may not be resolved. It is possible to remain respectful towards someone even if you do not reach an agreement about a specific conflict.
 The key to finding a solution or resolution to your conflict involves working together to identify the specific problems and brainstorming for solutions together. This may involve some flexibility and negotiation, but if both (or all) parties are willing to work together to find a solution, it is likely that you can find one.