 Mini lops are small creatures, but they like to have plenty of space to hop around. Look for a cage or hutch designed specifically for rabbits. It should be 3–4 feet (0.9–1.2 m) wide and 2 feet (0.6 m) deep. The bottom and sides should be made of wire, not glass, because the bunny will need plenty of fresh air to flow through the cage.If you decide to go with an outdoor hutch, place it in a shady spot so that the rabbit doesn't overheat during the summer. You might need to heat the hutch during winter if the temperature drops low. It's also important to keep potential predators away. Foxes, dogs, cats, and birds of prey are all quite dangerous to a rabbit.;
, If you have a wire cage, first line it with wooden planks so that the rabbit's feet won't get caught, then cover the wood with hay or blankets. This way your rabbit will be able to build a soft, cozy nest.


Use only hay that is approved for use in a bunny cage. Never use old hay or hay from a source you don't know and trust, and never use pine or cedar wood shavings. The fumes can hurt rabbits' internal organs.
 If you place a small litter box in the mini lop's cage, he will relieve himself in that same spot instead of going elsewhere, making cleanup much easier. You can find a small, rabbit-sized litter box at pet stores. Line the litter box with newspaper, then place hay or newspaper pellets on top.
 Many owners of mini lops like to take their rabbits out to play. Limit your rabbit's play space to one area that has been thoroughly "rabbit-proofed" so that the mini lop won't get hurt. Remove electrical cords and wires, fragile or heavy items that could fall over, and other items you don't want nibbled.
 Rabbits both nest in and eat loads of hay, so you should put lots of fresh hay in the cage every day. Timothy hay and brome hay are good choices for rabbit feed. There's no need to set the hay in a dish; just sprinkle it all around the cage., Rabbit pellets contain essential nutrients like protein and fiber. When your mini lop is still a baby, give it unlimited pellets. Adult mini lops can get 1/8 cup of pellets for every 5 pounds of body weight. Throughout the rabbit's life, provide fresh vegetables to enhance its diet. 2 cups a day of spinach, collard greens, and turnip greens is the best choice, but you can also feed your rabbit the occasional carrot.


You can also feed your rabbit a small amount of fruit, such as cut up apples, bananas and strawberries.
Do not feed your rabbit the following vegetables, which can hurt its stomach: corn, tomatoes, cabbage, iceberg lettuce, potatoes, peas, onions, beets and rhubarb.
Never feed your rabbit the following foods: seeds, grains, meat, chocolate, dairy, and any other cooked "human" food.
 Rabbits' teeth grow continuously throughout their lives, and it's important to provide them with something to chew on so they won't get long and uncomfortable. You can buy rabbit chews at the pet store, and give your rabbit a new one every week or so.
 Rabbits need access to plenty of fresh water. Buy a water bottle designed for a rabbit cage (it'll look similar to those used in hamster cages) or set out some water in a small dish. Make sure you change the water every day and clean out the dish frequently.Make sure you put the bottle low enough for the mini lop to reach.
 When you're handling a rabbit, the first rule to remember is that you should never pick one up by the ears. A rabbit's ears are fragile and sensitive, and this could cause permanent damage. Instead, place one hand under his rear area and the other between his front legs. Bring the rabbit close to your chest and hold him there securely. When you're ready to put him down, crouch down and gently rest him on the floor.


Do not drop your rabbit or let him jump to the floor from your arms. The impact could hurt his legs.
Do not lift your rabbit from the scruff of his neck. Rabbits don't have extra skin there like cats do.
 Mini lops are pretty sturdy as far as rabbits go, but they don't like being handled roughly. Pat your mini lop gently on the head, back and sides. Never toss him, push him or pull him by the legs, ears or tail. If your bunny is afraid, don't force him to play.
 Rabbits naturally love to hop around, and they need to be able to do so for a few hours every day to stay healthy. Take your bunny out of his cage and play with him every day. If you have an enclosed outdoor area, you can let the bunny play by himself, but don't let him out of your sight for too long.


It is extremely dangerous to walk a rabbit on a lead! If a rabbit is scared, the lead can get wrapped around their neck. Rabbits can be scared to death as well. A lead is uncomfortable, scary and dangerous for your rabbit!
Never let your bunny play outside the cage completely unattended. Keep cats, dogs, and other predators away.
 Don't let your bunny get bored in his cage. He needs interesting items to explore and chew on. Put a few cardboard boxes or old phone books in the cage for him to chew on. You can also play with your bunny using a soft cat toy or ball.
 Bunnies love to play together, and your mini lop will be happier with a friend. Be sure to get a second mini lop, and not another type of rabbit. And make sure both bunnies are spayed or neutered so you don't end up with a litter of babies on your hands.
 A rabbit's cage or hutch should be cleaned out every week. Have a friend supervise your bunny while you give the cage a thoroughly cleaning. Throw out the old hay and newspaper, wash the cage with hot, soapy water, dry it, and fill it with clean hay and newspaper.


Clean out the pellet dish and water bottle every few days.
Change the litter box every day.
 Bunnies don't like to be bathed, since they take care of that themselves. However, they do well with light brushing. Use a soft-bristled brush to take care of your bunny's fur every once in a while. Mini lops molt when they're adults, and when you see this happening, you can help remove the fur using a wire brush.


If your rabbit gets dirty outside, you can wash him using rabbit shampoo. Never use human shampoo on a rabbit.
If you notice your rabbit's nails getting too long, you may need to trim them.
 It may be difficult to find a vet who will look at your rabbit, since some animal vets only treat cats and dogs. Look for an "exotic animal" vet if your local vet won't see your rabbit. Take him in for an annual checkup and any time you notice symptoms of illness, which could include the following:


A runny nose or eye
Refusal to eat
Red urine
High temperature
Diarrhea
A permanently tilted head
Lumps or abscesses under the fur

