 There are many models of Swiss Army knife, each with a unique set of included features. Each knife is designed for a certain type of user, from the casual urban bottle-opener to the serious survivalist. Knives fall into a few main categories: pocket knives, Swiss Army knives, and lock blade knives.


Some models include: classic, tinker, super tinker, angler, camper, huntsman, handyman, mechanic boy, rescue tool, and Swiss champ. They come in categories like everyday, sports and leisure, DIY, LED lights, outdoor, executive, gardening, multitool lights, and scouting.
Read the manual. If you've just bought your Swiss Army knife, be sure to read about the tools that come with your particular knife model. Read about the repairs, maintenance, and correct functions of the tool.
 These knives are usually smaller than the standard model, and they contain fewer features. A pocket knife may contain all or some of the following tools:


Find the large blade, the nail file (with nail cleaner,) the scissors, and the key ring. Pull tweezers and a plastic toothpick from the end of the knife handle.
Find the nail file, the end of which is a flat-head screwdriver. Look for a bottle opener with attached nail file. Unfold the Phillips screwdriver, and look for the wire stripper.
Some pocket knives even feature a bright LED, a ballpoint pen, and a USB drive., This is the knife type with the most potential features. Some Swiss Army knifes come with as few as four tools, while others are packed with up to 38 unique functions. The standard model may contain all or some of the following tools:


Find the large blade and the small blade, the corkscrew, the key-ring, and the can opener. Pull tweezers and a toothpick from the end of the knife handle. Some knives include more delicate tools like a scissors, a magnifying glass, a sewing eye, a stainless steel pin, and a pressurized ballpoint pen.
Check for a bottle opener with screwdriver and wire stripper. Look for the nail file with metal file and nail cleaner. Find the pliers, which usually include wire cutters and a wire crimping tool. Look for a paper reamer and hole punch.
Look for the small flat-head screwdriver at the tip of the can opener. Check if your knife has a 2.5 mm screwdriver, a Phillips screwdriver, and/or a mini-screwdriver.
Some models even feature a wood saw, a metal saw, a multi-purpose hook, or a fish scaler with ruler and hook disgorger. Find the chisel and scraper. Look for a wrench with a 5 mm or 4 mm hex drive.
 This tool is larger than the standard Swiss Army knife, and the handle is curved for better grip. Use the lock blade for more serious cutting: it locks into place such that you must disengage the safety to close it. A standard pocket knife will still fold back into the handle when you apply force to the dull side of the blade. A lock blade knife may include the following features:


Open the large lock blade and feel how it sticks in place when fully unfolded. Look for a curved lock blade for one-hand opening, which features a 2/3 wavy cut. Find the wood saw, the metal saw (with metal file), and the scissors. Pull the tweezers and toothpick from the end of the handle.
Find a 1-2 inch Phillips screwdriver, a long, small Phillips screwdriver, or a mini-screwdriver. Identify the corkscrew, the can opener (the end of which is a flat-head screwdriver), and the bottle opener (which also acts as a screwdriver and wire stripper.) Find the pliers, with wire cutters and wire crimping tool included.
Look for the emergency features. Lock blade knives often include a window breaker, a seatbelt cutter, a nylon cord, and a saw for shatterproof glass.

