 To ensure that the salt glitter dries and the color sets, it helps to bake it in the oven. Set your oven temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius) and allow it to heat fully so it’s hot enough when you’re ready to dry the glitter.If you’re making the salt glitter with children, be sure to supervise their use of the oven.
 Decide how much glitter you would like to make, and pour the same amount of salt into a clean bowl or tupperware container. Keep in mind that you’ll need a separate bowl for each color of glitter that you want to make.You can use any type of salt, but regular table salt works well.
Make sure that the bowl or container you use is large enough for the amount of salt that you place in it. There should be enough room in the container to mix or shake the salt and coloring together.
 Once you’ve added the salt to the bowl or container, squeeze several drops of food coloring over the salt to achieve the desired shade. Use a spoon to carefully mix the salt and coloring together so they’re fully combined.The amount of food coloring that you’ll need depends on how much salt you’re coloring and what shade you want the glitter to be. Larger amounts of salt require more coloring, as do darker colors.
Be creative with the food coloring. You can mix two or more shades in a single batch of salt to create other shades. For example, if you don’t have green coloring, you can use equals amounts of blue and yellow to create a green shade.
If your bowl or container has a lid, you can place the lid on it and shake the salt and coloring to combine them.
 Once you’ve achieved the desired color for the glitter, carefully pour it out onto a cookie sheet or into a baking dish. Try to spread the glitter out in a single layer so it will dry more effectively.If you’re making multiple shades of glitter, it’s best to place them on separate cookie sheets. Otherwise, it can be extremely difficult to keep the glitter shades from mixing together when you remove them from the sheet.
 After you’ve spread the glitter onto the cookie sheet, place it in the preheated oven. Allow the salt to bake for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the food coloring dries completely., Once the salt has finished baking, remove the cookie sheet from the oven. Let the glitter cool completely, which should take approximately 20 to 25 minutes. When it’s cool, it’s ready for use.Once the salt glitter is cool, you can place it in jars or other storage containers.

