 A classic move which many starting strategies include, moving that pawn opens up your queen and bishop for use. The key to the scholar’s mate is tempting your opponent with the seemingly careless use of your own queen. Provided they respond with certain predictable moves, you can perform the shortest checkmate possible for white.








Ideally you’ll be playing against a beginner, as the scholar’s mate is a fairly noticeable strategy; the moves even owe their namesake to their usefulness for new learners playing against others who are learning.
The first desired response will be for your opponent to move his pawn to e5. This opens the black queen, king and bishop to capture.;
, As stated, the queen is the centerpiece of the offensive strategy of the scholar’s mate. In fact it is the only piece that moves twice in this short, four-turn checkmate. The queen’s movement here will prompt a response from your opponent which will only draw him closer to checkmate.










The feint here is to draw your opponent’s attention to the pawn now in danger of being captured by your queen.
The response which the scholar’s mate requires is for the opponent to move his knight to c6, to cover for a potentially captured pawn.
 While not an obvious move at first (an advantage for yourself), the bishop’s movement here is setting up for the eventual checkmate. It will cover f7, where the white queen will move next to complete the checkmate. Fortunately this move seems weak out of context; it doesn’t threaten any unprotected pieces nor does it set up an obvious play.








For the scholar’s mate to continue smoothly, your opponent should play his other knight from g8 to f6, in anticipation of taking your unprotected pawn at e5.
 With this the trap is set and sprung. The queen is adjacent to your opponent’s king, and the king himself cannot capture the queen without moving into check. Sit back and enjoy your victory, and perhaps share with your opponent the quick and deadly scholar’s mate.









