 Shampoos containing sulfate products (specifically sodium lauryl sulfate), are great at removing buildup and cleansing your hair, but they are also extremely drying.To combat frizz, keep your hair as moisturized as possible, and use sulfate-free shampoo options. Sulfate free shampoos can usually be found at most hair salons, but grocery stores and pharmacies have effective options as well.;
, When picking out a shampoo, you should also steer clear of shampoo products that contain alcohol.Just like sodium lauryl sulfate, alcohol dries out you hair which can make it even frizzier when your hair dries.


There are two basic kinds of alcohol in shampoo and conditioning products: short chain alcohols and fatty alcohols.Short chain alcohols are used in shampoos because their low molecular weight allows them to be used as additives in shampoos to help your hair dry faster.Fatty alcohols are usually derived from natural materials, and have higher amounts of carbon, which make them oilier.These fatty alcohols are what help give your hair a smoother quality after using conditioner.
Alcohol in conditioners is usually fine, but avoid shampoos that contain alcohol.
 Conditioners that are packed with protein are incredibly hydrating and can help restore moisture in your hair.Only apply conditioner to the mid-shaft to the ends of your hair; applying conditioner to the top of your head, onto your scalp, can make your head oily and greasy looking.When you apply conditioner while you’re showering, leave it on for approximately 2 to 5 minutes, so your hair can really soak in the nutrients., For super dry and frizzy hair, consider deep conditioning your hair once a week.Simply apply the directed amount of deep conditioner to your hair while in the shower, or after you’re finished showering. Focus on applying the deep conditioner from the mid-shaft of your hair, down to the ends, and allow it to sit for approximately 30 minutes to an hour.After, rinse out the deep conditioner with cool to lukewarm water.


If your hair is less frizzy, you can apply a conditioning mask every couple of weeks, or once a month.
Most deep conditioners contain water, fatty alcohol such as cetearyl, gentle surfactant, humectant like glycerin or natural ones like honey and sugar, emollients such as oils and butters, and hydrolyzed protein. The order of these ingredients may differ from product to product but you should try to use a deep conditioner that contains these ingredients and no more or no less. Sometimes a cheaper brand may contain all of these ingredients and work just as well as a more expensive brand., Hot oil treatments can penetrate your hair shaft, and significantly add moisture to your hair. Apply the oil to clean, lightly dried hair. Cover your hair with a shower cap or some plastic wrap, and apply heat to the oil. You can apply heat by wrapping a warm towel around your head, sitting under the sun, or using your blow dyer.


You can apply hot oil treatments to your hair about once to 3 times a month, depending on how frizzy your hair is.However, overdoing oil treatments can make your hair look greasy.
 Knowing what ingredients enrich, and moisturize your hair and what ingredients dry out your hair is great, but you have to experiment with different kinds of products to see how your hair reacts.You might love the smell of one shampoo, but find that another one gives you the frizz maintenance you’re looking for. It will be a process of trial and error until you find your favorite shampoo, conditioner, and styling products that produce frizz free results for your hair type.


Those with thick, coarse hair should look for products that are advertised as smoothing, hydrating, and moisturizing.Those with fine, frizzy hair should look for products that are advertised as volumizing, and moisturizing., Most people wash their hair too often. Washing too often strips away the natural oils from your hair, which can lead to your strands feeling dry and frizzy.For days that you don’t wash your hair, consider using dry shampoo, or simply rinsing the bottom half of your hair with conditioner.The frequency of your hair washing will depend on your hair type. If you have thick, curly hair that tends to get frizzy, you can likely get away with washing your hair every two days or three days. If you have an oily scalp, thin hair and frizz, you may need to wash your hair with a sulfate-free shampoo once a day or once every other day. If you workout every day, you will likely need to wash your hair afterwards so your hair is not dirty or oily., If your hair is dirty, consider using a small amount of shampoo to gently wash your scalp. The ends of your hair do not need to be dried out more than they already are, so specifically washing your scalp can revive your hair without stripping away more natural oils than necessary.Soak your hair in lukewarm water, and massage the shampoo into your hair and scalp. After about a minute of gently massaging the shampoo throughout your hair, rinse your head. Make sure you move your hair around underneath the water to remove all of the shampoo.


If your hair has a lot of product built up on your strands, consider using a clarifying shampoo to break down and rinse away product residue remaining on your hair., If your frizzy hair gets knotty and tangled when it’s dry, consider combing it out while you’re in the shower and your hair is still wet.When you’re conditioning in the shower, use a wide-toothed comb to brush through, and untangle your hair. Rinse out the conditioner after a few minutes. If your hair is still knotty when your hair dries, gently work through any remaining tangles with your fingers.


Brushing your hair with a brush will almost always make your hair frizzy. Also, brushing your hair with a brush while it’s still wet can cause damage and breakage to your hair.Avoid brushes and use combs whenever possible.
 Rinsing your hair with hot water makes your hair cuticle open up and expand. When your hair cuticles are open, your hair looks frizzy. Rinse your hair with cold water (or as cold as you can stand it), to seal down your hair cuticle and give your hair extra shine., Whether you plan to use a mousse, a shine serum, pomade, or leave in conditioner, apply your hair products while your hair is still wet. That way, your hair can dry with the product in, you’re your hair will have a lower chance of drying with frizz., When you’re getting out of the shower, squeeze your hair to get rid of any excess water. Avoid throwing a terrycloth towel over your head and rubbing your hair dry. This could create more frizz and breakage to your hair. Instead, consider drying your hair with microfiber towels, or simply letting your hair air dry on its own., Plopping your hair consists of using a cotton t-shirt to wrap and dry your hair. Lay a t-shirt on a flat surface, with the neck of the shirt closest to you.Bend over and place your hair in the middle of the shirt, and place the bottom hem of the shirt at the nape of your neck.Tie the shirt sleeve in a knot at the back of your head, and tuck any loose pieces of hair falling out, back into the wrap.
Allow your hair to dry for approximately 10 to 20 minutes, then let your hair air dry, or diffuse with a blow dryer., Adding a diffuser to your blow dryer can still effectively dry your hair without messing up the shape of your curls. Focus your drying efforts toward the roots of your hair, and allow the shafts and ends to dry naturally. Diffusers work well on curly hair and straight hair.Use a cool setting when you’re diffusing your hair. Hot heat can make your hair more susceptible to frizz from humidity., Since your ends are furthest away from your oil-producing scalp, they tend to look, feel, and be the driest parts of your hair. While your hair is still damp, apply a light shine and conditioning serum to your hair’s ends, especially if you plan to use hot tools., Heat from hot tools (dryers, curlers, straighteners, rollers) can damage your hair and make it look even frizzier by drying it out. Try to cut back on using heat on your hair.If you do choose to use hot tools, make sure you shield your hair with a silicone-based heat protectant.
 Blunt haircuts tend to create a lot of volume toward the bottom of your hair, rather than throughout. Instead, consider going for a longer hairstyle with layers starting around your lips. This could prevent your hair from appearing heavy or frizzy, as there will be less weight to your hair.Also, be sure to trim your hair about every 6 to 8 weeks.
A frequent trim will keep the ends of your hair healthy, and prevent the prevalence of split ends.
 Running your hands through your hair and playing with your locks can disturb the way your hair has set, and create more frizz.Touching your hair also transfers oils from your hands to your hair, which can make your hair appear greasier, more quickly.

