 Often times, stray cats will be attracted to your property in search of food. Although unappealing to humans, any trash or old garbage that a cat can find might be an attractive source of food. Always keep your trash bins secure to prevent cats from using them as a food source.Make sure the lid to your trash bin is secure and fits tightly.
Always make sure that all garbage is placed inside a secure trash bin.;
, If you have an issue with stray cats on your property, talking with your neighbor can help to resolve that issue. Talking with your neighbor can help you discover the reasons for your cat troubles and allow you to begin solving them together. Work with your neighbors to solve your stray cat problems.If there are many cats in your neighborhood, work with your neighbors to make your neighborhood unappealing to cats.
Your neighbor may be leaving trash or other food sources for cats outside. Ask your neighbor if they can help reduce the problem of stray cats by keeping any trash secure and by not feeding the strays.
Ask your neighbor to look for and seal up any potential shelter that the stray cats might be using. They may have an old barn or open porch that the stray cats are using as shelter.
 Like all animals, cats need shelter, and they can be attracted to your property as they look for this shelter. By blocking off any access points to sheltered areas you can help make your property look less attractive to any stray cats that might be passing by.Fence off any areas below a porch or deck.
Make sure any holes or narrow gaps in your house or garage are sealed up.
 If you notice any specific areas that a cat is causing problems in you can try putting up fencing to keep the cat out. Fencing can be difficult for a cat to climb over or under and can help keep them out of these problem areas.Try using chicken wire for an affordable and easy to build fence.
Free standing fences should be angled outwards to make it difficult for the cat to climb over.
Fence off any gardens that a cat might want to use as a litter box.

