 A franchise is not guaranteed to be successful simply because it has name recognition. You also need to run the business properly. Analyze whether you have the skills necessary to run the franchise.


Some franchises might provide training. However, it is unlikely that the training will be comprehensive. You probably need some practical business experience already. You should know this before choosing to sign a franchise agreement.;
, Your franchise might not be successful immediately. Like all new businesses, a franchise could take a while before it brings in more money than it spends. You should analyze whether you can afford to start a business.Check if you have another source of income or if your family would be totally dependent on the business being profitable. If you have no other income, then starting a business might not be right for you.
Analyze whether you can afford to lose money. If so, how much?
Also check financing. You might need a start-up loan to get your franchise up off the ground. You should check your credit score, debts, and assets to determine if you are good loan risk.
 Before deciding whether a franchise is a good fit, you should understand why you are starting the business. Consider the following:Do you need a certain level of income to be happy? If so, how much?
Is there a maximum amount of hours you want to work?
Do you want to run the franchise or will you hire a manager to run it?

, The best way to learn about a franchise is to talk to other franchise owners. Call them and ask if they would be willing to meet with you to talk about their experiences.Franchise owners are probably busy, so be considerate and understanding if they say they can’t meet with you.
You should also reach out to former franchise owners, if you know any. Ask around. Their experience, positive or negative, would be helpful in evaluating whether the franchise is right for you.
 Not every franchise is well-organized. You should ask the franchise owner if he or she has had any problems getting their business going:Has the business plan worked? Did the franchise owner raise issues with the franchisor?
How has the franchisor responded to problems? Were they open to change?
Has the franchisor lived up to their promises to provide products, support, etc.?

, Sometimes, former owners can be even more honest than current franchise owners. You should ask them why they left the franchise business.Did the franchisor help them sell their franchise? Or were they left on their own?
Did they have their franchise terminated? If so, what reasons were given?

, You should contact the local BBB where the franchisor has its headquarters and check whether any complaints have been lodged against them. You can also contact the BBB in the city where you want to open a franchise.You can visit the BBB online and then enter the name and address of the franchise., If you are interested in a franchise, then you can get a copy of a document called the “FDD.” A franchisor is required to give you a copy at least 14 days before you sign any franchise agreement. You can request a copy after submitting an application or even before submitting your application.If you choose to go ahead with your application, then be sure to check that the information in the franchise agreement mirrors the information in the FDD. If you find discrepancies, then contact the franchisor and ask why.
 Location is key to a successful business, so you want to know who selects the site for a new franchise. Does the franchisor choose alone? If so, what criteria does the franchisor use? Read the FDD and the franchise agreement to check.


It is not unusual for franchisors to perform studies to find the right location to open a franchise. They might not be interested in where you want to open.If it is important to you that you open a business at a certain location, then you might not want to enter the franchise agreement.
Also check who pays the costs of site selection.These costs could be considerable.
 A franchise typically serves a limited area, which is called your “territory.” Before signing a franchise agreement, you should check to see how your territory is defined.


Pay attention to where other franchises are located.If another franchise is in your territory, then you should raise questions with the franchisor.
 Also read the agreement to see if the franchisor requires that you maintain certain design or appearance standards. These can increase the costs of running the business. Also, the franchise agreement may state that the franchisor can require periodic renovations, which further add to the costs., The franchise agreement should also explain how money is collected for advertising. For example, the franchisor could require that you pay advertising fees to the franchisor, who then purchases national advertising. You should make sure that you understand the details around advertising:You might have to contribute to a local fund which will be used to purchase regional or local advertising.
The fee can be calculated as a percentage of sales or as a flat rate.
Find out who creates the ads and what happens to extra money that isn’t spent by the end of the year.
Check whether you have any input on the advertising.
 A franchise agreement probably gives the franchisor the power to terminate the franchise so long as there is “just cause.”You should read your agreement to see what qualifies as just cause.


Just cause might be your failure to pay royalties or fees to the franchisor or your refusal to abide by performance standards.Also check whether you are given a chance to fix (“cure”) any violation of the franchise agreement. If there is no chance to cure, then you might not want to enter the franchise agreement, especially if you have never run a business before.
 Some franchise agreements are for a fixed period of time with no right of renewal. For example, a franchise agreement might last up to 20 years, but at the end of the period you can’t renew. However, other franchise agreements grant you the right to renew.Read your franchise agreement and decide if you are comfortable with the renewal rights.If you are just trying to get your feet wet in the industry, then a fixed-length term with no right of renewal might not be a problem. You can gain useful experience before moving on.
However, if you hope to run the business indefinitely, then you shouldn’t enter an agreement without a renewal option.
 A franchise agreement might limit your ability to transfer your franchise. You should read your franchise agreement to check whether these restrictions are acceptable to you. For example, the agreement might limit your right to transfer in the following ways:The franchisor could have right of first refusal to purchase the franchise.
The franchisor might retain the power to approve or reject potential buyers. This power could lower the amount of money you make selling your franchise.
 Many franchise agreements state that disputes will be resolved outside of court, using either arbitration or mediation.You should think about whether you are comfortable using only these dispute resolution techniques. If not, you probably shouldn’t enter the franchise agreement.


Arbitration is like a trial, however, your dispute is heard by a group of “arbitrators,” not judges. Some people think that arbitration is friendly to large corporations, so you might not want to enter a franchise agreement that contains an arbitration clause.
Mediation, by contrast, is a form of assisted negotiation. You and the franchisor would meet with a neutral third party, the “mediator,” who helps guide the parties toward a mutually-acceptable solution. Mediation, unlike arbitration, is not adversarial.
 In order to fully understand your obligations under a franchise agreement, you should show it to a qualified attorney. He or she can talk to you about what you hope to achieve with the franchise and can make sure that the franchise agreement furthers your goals.


You can find a qualified attorney by contacting your state or local bar association and asking for a referral. Try to find an attorney who specializes in franchise matters.Don’t plan on having your attorney negotiate the agreement on your behalf. Franchise agreements tend to be “take it or leave it.” In fact, you should be skeptical of franchisors who are willing to negotiate their agreements. A franchise should know what is the most successful method of selling its goods or services and expect franchise owners to use those methods., The FDD should contain financial information, which you may find difficult to understand. Accordingly, you should consider meeting with an accountant to review the information. You can find a certified public accountant by contacting your state’s Society of Certified Public Accountants and asking for a referral.For example, the FDD should contain the three most recent audited financial statements for the franchisor.If you don’t know how to read them, then ask an accountant to help you understand if the franchisor appears financially healthy.
A franchisor also has the option of including information about potential earnings, although it does not have to. An accountant could assess this information (if provided) and help you draft a realistic business plan.
 A legitimate franchise should answer all questions that you have and share information so that you can make an informed decision. Note if the franchisor hesitates disclosing information about the franchise. This could be a sign the franchise is not profitable., A franchisor should never make you feel pressured to buy.Always avoid franchisors who use pressure sales techniques.


For example, a franchisor might claim that time is of the essence and you should sign the agreement without doing necessary research. Avoid entering an agreement with any franchisor who wants you to make an uninformed decision.
 Some unscrupulous franchisors will charge high start-up fees and then disappear, leaving you in a lurch. You should understand exactly what your fees will be spent on.Try to get an itemized list of what your fees will be spent on and go through the list. Make sure every expense is legitimate.
Even successful franchises might charge high start-up fees. Talk to other franchise owners to see if the fees charged are within a reasonable range.
 A franchisor can’t promise certain results. Every business carries risks, and franchises are no different. You should be skeptical of any franchisor who pretends that their franchises are guaranteed to be successful.


Many franchises don’t provide earnings estimates, since they could be sued if their estimate turns out to be wrong.However, some franchisors might nevertheless claim that there is little risk involved with purchasing their franchise. You should be wary of these kinds of claims.

