 Using tampons can take some practice, so for now, it is best to use a sanitary napkin (otherwise known as a pad).Do you live at home with your mom or a sister? Then chances are there are some pads stored under the bathroom sink.


Look for a box labeled “sanitary napkins” or “pads.”
If you don’t see a box like this, open any unlabeled storage containers.
Look for any loose pads. They will be fluffy squares wrapped in colorful plastic.
Call or text your mom or sister and ask where some pads might be.;
, In some homes, extra bathroom supplies (like toothpaste, toilet paper, or pads) are stored in a closet near the bathroom. Take a look in a linen closet, or any other closet where your family keeps bathroom supplies.


Once again, look for a box labeled “sanitary napkins” or “pads.”
Remember to open any unlabeled storage containers.
Call or text your mom or sister (if you haven't already) and ask where some pads might be.
 Is there a neighbor or friend living nearby that you could ask to borrow a pad from? No need to be embarrassed! Women sharing feminine hygiene products is a practice as old as time! It is part of the code of being a girl.Say, “Pardon me, but do you have any feminine hygiene products you could share?”

, If you are old enough, if you have some money, and if there is a store nearby, going out to buy some pads is a good idea. If you’ve never purchased pads before, it’s okay! Don’t be overwhelmed by the choices offered. Just pick one; they will all work fine. Don’t worry about the cashier (even if it’s a boy). They sell plenty of feminine hygiene products during every shift., Once you have located a pad to use, it is time to situate it in your underwear.


Start by wearing clean, dry underwear that fits well. If you've bled into your underwear, change into a fresh pair.
Remove the paper backing from the pad.
Stick the pad to your underwear.
If the pad has “wings,” remove the extra paper backing and fold the wings over the sides of your underwear. The wings should be attached to the underside of the underwear, as though "hugging" the crotch of your underpants.