 One of the main exercises when it comes to telekinesis is visualization -- either of yourself or of the objects around you. These exercises won't warrant results unless you have the skills to back them up, so start visualizing! Similar to meditating, you'll see the results in your mind, aiming to have them play out in real life. (Imagine it)


Start with visualizing small objects. Work on every detail -- feel, smell, color nuances, maybe even taste. Work your way up until you can visualize entire scenes, yourself within them.;
, Anyone well-versed in the world of telekinesis will tell you that meditation lies at the very core of developing your superhuman skills. In order to channel your energy into the objects around you, your brain needs to be 100% clear. No other thoughts must pervade, disrupting and distracting you from the thoughts you need to channel. Meditation is the quickest way to develop this skill. (Don't listen to music while you are meditating otherwise it will be quite difficult to concentrate). If you find it really hard to clear your mind, try to listen to meditation music. Focus on nothing but meditation music.


It's practically a badge of honor nowadays to be doing 50 things at once, our lives buzzing fervently with piles and piles of things that need doing; we're juggling so many plates that if you're not dropping one, you're doing it wrong. Meditation allows you to escape this modern way of life and make it all go away, allowing your mental prowess to take center stage.
 Just like hypnosis, going into telekinetic practice with a closed, skeptical mind will not warrant results. If you think you can't, you can't -- that's what it boils down to. So ignore all those naysayers, ignore the science, and give it 110%. It's possible nothing will happen, sure, but it's definite nothing will happen if you don't let it.


There is no room for doubt here. You absolutely cannot doubt yourself or the possibility of something actually happening. Positive thoughts breed positive thoughts -- negative ones work the same way. One negative thought can spur on a thousand more, turning you into a skeptic. Believe that you can do it. It's only then that you can.
 A "long time" in the telekinetic world, at least when it comes to practicing, is years. Not weeks, not months, years. You may have to practice hundreds, maybe even thousands of times before you stumble upon that magical, effective mixture of energy. There's no telling when or where it will strike -- you just have to keep at it.


The reward in this is nothing till it happens -- that's the kicker. Unlike weight loss or playing guitar, it's not something that you can see gradual progress at. You'll be practicing day in and day out until one day something finally happens. It's just a matter of having the wherewithal to make it to that point.
 If you're meditating, hopefully this won't be an issue. Can you imagine trying to channel your energy and dispelling all excess thought when you're strung out about your job, your relationship, or what someone said today at school? Nope. Impossible. So relax. Let it go. For this to work, you have to fully and truly be in this moment. Your brain cannot be anywhere else.



Yoga is another way to get rid of the stresses of everyday life. In addition to meditation and yoga (exercise in general, really), make sure to take a bit of time every day to yourself. Just having 10 to 15 minutes getting in your zone can make the rest of the day that much easier.
 This is the idea that forms the basis of telekinesis: you and the object are one in the same. You have to abandon the belief that anything else is so. You know how all the matter in the universe started from stars and we are, therefore, stardust? It's exactly that. You can move that spoon in front of you because it's a natural extension of you.
 The challenge is to try to purely spin the wheel. Place a glass jar or container over the wheel to prevent wind from spinning it.
 Telekinesis is all about moving the things around you. In order to channel your natural energy into this nearby object, you'll need to concentrate and concentrate hard. It's easiest to start with very lightweight objects, like a match or a small pencil. The farther apart the molecules inside the system, the easier to manipulate it. You can work on chairs later!


Aim for these practice sessions twice a day for an hour in total. Visualize the object moving. To the left? To the right? Rolling, scooting, getting pushed or pulled? Is the entire object moving, or just one side? Get as specific as possible.
 A psi ball is a ball of energy that you can feel, manipulate, and, with time, take on complicated tasks. With your hands held around your stomach, feel the energy at your core. Hold your hands like they're cupping a ball. How big is it? Is it radiating? What color is it? Once it's concrete, move it around and let it morph shape and size.


In time, you can use this ball to deliver energy into other objects. The same way a baseball would knock over a vase, your psi ball can pummel into real-life objects, affecting them in much the same way.
 In addition to working with small objects, work with fire! Light a candle and watch it glow. Clear your mind and let the flame fill your thoughts. Watch it flicker and move. Focusing on it, move it with your energy. Move it right, move it left, stretch it up, smush it down, grow it brighter, dimmer, and make it yours. Does it dance like you want it to?


Flames can actually be a bit easier to manipulate. They're already balls of energy and not weighty objects that put up a fight. Use this exercise when you're feeling particularly tired as a sort of telekinetic pick-me-up.
 Since you're devoting so much time to this (an hour every day, right?), be sure to switch it up -- you never know what methods will and won't work for you until you try them all. Here are some ideas:


Try the classic spoon bending technique. But don't use your grandma's good china! Hold it out in front of you horizontally with both hands. The curve of the handle needs to be pointing up. Focus on a psi ball in your core, getting hotter and hotter, brighter and brighter. Move the ball through to your arms and down to your fingers, where your fingers will eventually bend the spoon like butter. Do this when you feel your psi ball is at its hottest.
Get an object that rolls. Start out giving it a light poke, concentrating on it zooming across the table. With each day, give it less and less of a poke, still focusing on it maintaining that push.
Work with a compass. Since it's free floating, some say it's easier to work with (ignoring all that magnetic talk). You can either concentrate on it, eyes open, or close your eyes and wave your hand over it in the direction you want it to move. Of course, if your eyes are closed, you'll need someone else (or a camera) monitoring it.
 You know out-of-body experiences, or OBEs? That's astral projection -- where your "soul" leaves your body and ventures onto the astral plane. It requires a deep state of hypnosis and entering a state of "vibration." And then some serious mind over matter business, moving your soul from your body and into the world around you.


This is very, very, very difficult to do. In order to not get frustrated, start out small. Try to move an arm or a leg and have a sort of out out-of-limb experience. Then you can move onto your entire self, wandering through rooms and into the ether. Even though it is scary, relax and return back to your body

, Do not continue until your fatigue is back to a normal level. It's like taking an exam when you've had 2 hours of sleep, 15 Red Bulls, and the person behind you keeps smacking their gum. In other words, you won't do well. In fact, your results will be better later on if you just rest up. Listen to your body and mind!

, Energy can be defined as "the capacity to do work," which is any change in the state or motion of matter. There is energy continually running through our body, the same energy that keeps us moving, breathing and simply working. We obtain the energy from food, which is measured in calories, known as chemical energy. In muscle cells, only about 40% of the chemical energy is actually used for mechanical work. Potential chemical energy released by cellular respiration is converted into kinetic energy in the muscles. But instead of using physical, kinetic energy to move such things, one should use the chemical energy already stored in the body. Although we cannot see the energy (with the naked eye) it is still very much there.


The first law of thermodynamics states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, although it can be transferred or changed from one form to another. The energy of any system and its surroundings is constant. A system may absorb energy from its surroundings or it may give up some energy from its surroundings, but the total energy content of that system is always the same.

Telekinesis is not magic, although probably mistaken for thousands of years; one is really just transferring the energy from their body (the surroundings) to an object outside of the body (the system).
 Since the core tenet of this idea is that you and the object are one and the same, it's important that you feel that as the connection flows through your body. Here are two exercises to work on recognizing the link:


Exercise 1: Flex every muscle in one of your arms for 12 seconds, including your fist. After those 12 seconds are up, completely relax the arm and study the feeling of heat going through it. The heat may pulse, or feel almost of an electrical sensation. That feeling after the muscle has been contracted is that energy. Being able to control that without the initial trigger of moving your muscles is what you want to obtain. Once you have control over this, you must be able to sustain energy controlled emission, and not bursts.
Exercise 2: Find yourself an ideal conditioned, cool area. Completely relax your body, so much that you can sit (or lie) there without getting the hair on your body to stand up. The longer you practice controlling the energy that naturally wants to heat you up and keep you from freezing, the more you can control how much extra energy is used in useless things. Eventually you should be able to send the energy out through your body, to any part of your body (one arm or leg, a hand, chest, etc.) on demand.
 Decide whether you wish to pull, push, or spin the system. Each option has a different approach than one trying to change the state of or levitate the system.


Pulling the system is simple, because you know the direction of the energy.
Levitation is extremely hard, as one has to reduce the inertia of the system to make it light enough for the electromagnetism of the system and its surroundings to react.
Changing the state of the system requires changing the total amount of kinetic energy in the system (which we commonly know as heat). The amount of heat energy (calorie) is equivalent to 4.184 joules, which also equals the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 g of water 1 degree Celsius. But other common substances such as metals or glass have much lower specific heat values. You can see why changing the state of an object would be hard for the mind to do.
 How you choose to do this depends on you. Different methods work for different people, just as we have different ways of thinking. Try feeling the system first and pay attention to the weight of it, how much energy does it take to physically move it? Then try to match that with the energy you feel in your body when you are not touching it.


Remember that a continuous flow of energy is needed; once you start to change the system, you must keep that energy focused on it, or else it will go back to it's primary state. This is Newton's first law: What is at rest, stays at rest (unless a force is acted upon it, and that's you)!

