 Heat exhaustion is a serious but treatable condition that acts as a precursor for heat stroke in the majority of cases. In order to prevent sunstroke, be aware of the symptoms of heat exhaustion. These symptoms include nausea, fatigue, vomiting, headache, weakness, muscle cramps, muscle aches, and dizziness.


If you notice these symptoms early on, you can treat them and avoid progressing to sunstroke, which is much more serious and requires medical attention.
 If you notice the symptoms of heat exhaustion, treat them at home in order to prevent your condition from worsening. Get out of the heat immediately. Go into a cool, shady place, preferably one with air conditioning. Also drink plenty of water or fluids containing sugar and salt. This will help get your hydration back on track and raise your electrolyte levels. If you have on too many clothes, remove a few layers to allow your skin to breath. Try applying a cool cloth to your skin to help take down your body temperature.


Don't drink alcohol or caffeinated beverages. It will only make your condition worse.
If you do not feel better within 30 minutes to an hour, call your doctor., In some cases, individuals may skip heat exhaustion symptoms and go straight to sunstroke suddenly and without warning.You should seek immediate care if you suddenly have symptoms of sunstroke. These symptoms include high body temperature, a lack of sweating, red, hot, and flushed dry skin, difficulty breathing, rapid pulse, hallucinations, confusion, strange behavior, disorientation, agitation, and seizures.


In some rare cases, you can also slip into a coma.If someone you know is suffering from sunstroke, you can help cool them while you wait for emergency services. Get them indoors or into a shaded area, remove excess clothing, and cool the person by whatever means you can. This can include giving them a cool shower, spraying them with cool water, or giving the an ice pack or cold, wet towel on areas that regulate temperature, such as the head, neck, armpits, and groin.