 Airline ticket prices vary based on the day of the week, time of the year, and approaching holidays. If your arrival and departure dates aren’t rigid, try flying out during the middle of the week versus weekends. Additionally, try to book early morning or late night flights which are typically much cheaper because few prefer to travel during these times.Even one day of travel can make a difference. Sometimes the cost of an extra night in a hotel is cheaper than the difference in the cost of flights.
Sites like Skyscanner allow you to get a quick visual of prices for the entire month so you can search for the cheapest during any given month., A few years ago, if you wanted to travel between continents you were forced to choose a “major” airline like Delta or American Airlines. The last few years have seen the emergence of budget airlines that offer long-haul routes between continents. In America, there are only a few budget airlines, but in Europe and Asia there are many (the competition has helped to keep prices low). Try budget companies such as WOW air or Air Asia X to find rates as low as $30 one way.These airlines tend to offer fewer perks but what you save in price can more than make up for the lack of extras.
Be very careful to avoid fees. This is how these smaller airlines make money so be sure to follow the rules to avoid gigantic fees.
 There are many so many budget airlines around the world that sometimes it’s more economical to take a low-cost flight to a nearby city, and then take a budget flight to your destination. For example, instead of choosing a direct flight to Amsterdam, try taking a cheaper flight to London, and an even cheaper budget flight from London to Amsterdam.This option does take more work than others as you have to review many different routes and airlines.
Additionally, this option can increase your total travel time, but many believe the savings are worth it.
 This option only works for travelers who are looking to go “anywhere but home.” If you are open to various destinations, you can choose a country or city based on great deals. There are always airline deals on wonderful and exotic destinations around the world; if you’re flexible about your destination, you can always score a great deal.Kayak and Google Flights have features that will show you the cheapest routes and fares based on your airport of departure.

