 Go to http://www.iobit.com/advanceduninstaller.php and download Iobit Uninstaller. Click the green “Free Download” button.;
, The Iobit Uninstaller setup file is hosted in CNET.com. Clicking the “Free Download” button from Step 1 will bring you to CNET’s download page for this program. Click the “Download Now” button to start downloading Iobit Uninstaller.
 Double-click on the setup file and let the program install. The setup file is named “iobituninstaller.exe”.
 Once the installation is complete, Iobit Uninstaller will automatically launch.
 Upon launch of the program, it will list all the programs currently installed in your Windows PC. Scroll through the list to see everything.
 All programs are listed with the Program Name, Operation, Size, Install Date, and Version data in appropriate columns. These will help you determine specifics for the programs.


You can also sort the programs by clicking any of these column titles.
 From the list, select the program you’d like to remove by clicking on it. The program will be highlighted from the list.
 Click the “Uninstall” button on the middle section of the bottom bar. The selected program will immediately be uninstalled using the built-in uninstaller.
 Sometimes, uninstalled programs will leave certain files, folders, and registry entries in your Windows PC. The programs won’t be in your system anymore, but these remnants will still exist. Iobit Uninstaller can remove these remnants as well.


After uninstalling the program, a confirmation box will appear to show you that the uninstall is finished. It will also give you an option to proceed with Powerful Scan, which will clean the remnants of the program. Click the “Powerful Scan” button to do so.
 After Power Scan is run, it will display all the remnants of the uninstalled program it found. Select the ones you like to be removed.


You can also click the “Select All” link to select everything. Click the “Delete” button once done. All the selected remnants will be forced out of your system. The program and all its remnants will be rid from your Windows PC.
 If you have several programs you’d like to be removed at once, you can remove them by batch with Iobit Uninstaller. Go back to the initial view of the program.
 Tick the tick box for “Batch Uninstall” on the upper right corner of the program. Each of the programs on the list will have a tick box in front of them.
 Tick the boxes of the programs from the list you want to remove.
 Click the “Uninstall” button on the middle section of the bottom bar. The selected programs will immediately be uninstalled using their respective built-in uninstallers.
 Sometimes, uninstalled programs will leave certain files, folders, and registry entries in your Windows PC. The programs won’t be in your system anymore, but these remnants will still exist. Iobit Uninstaller can remove these remnants as well.


After uninstalling the programs, a confirmation box will appear to show you that the uninstall is finished. It will also give you an option to proceed with Powerful Scan which will clean the remnants of the programs. Click the “Powerful Scan” button to do so.
 After Power Scan is run, it will display all the remnants of the uninstalled programs it found. Select the ones you like to be removed.


You can also click the “Select All” link to select everything. Click the “Delete” button once done. All the selected remnants will be forced out of your system. The programs and all their remnants will be rid from your Windows PC.

