 Keep gum handy to pop a piece in your mouth after you've smoked a cigarette to give yourself minty breath. Along with other methods, chewing gum is the easiest and best way to mask the smell of cigarettes. You might even consider chewing some gum while you smoke and then popping in another piece when you're finished.






If you get a chance, brush your teeth before anyone gets the chance to smell you. The smell of breath spray usually wears out quickly, but it's another effective method, as well as mouthwash.;
, The hand in which you hold your cigarette will have the most lingering smell. Washing them thoroughly is the most practical way of getting the smoke off your hands. Use a strongly-scented liquid soap to get the most effective cleaning.
 Washing your face with soap and water is also important. Scrub your face quickly as you wash your hands, particularly around your chin and mouth. If you have facial hair, pay particular attention to getting deep in your beard and scrubbing.






An alcohol swab or a big spray of deodorant will do the job, effectively but might also be a conspicuous masking smell. If you're trying to keep people unsuspecting, coming in reeking of cologne might do more harm than good. Instead, just dab a bit of deodorant near your neck. This way people will just think you put on a little bit too much of it, and not that you're trying to cover something.
 If you have long hair, put it back in a ponytail before smoking and let it down when you're finished. Walk around a bit before you have to be around people, or drive with the windows down to get the smell out naturally.






If you have a combing cream, you might consider using it, or other hair products that you normally use.
 To make your clothes smell like clothes, use fabric sheets, which are made to absorb smells like smoke. Febreeze has a light natural smell that serves a similar function, working to remove the smell rather than simply mask it like a cologne, aftershave, or perfume.






Never keep half-smoked cigarettes or cigarette butts in your pocket. These smell much more strongly than smoke and the ashtray smell they bring will be much harder to get out. Don't litter them, but find a proper receptacle for your butts.Keep a smoking kit in your car or desk that includes some kind of gum and dryer sheets. Making use of these two items and washing up is an effective combination. Cut down on your stress by keeping your anti-stink kit with you whenever you might smoke.

