 To make magic mud from potatoes you will need a bag of potatoes and water. You will also need a food processor (or knife), two bowls, a strainer, a saucepan (or kettle), and a jar. If you are using a knife instead of a food processor you will need a cutting board or a surface that is safe for cutting.You may use any type of potato.
 You will want to use several potatoes in order to make enough magic mud. However, there is not set amount of potatoes that need to be used. Use the food processor to chop the potatoes into very small pieces. If a food processor is not available, use a knife to cut the potatoes into very small pieces.Make sure that an adult is available to help with the chopping.
The potatoes may be peeled or unpeeled. Either way will work.
 Using the saucepan or kettle, heat up about six cups of water. Make sure that it is enough water to cover the potatoes that you just chopped. You can add more water later if necessary., Using a large spoon, stir the potatoes around in the water. You will notice that the water starts to change colors. Stir the potatoes for about two minutes., Place the strainer over another large mixing bowl. Pour the potato water mixture into the strainer. The water will fall into the bowl below the strainer and the potatoes will remain in the strainer. Let the water set for ten minutes. You can now discard the potatoes, or better yet, use them in a recipe.You will notice that the water will start to separate into a white layer on the bottom and a water layer on top.
 You can discard this water into the sink or the dirty mixing bowl. You will be left with the white layer in the mixing bowl. You can repeat this rinsing process by adding fresh water to the white goop, letting it set for ten minutes, and then discarding the water from the top of the white goop., The white goop that you are left with is potato starch. It will act a lot like the cornstarch mixture. It will act firm when you try to mold it but will be liquidy when you apply pressure.