 There is always more to learn about bridge strategy. The best way to improve your game is to practice by playing a lot. Books and guides can help a lot, but at the end of the day, developing a sense of when to do what is a matter of gaining experience with the game.
 You can't directly communicate with your partner during bidding, but there are ways for you and your partner to send each other cues about what each of you would like out of a contract. The opening round of bids is often used to tell your partner what your strongest suit is, rather than actually make a serious bid.


Your partner can support your bid by bidding a higher number in the same suit as your bid (signaling that he or she is also happy with the suit), or suggest a different approach by bidding a different suit.
No trump bids often indicate that a person has a hand full of face cards and aces that are likely to win a lot of tricks based solely on rank.
 If you're having trouble estimating the strength of your hand, there is a commonly used way to score the cards in your hand in order to assess it more accurately. In this system, the deck has a total of 40 points.


The points are assigned as follows:

Aces are worth 4 points.
Kings are worth 3 points.
Queens are worth 2 points.
Jacks/knaves are worth 1 point.


If your hand has 12 or 13 points or more, it is probably a very strong hand.
With practice, this system can help you decide where to place your opening bids to guide the final bid to an advantageous result.
 Two of the four cardinal ways to win a trick are easy enough to understand that you can adopt them into your strategy right away. (The other two methods are more complicated, and rely on indirectly controlling the way your opponents play their hands by keeping track of the cards they have already played and are likely to play in the future.) By anticipating which of these two techniques to use at what time, you can improve your chances of making the contract (or successfully defending against it). The two methods are:


Playing the highest card in the trick.
Beating an opponent's high card with a trump card.
 When you lead a trick as the declarer, if you and your dummy control the highest cards in the trump suit between your two hands, you can be sure that each trick leading from that suit will be yours. These are called sure tricks, and they are a good simple way to up your trick count. Lead with a card in your sure suit, and then play the next highest card from the dummy's hand to lock in the victory.


Since you won the trick, you will lead the next trick as well. Repeat the pattern until you have played out all your sure tricks.
Remember, you only need to make your contract to win the deal. Get as many sure tricks as you can to easily boost your total.

