 How you access the batteries will depend on the device they are powering. In general you will need to open or remove the device's cover to access the battery cradle. Remove any old batteries. Assess these old batteries for cracks and leakage. Any leakage is likely potassium hydroxide, a strong base. If leakage is found proceed with caution and be sure to wear skin and eye protection, as potassium hydroxide is caustic.


You should never try to clean up any battery leakage with the following methods. The following baking soda cleaning method is just for any corrosion around the terminals, not for a leaking battery.
 Examine the now empty battery cradle's terminals and the battery for corrosion. Mild corrosion will appear as black spots, more severe corrosion appears as a white, ashy deposit around one or both battery posts or terminals. If you see corrosion follow the steps below to clean.
 Use a damp soft cloth or cotton swab to remove any major corrosion deposits. Wear vinyl (dishwashing) gloves while cleaning any battery corrosion.


In some lucky cases the entire battery cradle may be removable from the electronic device. If this is the case you may soak the entire case in water or a diluted baking soda solution. However, in most cases you will have to patiently rub off the corrosion with a cotton swab, while the battery cradle remains in the device.
Take care not to touch with bare skin the white crusty buildup, as it is caustic.
Be careful not to get any water on your electronics when cleaning.
 Make your cleaning agent by combine 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of baking soda with a teaspoon or so of water. Stir to make a paste. Apply the baking soda paste to the battery connections using a cotton swab or small piece of cloth. Once the baking soda is applied, you may see it bubble and foam, as it reacts with the corrosion.


Be careful, although baking soda is generally safe, you should take care not to get it on other electronic components or your self.
 When the foaming stops and there are no major deposits left to be scraped out. You need to rinse your connections. To do this, use just a little water applied with a cotton swab. Be very careful not to get any water any electrical components.
 Wipe the terminals clean with a dry clean rag.
 Add something hydrophobic, such as petroleum jelly or grease to the now cleaned terminals. This will help slow future corrosion.
 Put new batteries into the now clean battery cradle, and close up the case or put back on the cover.
