 If the light is permanently connected to power, shut off the breaker. Do not disassemble the unit without disconnecting power.





;
, Make sure you don't break them! You can put them off to the side.
 The plate is usually screwed or clipped in, and easily removed. Make sure you save any screws or clips in a little pile for re-assembly.
 The ballast is the heavy metal block with several wires coming out of it. Disconnect the wires from power connection and from the contacts at the ends of the unit. Some units you cannot unwire, so you'll have to cut the wires and use wire nuts for re-assembly. If the wires don't come off, snip them.








If you have to snip wires, take a few pictures first so you can be assured you'll re-attach everything correctly.

Caution: If the power has been on the light, the ballast will likely be very hot.
 It is usually screwed into the light fixture on the sides. As always, make sure you save all screws for later. Some ballasts fit into metal grooves, also called tabs, to take some of the weight off the screws. Note how your particular ballast is installed before removing to make replacement easier.
 Almost all ballasts sold today are electronic, and they can range from $12-$200, depending on your light. Use the old ballast to determine the exact wattage of your new one. Ballasts can be found at most major hardware stores. When buying, you'll need to know:


Your light's wattage
The number of bulbs in the light
The wiring system on your old ballast., Before you get into the wiring, securely mount the ballast to the fixture.
 Be sure you've connected the color-coded wires to the proper terminals and to the power connection. Check it again. You really want to get this right the first time. If the wires clip right in, then this should be easy. For older models, you may have to do some basic wiring. To do so:









Cut wires to appropriate length
Strip 1/4" of sheathing from the wires.
Group the matching wires from ballast to light according to your ballast's manual
Feed both ends of matching wire (one from the ballast, one from the light) into the wire nut.
Twist the nut clockwise to combine the wires, making sure the nut is very tight. Give the nut a slight tug to make sure everything is secure., Fluorescent lights really only have two parts -- the tube and the ballast. This means a new ballast is really the only repair you'll need to make to fix a humming bulb.









If you have flickering or continued issues, check the sockets. A bad or loose socket may be the culprit.
Finally, try replacing the light. They are cheap and easy to swap out.