 Use the search option in the menu or browse music to find the album, artist, or playlist you want to follow.


Once you’re on the screen of the album, artist, or playlist, you will see a “Follow” button right above the green “Play” button.
Tap “Follow.” You are now following the album, artist, or playlist.
Any album, artist, or playlist you follow will be added to the “Your Music” list in the app’s menu, also under its respective category. That is, if you have followed an album, it will be added in the “Album” category in Your Music.
 Search for a song you want to add to the new playlist using the search option in the menu or by browsing. Once you find the song, tap the three-dot icon next to its name in the song list. This will open the song’s context menu.


Tap “Add to playlist” and a list of your playlists will appear, along with the option to create a new playlist at the top. Tap “Create new” to open another pop-up where you name the new playlist.
Once you’re done naming the playlist, tap “Create and add” to create the playlist and add the song you selected into it.
 Search for the song you want to add to a playlist using the search option in the menu or by browsing. Once you find the song, tap the three-dot icon next to its name in the song list. This will open the song’s context menu.


Tap “Add to playlist” and a list of your playlists will appear. Select a playlist to add the song to it.
 Tap the three-bar icon at the top left of the screen to open the app’s menu. From the options, tap “Your Music.” The screen will have four options listed at the top: Playlists, Songs, Albums, and Artists. Any recently played songs will also be listed below these options.


Tap “Playlists” to view all playlists you are following as well as the playlists you created.
Tap “Songs” to view all songs you are following.
Tap “Albums” to view all albums you are following.
Tap “Artists” to view all artists you are following.
You can start playing music from Your Music lists. Just select an album, artist, or playlist to open it and then tap “Play” from here.

