 Unlike many animated characters, Elsa sports a few different hairstyles. Choose from any of these looks:


At her coronation, Elsa wears her hair in an elegant updo that is essentially a braid twisted up into a bun. Instead of tucking her bangs into the bun, she wears them straight and forward.
The hairstyle Elsa is depicted as wearing most is part of her "Snow Queen" look and is essentially her coronation bun undone. This hairstyle consists of a simple fishtail braid that falls forward over her left shoulder and slicked-back bangs. Be sure to volumize your hair at the crown with a little gentle teasing. This hairstyle looks more relaxed compared to her coronation updo and is much fluffier.
When Elsa was a child, she wore her hair similarly to how she does in her Snow Queen look. The major differences are that when she was a child she wore her braid with a blue headband and bangs and let it fall to her back.
In the short Frozen Fever, Elsa alternates her Snow Queen hair with pink flower barrettes, plus a purple, snowflake-embellished flower accessory to the right of her hair.
The main thing about Elsa's hair to remember is that it is a very light, almost white platinum blonde. If this isn't your natural hair colour, you could optionally achieve it with one or more treatments with bleach, maybe wear a similar wig. However, Elsa could have had a naturally darker hair colour, like her parents, if she didn't have her ice powers. As long as the hairstyle gives some idea of Elsa, any hair colour will be more or less fine.
 Elsa wears a few different costumes you can choose to follow. You may decide to copy these outfits exactly for a costume or simply create an Elsa-inspired wardrobe using the same colour palettes.


The main outfit most people associate with Elsa is her "Snow Queen" dress. It is a glittery strapless dress that is light blue in colour. She accessorises with a sheer icy blue sleeved cape decorated with snowflakes over her dress and a pair of matching pale blue heels.
Elsa's other main outfit is the one she wore for her coronation. It consists of a floor-length teal bodice dress over a black long-sleeved top with matching teal gloves and a regal purple-leaning magenta cape.A more recent and lesser-known look Elsa has sported is the one she had in the animated short Frozen Fever. It is very similar to her Snow Queen outfit but replaces the aqua blue tones with emerald greens. Instead of snowflakes, her cape is accented with leaves and pink flowers. This is a good choice if you want a more spring or summer-themed outfit whilst still looking like Elsa., Part of Elsa's distinct look is her makeup style. While bold, her makeup is relatively simple and can be done as part of your everyday routine.


Elsa wears quite heavy makeup around her eyes. She wears a solid lavender eyeshadow across her entire lid. She also creates an almost smoky look with black mascara and eyeliner.
As an adult, Elsa always wears bright magenta lip colour.
Elsa's eyebrows are a much darker shade compared to her icy hair. If you are a natural platinum blonde with equally light eyebrows, try darkening them using a honey or tan eyebrow pencil.
While likely natural, Elsa has pale pink, rosy cheeks that you can match with a little bit of blush.
Elsa's eyeshadow in Frozen Fever is more of a gentle pink or magenta, similar to her lipstick. Her makeup in the short film is lighter than it appears in Frozen, opposed to her sister Anna, who wore very little or no makeup in Frozen, and more than usual on her birthday in "Frozen Fever".
 Like her hair, Elsa's skin is quite pale to match her icy magical powers. Try not to get too much sun and always remember to use sunscreen.

Remember that not everyone can have pale skin. If your skin is dark, don't use chemicals and substances to make it unnaturally pale. You and your costume will be just as beautiful.
 While trying to keep her ice powers under control and a secret, Elsa's parents made her wear gloves.You can wear gloves, ideally, silky and thin ones to either pretend you're hiding magical powers of your own or simply copy Elsa's look from earlier on in the film. A pair of gloves will especially stand out if you pair them with warmer weather clothing.


Keep in mind that people may find you constantly wearing gloves to be a bit odd!
Remember that Elsa gives up this practice once her secret is out.

