 If you are a KDE Fan, go here.;
, Make sure that you write it at a slow speed so that nothing gets broken in the process.
 If you are using a live USB, you might need to go into your BIOS and change the boot priority in order to boot from your USB. You can access your computer's BIOS by pressing ‘F2’ or ‘Delete’ on most computers when the computer is booting up. If you are using a CD or DVD, ignore this step as generally CDs are first in boot priority.
 If you select to install it, it can potentially delete everything from your system.
 The most notable thing about you should toy with is the window manager which allows you to see pretty cool effects. You should also explore around the applications already installed in the OS and see what else is available with their package manager.
,, It can be left as is or you can enter in the name you desire. That is going to be the name for the computer. Then click on next.
, Make sure that the password is something hard for others to guess; the security of your system depends on it.
 You could:


Use entire drive. As the title says, Fedora would clear off all the data on your hard drive and use the complete space for its installation. But beware that you could lose all data on your drive .
Use free space. If you have unallotted space on your hard drive, all that space is used for Fedora installation .
Replace existing Linux System. If you are sure that you are running another Linux distribution and are quite keen to remove it, use this option and click next.
Shrink current system. This option allows you to shrink any of the partitions so as to install Fedora.
Create Custom Layout. Allows you to create and delete partitions manually.(Experienced users only.)

, Confirm by clicking on ‘write changes to disk’.
 After this installation starts, it will take approximately take 5-10 minutes (depending on your system) for it to be complete .
 Go to System > Shut Down and make sure to remove your live CD from the CD drive or your USB drive from the USB port.
, At the Create User prompt, enter the user name you desire, your full name, and your password.
 With the network time protocol (NTP), your computer can fetch the current time from a time server over the internet, so you do not have to adjust the time every time DST goes into or out of effect. Select enable network time protocol and click ‘forward’.
, This is how your Fedora desktop will look.

