 The positioning of your feet and legs is central to punching well, since punching involves your entire body. Position your feet a little wider than shoulder-width apart. Bend your knees a little so you'll be able to rotate toward your target with ease and throw your weight behind your punches.


If you're punching with your right hand, your right foot should be slightly set back with the heel lifted. If you're punching with your left hand, your left foot should be slightly set back with the heel lifted.
As you punch, your feet will pivot in the direction of the punch. They should not leave the ground when you're throwing a power punch.If you lift your feet, you're taking some of your body weight out of the equation, and your punch won't be as strong.;
, Your focus should never leave your target. Never close your eyes or look away; in order to aim correctly and execute the punch with power and precision, stay completely focused. Tuck in your chin a bit so that when you punch, your chin is protected by your punching arm., As you begin your punch, rotate your hips and torso toward your target. Try to position yourself so that the rotation is as complete as possible, even if you're very close to your target. Your punch will be stronger if you're able to rotate completely, rather than doing a smaller pivot. You should really feel the weight of your body going into the punch.


As you practice punching, pay attention to your hips. Spin them quickly and forcefully toward your target as though you were going to hit your target with your hips instead of your fist. This will help you generate the power you need for a strong, fast punch.
As you rotate, you shouldn't need to lean forward or reach. If you have to reach to far to hit your target, you'll lose power.
 Keep your shoulders loose until you're ready to punch, then spring your arm forward so that you can easily reach the person you're punching. Keep your hand relaxed until your arm is in motion, then make a fist so that your punch has a hard impact.


When you make a fist, tuck in your four fingers. Make sure your thump wraps around the fingers, so it won't be caught up in your punch.

Wrapping your hands before you get started will help you avoid injury and make your punch more powerful.
Don't cock your fist before you punch, since this lets your opponent in on your plan before you get the chance to hit. This is called telegraphing, and it results in lost matches.
 When you make contact with your target, exhale sharply. It might take some practice to time your breathing so that you exhale with every punch, but it's worth the effort to get in the right breathing rhythm. Inhale before the punch and exhale as you deliver it, throwing every bit of your body's energy into the hit.


After you deliver your punch, spring back into position for the next one.
Remember to keep your chin tucked in so that you're prepared for a counter punch if it comes.

