 The Akita Inu can be a willful, even stubborn dog. if you want it to obey and respect you, you must establish your dominance over it early. Otherwise, it can become aggressive and disrespectful.Teach your Akita Inu to sit, stay, and come, providing it a treat when it does these tasks correctly. Do not treat the dog until it obeys your command. Require it to carry out one of these tasks before you give it a meal. This establishes that you are in control of the dog's food.
Because this breed of dog is very willful, you should expect this training process to take a bit longer than it would with some other breeds. The key is persistence, consistency, and patience.
Get other people involved in this training process. That way, the dog understands that you, and others, are dominant.
 Children should also be involved in this training process if they are about 10-12 years old or older, commanding the dog to do treats and rewarding it for success.Younger children should be involved in feeding the dog and entering and exiting the home with it so they are not seen as subordinate by the Akita Inu.
Children should be told to be kind and gentle to the dog, and to avoid loud noises or sudden motions when the dog is first being socialized. This reduces the risk of the dog being spooked or hurt by the children and responding aggressively.
With particularly boisterous children, especially those that may not live in the same house as the dog, it is best to keep the Akita Inu on a leash when it first begins interacting with children.Akita Inu puppies are sometimes frightened of children. If you get a puppy, introduce the children gradually, letting the dog come to them when it is ready, and supervising all interactions between the child and the dog., The Akita Inu has a tendency toward "mouthing," i.e. putting its moth around your wrist, hand, or arm. This is not the same as biting, but is troubling to some owners.Mouthing is not an aggressive act, and some Akita Inu owners find it endearing.
If you don't like this behavior, give the dog a task that involves carrying something. Akita Inu dogs are decent retrievers and can be trained to get your newspaper or slippers for you.
 The Akita Inu is an active dog. It can live well in a small space, provided it gets plenty of exercise. If it does not, it will develop behavioral problems, possibly becoming destructive.It is recommended that the dog be given two long walks (i.e. about 30 minutes) every day.If you have a yard the dog can run in at will, this is ideal, but not necessary. Do not lock the dog out in the yard if it wants to come in.
Don't overdo it. Prolonged periods outside on hot days can cause stress and illness for your dog. Do not force it to spend too much time in direct summer sun, especially when exercising., The Akita Inu is an intelligent and social animal. It will want to spend time with you and your family, and it will need varied playful activities to stay happy.Give your Akita Inu plenty of affection, and make sure it has toys to play with and carry around the house.
Long periods solitary inactivity in your home are more likely to promote destructive behavior. The Akita Inu is active and intelligent and will make up activities if it becomes bored. This might include trying to dig a hole in the floor or chew through the leg of a chair.
 The Akita Inu can be aggressive toward other dogs, especially those of the same sex.It is not advisable to walk them off leash.


Because of this trait, the Akita Inu is best suited to a one-dog household. It may also chase cats and other pets.
If your Akita Inu appears hostile toward another dog, do your best to keep it away. If you cannot, and the dogs fight, grab your dog's back legs. Have another person grab the other dog's back legs, and back them away from each other as if each dog were a wheelbarrow.