 Introduce your parents to your potential boyfriend. You can do this via photos, showing them some of his texts, or in person. Give them an idea about his personality and good qualities. If he does well in school, brag about it. Tell them about his major and future plans.


If you have them meet in person, set it up in advance. Don’t just spring your boyfriend on your parents, or they may feel ambushed. This might result in a more negative reaction than normal.A boyfriend should be supportive of your dreams as well. Make sure to highlight that trait. You might tell your parents, “He always asks how my SAT prep is going.”

, Tell your parents that you will only go on group dates with your guy for one month. This gives your parents the security of knowing that you will be safe and will have time to get to know him without the pressure of being solo.Group dates provide some safety, however, they also result in peer pressure. Address these concerns by reminding your parents that they have done a good job teaching you to be your own person. You might say, “Don’t worry, if I’m in a group I never drink and won’t just because others tell me to.”, Follow all of your parent’s rules. Show them that you can honor commitments over time, even if they are boring or annoying. For example, always make your curfew, do your chores without being asked, and avoid petty arguments, if you can., Show your parents that you are in control of yourself. You have the self-control to know that they will need time to think over this issue. To show your patience, you may decide to wait two weeks before bringing up the subject again.For example, if they say, “Your dad and I need to think this over.” You might respond, “I understand, this is an important decision.”
Try not to pressure them, as this can work against you.
 Demonstrate your appreciation for what they’ve done for you over your life. You might say, “Thank you!” more often. Or, you might do little nice things for them, like making breakfast. If they say that you are just trying to convince them, you can respond, “Of course I want you to say yes. But, that is because I value your opinion too. I want you to know that.”