 If you’re more country mouse than city mouse, consider taking a tour through the rolling hills and small villages of the Italian countryside. Both Umbria and Tuscany offer the best and most romantic attractions that Italy has to offer—spectacular scenery, wine, and medieval landmarks—but there are some differences that can help you make your choice between them.If you’re looking for a more off-the-beaten-path experience and overall lower prices, head to Umbria. If you’re looking for some beach time and a wine-weighty experience, go for Tuscany., Many tourists take organized bus tours through Tuscany or Umbria, but for a romantic getaway, you’re better off renting a car for the two of you. This way your trip is full of tete-a-tete quality time, as well as easily customizable and flexible. Use a big rental company like Avis, Hertz, Europcar, or Maggiore/National and pick up your car from the airport when you arrive.Remember to account for fuel costs in your travel budget, as gasoline prices in Italy are among the highest in Europe at up to two euros a liter (around nine or ten dollars a gallon).Also take some time to educate yourself on the Italian road system before you arrive. You should know, for example, that the autostrade are toll roads, that city speed limits are 50 km/hr and 110 km/hr on the autostrade, and that all cars and motorcycles must use headlights at all times when outside of the city., Most of the wineries in Tuscany and Umbria let you stop by for casual, impromptu tastings, but you should make reservations if you want a more in-depth experience. Pick a few wineries that seem particularly interesting and make arrangements before departing. Some must-see wineries in Tuscany include Biondi Santi, Casiglion del Bosco, and Castello di Ama, while Di Filippo Winery and Cantina Roccafiore wineries in Umbria offer delicious drinks and stunning scenery.Call ahead or visit the specific winery’s website in order to make reservations. Most wineries offer a range of tastings, from some basic options where you simply sample some varietals, to more deluxe excursions where you tour the estates and facilities and eat some house-provided cheese and cured meats.In order to avoid the perils of drinking and driving, arrange for a shuttle or taxi from and returning to your overnight accommodation.
 Wine vineyards aren’t the only picturesque farms and estates to visit on your tour of the Italian countryside. Olives and olive oil are one of Tuscany and Umbria’s most valuable exports, and you can get an inside peek at the gorgeous groves by stopping in and taking tours of the olive farms which dot the countryside. As an added bonus, many of these farms include intimate, gourmet restaurants on-site, so you can stay for a romantic dinner after your tour.For example, you can witness the process of olive oil production, as well as tour surrounding Etruscan pathways, at the Ilune farmhouse in Tuscany. In Umbria, you can visit the Pongelli Benedettoni estates, where 220 hectares hold 5,000 organically grown olive trees.Fall is harvest season for olive farmers, so this is the best time to visit Italy’s olive groves.
 The Tuscan and Umbrian countryside offer a plethora of romantic, boutique hotels. Just be sure to plan your stay ahead of time, as these modestly sized getaways book up quickly and consistently. Some particularly romantic options to consider include the medieval villa of Borgo Santo Pietro in Tuscany, and the Torre di Moravola—housed in a restored medieval watchtower—in Umbria.You can also check out the wineries and olive farms you’re planning to visit, as many of these estates offer accommodations for travelers.

