 The key to finding the perfect balance between sweetness and crunch is using the right proportions of wet and dry ingredients. Your granola should be about one part rolled oats, nuts or other grains and one part sweeteners and spices. You’ll have a little wiggle room to use more or less of any particular ingredient as you prefer as long as you keep it all roughly equal.Experiment with creating your own spice blends using spices like nutmeg, allspice or flavored sugars and salts.
After you get your ingredients portioned out, it’s just a matter of putting it all together.;
, Spray the bottom and sides of the slow cooker with cooking spray. Pour 5 cups (450g) of raw rolled oats into the cooker, along with ½ cup (80g) of puffed rice cereal, sunflower kernels, flax seeds, almonds or any other nut or grain of your choosing. Stir until the dry ingredients are evenly distributed throughout the mixture.For this effortless recipe, you can use the same spoon or spatula for every phase of preparation.
 In a separate mixing bowl, add your honey, oil, and vanilla extract and whisk together until thoroughly blended. Together, the ingredients should produce about ¾ cup (200ml) of liquid sweetener. You should have enough sweetener to entirely cover and coat the oats and other dry components.You can also use another sweetener like maple syrup, simple syrup or agave nectar instead of honey if you feel like switching up the flavor of the granola.Try working in other gooey goodies like peanut butter and applesauce. These types of thick ingredients will blend better if you run them through the microwave for a few seconds first.Though it’s not a necessity, one or two egg whites can protect the granola from the heat of the slow cooker and create a richer texture., Slowly drizzle the liquid sweetening mixture over the oats, nuts and grains, covering as much as you can. Then, use a rubber spatula to churn the wet and dry ingredients together until they take on a thick, gooey consistency.Break up large clumps with the tip of your spoon or spatula so that the granola is nice and crumbly when it finishes cooking.
 Plug in the crock pot or slow cooker and turn up the temperature. The granola will need to cook at a fairly high heat in order to toast the oats and take in the flavors of the sweetener and spices.An added advantage of toasting granola in a slow cooker or crock pot rather than the oven is that it heats very gradually and evenly, so you don’t have to worry about it burning.
 Offset the lid of the cooker so that the granola can ventilate as it cooks. The movement of air through the cooker will allow excess moisture to evaporate so that the granola comes out with a nice tender crunch rather than being soupy or soggy.The simplest way to properly ventilate your slow cooker is to place the lid down sideways. This will leave a small opening at either end for air to flow through.Don’t forget to leave the lid cracked each time you stir the granola.
 Set a timer to let you know when the granola is done cooking, then walk away and go about your business. That’s how easy it is to toast granola in a slow cooker! Just remember to come back every half hour or so to stir everything up so that it doesn’t clump or stick.As the dry oats cook, they will absorb the wet ingredients and spices, infusing them with flavor.
Cook times may vary between different slow cooker models. Keep an eye on the granola as it cooks. You’ll be able to tell when it’s done, as all visible moisture will have been absorbed or cooked out., When your timer goes off, turn off the slow cooker and remove the lid, giving it one last stir. Lift one end of the cooker and use your spatula to scrape out the cooked granola. Spread the granola onto a nonstick baking pan or sheet of wax paper to let it cool until it reaches room temperature, then store or serve and enjoy!The granola will get even crunchier as it cools and dries.
Your slow cooker will likely still be hot, even after it’s been sitting for awhile. Make sure you use oven mitts to keep from burning yourself.
 While the granola is cooling, feel free to toss in a couple handfuls of raisins, dried cranberries or blueberries, coconut flakes, chocolate chips or other miscellaneous extras. These types of additives can lend some delicious complexity to your granola by playing off the sweet and earthy flavors of the grains.Keep your mix-ins fresh by adding them after you cook the granola.
Chill mix-ins like chocolate prior to adding them to the granola to prevent them from melting.
 Whenever a batch of granola is ready to come out of the slow cooker, transfer it to a large piece of Tupperware or some other enclosed container. This will help keep it fresh for a week or longer. Leave the container in the refrigerator or on a pantry shelf at room temperature.If you don’t plan on using your granola right away, you can even freeze it and keep it for up to 2 months.
After a couple of weeks, unused granola can become stale and lose its crispness.
 Pour a bowl of fresh granola and munch on it just like you would regular dry cereal. Granola makes a great nutritious alternative to sugary breakfast cereals that doesn’t come up short on flavor. Add some cold milk and top with slices of fresh fruit, or simply savor it plain.Serve granola with a muffin or toast and jam and a steaming mug of coffee.
The balance of carbohydrates, proteins and dietary fiber make granola a smart way to start your day., Try adding crunchy granola to a yogurt parfait, apple crisp or Acai bowl. With its pleasant crunch and subtle hints of sweetness, granola makes an ideal topping, especially when paired with mix-ins that complement the other flavors you’re enjoying.Health-conscious eaters can substitute ingredients like flax seeds, sunflower kernels and quinoa for starchy oats.Make granola one of the ingredients on a self-serve ice cream bar this summer.
 Combine granola with dried fruit, whole nuts, butter, brown sugar and salt, heat in the oven and cut it into squares. The result is a handheld snack that’s perfect for a quick breakfast, packed lunch or midday pick-me-up. Just be sure to hide a secret stash for yourself, because these will disappear fast!Slip a granola bar in your gym bag for some bite-sized organic workout fuel.
Homemade granola bars make great food gifts or handy treats to bring along in the car on a day trip.

