 If your kids are old enough (at least around five), have them help you sort through their toys. Explain that you're only removing toys that they no longer play with and make it clear that the toys will go to other kids who will love and play with the toys. Be prepared to explain what you're doing so your kids don't get upset or think they're being punished. Getting your kids involved can actually make it easier to declutter your home. If your kids are very young and can't help or would be upset, declutter the toys when they're asleep or out of the house. Just don't remove anything that they're emotionally attached to.
For example, tell your kids, "We're going to spend a few minutes sorting through toys you no longer play with. This way we can donate them to kids who need them and you'll have more space to play!"

, Whether you're purchasing or decluttering the toys your kids have, think about what kinds of toys you want for them. Would you like them to play with educational or imaginative toys? Should the toys be well-made and of high quality? Do they already have another version of the toy?Asking yourself these questions will help you decide what to keep and what to part with.
 Your kids probably get gifts from friends and relatives a few times a year. If these events are coming up, take the time before the event to declutter their toys. This will prevent toy buildup and may even make the kids appreciate their new toys more.For example, if Christmas is coming up, take the time to fill a few bags of unused toys to donate. Try to follow a one-in-one out rule when it comes to toys coming into your house.
 Once you've sorted through your kids' toys, divide them up. Place half of them in a storage space where your kids don't have access to them. Let them play with the half that you keep out. When your kids become tired or bored of playing with the toys, swap them out with the toys in storage.This will also keep the toys from piling up while they're not being played with. Your kids are more likely to play with their toys if they have space to play.
 Toys can quickly accumulate so be in the habit of decluttering kids' toys on a regular basis. Ask yourself if you've seen your kids playing with a particular toy at all within the last month or two. If you haven't, it may be time to donate or sell the toy.


Being in the habit of decluttering your house will get easier once you've been doing it for a while. Once you initially declutter the toys, you'll just need to maintain what your kids have and receive as gifts.

