 CBT is an effective treatment for depression.This structured treatment option explores why you feel the way you do. The core focus is on cognition (how you think) and your behaviors (the way you act). These thoughts and behaviors affect the way you feel. If you were to take part in this treatment option, you would meet with a professional and she would help you identify the thought patterns or situations that are making you feel depressed. Once you find out the cause of your depression, you can begin working towards improving your mental state.


CBT also focuses on changing the way you think and the way you behave. This includes learning how to think rationally about what makes you upset.CBT can help you learn how to think positively. Thinking negatively about aspects of your life can create a damaging pattern that will lead you further into depression. Thinking positively can help you to alter that course.
 Although CBT involves behavioral components, behavioral therapy focuses strictly on behaviors. The main goal of behavioral therapy is to encourage you to get out there and do something you enjoy. Common symptoms of depression are avoidance and withdrawal, which actually make the condition worse. Through behavioral therapy you will be encouraged to take part in activities that would bring you joy and satisfaction.You can either get back into activities you once loved, or try something you have always wanted to experience. It's all about getting out there and creating a pleasurable experience for yourself to combat your depression.
 Interpersonal Therapy (IPT) has been shown to be effective in treating depression.This therapy focuses on the relationships in your life. Do you find that you have a hard time interacting or connecting with others? If so, this therapy option may work well for you. This structured therapy focuses on cultivating the skills needed to deal with relationship problems.


In this therapy you will explore your current relationships and the problems you're experiencing. These problems can have a significant impact on your depression; they may even be a factor in how you're feeling.
IPT can also help you recognize patterns in your relationships, particularly those that are adding to your depression. Once you recognize these patterns, you can begin to improve your relationships.
Your therapist will also teach you how to effectively cope with grief and support ways in which you can get along with others.
 Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) has been shown to reduce the risk of relapse in depressed individuals.This therapy is meant to help you control your thoughts and emotions. It is generally offered in groups and involves meditation. While meditating, you will be taught to focus on the present, rather than worrying about the past or the future.


The goal is to stop your mind from wandering off and worrying, while also trying to inhibit negative thoughts and feelings.

