 or the newer version, Sound Blaster Audigy series. If you want to talk while playing, you will also need a headset or microphone.;
, Remember to disable any other onboard or integrated sound in your settings.
 Windows should recognize your card and help to guide you.
 This will test your sound, mic, and connection to the voice server.
 When all settings are working correctly, enter a Yahoo chat room. Click on the 'voice' icon at the top of the chat screen. Next to your screen name, there will be a smiley icon with headphones. If someone is playing or talking, you will see their screen name and a color bar indicating the volume or strength of their sound next to the 'talk' button.
 This will keep the 'talk' button held down for continuous broadcasting of music or sound to the chat room and anyone who has the voice or sound feature enabled. The 'hands free' feature does not work very well. Some programs that work with Yahoo are equipped with a mic locker. You can download these on the internet, but always run a virus checker on them, since these programs are not supported by Yahoo.
 When the 'mic' or talk button is not in use, go to start> programs> creative> sound blaster> surround mixer.
 (more bass, treble, etc.) You will see a setting on the mixer with REC or a mic icon with a plus sign. There should be an arrow to choose another setting. Click the arrow and choose 'What you hear'. The mic icon will change to an ear icon. Adjust your volume and mic settings, and select your speakers, usually 2, 4, 5.1, 7.1, or headphones.
 Open a folder where the music you want to play is located. Select the file.
 Usually you will need to use your mouse to drag a box, icon, or arrow over to the talk button. Some programs have a 'lock mic' box, which will replace the hands free box. Click on it. The talk button should press down and turn bright green. You will now be broadcasting to the chat room.
 You will see your nickname and a color bar on the chat screen next to the talk button. It will move to the beat or strength of your music or voice. Keep the levels below the red lines on the color bar for best sound. Ask other chatters how your sound is coming through, and make any changes. The number next to your screen name while playing indicates how many listeners you have.
 To stop broadcasting using the mic or talk button, click unlock or the mic lock box to release the talk button. It should turn dark green, and your name will not be showing next to the color bars.

