 You’ve met an incredibly gorgeous guy; the last thing you want to do is over-inflate his ego right away. Don’t shower him with attention. Instead, show him that you refuse to be wowed easily. He’s probably used to the attention, so he’ll like that you seem slightly out of reach for him.Give him space so that he thinks it was him that made the choice to see you again.


Don’t gush over him. If he mentions doing something that sounds amazing, you can comment on it but don’t talk about how amazing it must’ve been for hours.;
, Leave it at that. While you guys are talking, just mention that you think he’s a cool guy and you’re happy that he’s in your life. Once again, don’t gush. All you’re doing is securing your spot in his mind. If you aren’t going to run into him, you can mention it during a texting conversation.
 Make sure he’s going to a party, or see if he wants to meet up after the home game. You don’t need to specify a time and place that it will be only you and him. You can meet him in a group setting and pull him aside during it.
 When you do run into him, you want your lips to be something that he notices. This is easily done by wearing lip gloss and occasionally licking your lips.
 It doesn’t matter how you sexy your outfit is, or how good your makeup looks, you need to make sure you don’t second guess yourself. Guys like it when you’re comfortable in your own skin. If you’re not confident about it, a guy can tell in a matter of minutes and be turned off., A great way to get noticed is by suggesting the two of you get away. Tell him you want to take him outside to show him something, or that you have pictures in you room for him to see. This will create time alone where he focuses on only you.


Have your lip gloss on for this time alone.
 Guys steer clear of girls who seem uptight. A playful attitude will show him that you have a sense of humor, and a guy is more likely to kiss a girl with a sense of humor. Laugh at him and lean in to touch his shoulder as you do. This will show him that you’re both playful and interested in him.


Lean into him while he’s talking. Simply sit next to him and lean your shoulders toward him to show him that you’re drawn to him.
 Use body and appearance-specific compliments to show him that you’re interested and that you notice him.”You look so handsome.”
”You weren’t kidding when you said you were working out. Look at you!”

, When you take him away from the crowds and take him to a private place to talk, it should set the mood. Not only does this keep his attention on you, but it makes him consider kissing you. It doesn’t have to be overly romantic—just somewhere that the two of you will be comfortable.

