 Everyone has different reasons for finding their children. However, before starting the search, you should try to identify why you want to find out this information.


For example, you might want to seek custody and help raise your child. This is a solid reason to try and find out if your ex gave birth.
Alternately, you might just be curious. This is also a good reason. However, there could be negative consequences if you reach out to your ex. For example, she might come after you for child support once she knows where you’re living. In this situation, you might do Internet research but not try to contact her.
 If your ex gave birth to your child, then the hospital likely asked that she identify the father. She could have lied and said she didn’t know. However, if she named you as the father, then the state will seek child support from you.


For this reason, you should think about whether you want to establish some sort of relationship with the child, particularly if you can’t afford child support.
Each state determines child support a little differently. For example, in Texas, you can expect to pay 20% of your net income if you have one child or 25% of your net income if you have two children. “Net income” is the total amount of income from all sources minus any required deductions, such as federal income tax or FICA tax.See Calculate Child Support for more information.
 You can always try to establish a relationship with your child once he or she is grown. In this situation, you won’t have to pay child support because your son or daughter is now an adult. Most states will cut off child support once the child reaches 18, though this might differ slightly depending on the circumstances.Waiting is a good option for men who aren’t ready to take parental responsibility right now.
 You might have other reasons for wanting to find your children that aren’t captured in this article. If so, then you should reach out to an attorney to discuss any paternity questions that you have.


You can get a referral to an attorney by contacting your local or state bar association.Once you have the name of an attorney, call him or her up and ask to schedule a meeting. Ask how much the attorney charges.

