 Kindness does not have to be a grand gesture. Often, you can demonstrate kindness for others simply by being conscious of those around you and treating others with respect. Do small things like opening doors for others or greeting people with a smile. By being kind to others through random acts of kindness, you will be making other people feel good and you may also feel happier yourself.Small gestures can mean a great deal to a person that’s having a difficult day. Change the toner in the photocopier because you coworker hates doing it, pay for a friend’s coffee or tell a loved one that they’re important to you today.
Kindness isn’t about grand gestures as much as it’s about thinking of others. Demonstrate your concern for others by treating them with respect.
 It can be easy to be so focused on what you’re doing that you don’t notice when friends seem sad or even depressed. Make a conscious effort to reach out to friends who don’t seem happy and let them know that you care.Send an e-mail, message or text to a friend that seems down and ask how they’re doing. Let them know that you’re there if they need you.
Volunteering is another great way to help yourself while helping others.Consider volunteering for a a non-profit organization to help people (or animals) who are in need of help. For example, you could volunteer for a soup kitchen, become a dog walker for a local animal shelter, or donate your time and talents to a homeless shelter.
 When other people do something nice for you, or show you kindness, return the favor by expressing your gratitude. Saying thank you may not seem like it’s a big deal, but a sincere “thanks” can make someone’s effort feel well worth it. Saying thank you can also improve your relationships and improve your own well-being.Think about how much you appreciate being thanked when you go out of your way for someone.
When someone does something nice for you, it means they were thinking about you and cared enough to put forth the effort. Reciprocate that effort by making sure to show your appreciation.
 Kindness can extend to people you’ve never met. Donating your time or money to a good cause is an excellent way to share kindness with the world and it will likely leave you feeling fulfilled when you’re done.Clean out your closet and donate old clothes to charity.
Give a few dollars to a charitable cause that you believe in.
Raise money for a cause.
 A kind act from a stranger can often have a more significant impact on your day than kindness from close friends and family. Spread kindness in the world by doing something nice for someone you don’t know without looking for recognition.Pay for the coffee of the person behind you at a drive through. This kind gesture can set off a chain reaction of kindness that can permeate throughout the day and a part of the community.
Throw a quarter in someone’s parking meter to prevent them from getting a parking ticket.

