 There are at least a dozen different styles of ballroom dancing available to learn. Some styles include waltz, foxtrot, cha-cha, and tango, but there are many more.


Find general information about ballroom dancing using a search engine.
Look for online videos of ballroom dancing performances.;
, Many ballroom dancing schools and studios provide detailed information about ballroom dancing for those interested.


Find schools and studios in your area online to see what information about ballroom dancing they offer on their websites.
Visit schools and studios in your area in person to get informational brochures about ballroom dancing (in addition to their rates, etc.—see Part Three).
 If you know anyone or meet anyone who is a ballroom dancer—amateur or professional—you can learn about ballroom dancing from them as well. You can also seek out dancers by attending competitions and/or performances. You might also see if you can speak directly to the dancers who serve as instructors at schools or studios.


Ask dancers questions you have about ballroom dancing.
Let dancers know what you are confused or unsure about.
 This is an important decision, as it determines how you will proceed once you begin taking lessons. Make this decision based on how seriously you intend to take ballroom dancing.


Consider amateur ballroom dancing. Amateur ballroom dancers dance primarily to meet other people and socialize. Amateurs might even compete with others in amateur contests, which sometimes even have prizes.
Consider professional ballroom dancing. Professional ballroom dancers dance to make money. These dancers might be instructors at ballroom dance schools or studios or they may compete with other professionals at professional-level competitions to make money.
 You may decide that you want to pursue ballroom dancing primarily for its health benefits as a means of exercise. If this is what attracts you to ballroom dancing, consider some of the benefits of ballroom dancing for exercise. These benefits can help you to decide what you want to emphasize in your training regimen, which can help you decide which style of ballroom dancing you want to pursue. The health benefits of ballroom dancing for exercise include:


Improvement of aerobic power
Increased lower body endurance
Increased strength and flexibility
Improved balance and agility
Improved speed

, Ballroom dancing has been used therapeutically for the elderly to improve their well-being. The therapeutic benefits of ballroom dancing, however, are not limited to the elderly. In fact, adults of all ages can benefit mentally, emotionally, and physically from ballroom dancing. Some issues that can benefit from dance therapy include:


DepressionRelationship issues
Bodily injury recovery

, Once you have learned about ballroom dancing and determined your goals, you will need to choose a school or studio that's right for you and begin lessons.


Make a list of schools based on your ballroom dancing goals. Determine the emphasis the schools you consider place on the different types of goals you may have for dancing.
Narrow down potential schools or studios you are considering. If you want to dance as an amateur, for instance, eliminate professional or exercise schools or studios from your list, and so on.
 After speaking to the instructors and staff, determine whether the school or studio seems like a good fit to you. Some schools or studios may offer a free first lesson to let you get a feel for the school before you purchase lessons.


Decide whether your personality jibes with the staff and/or instructors.
Think about your own learning style and decide whether the school or studio you visit teaches accordingly.
 Having narrowed your list of potential schools, choose the one that seems like the best fit for your goals, personality, and learning style. Although this is the final step to this part of becoming a ballroom dancer, its importance cannot be stressed enough; your choice of school might affect your determination.
 Ballroom dancing is a category of partner dances, so you will need a partner.


For best results, choose a partner who is easy for you to work with. Because you will have to practice a lot to improve your ballroom dancing skill, you will want to find someone with whom you can practice often and for long periods of time.
 Once you have found a partner, all that's left to do is begin lessons and practice.


Ballroom dancing lessons begin simply, with a single dance style—you will count out the beats to a song and move in a specific way (according to the instructor's choreography) as you count. You may not actually dance to any music at first because you will have to learn the steps and/or movements at a slower pace than the speed at which the music is played.
The speed at which you perform the steps for the dance will increase as you become more confident, and the instructor will likely add the music in when you have mastered the movements at a speed that will coincide with a chosen song.
This process repeats as you add in other styles. If you are learning according to the American Style syllabus of ballroom dancing, you will learn a specific set of ballroom dance styles, whereas if you are learning according to the International Style syllabus, additional dances will be involved.
 Once you have mastered the basic steps in the dances that make up the syllabus your school uses, you will want to refine your steps and movements with your instructor.


Your instructor may want to watch you dance to find areas where your movements can be improved. Dance in a way that is comfortable for you and listen to the feedback the instructor gives.
Use the instructor's feedback to improve your dancing with practice. Often, the feedback you will receive will amount to a simple missed step or unnecessary extra movement. Focus on the issue(s) that the instructor points out as you practice and try to overcome whatever issues you are having.



Be sure to attend lessons in accordance with the schedule you create with the school. Your lessons will help you find ways to improve in addition to learning new styles and techniques. Try not to skip lessons if you can help it, because doing so will ensure you are getting the most out of them; skipping lessons may cause you to fall behind.
Practice as often as you can. Outside of lessons, practice as much as possible with partners. Some schools offer times when you can come and practice with other students in an open timeframe with no structured lessons. You should take advantage of such opportunities and find other opportunities for practice as well, such as local clubs and organizations dedicated to ballroom dancing.
Be sure to practice according to your goals for ballroom dancing (see Part 2).
Consider participating in ballroom dancing competitions. Competition is also great practice, and, while it is certainly not a requirement to becoming a ballroom dancer, you may get great joy from competing. In fact, competition may fuel your passion for learning in numerous ways.

