 Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can cause ulcers.NSAIDs reduce inflammation by blocking certain enzymes in your body. One of these enzymes also produces a chemical that protects your stomach lining from stomach acid. Using NSAIDs reduces this protective chemical, which can lead to ulcers.Common NSAIDs include aspirin, ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), ketoprofen (Orudis KT), and nabumetone (Relafen).They also come in prescription strengths.
When using over-the-counter NSAIDs, do not use them for more than three days for fever or 10 days for pain relief. If you need long-term pain relief, talk with your doctor about other options.NSAIDs are more likely to cause ulcer complications when you use them long-term (1-4% of users will develop ulcers). The risk increases the longer you use them.The elderly and people with H. pylori co-infection are also at a higher risk of developing life-threatening ulcer complications when using NSAIDs., In the past, it was commonly believed that stress caused ulcers. Doctors no longer believe this is true; most ulcers are caused by H. pylori infections. However, stress can make ulcers worse.It may also increase stomach acid secretion in some people.Set aside time to relax. Take a pampering bubble bath. Go shopping just for fun. Take up a new hobby. Making time for leisure activities can help you destress.Try yoga or tai chi. Yoga and tai chi are forms of exercise that focus on deep breathing and meditation. They have both been found to relieve stress in clinical studies.Get some exercise. Physical exercise can decrease feelings of stress and anxiety. Aim for at least 2.5 hours of moderate physical activity every week.Get social support. Often we feel stressed when we’re facing a lot of pressure and don’t feel supported. Talk with family or friends, join a support group, go to church — whatever makes you feel like you’re part of a supportive community.
See a mental health professional. Some people believe that you need to have “huge” issues to see a therapist, but this simply isn’t true. If you’re feeling stressed or anxious, seeing a counselor or therapist could help you discover why and learn ways to deal with your feelings., While smoking hasn’t been shown to increase stomach acid production, it can cause acid-related discomfort and physical damage in several ways.Smoking increases your risk of GERD by weakening the lower esophageal sphincter (LES), the muscle at the entrance of the stomach that keeps acid from flowing back into the esophagus. Smokers have a much higher risk of frequent and chronic heartburn.Smoking weakens your immune system and increases your risk of H. pylori infection, which increases your likelihood of developing stomach ulcers. Smoking also slows the healing of ulcers and makes them more likely to reoccur.Smoking increases pepsin, an enzyme produced by your stomach that may harm your stomach lining in excessive amounts. It also decreases factors that help heal your stomach lining, including blood flow and mucus production., Carrying excess weight in your abdominal area puts pressure on your lower esophageal sphincter, forcing your stomach contents and stomach acid into the esophagus and causing heartburn.This is also why heartburn is a common side effect of pregnancy. If you have a BMI greater than 29, losing weight may help reduce your heartburn.Before starting any weight loss regimen, consult with your physician.
If you are severely overweight (BMI equal to or greater than 40), bariatric surgery may be an option to help you reduce your weight and improve acid reflux symptoms. Talk with your doctor about whether this surgery is right for you.