 Hold the power button down for 10 seconds, then release and press the power button once as you normally would. Sometimes issues with the battery on the motherboard can be fixed with this method.


If the unit turns on but won’t boot into Windows, see Troubleshooting Windows Startup Problems.
 If the computer is plugged in to a power strip and/or an extension cord, disconnect the extra components and plug directly into the wall. It’s possible that the power strip or extension cord has a bad outlet or stopped working altogether.
 Desktop computers use a universal power cord that can be found at any electronics store. Ask the clerk for a standard three-prong desktop computer power cable. You could also borrow one from a friend.
 If you feel comfortable doing so, remove the case of your computer and locate the power supply (consult your computer manual for instructions for your specific model).


Make sure you are properly grounded to avoid damaging the components inside your computer.
When the case is removed, locate the power supply in the back of the PC in front of an air grate. There are many colorful cables connected to the power supply that lead to other components of the PC, such as the CD Rom drive and motherboard. Remove every cable plugged into the power supply except for the one that connects directly to the motherboard (the large flat component that everything is connected to. Try booting the computer.
If the computer turns on, the power supply is functional, but one of the other devices in the computer is not. Turn the computer off and plug one of the devices back into the power supply, and start the computer again. Repeat this with every device until you find the one that prevents the computer from turning on. Replace the offending hardware (or call your manufacturer for support).
If the computer still doesn’t turn on, your power supply is defective.
 If you feel comfortable replacing the power supply yourself, see How to Diagnose and Replace a Failed PC Power Supply. Make sure you are properly grounded as you work.
 If nothing seems to be working or you feel uncomfortable opening the case of your computer, call your computer manufacturer and ask if you qualify for a free repair. If you don’t, ask for a recommendation for an authorized technician.

