 Try hitting a thrift store instead of Abercrombie, Debenhams or Farmers. Of course if chain stores sell clothes you LOVE, shop in them and wear what you feel comfortable and confident in. Keep in mind there cute things to be found in thrift stores, if you choose to shop in them, you won't have the same clothes as everybody else. Your look will be more individual. You can be your own person and have your own views whatever you wear. You won't stop being yourself if you look just like everyone else, a bit like everyone else, or nothing like everyone else!;
, If you like the skater look and some of the punk clothes catch your eye, combine both looks. You can be emo-goth, preppy-punk, scence-geek, or anything you like. Being yourself and dressing as yourself means loving what you put together for its own sake, not for how anyone else labels it. Don't go fully any one look, unless you want to, wear what you like and don't let it be too showy if you're not comfortable with that. Show off your good features if you are comfortable with that, hide what you feel like keeping to yourself. It's your body and your look.
 You can send a message with your clothes without even opening your mouth. What message do you want people to think of when they see you in your clothes? Do you want your clothes to say you're a beautiful girl who deserves respect? People WILL try to read you through your clothes before they speak to you, so let your clothes be a reflection of your beautiful, true inner self, a girl who's intelligent, has her own idea about what is stylish, and knows her worth.
 Get something new that POPS and is totally YOU! Whether it be bright red leggings under a miniskirt, leg warmers, fingerless gloves, bangle bracelets, a pink baseball cap, or a bright yellow purse or anything else you like, make your outfit totally unique, if you wish.
 Have your own opinions and trust you own ideas. You might totally like bright orange shirts and black jeans together. Trust your fashion sense!

