 Dehydration can cause nausea, so it is important to get plenty of fluids. Drink room temperature water or warm herbal teas to help ease your nausea. Avoid very cold or very hot drinks. Take sips throughout the day rather than trying to drink a cup or glass of liquid all at once. If you are too nauseous to eat, then include broths such as vegetable, chicken or beef broths for some nutrition as well.


For children, call a physician for advice regarding fluids. They may recommend liquids such as Pedialyte, Rehydrate, Resol, and Rice-Lyte because children are more prone to dehydration, especially if they are also vomiting.Adults may want to try Gatorade for an added boost of essential electrolytes.;
, Ginger has long been used to treat the nausea associated with chemotherapy and surgery. Ginger tea is also considered safe for pregnant women. If you are drinking ginger tea for nausea associated with pregnancy, just make sure that you tell your obstetrician and only have one to two cups a day. Most adults can have up to four to six cups of ginger tea a day.


To make ginger tea from fresh ginger, peel and chop ½ to 1 teaspoon of fresh ginger. Pour boiling water over the chopped ginger and add lemon and/or honey to taste.
If you do not like the taste of ginger tea, then you can try a ginger supplement instead. The recommended dose is 250–1000 mg taken four times a day., Peppermint tea can be made by adding boiling water to ½ to 1 teaspoon of dried peppermint leaves, but most stores carry peppermint tea. You can add lemon and/or honey to taste. Peppermint tea is considered “likely safe” for pregnant women and children. Again, make sure you tell your obstetrician and limit the tea to one to two cups a day.


Try adding ¼ teaspoon of caraway seeds to the tea to help settle your stomach.
Peppermint is also used to help treat Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) and Functional Dyspepsia.
 Fennel seed tea is made a bit differently. To make fennel seed tea, add ½ to 1 teaspoon of fennel seeds to 6–8 ounces of cold water in a sauce pan. Slowly heat to boiling while stirring. Allow the water to boil for five minutes. Pour the tea through a strainer and then let it cool down. Add lemon and/or honey to taste.


It is unclear if fennel seeds are safe for pregnant women because fennel has mild estrogenic effects. If you are pregnant, talk to your physician before using fennel tea.
 Chamomile tea has long been used for nausea and upset stomachs. You can find chamomile tea in most stores. It is safe for children, although you may want to use weaker tea. Pregnant women should avoid chamomile tea because it contains phytoestrogens.Do not drink chamomile tea if you are taking anticoagulants, as it has been found to interact with those medications., Cinnamon tea can be made similar to how you make fennel seed tea, using ½ stick of cinnamon or ½ teaspoon of powdered cinnamon. Add the cinnamon to 6–8 ounces of cold water in a sauce pan. Then, slowly heat to boiling while stirring. Allow the water to boil for five minutes. Pour the tea through a strainer and then let it cool down.


Pregnant women should not use cinnamon tea.

