 Static lunges are an effective warm-up to do immediately before you do scissor jumps, especially if you've been doing other exercises that primarily target your upper body or core.To do a static lunge, stand at the end of an exercise mat with your feet about hip-width apart. Step your left leg forward and your right leg backward, bending your knees. Your left knee should be at a 90-degree angle, your shin perpendicular to the floor. Your right knee should be bent toward the floor, but not quite touching the floor.
Hold the lunge for a second or two, then return your feet to the standing position and repeat on the opposite side. Do these for about a minute, using slow, controlled movements.
 Snowboarder crunches are simple to pick up, but also can be a really challenging exercise to build strength in your abdominal area.Lie on your back with your knees bent at 90 degrees and your feet off the ground. Begin crunches, twisting your upper body and your hips towards each other. Alternate sides, twisting first to the left and then to the right.
 Squats and squat kickbacks are great exercises to include in an interval workout if you want to focus on lower body strength. You can do squats as a static exercise for a longer intervals, and squat kickbacks as a higher intensity exercise.For squat kickbacks, go down into a regular squat with your feet about shoulder-width apart. As you come up from the squat, kick one leg back behind you, keeping your knee straight. Go back down into a squat, kicking back the other leg when you come up.
Do as many of these as you can in a 30-second interval, using controlled movements and keeping your core stable.
 Burpees are a grueling body-weight exercise that often come standard in any interval training routine. While the movement is fairly easy, you probably will find you get tired pretty quickly.Set a timer for 20 or 30 seconds and stand with your feet about shoulder-width apart, maybe a little wider. Squat, reaching your hands to the floor in front of your feet. Then kick your legs back into a plank.
Lower your chest to the floor, or as far as you can go, then push back up into a plank and jump your feet back up into a squat.
You can jump up from the squat and land in a squatting position at the end of the exercise if you want to increase the intensity.
 Mountain climbers are another standard exercise frequently featured in interval training. This exercise works your legs as well as your lower abdominal muscles.Get into high plank position with your wrists under your shoulders. Lift your left foot and bend your left knee as you crunch your leg forward. Think of it as trying to get your left knee to touch your left elbow.
As you bring your left leg back to plank, bring your right knee forward using the same movement. Set a timer for 30 seconds and do as many of these as you can with continuous movement during that time.
 Barbell complexes combine strength-training with interval training to build muscles and encourage fat burning. Keep in mind that these movements are not meant to be done as quickly as possible, like some other interval exercises are.To build strength, start by using just the bar and work your way up in 5-pound increments. You may want to work with a trainer to build complete complexes that effectively target the upper and lower body. However, keep in mind that typically barbell complexes are intended to be more of a whole-body workout.
For example, a whole-body barbell complex might include a barbell squat, push press, Romanian deadlift, barbell row, and power clean. Move from each exercise after completing one set of five to eight reps.

