 Writing down things you want to remember can help in multiple ways. Some people remember things if they think about them and write them down. Plus, if you write down the information, you will have it just in case you forget.Keep important information in one notebook. This can include phone numbers, names, dates, appointments, a list of things to do each day, medications you need to take, or foods you should eat.
Place this notebook somewhere you will remember. If you can’t remember where you place it, put it somewhere you will see it each day, like the kitchen counter or coffee table.
 Routines can help you improve your memory by repeating the same tasks every day. Your routine should include everything you need to do for your day, like what you do in the mornings, chores you need to do, and things you should do at bedtime.Write your routine in a notebook. Keep it posted on your refrigerator door. This helps you be able to figure out what your daily routine should be until you remember it.
 After a stroke, your brain has to heal itself. A stroke majorly affects your body, so you will have to take things slower than before. Getting enough rest ensures that you don’t overwork your brain. When you are well-rested, your focus and attention is better, which can help you remember things better.Take rests during the day when you need to. If that means doing less than you used to, that’s okay. Put your health first.
Get quality sleep at night. You should shoot for seven to nine hours each night.
 One of the first things you can do to help improving your memory is to pay attention to the things around you. Memory problems are often linked to inattention. For things to be committed to your memory, you need to pay attention to them.Start making yourself pay attention to things around you. Start with important things you want to remember, like an appointment or detail someone told you.
You can also try remembering unimportant things, like the color of shirt someone wears or what someone said on television.
 Recovering from a stroke is not easy. Though you may want to push yourself to get better quicker, that may not help. Be patient and be kind to yourself. If you get tired, take a break. Resting and letting your body and brain recover will help.


Don't be too hard on yourself or get frustrated if you don't remember everything immediately. Recovering your memory can be a long process. Keep working at it and managing it as you take care of yourself.
Be sure to ask for help from your family and friends when you need it. It is important to maintain good connections with your loved ones and to let them know how they can help you.

