 Separate a page into three columns and head them What I Don't Want, What I Do Want and Why I Want This.


What I Don't Want. In the first column, write a list of everything that you do not want in relation to money. e.g being in debt, stress about paying bills, having an out-of-date wardrobe, working long hours and not having any family time, etc.
What I Do Want. In the second column, next to each item you have already written, write the exact opposite of each item. e.g next to stress about paying bills, write having more than enough money to pay my bills on time each month, or next to having an out-of-date wardrobe, write affording well made clothing that suits me.
Why I Want This. In the last column, write WHY you want it next to each item in the What I Want column. Each time you give yourself an answer, ask again Why Do I Want That? You're trying to get to the core feelings that motivate you. The motivation goes beyond the material items and is needed to make the goal meaningful to you. Really spend time on this column and when you get to an answer that gives you a feeling of 'knowing' or an unfamiliar wave of emotion, you have the answer to write down.;
, Now you know What You Want and Why. You have already activated the Law of Attraction to begin orchestrating your success. Your main task now is to allow it to work.
 On a new sheet, write out your list of What You Want and the reason for it. Write each item as if it is already true in the present, e.g I love that my wardrobe is filled with fashionable well-made clothes that suit me because I walk taller and feel powerful and respected when I walk into meetings; I am so grateful now that I earn ever-increasing amounts of passive income from multiple streams of income so that I can spend so much quality time with my family. Repeat these affirmations when you wake and when you go to sleep at night and as often as you can any other time.
 If any doubts or fears begin to surface, nip them in the bud immediately by doing EFT, distracting yourself with something you enjoy doing on another topic, or finding something inspiring to read or listen to by others who have succeeded.
 Keep your end goals clearly in mind, feeling the emotions they evoke, when encountering any decision that may take you closer to success. Only act on the choices that 'feel right' when holding your goal in mind. Never worry about missing an opportunity. Law of Attraction will keep bringing you opportunities if you keep your focus on your goals and the feelings they evoke. You can never 'miss the boat' or 'miss a once in a lifetime opportunity'.
 Working hard without a clear end goal in mind is like racing up a ladder and finding it's resting against the wrong wall. On the other hand, using the Law of Attraction and then taking Inspired Action (acting on your intuition with your goals clearly in mind) can result in miracles.
 You don't need to know all the steps to take to achieve your goal, but you do need to believe in the success of your goal and you do need to look out for the one next step and take action on it.

