 Make an effort to shower every single day, no matter how tired or busy you may be. This is an excellent way to ensure that your body is fresh and clean throughout the day. If you wake up sweating after a hot night, hop in the shower, and always shower after a long day of movement or especially exercise. You should never forget to shower after working out, or your bad body odor will build up.


Use an antibacterial soap for best results.After you shower, make sure to fully towel off, so you don't leave any moisture that invites bacteria on your body.;
, Though deodorants don't stop sweating, they do mask the smell of bacteria on your skin. Antiperspirants contain aluminum chloride, which is a chemical that does reduce sweating, and which also contains a deodorant. Apply the antiperspirant twice a day, once in the morning and once in the evening.


If you think you need more than the average deodorant or antiperspirant, then check out products that say they are of a higher strength -- you don't need to go to a doctor to get these.
If you've tried a stronger anti-perspirant or deodorant and it's still not working, it may be time to see your doctor to get a prescription for even stronger antiperspirant.
 Wearing clothes made of cotton, wool, or silk will make your body less likely to sweat because of the comfort and durability of the materials. And if you're working out, invest in a high-tech fabric that wicks the moisture off your body., If you wear the same t-shirt for three days, then yeah, your armpits may smell. Make sure to always wash your clothes after you wear them, and to avoid wearing the same article of clothing for two or more days in a row, no matter how comfortable it may be. And take extra care with your workout clothes -- dirty and moist workout clothes are a breeding ground for bacteria, so you should wash them after every single workout.
 People often sweat not because they are overexerting their bodies, but because they are overexerting their minds. Take whatever measures you can to relax and reduce stress, and your body, mind, and underarms will reap the benefits. Try doing yoga, meditating, or taking at least thirty minutes to wind down before you fall into bed.You can also relax by avoiding situations that you know will cause you stress. For example, if you're always stressed in the morning because you inevitably end up being late for work or school, wake up 15 minutes earlier to make your life easier.

