 Reverse stencils work similar to regular stencils, except that you will be putting paint around the shape instead. Here's a list of what you will need:


Cardstock
Craft knife
Double-sided tape or repositionable spray adhesive
Foam roller or paint sponges
Acrylic paint or wall paint
Paint pan or paint palette
Paper towels

, You can also use template plastic, or blank stencil sheeting as well.


You can find template plastic in the quilting section of a fabric store.
You can find blank stencil sheeting in the stencil section of an arts and crafts store.
 You can also spray the back of each shape with repositionable spray adhesive.
 You can create a grid or checkered pattern. You can also use a completely random pattern.


If you are using shapes of different sizes, consider arranging them in an asymmetric clump. Keep the larger shapes towards the center, and the smaller shapes towards the edges/ends.
 Don't pour out a whole lot, or the paint will dry out before you can finish using it. You can always pour more paint out into your paint pan or paint palette. If you are painting a large area, consider using wall paint. If you are painting just a small area, any acrylic paint will do.


If you are using a paint roller to apply the paint, you might find a paint pan easier to use.
If you are using a small paint sponge, you might find a paint palette easier to work with.
 This will prevent you from applying too much paint all at once. If you apply too much paint at one time, the paint may not dry or cure properly. It may also end up with a bubbly texture. Because of this, it is much better to apply many thin coats of paint rather than one thick coat.
 Simply roll the foam paint roller across the entire wall, including your shapes. If you want a softer look, you can gently tap around your shapes with a paint sponge.
 Wait for the paint to dry, then apply a second coat. If you are taping the paint on with a sponge, you can even use a slightly lighter or darker color.
 If you remove the shapes after the paint dries, you will risk accidentally chipping the paint. Gently peel the shapes off using your fingernail.
 Look over your design, and fill in any gaps using a thin brush and some extra paint. If you got paint where you don't want it to be, wipe it off using a damp Q-tip.
 Most acrylic paints will dry within 20 minutes to two hours. Latex wall paints have a different composition and may require four to six hours to dry, if not more. Refer to the label on the can or bottle for more specific drying times.

