 If you want to attach a photo to an email you send through an email client such as Outlook or Thunderbird, it will need to be uploaded from your computer. This means you will need to copy it to your computer first if it's on another device.


See this guide for instructions on transferring images from a camera to your computer.
See this guide for instructions on transferring images from an iPhone, iPod, or iPad to your computer.
See this guide for instructions on transferring images from an Android device to your computer.
 If you are emailing images you took with your digital camera, they may be way too big to send. You will need to resize these images and convert them to a format that is suitable for sharing, such as PNG or JPG.


File formats like BMP and RAW are usually too large to send, and can cause inconveniences for your recipients.
If your recipient is planning on printing the images, send them without resizing.
 Either start a new message or create a reply to a message in your inbox. Make sure to fill in all the details, including the recipient, subject line, and message.
 If they are inserted in the body of the email, they will appear in the email when the recipient opens it. If they are attached to the email, the recipient will need to download them to see them.To make saving your sent images easier for the recipient, send them as attachments.
 Click the "Attach" button, which usually looks like a paperclip. This will open the file browser, allowing you to select the image you want to attach. If you hold Ctrl while selecting images, you can add multiple images at once.
 If you'd rather insert the images instead, click the Insert menu or tab and select Picture. Browse your computer for the image. When you add it, it will be inserted wherever the cursor was in the body of your message.
 Once you are finished adding your images, send the message. The images will need to be uploaded to the mail server, so the send process will take longer than normal.


Your mail service may have a message size limit, which is usually around 20-25 MB. If you add too many images, you may not be able to send the message.

