 Children of narcissists have the tendency to develop intense people-pleasing habits as a result of being idolized when they act according to the narcissist’s wishes and belittled when they don’t. The narcissistic parent basically erases the child’s sense of self.To counteract this unhealthy habit, help your child acknowledge their individual strengths and talents.


All children tend to follow the styles or mannerisms of their peers. This can be healthy in terms of finding out their likes and dislikes.
However, give your child permission to explore their own ways of acting or thinking by letting them choose hobbies and clothes that suit their interests. Let them know that it’s okay to be different., Narcissists often parent with conditional love, subjecting their children to rigid standards that determine whether they receive appreciation or affection.What’s more, the narcissist may be so focused on themselves, they may not provide the ingredients needed to build a healthy self-esteem in their children.Ensure that your child receives positive praise and affection that is not dependent on behavior or accomplishments. Tell your child “You’re so smart” or “You’re such a good friend” to remind them of their good traits.
Be sure to offer genuine praise when they do something good. This can help to counteract the negative influence they may be getting from the narcissistic parent.
Furthermore, tailor language so that children don’t think they’re better than others. Say, “You’re special to me” rather than “You’re the most special girl in the world.”

, When your child learns new things, they expand their skillsets and boost confidence. This can thwart poor self-esteem that may develop from a narcissistic parent telling them they aren’t worthy unless they do this or that.


Sign your child up for an interesting club or organization. Encourage them to try out a new sport or creative pursuit. Learn a new language or skill together to further develop your bond., Narcissists attach their sense of self on being admired, accomplished, and acquainted with powerful people. By proxy, your child may develop a perfectionistic viewpoint of themselves and the world.


Mistakes and failure offer chances to improve and grow. Help your child prevent or overcome perfectionism by challenging them to fail bigger. Make it a game for them to try activities that don’t come easy for them. Have them come to you and tell you how they failed. Applaud their failure as a chance to grow.
Let your child know that many successful people failed along their way to success, like Oprah who was fired from her first job as a TV anchor.On the other hand, applaud their successes, but don’t exaggerate them. Focusing too much on success places pressure on children, which makes them less likely to step out of their comfort zones in the future., Your child may feel a clear deficit in their emotional connection with the narcissistic parent. Being a positive role model yourself can offset this. However, it can be beneficial to expose your child to other positive adults who can offer support, encouragement, and a listening ear.Reach out to adults in your community who your child can forge relationships with, such as teachers, religious or spiritual advisors, coaches, school counselors, relatives or family friends. Tell your child, “I want to make sure you know that someone is always there for you. If you don’t feel comfortable coming to me with an issue, I hope you know your aunt/teacher/coach is willing to listen.”

