 Puppies from the age of 3 to 12 weeks are the most accepting of new experiences. During this time you should expose your puppy to as many new (but safe) situations as possible, such as other pets and animals, humans of various ages and sizes, vehicle rides, the outdoors, etc. A short checklist of things your puppy should be exposed to includes:Unfamiliar people of different genders, sizes, ages, and ethnicities. Have willing people pet and handle the puppy in a positive manner. Also, make sure your puppy is exposed to people wearing hats, jackets and boots.

Children. If you don’t have children in your house, bring your puppy to a park where children are playing (making sure it’s okay to bring a dog to this park.) Let the puppy see and hear the kids playing.
Other animals/pets. If you don’t have another pet, ask a friend with a cat or other pet if you can expose your puppy to their pets. Don’t have the puppy play with the pet but instead have the puppy sit calmly by your side as the pet goes about its business.

People doing different activities. Make sure your puppy is exposed to people using roller blades, wheel chairs, canes, exercising, jogging, and running.

Different walking/sitting surfaces. Let your puppy walk and sit on mud, slippery surfaces, carpet, tile, metal (like a veterinarian’s examination table), gravel, bridges, dirt, wood floors.

Noises. Some puppies can become frightened of vacuums, fans, hair dryers, bells, yelling, singing if they are not exposed to them.

Traveling. Especially in a car so veterinary and grooming appointments aren’t as stressful

Odd things. Some puppies may be frightened of odd things like plastic bags, umbrellas, rain coats, or baby strollers if they are not exposed to them while they are young.;
, Remember that everything is new and strange to your puppy. It’s your responsibility to introduce new things to your puppy in a calm, reassuring manner to help him acclimate to our world successfully. Take time to reassure your puppy and offer him treats to reward him for good behavior.Keep these exposure sessions short so that you do not overwhelm your puppy.
 Some experiences can overwhelm a puppy and make him scared. Don’t make a big deal of it, nor try to soothe your puppy as he might associate the attention with his fearful reaction. Instead walk him away from what is overwhelming him, go to a quiet area, and let him play with a favorite toy or just sit with him until he is calm. Once he is calm, you can gradually introduce him to these experiences so he has time to adapt to the novelty of the situation.If the situation is out of your control (like a large, noisy crowd) it is best to take him home. If it’s something less raucous try sitting in an out of the way spot with your puppy and let him be an observer.
 After about 12 weeks of age until around 18 weeks, your puppy’s acceptance of new experiences will begin to wear off and your puppy will become more cautious. This change is normal and helps the puppy learn to protect itself from danger when it’s no longer dependent upon its mother to protect it.
 Socialization classes are offered at community centers, veterinarian clinics, and large pet stores. These classes introduce puppies to many experiences including other puppies, people, dogs, and a variety of sights, sounds, smells, and equipment. Puppies are allowed off their leashes to play and play-fight with other puppies and with owners of the other puppies. This helps them to get to know other people and dogs and, through the other puppies, to learn to be gentle with their mouths.Basic obedience lessons are usually included in the socialization classes. Depending on the leader some classes include an introduction to sounds like traffic, construction sounds, and other odd sounds through use of CD’s or other means to help them to temper their fear response to these noises.

