


Walk through the interior of the property while making notes on the features you want to highlight. Take note of angles that show the flow of the rooms.
Stroll around the outside of the property and find 1 or 2 angles that best present the curb appeal of the property.;
,


Take care to move very slowly and to keep the camera as steady as possible. You may wish to use a tripod and swivel the camera slowly from one side to the other to get a 360 degree view of the rooms.



If the property is in a community that offers amenities like a pool or picnic area, you may want to take a few pictures of those before you make your movie.



Connect the camera to your computer with a USB cable. Most cameras come with one. Turn the camera on and your computer should recognize the camera as a storage device. Copy the files from the camera into a new folder you create on your computer desktop.



These programs are included with nearly every modern build of Windows and the iOS operating system.
 Select the movie and picture files and click "Import."

,


Begin with the best digital still shot of the exterior of the property and then add each video file into the section one at a time. Finish with the remaining exterior photographs.



While you are watching, make notes of what you want to say about each shot. For instance, while ​the camera is panning through the living room, you can talk about the cozy fireplace or the beauty of the hardwood floors.
You can mention the schools in the area or the proximity to shopping and cultural venues while the pictures of the outside of the house are being displayed.



On a PC, click "Tools," then click "Narrate Timeline."
If using a Mac, simply click the microphone icon.
The virtual tour will play while you are recording your voice-over.
Speak slowly and clearly into the microphone, making sure to enunciate each word.
When you are done, save your recording to the folder on your desktop that contains the movie and picture files. The narration will automatically be added to the "Audio/Music" section of your project.
 Name your movie and save it to the desktop folder. Mac users will click "Share", and then click "Export Movie."

