 If you bought your glasses new, they should have come in a box with a large white shipping label. This label should contain important identifying information for your glasses — if it doesn't, they're probably fake. Official Ray-Ban boxes should be labeled with the following:Model number: Starts with "RB" or "0RB", followed by four numbers.
Submodel number: Starts with a letter, followed by four numbers.
Lens type code: One letter/one number combination (e.g. "2N").
Lens width (in millimeters): Two-digit number.
 All Ray-Ban glasses should come with their own carrying case — if yours didn't (for instance, if your glasses came in a plastic bag), this is cause for concern, unless you bought them after-market (for instance, from a pawnbroker). The glasses' carrying case should have the following marks of good craftsmanship:A sharp, shiny gold logo on the front left side. The logo should read "100% UV Protection - Ray-Ban - Sunglasses By Luxottica".
A Ray-Ban logo on the snap.
Material that is textured (and feels like) real leather.
A hard, protective front portion.
Clean stitching.
 Real Ray-Bans are usually packaged with a small booklet that discusses the product you've purchased, contains promotional images, and more. This booklet should be flawlessly printed from good-quality matte paper. In addition, real Ray-Ban booklets are thoroughly reviewed and edited before their publication. If the booklet contains any sort of error — whether it's a spelling, grammar, or factual error — this is a sign of trouble.
 Ray-Bans almost always come with a small felt cloth to be used for keeping the glasses clean. If this isn't included with the glasses in its own clear plastic envelope, your glasses may not be genuine. If the glasses do come with a cleaning cloth, but it appears poorly-made, this can also be a sign of a fake. Look for the following sorts of defects in the cloth:


Stains or signs of previous use
Thin, coarse, or ratty texture
Loose stitching
Cheap-looking material

, Ray bans are sold with a distinctive cling-on sticker on the lens as a sign of quality. This sticker should be black and gold (not yellow) and have the Ray-Ban logo prominently featured in the middle of a black starburst shape. The text around the edge should read: "100% UV Protection" and "Sunglasses by Luxottica." The following defects can be cause for concern:


Missing or poorly-spelled text
Off-center logo or starburst shape
Glue under the sticker (it should attach via static, not like a conventional sticker)

