 Before you can put the framed poster up on the wall, you obviously need to frame it. This in itself can be a process that requires a bit of thought and effort. If you’re still stuck on the framing part, you can learn more at: How to Frame a Poster.
 Once your poster is framed, you’re ready to pick the adhesive. The poster tape and poster tack from the first method don’t really have the sticking power to hold up the weight of a frame, so framed posters require something else. Many companies now offer removable adhesive strips marketed as picture hanging strips or damage-free poster strips., These strips have different weight limitations that will be printed on the packaging, so you’ll need to weigh the framed poster—within two or three pounds is fine, so you can use a bathroom scale—to find out the minimum number of strips to use.
 Find the spot of the back of the frame that will come flush with the wall and attach the strips by first removing the paper backing and then holding the adhesive side to the frame with pressure for several seconds. Place at least one strip on each upper corner of the frame, and then place more if two strips isn’t enough for the weight of your frame.


If the frame already has a hook screwed into the back that sticks out further than the frame, make sure to remove it.
 Rather than measuring and placing the strips on the wall to perfectly align with the strips on the frame, you can simply attach them to the frame strips before removing the paper backing. After that, you can easily place the entire thing on the wall.
 With all of the strips in place and the corresponding wall strips attached, you are ready to peel the backing off the wall strips and place the poster. You can’t relocate the strips like you can poster tack, so you’ll want to make sure you get it right the first time.


If you’re concerned with keeping the poster level, then you can use a step stool in order to see the top of the poster and balance a small level on the top of the frame. When you have the poster at the height you want, simply make sure the bubble indicates that the frame is level as you press the strips against the wall. If you end up off by a hair, the velcro-like adhesion between the strips will allow you to shift the frame a few degrees.
 In order to make sure the wall strips properly adhere, you’ll need to put pressure against each one for approximately ten seconds. Push against each strip firmly but not so hard that you risk cracking the glass in the frame.
 When it comes time to remove the poster, don’t pull the frame straight back away from the wall because that’s how the velcro-like teeth in the strips connect. Instead, start at the bottom of the frame and lift the bottom up and away from the wall.


The same goes for the wall strip that will remain on the wall when you disconnect the two strips. If you just pull away from the wall, you may damage the paint. Instead, pull the tab that sticks out from the velcro portion to the side in the same direction the tab is facing to remove it.