 Some irregularity is expected in handmade products. However, a quality handmade rug should lie flat on the floor and have an even shape.
 Most rugs are made of silk and wool.


Choose silk rugs for their luxurious look and feel. However, they are not ideal for high traffic areas.
Choose wool rugs for their durability. Wool is the most durable fiber, but there are many grades of wool. The wool from the neck and belly of young sheep is the best quality for handmade rugs. Make sure the wool was sheared from a live animal, as wool from dead animals typically feels rough and scratchy. Ask if the wool was spun by hand or by machine. Because of the way dye is absorbed, hand-spun wool provides more variegation in the fiber colors and is usually valued over machine-spun wool.
Avoid rugs with synthetic materials. The synthetic materials will degrade over time.
 Hand-knotted rugs are the highest quality handmade rugs available; and therefore, are the most expensive. It can take months or even years for an artisan to complete 1 hand-knotted rug.


Consider hand-tufted rugs or flat-weave rugs. Hand-tufted rugs, which involved threading yarn into designs through the back of the rug, are less expensive than hand-knotted rugs. Flat-weave rugs are the lowest quality handmade rugs, and the least expensive option.
 Rugs are made in several densities, ranging from 30 knots per inch to 290 knots per inch. The higher the knots per inch, the finer the weave of the rug. Intricate designs with smooth and graceful lines require higher knots per inch.



Purchase a rug made with natural dyes to maintain the rug's value over time. Natural dyes from indigo plants, bark, fruit and insects can fade over time when exposed to light, but the faded effect usually enhances the rug's natural beauty. Natural dyes add almost 30 percent more to the cost of the rug.
Buy a rug made with synthetic dyes for a wider range or shades and colors. Synthetic chemical dyes usually are made with either an acid dye or a chrome dye. If you choose to purchase a rug made with synthetic dyes, make sure the finished look is not too bright and harsh, or alternately, too washed out. Synthetic dyes tend to hold their color longer than natural dyes with exposed to light.

