 The best type of shirt to use for this would be a loose-fitting shirt. If you want to use a fitted t-shirt, make sure that you get some stretchy lace, or you won't be able to take the shirt on and off.
 This is a must if the shirt is new, because it will get rid of any starches and shrinking. Most t-shirts don't need to be ironed, but if your shirt has lots of wrinkles, it would be a good idea to iron it.
 Once you have decided on the width, add 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) to that measurement. This will be for the inside hem.
 The lace needs to be long enough to wrap around the bottom hem of your shirt, plus a few inches. Here is what you need to do:Measure across the bottom hem of your shirt, from left to right.
Multiple that number by 2. This will give you enough lace for the back of your shirt.
Add 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) for the side seams.
 Each piece should now be the same length as the bottom hem of your shirt, plus 2 inches (5.08 centimeters).


If your lace has a design on it, consider trimming the side edges to follow that design. Be careful not to trim more than 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) off of either side., Tuck the lace inside the shirt so that the hem overlaps it by 1 inch (2.54 centimeters). Pin the lace in place, then flip it over, and repeat the process for the back with the other piece of lace. Do not turn the shirt inside out for this.


Don't worry if the lace goes past the hem's stitching; you can always trim it down later.
 In either case, make sure that it is the same on both sides (left and right) of the shirt.
 Most t-shirts will have two lines of topstitching along the hem; try your best to follow one of them using a thread color that matches your shirt. Remove the sewing pins as you sew.


If the lace has some stretch to it, consider using a stretch stitch instead.
For a more professional finish, use a thread color that matches your shirt, and a bobbin color that matches your lace. This way, the stitching won't be visible on both sides.
 Some shirts have a much narrower bottom hem. You may have some excess lace peeking over the top of your stitching. If this is the case, trim that excess lace off as close to the stitching as you can. When you are done, turn the right-side out.
 At this point, your shirt is ready to wear! If you notice that the lace is starting to fray at the edges, you can seal it with some fray-check glue or clear nail polish. It would be best to hand-wash this shirt, and to let it hang dry.

