 Toilets need to be cleaned every day and the constant liquid will likely impact the durability of the sticker, depending on where it is placed. For stickers placed directly under the seat (showing only when the seat is in the upright position), you'll need to use something that can cope with constant cleaning. A sticker placed on the cistern, wall or somewhere else above the bowl might fare better and not need washing as often. Placement is important for noticing though, so don't shift the sticker where it fails to catch the eye––be prepared to do what will have the most impact! Here are several possible ways for making stickers:


Homemade sticker hack: Make the sticker out of paper, then cover it with clear tape to adhere it to the seat. This won't last long but is very easily updated and replaced as needed.
Old fashioned paper and tape: While this may not be truly deemed a sticker, you could use this method of signage around the toilet area. However, as it is clearly not waterproof, don’t place this type of sticker sign near the toilet bowl or faucets. This temporary method can be easily revised and removed whenever you desire.
Laminate the sticker: Either use a laminating machine or you can encase your homemade sticker between two sheets of contact paper. This can be another easily updated approach with temporary sticking power.
Make an actual sticker, one that either clings or adheres long term: Printer programs and forms exist to enable you to make your own stickers. Or, you could have the sticker printed at a commercial printers after you've done all the design work. Just check that the adhesive can be easily removed once the message has worked its magic––most sticker adhesives can be removed using goo-removing solutions or something like eucalyptus oil but you'll need to be sure the toilet seat surface can handle such solutions.;
, The design does need to be attention-grabbing. Eye-catching color is essential, so stick to bright colors, especially red, a color that tends to alert people to pay attention. Whether you use hand drawing, printed text or clipart is up to you, depending on what you're most comfortable with, just as long as the end result is visually attractive. Some design style ideas include:


A visual-only sticker: Draw or use clip art to show the image of a person using the toilet, then putting down the seat, in the style of the airline safety sheets. Or, use the common symbol for a forbidden action, by showing the toilet seat upright inside a red circle with a slash through it. Visual stickers can be helpful for households with young children but since visual depictions attract our attention immediately, they're effective for alerting all householders and guests.






Write a simple message: A simple message stuck on the underside of the upright seat can be very effective when in bold colors.






Direct the message to an actual culprit: Pinpointing the person who always leaves the seat up might work if he or she has a good sense of humor but do be careful with those who might be insulted by this direct approach. So, if you know exactly who keeps leaving the seat up, write, “Colin, put the toilet seat down!” as your message. How can poor Colin resist if the sticker is screaming out his name every time he uses the toilet?






A mixture of text and images: Depending on how creative you are, you might be able to combine both images and text to get across a suitable message. For example, a stop sign image design with a message inserted in the middle can be a very effective sticker. Or, you could use a toilet shape, a little boy peeing (cliched and kitsch but cute), an animal shape, etc. and insert text inside the largest part of the image.
 The message can be simple, humorous, visual or written. It all depends on how you think the household members will respond best, whether it be cute, a little crude or simply polite and sweet. Brainstorm some ideas for what you think will have the best impact for the householders you live with. And decide whether it's just the seat you want shut, or the whole seat and lid arrangement––it's just as easy to do both. In case you're stuck for what to write on your sticker, here are some ideas poached from various places:


Put me down!
Put the seat down!
Adjust the seat before take-off.
A closed lid repels flies.
This toilet only gets cleaned when the seat's left down.
The cat drinks from here when the lid's left up.
Toilet germs flush into the air and contaminate your toothbrush. Put down the toilet lid!

, The size will be shaped by where you plan on placing it as much as its design elements. Take exact measurements of the intended location and follow these measurements when creating the design. In terms of placement, things to consider include the washability of the sticker (as explained above), the likelihood of the sticker being seen and the effect on your bathroom décor. Under the seat in the part that sits topmost when the seat is lifted is probably the best location, as it shows when the seat is in the upright position. Under the lid in the middle of the seat hole is another eye-catching location. However, the cistern, wall or a nearby spot might work as well.


It might be overkill but a trail of sticker reminders in your bathroom might work in seriously annoying cases. Think toilet seat, flush button zone, washing hands area and light switch!
Think about the reactions of guests and other household members. It might be considered annoying, immature or pushy to see these stickers everywhere.
 Depending on the approach you've chosen to creating the sticker, once you've got design, message and size sorted out, proceed with making it. It's a fairly easy process but here are some hints for each type:


Homemade sticker hack: Write or print the message on paper in the required size. Add an image if using. Print (if relevant) and cut to size. Hold in place on the toilet seat and use strips of tape slightly longer than the paper to completely cover the paper lengthways.
Old fashioned paper and tape: Draw the design and add text as chosen onto paper. Adhere to the wall or other surface using tape, poster tack or similar.
Laminated sticker: Create the sticker on a piece of paper, cut it out and place it on top of one piece of contact paper. Use a glue stick to cover the bottom sheet completely and then gently place the next sheet on top. Smooth to remove any wrinkles. Cut the sticker out and use double sided tape to affix to the toilet, walls, etc. For attaching to the toilet seat, tape is probably the best option. Again, with repeated cleaning this will wear and probably need replacing––make a few at the same time and store the replacements in an easily accessed place.
An actual sticker: Follow the instructions of either a computer program for making stickers or ask for the instructions of a commercial establishment printing the stickers for you and follow those. If you're printing a sticker, be absolutely sure that your printer can handle any special materials you might be using.
 Clean all surfaces first to ensure the best adhesion. Ensure that the surface is dry before attaching the sticker. Don't draw attention to the sticker after placing it. The message needs to be a wake-up call, a complete surprise that registers in the mind of the culprits. And, of course, after sticking your sticker down, leave the seat down in the desired position before leaving.
