 Aside from water and non perishable foods, there are some other basic items that every household should have in their emergency kit. These items include: a flashlight, extra batteries, a multipurpose tool (such as a Swiss Army knife), a manual can opener, seven days worth of your medications, sanitation items, extra cash, a portable radio, and an emergency blanket.You should also make copies of your personal documents. These include important medical information, passport, proof of address, and your birth certificate. You should also have a map of the area and a list of emergency contacts.
 In a power outage, you never know what might happen (or who might need doctoring.) Because of this, it is strongly recommended that you keep a first aid kit in your house. You can buy first aid kits that are fully stocked, or put your own kit together. For a full list of all of the items you should put in your first aid kit, click here., The Red Cross suggests stockpiling at least a gallon of water per person per day. If possible, get enough water to last you a week at a minimum (so, if you are a family of three, that would mean purchasing 21 gallons of water.)


If you are unable to purchase or store this much water and are afraid your drinking water would be compromised in an emergency, you can also purify water during the emergency. Learn how to purify water here.
 These food items should be easy to make or, even better, take no preparation at all. If you do not have access to a heat source, such as a grill or camp stove (which are covered in Part Two) then you should mostly stockpile non-perishables that do not need to be cooked.Non-perishables that need to be cooked: Canned soup, macaroni and cheese,






Non-perishables that don’t need cooking: Canned nuts, canned vegetables and fruits, peanut butter, granola bars, crackers and chips, canned meats, pre packaged pudding, and unopened bottles of juice.
 If the power goes out or you find yourself in an emergency situation, use your phone to call your family members before your phone dies (since you won’t be able to charge it after the battery runs out.)

, Because you won’t be able to use your TV, computer or any other electronic item, you will need to find some entertainment for yourself. However, its good to keep in mind that you shouldn’t waste your flashlight’s batteries by shining it on a book at night. If you have lanterns or candles, set one up at a table so that everyone can gather around it to read, play games, or talk.
 These include multiple flashlights, camping lanterns, and candles. Store your flashlights where you can find them quickly in the dark. Candles are great because they last a long time without wasting battery life. Lanterns are especially useful when trying to go about daily life in the dark. Illuminate your kitchen with a lantern while you cook.
 If you have a fireplace, it would be a good idea to stockpile wood. Close off rooms that are not being used because what little heat you do have will spread out throughout the house. You could also consider investing in a kerosene heater. While these heaters will warm the house, they must be placed near a vent or else they could lead to carbon monoxide build up., If you can get outside to your car, you may want to charge your more absolutely necessary electronics (such as cell phones for contacting family members and rechargeable flashlights.) You can charge your electronics through your cigarette lighter in your car (which is connected to the cars battery.)

, The best way to do this is by purchasing a block of dry ice, wrapping it in newspaper, and placing it in your refrigerator. Find out where you can purchase dry ice today, so you know where to go in case of an emergency.Open your fridge and freezer only when absolutely necessary. You can also cover your fridge and freezer with thick blankets to keep the temperature inside down. Make sure the blankets do not cover your fridge or freezer vents.
 Before you dive into the non perishable foods you have stocked up on, consider cooking the perishable food you have left in your refrigerator. Only do this on the first day of the blackout, as most refrigerated food should not be eaten after it has been sitting in temperatures above 40ºF (4.4ºC) for longer than two hours.


Exceptions to this rule are hard cheeses, processed cheese, fresh fruits and vegetables, butter/margarine, and bread., If you are lucky enough to have a gas stove during a power outage, then you should be fine when it comes to cooking your food. You will have to light the ranges by hand, but other than that, you should be good to go. If, however, you have an electric stove, alternative cooking methods are listed below.Never use your gas stove or oven to heat your house. These appliances are not meant to do that and will cause a dangerous increase in the amount of carbon monoxide in your house.
 If you have a camping stove and can’t cook on your electric range, then its time you blew the dust off that propane or butane can. These camping stoves essentially work the same as a regular gas stove. Grills and barbecues will also work in a power outage. Just make sure you don’t use them inside, or else they could cause carbon monoxide build up, which can be very dangerous.
 If you have a fireplace, use it. If you don’t, you may need to make a campfire in your backyard. If you are living in an area that is prone to blackouts and you don’t have a fireplace, you might want to consider delegating a corner of your backyard for a campfire area.
 If you can leave your house, you may consider going out to eat. Chances are, you will most likely get a little stir crazy if you have to stay in the house so go out to eat during the day.

