 Strength training is a key element in preparing your body to compete in a triathlon. It’s also one of the most overlooked elements. For an endurance race like a triathlon, you need to build muscle strength as well as muscle endurance.Strength training is also important for preventing injuries.
Work in 15-20 minutes of strength training at least 1-2 times per week. Increase this frequency by 10% every week as you work through your triathlon training schedule. Decrease your strength training every 3 weeks for a week to allow your body time to recover., A trainer can help you identify muscle areas of your body that might be weak or that are giving you unnecessary resistance. This person can help you come up with a program for strength training., Circuit training is a series of short, intense exercises that work various muscle groups. This will help you build muscle endurance and muscle strength.


To build muscle endurance, focus on doing higher repetitions with lighter weight or resistance. Do 5-10 repetitions of each of the following exercises at first, building to 20-30 reps as you get stronger: sit-ups, push-ups, squats, reverse lunge, side lunge, and plank hold. Do this circuit 10 times.To build muscle strength, try lifting free weights or machine weights. Perform 15 reps of the following: bench press, triceps dips, pull-ups, seated dumbbell shoulder press, seated dumbbell bicep curl, leg press, standing/lying hamstring curl, standing calf raise, and stability ball abdominal crunch. Try this circuit 2-6 times., You want to make sure you’re performing at your maximum coordination when you’re competing in your triathlon. This helps you move faster and more strongly.Try agility drills to increase your speed and movement, such as box jumps, side touches, and side high knees.


Get an agility ladder to help you with these drills. An agility ladder is a flat rope ladder that is placed on the ground. You can also make one by drawing on the sidewalk with chalk or laying out string or rope on the ground.