 Doctors who perform IVF are generally aware of the costs associated with the procedure. Because of this, many doctors’ offices will offer different payment and financing options for IVF. Before committing to a specific IVF program, ask the billing representative at your doctor’s office what types of payment options are available to you beyond insurance.Find out if your doctor’s office offers installment payments for IVF treatment cycles. Some doctors’ offices may even offer low-interest loans for your IVF.Inquire about any discounts your doctor may provide for public service professionals including teachers, firefighters, and military personnel.See if your doctor offers an IVF refund package and if you qualify for it. These ask for a flat fee for 3-6 cycles of IVF and offer a partial refund after just one cycle.
 Different non-profit organizations offer grants and scholarships to individuals who would like IVF. You need to qualify for these programs, which may be regional or national, and demonstrate financial need. The following is a list of some non-profit organizations that offer grants and scholarships for IVF:Angels of Hope Foundation
Baby Quest Foundation
The Cade Foundation
INCIID IVF Scholarships
Pay it Forward Foundation
Sharing Hope Financial Assistance Program

, Personal loans are another option if you want to pay for IVF. A loan can provide you with the necessary funds to cover your IVF expenses and then pay it off through set installments.Meet with a financial advisor if you are considering a loan. The advisor can help you plan for different contingencies with your IVF or possible pregnancy that won’t strap you financially. For example, having a baby can add considerable cost to your life. A loan that looks doable when you start IVF may difficult to pay once you have a baby.
Ask your bank if it offers medical loans. Many banks have unsecured personal loans that you can apply to medical bills.
Talk to your friends and family about loaning you money for IVF. You may find they are interested in helping you defray the costs of IVF.
 If you have good credit and don’t generally carry big balances, consider applying for a credit card or using an available credit line. This can help defray any costs you may incur undergoing IVF. Keep in mind that the interest on credit cards may be higher than personal loans, so you’ll want to ask about monthly payments to ensure you can make timely payments.Negotiate with your credit card company for a lower APR for the period you’ll undergo IVF. You can also ask for an increase on your limit.
 You may own your own home while considering IVF. If you’ve built up equity in it, you may qualify for a home equity loan from your bank. This allows you to use money you’ve already put down on your home towards your IVF treatment. Ask your bank what your options for a home equity loan are.Be aware that taking a second mortgage on your home may also be an option to finance your IVF.

