


Do you have enough money and time for a horse? Horses are a serious investment.
Do you have the time to care for your horse?
Do you have a place for your horse to stay (such as a barn) or a place where you can board the horse?
Why do you want a horse (such as competition or pleasure)? Is that a good reason?
Are you ready to take on such a commitment? Horses can live for a long time--more than 20 years!
Do you have the necessary supplies? You'll need lots of stuff to care for and ride your horse, including tack, grooming supplies, and feed.
Do you have contacts? Every horse needs a good farrier and vet, and, in some cases, a skilled trainer. Having these phone numbers ahead of time can save your horse's life in an emergency.;
, Some people think a pony is a baby horse, but this is not true! Ponies are similar to horses, except ponies are generally smaller. Though ponies are smaller than horses ponies can seem more stubborn and it is sometimes a better choice to choose a horse with a better temperament then a pony just because of its size. The difference between a pony and a horse is their size, ponies being smaller than 14.2 hands (58 inches) at the withers, and horses are +14.2 hands.
 Some horse breeds include the spunky and highly spirited Thoroughbred horse, or a gentle giant like the Belgian or Clydesdale. Whatever the breed, be sure to research the breed to make sure it's the one you truly want.
 You may come across a horse that is both a breed and color you love, but if the horse is not well behaved, you might regret the choice. If you take home a horse with an excellent temperament, you will likely not regret your choice even if it is not exactly your favorite color or breed.
 Even though you shouldn't buy a horse because it looks right, you shouldn't buy a horse if you honestly dislike the way it looks. If you are buying a horse, you should take the time to find the perfect horse, instead of settling for one you don't like.
 Ask yourself, "If I choose this horse and take it home, will I be truly happy and be able to love the horse? In years to come, can I look back on this moment and know I made the best decision?" If the answer is no, don't buy the horse.
 See him in as many environments as possible, like his stall, the arena, and outside, and do everything with him you'd normally do at home, like tacking him up, bathing him, and, of course, riding him.


Look at his physical appearance. Make sure he is healthy and in good shape. Pay special attention to his legs and his face, especially his eyes, nose, ears, and mouth. If something looks wrong, ask the owner about it. If he doesn't know, ask someone else to look at it.
Make sure he stays calm at all times. If he's nervous at home, where everything is familiar, consider if the extra fear he'll likely experience in a strange environment will be too much for you to handle.
Get to know his personality. Having a smart, kind horse will be much more fun than having a beautiful but spooky or mean horse.
Watch out for vices. Is he girthy? Does he crib? Does he kick at other horses? Carefully consider if you can handle every single one of his bad habits before you put your money - and your safety - on the line.
 No matter how experienced you are, you can always fall for the wrong horse and be left penniless and heartbroken.


Ask an experienced trainer to look at the horse and possibly even ride him. If you know the trainer well, ask him if he thinks the horse is a good match for you.
Get a thorough vet check. No matter how expensive, a vet check is always worth it. Even you don't want to spend $500 on a horse you don't even own, consider what it would be like to spend $10,000 on a horse you do own - and can't sell. Many owners will pay for this themselves to get a horse sold.
You could even ask the present owner to ride him for you. This way, you can see the horse under saddle, and if it has any issues, (For example: Bucking and/Rearing.) you could decide if these are issues you can handle! (if you have enough experience for this particular horse's Spirit!)

