 Wood flooring is the most common type of floor for cottage style bedrooms. Hardwood flooring can be expensive. An alternative to actual wood is to buy tile that looks like wood. Or, if the floor is not carpeted (concrete is ideal), you can paint a wood pattern on the floor. If that is still too costly or difficult, you can also buy a rug to convey the cottage style.To save money, you can install the wood flooring on your own. Or, install the tile on your own.;
, If you don’t want to do something as dramatic as changing your flooring, you can also choose to put a simple rug in your room. A large rug in a neutral color, like cream or beige, is great. If you want to incorporate a design, consider a floral pattern.A simple, striped rug is another choice.
 Pick one color for the entire room. One light color is an easy option for a cottage style room. Light yellow, off-white, and light blue are good color choices for cottage style bedrooms. Light blue is great for a beachy, cottage theme. Light yellow, beige, and off-white will work for almost any room., To make your walls look similar to old stone, first paint a light gray base on your walls. Then, use painter’s tape to create the shapes of the stones. Sponge on dark gray paint to create the stone texture. Then, remove the painter’s tape. Finally, use a cheesecloth to refine the texture., First, you will need to buy a three-piece wood-graining kit. Then, apply to coats of satin finishing paint in a brown shade. After that, mix acrylic glaze with white latex paint and apply it with a roller. Use the paint comb that comes in the kit by holding it at a 45-degree angle to create the veins in the paint. Last, use the heel of the rocker that comes in the kit to create the “planks.”Go back and use the comb after you’ve created the planks to vary the look of the planks.
A wood-graining kit can be bought at Home Depot for about $3.
 If you don’t have rustic-looking furniture or furniture that you can paint, check garage sales and vintage shops. Vintage shops may be pricey, so look at garage sales if you want to save money. Look for furniture that already appears distressed and furniture that you wouldn’t mind painting.


You can also look at shops like Goodwill for cheap furniture.
 A simple wooden desk and a chair are perfect for a cottage style. If you don’t want to have just a desk, consider getting a desk with a vanity mirror. To make the chair more comfortable, add a cushion to it. You can look for a cushion with a gingham pattern, floral pattern, or a cushion with animals, like deer or rabbits., Other than a bed, desk, chair, and a dresser, matching side tables would complete the furniture for the room. Look for simple, wooden tables that would match the rest of the furniture in your room. Inexpensive tables that you wouldn’t mind painting and/or distressing is ideal.You may also want to have a wardrobe if there isn’t a closet in your room.
 Look for a wooden wardrobe and/or dresser to put in your room. You can find a wooden dresser/wardrobe at any furniture stores, but it is better to look at vintage shops and garage sales if you are planning to alter the piece of furniture in any way. Unpainted wood, distressed wood, and wood that has been painted white are good choices for the wardrobe or dresser.You can paint a design, like flowers, on the dresser or wardrobe.
 Look for a bed with a canopy or wooden backboard. For the canopy bed, curtains that are cotton or netted fabric are ideal. If you choose to have a backboard, look for a wooden backboard. You can even make your own by nailing planks of wood together and painting them in the color of your choice.


Curtains made out of fabrics like velvet might look out of place.
 If you want a simple and clean look, use one color to paint wooden furniture in your room. White, cream, yellow, and robin’s egg blue are good choices for a cottage style. You can take it a step further by distressing your furniture., Once you have painted the furniture, consider using techniques to distress the pieces. The easiest method is to use sandpaper. Distress the areas that would most likely naturally begin to distress over time, like corners, sides, and areas where the handles are. Take the sandpaper and rub it over the paint until it looks as distressed as you’d like it to be. Then, finish with wax or varnish.Use fine-grit sandpaper. A sandpaper with a rougher texture could do too much damage to the furniture.
You only need to sandpaper gently. If you use the sandpaper with too much force, you could damage the furniture more than intended.
 There are several ways to achieve soft lighting in your room. During the day, you can put thin, cotton curtains over the window that will filter the sunlight throughout the day. For the darker hours, look for light bulbs with a Kelvin temperature of 2700 or less for warm, soft lighting. It is also an option to light candles in place of lamps at night., A fluffy, white comforter is ideal for a cottage style bedroom. You can choose to pair it with white sheets, or get sheets in a light color, like pink or blue. If you don’t want a white bedding state, beige, light blue, and green are good colors. You can layer the colors if you don’t want one solid color for your bedding. If you prefer patterns, floral, striped, and checkerboard patterns are great for this style.For instance, you can have a light purple comforter and pillows with light blue sheets and light yellow throw pillows.
 White or lightly colored cotton curtains are ideal for a cottage style bedroom because they let in natural lighting and work well with the design of the room. You can find cotton curtains at most interior design stores and stores like Target or Walmart. If you prefer a design, gingham curtains work well too.
 Some subjects that would work well are landscapes, pastoral settings, animals, and still life scenes. You can find inexpensive art prints at places like Goodwill, vintage stores, garage sales, and even online. Hang them up without a frame, or find a distressed wooden frame to hang them in.You can distress the wooden frames the same way you would distress the furniture. Use sandpaper to gently rub the corners and sides.
 Flowers will bring the room together and complete it. You can choose to put out fresh, dried, or plastic flowers. Daisies, carnations, sunflowers, and tulips are some good choices. Any type of flower will work, though.