 Put a small amount of the face wash on your hand and wash into your skin with water. Rinse off and dry with a towel.
, Make sure you are doing so using preferably a product consisting of benzoyl peroxide applied to the area.
,, Try to simulate popping the pimple in a way so that you are not pushing down. Pushing up prevents the infection from spreading further.



Note: Only pop the pimple if you see a whitehead or blackhead develop after you've pressed down on it with the warm cotton ball.

Note: Do not put so much pressure on the skin or pimple that you get blood. You want any pus to come out of the pore, but not blood.
 Do this carefully and don't do any more than that!

, Do this gently, perhaps with a Q-Tip, while barely touching your skin. Rub it in for a while.
 Go to the mirror, and your zit should be gone. This process only takes 25 minutes. Here's what happened; the benzoyl peroxide dried the pus inside the pimple and flushed the redness out while the Clindamycin prevented the infection of the pimple going deeper into your skin (a risk of popping the pimple).
 This will sooth your face. If you still have some redness left from when you popped your pimple, this will take it away. Good Luck!

, There will come the time, of course, when you feel like you need to pop a pimple, but that should be the exception to the rule. Why is popping pimples not so great for your skin? Popping a pimple will actually damage the surrounding skin, introduce gunk and bacteria from your hands, and cause even more inflammation and redness.If you can, resist popping pimples!
, Wash your face once in the morning and once at night, before you go to bed. Be sure to remove any makeup you might have on your face before you go to sleep.


Wash your face gently. No need to scrub furiously, like you're trying to remove a stain from the carpet. Gentler is better.
Always moisturize after each wash. Washing your face strips the oil from your skin, which is both good and bad. Good because that oil is what gets infected and causes acne; bad because your skin is an organ, and like any other organ in your body, needs moisture.
 Many people find that exfoliating the skin once a week is a good way to prevent breakouts from happening. Exfoliating means removing the top layer of skin (the epidermis) so that it can't clog the pores, causing acne. Try not to exfoliate more than twice a week. There is too much of a good thing.
 Lots of over the counter (this means you can buy it at your friendly, local drugstore) acne medicines do help clear up acne, although they don't help to prevent it. If you have a small eruption of acne on your face that you don't want to pop, use some salicylic acid, benzoyl peroxide, or tea tree oil directly onto the skin at night., Studies have shown that stress has a negative impact on your skin, specifically making acne worse.Pretty much, when your body is stressed, the cells that regulate sebum production stop working. Sebum is the stuff that contributes to acne.
 Regular exercise is helpful both in jump starting your immune system and cutting down on stress.Try to do at least 30 minutes of simple exercises (such as walking) a day, and mix in three hour-long sessions of intense cardio during the week.
 Studies have shown that there is a link between sleep and stress: the less sleep you get, the more likely you are to be stressed, and we've already learned how bad stress is for acne.If you're still under the age of 18, shoot to get between nine and ten hours of sleep every night., Gels, mousses, hair sprays — these all can cause acne. Be careful with what you put in your hair, and how often you do so.


Wash your hair about every other day. Don't go a week without washing your hair. Although beauticians may say it's good for your hair, the buildup of oil on your scalp can cause acne around your hairline.
 Scientists are beginning to believe that diet does play a role in how much acne you have. Eat a balanced diet of whole grains, fruits and vegetables, lean protein, fiber, and healthy omega-3 fatty acids. Stay away from high-glycemic diets that involve a lot of refined sugars, simple carbohydrates, and saturated fats.


Don't drink as much milk, if possible. Studies have found that people who drink more milk suffer from more acne than people who don't drink as much.Scientists believe that the hormone-laden dairy produces more sebum, causing acne and making it worse.
 These have been shown to reduce or eliminate acne in a variety of ways. Talk to your doctor or your dermatologist about which medications might be most effective for you.


For females, oral contraceptives such as birth-control are sometimes used to treat acne. The birth control regulates the hormones produced by the body, cutting down on breakouts.
Other oral antibiotics attack the bacteria that causes acne. They can assist in reducing the number of breakouts, as well as in fighting inflammation. Patients are usually given a higher dosage earlier on before being moved to a lower dosage.
For severe cases, isotretinoin, or Accutane, is available through a prescription. Isotretinoin is a vitamin-A derivative that shrinks the glands that produce sebum. It comes with various risks and side-effects, which you should fully understand before embarking on a course of treatment.

