 You will be making a wooden crate, so pick out what kind of wood you’d like to use. The simplest way to build a wooden crate is to have wooden planking on the top, bottom, and sides, with a door that allows for ventilation attached to the front.Pine is very common when it comes to animal crates—it’s a sturdy, common, and cheap wood.
You will also need to purchase a tape measurer, nails and hinges, and a hammer. Unless you already have a door for the dog cage, or plan to build your own, you can buy a gridded metal cage door, which you can attach to the side of the crate.
All of these materials should be available at a local hardware store.
 Using a table saw, a circular saw, or a hand saw, cut the pieces of wood to the exact measurements that you decided upon earlier. Since the top and bottom of the crate will be the same size, you can mark both with the same measurements.

When you measure the planking before making the cuts, trace a pencil along the lines where you need to cut. This will help you guide the saw while you are cutting and will ensure that your cut pieces of wood are the correct size.
 Cut out pieces of wood to the desired dimensions for the sides and back of the crate. As with the top and bottom, mark the dimensions on the planking before you cut the wood. Measure and cut two pieces that are the planned size for the two sides of the crate, and stand these pieces on their sides next to the bottom of the crate. Then, repeat the procedure, but with the dimensions planned for the back of the crate.

Stand the three wooden side-pieces (two sides and the back) next to the base-piece of the crate. Align the pieces, and then nail the sides and back into the bottom plank.
Put your top piece on top of the crate’s sides. Make sure that the edges of the top align with the sides, and then nail the top in place.
 If you’re using a gridded metal door that you’ve purchased, it should already have hinges attached. Mount the loose ends of the hinges on the dog’s crate, using the method suggested by the door manufacturer. Finally, attach a latch to the other side of the door so that it can close properly.

You may be able to attach the hinges to the side of the crate using gorilla glue or another extreme adhesive. If you must use screws or nails to attach the hinges, make sure to file down the screw or nail tips on the inside of the cage, so they do not stab your dog. If you don’t have a file, use your hammer to bend the tips of the screws or nails so that they are parallel to the wood planking and can’t scratch your dog.
Make sure that the door can open freely.

