 You want to make sure that the page lays flat on the surface, so smooth it with your hands to ensure that it’s not folded or bent in any areas. Cover the ironing board with a clean towel or sheet before setting the paper down to ensure that it doesn’t get dirty.Depending on the type of paper and what kind of ink is used on it, you may want to lightly mist it with distilled water before setting it on the ironing board. The water can help soften the paper, so it’s easier to press out the wrinkles. However, it can also make some types of ink, such as inkjet printer ink, run, so you may want to mist a test page before doing it to the paper that you’re trying to smooth.
If you don’t have an ironing board, any flat surface, such as a table, counter, or even floor, can work. Just make sure to line it with a very thick cotton towel to protect it from the heat.
 You don’t want the page to get too hot when you apply heat because you run the risk of scorching it. That’s why it helps to place a clean towel or piece of fabric over it before you get your iron out. Don’t fold the towel or fabric into too many layers, though, or it may be difficult for the heat to reach the paper., Because you don’t want to damage the paper, it’s best to start with the lowest heat setting. If you notice that the wrinkles aren’t coming out of the paper once you start ironing, raise the heat slightly.Make sure to wait until the iron is heated before you start ironing the page. Depending on the iron’s type and model, it can take anywhere from one to three minutes.
 You can use the same technique that you would if you were ironing clothing. Move the iron over the cloth-covered paper in small circular motions, making sure that you don’t let it linger in any one spot for too long. Every so often, stop, lift the cloth, and check to see if the wrinkles are gone. If they aren’t, keep ironing until you’re satisfied with the paper’s smoothness.While you should move the iron just as you would with clothing, it’s important to keep in mind that you’re working with paper, which is more fragile than fabric. Be as gentle as possible to avoid ripping, tearing, scorching, or otherwise damaging the paper.

