 Artificial trees usually come in sections. You may use miniature tree lights to wrap around the branches if your light each section separately Use 50-light strands because they are less likely to burn out and are easy to handle.Use about 12 boxes of 50-light strings if your tree is around six feet and about 20 boxes for trees that are around eight feet high. For showcase lighting, use about 40 boxes of 50-light strings for a tree that is around six feet high and 80 boxes for a tree that’s eight feet high.
 Before you start hanging your lights, plug them in to make sure that all of them are working. Keep your lights plugged in as you hang them to get a sense of how your finished tree will look.Do not use lights that you cannot get to active within five minutes. Avoid any frustration of tinkering with lights for extended periods of time.
 Tags can be found on each string of lights and can be unsightly. Simply use scissors to remove all tags before hanging up your lights on your tree., This will be a built-in circuit breaker as well as make it more convenient to turn your lights on and off. Simply turn the power strip on and off to activate your lights., Keep some slack in the first string of lights and create a loop by separating the cord from the first bulb. Place the loop over one of the greens or small branchlets close to the trunk and secure the cord by wrapping it a few times around the green., Keep the string of lights taught as you place the lights from the tips of your branches moving towards the trunk. Make sure to wrap the cord over the branch and itself as you make your way towards the trunk., When you reach the trunk, separate the cord from the last light and secure it by slipping it over a branch. Place the cord over to the closest branch, find a green part close to the trunk and wrap the cord around it. Make sure to pull the cord over the tip of the branch and wrap it over itself and the branch., Wrap branches in the same way until you reach the end of the light string. Plug in another set of lights and continue wrapping branches until you get to the end of the tree section, the section at which the tree comes apart. Position any excess lights along the branches instead of having them cross into another section of the tree.Evenly spread out your lights so that your tree will be evenly lit from the top of your tree to the bottom.

