 Your patterns of thought may be making you to believe things about your cousin that are your own ideas and not truly who they are. These thoughts can be dangerous for your relationship because they will make you more bitter and angry with your cousin.


Once you start to notice yourself dwelling on all of the things that your cousin does that you don't like, do something to distract yourself. Listen to music, read something, talk to someone or do something.
 Making assumptions about someone elses reasons for doing something is dangerous. It is easy to think that you know what is going on because you are very familiar with that person. However, you may still need more information to understand a situation.


For example, you might think "I know he is being loud just to get on my nerves". But, there may be something else going on with them. Maybe they are being loud while they play video games because they had a bad day at school.
The next time you find yourself assuming tat you know why your cousin is doing something, ask them about it instead. Say "Why do you say that?"

, Get to know your cousin better. The more that you know about your cousin the more you will be able to be sympathetic to the things that they do. Ask them open ended questions. Ask them why they love the things that they do, or ask them about their relationships.
Listen closely and do not interrupt. Show them that you are listening by nodding along, making noises, and keeping eye contact with them
Ask good follow up questions. Show that you were listening and ask them more questions related to the topic they were talking about. Bring in the other information that you know about your cousin. You can say something you know about another friend, say "So does your new friendship with Maria make your best friend Anna feel left out?

, Little cousins especially want to be a part of what you are doing. Most of them, even if they do not look like it, are curious about your world. Let them in on it. Take them to a baseball game, go somewhere you like to eat, or go on a walk in a part of town you are familiar with.


Tell your cousin stories about your life. They like to hear about what is going on with you, too.
Laugh with your cousin. Make fun of each other or laugh at the things that happen to you. Having a sense of humor can help diffuse the situation in the future when you are getting on each others nerves.

