 By knowing which one you have, you can take appropriate action. A cold is typically confined to your head — coughing, sneezing, and a runny nose. The flu can take over your whole body. Flu symptoms include headaches and muscle aches, chills and fever, and vomiting, though often not all together. The flu tends to make you feel much sicker than a cold., Sometimes just drinking lots of fluids can help flush out the infection in your system. Water is often the best choice, but drink whatever tastes the best to you. For water, try for a big glass every two hours or so. You also might want to try Pedialyte or another beverage that provides electrolytes, especially if you are vomiting or have diarrhea., Especially for a cold, tea can help ease congestion and soothe a sore throat. Tea also contains theophylline, which helps to clean out your lungs and decrease the mucus. Any kind of tea will be helpful, and honey often helps coat your throat and makes you more comfortable., If you have an appetite, stick to whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and lean meats. Even though sweets or fast foods might sound good at the time, they are not going to help your body function well and fight off your illness. Your best choices for food partially depend on your symptoms.A sore throat would benefit from soothing foods like mashed potatoes, scrambled eggs, or creamy soups.
Body aches, on the other hand, might be helped by dark leafy greens, yogurt, and avocados — foods high in magnesium or calcium.
Headaches benefit mostly from drinking water. Sometimes caffeine can help in small doses, particularly coffee or tea. But be sure to re-hydrate with water after the caffeine has dried you out.
For congestion, try making "golden milk." Use two cups of coconut milk to simmer on the stove with a teaspoon each of ginger and turmeric, and a dash of black pepper. After a couple minutes of simmering, let it sit for 10 minutes before drinking. Turmeric has anti-inflammatory properties, and this is a good way to get it into your system.Eat some chicken soup. Traditional wisdom was right — chicken soup can help you recover from a cold. It boosts your immune system, and based on the ingredients, can add electrolytes and an array of vitamins, as well as helping to thin out mucus., The hot steam can help dislodge the mucus. The water can also help energize your skin while washing away some of the germs that have gathered on your body as you’ve been sick.
 Use hot water and a spoonful of salt, with an optional spoonful of hydrogen peroxide. You could also use hydrogen peroxide alone, but be careful to use a small amount (two teaspoons) at room temperature. You can also water it down, but it is very effective at clearing mucus.