 Any sized jar or bottle will be sufficient for your terrarium. A container with a large mouth will make it easier to work inside of. You want to make sure that the container can be properly sealed.Options include: a candy jar with a heavy lid, a pasta jar, or a mason jar.
Make sure the container is properly washed to remove any residue before using as a terrarium.
 The layer of pebbles at the bottom of the jar is to allow water to collect at the bottom and protect the plants from flooding. Add pebbles to a depth of about 1/2-2 inches.It doesn’t matter what type of rock or pebbles you use. You can even use colorful pebbles from the pet store to make it more exciting.
 The charcoal layer is important to filter out impurities in the water. It helps keep the ecosystem clean and healthy by reducing the burden of bacteria and fungi. You don’t need a thick layer, just enough to cover the rock layer.Activated charcoal can be purchased at a local pet store.
 On top of the charcoal layer, you will add another layer of peat moss. Peat moss is a nutrient-rich soil that will help hold the water and nutrients necessary for the plants to grow.Peat moss can be obtained a local nursery.
 The final layer before adding the plants is a layer of potting soil. The plants will be able to root in this soil and get the water and nutrients they need from the combination of all of the layers below the potting soil.Add enough soil for the plants to take root and have room for growth. A depth slightly higher than the pot the plant came in should be good.
Most types of potting soil will be sufficient for this. Succulents and cacti require a special type of soil.
 Any plant you’d like to add will work in your terrarium, but small plants are recommended. Prepare your plants by removing them from their pots and breaking up the hard soil around their roots. Trim particularly long roots before planting. Dig a small well in the soil with a spoon and place the roots of the plant into the hole. Add a bit of soil on top and pack it down around the plant.Repeat this process with the rest of your chosen plants taking care to keep the plants away from the edges of the container.
Try to avoid having the leaves touching the sides of the container as much as possible.
Some great plants to start with include moon valley friendship, the nerve plant, variegata, aquamarine, minimus aureus, strawberry begonias, ferns, and mosses., With a sealed system, the terrarium shouldn’t need much maintenance. If you notice it is looking a bit dry, open it up and add a bit of water. Alternatively, if there is a lot of moisture inside, leave the lid off for a day or two to let it dry out for a bit.There might have been bug eggs in the soil or on your plants. If you notice anything crawling around inside, let it out and then reseal your ecosystem.
Store in a location with good indirect sunlight. Near a window is perfect.
 With proper sunlight and water, your plants will grow. If the plants get too big for the terrarium, you need to cut them back so it doesn’t get overcrowded. Keep the plants at your desired size so that they continue to thrive.Remove any dead plants that may have fallen to the bottom.
Clear out algae and fungus that might be growing.

