 The last thing you want is to be standing in half a duct tape dress and discover you're missing something. Then again, the looks at your local Walmart would be priceless...









Scissors
Duct tape (1 to 1 1/2 rolls of 60-yd (55 m) tape for a size 10 figure)
T-shirt
Person to wear the T-shirt
Marker

, Any color will do. The T-shirt will adhere to the duct tape and not be seen. And, as a result, wearing the duct tape dress is a lot more comfortable.

The T-shirt should extend to the desired length of the dress. Don't concern yourself with whether or not it's too baggy; length is all that matters.













If the T-shirt is not long enough, attach extra material (as haphazardly as you choose) to extend. This is the underside and does not have to be pretty.
 Begin at the bottom edge of the T-shirt, starting at the back and wrapping around.

Use strips--it's easiest to have a tape-cutting helper. If you wrap it like a mummy, you're likely to curve absent-mindedly. Using strips creates linear angles.













Don't be worried about overlapping too much. Duct tape is one of the most versatile, miraculous things on the planet. If you mess up or create a hole, it can be easily fixed.













Wrap a little more loosely around the waist than you do the hips and thighs. At least initially--you'll be wrapping tighter later on.
 Feel free to change directions; let your creativity flow.









Short pieces of tape capture the contours of the bust better. Arrange them so they radiate out from the center of the bust area.
 When using a T-shirt as your pattern, it's easiest to make a sleeveless, high-necked duct tape dress, but feel free to deviate from this norm.

If you want a higher neck, use plastic wrap to protect the neck area and extend accordingly.
 You'll be wanting to go a bit snugger this time.

Don't skip this part! Three layers ensure the durability of your dress.













It's a good idea to wrap horizontally, vertically, and then horizontally again.













If you're super-creative, take this to the next step and try weaving.
 Have your guinea pig bend a little to make this easier to gauge.

Using a marker, make a line all around the natural waistline.













Use this line later when wearing and add a strip of duct tape for a cinched waist.
 Or, heck, keep it on!









You can close the dress with additional tape, attach velcro or a zipper, or place it on a stand.
Keep your hand between the T-shirt and the wrapped body to avoid cutting undergarments or flesh.

