 If you have loud roommates or siblings, it can be difficult to concentrate on your school work with noise all around you. Try wearing noise cancelling headphones or earplugs to block out audible distractions so you can better focus on your homework.


You can find foam earplugs at any drugstore or convenience store. Aim for earplugs with a Noise Rating Reduction (NRR) of 32 or 33, as this is the highest noise cancelling rating available over the counter., Your smartphone is likely one of the biggest distractions when it comes to focusing on your school work. If you can’t turn it completely off for practical reasons, then at minimum turn off wifi and data so you can’t check social media or email. Disconnect while you work on your homework, and you will find that it will be easier to focus on your work and to work faster.If you must leave your phone on, then turn it to silent (not just vibrate) so you don’t hear any incoming calls or texts to distract you from your school work.
 The computer can be just as distracting and addicting as your phone, so it’s important to minimize distractions there, as well. Because you likely need the internet to do a lot of your assignments, it’s not as simple to “disconnect” while you’re on a computer. You’ll need to actively stay off of social media and gaming sites in order to focus on your work.Consider browser extensions that disconnect social media for you. Browser extensions like Nanny (Google Chrome) and Mac Freedom (Windows and Mac compatible) block your access to your top time-wasting websites., After working for a solid 45 minutes, give yourself a break for 15 minutes. Get up and stretch, have a snack, or check your phone. This will help you reset and recharge so you can continue focusing on your school work.Make sure that you set a timer or alarm clock so that your breaks are only fifteen minutes. Dragging breaks out longer can derail your efforts to focus on and complete your school work.
 Homework is no fun. However, if you set attainable goals for yourself and reward yourself for completing them, it will help make school work seem less overwhelming.For example, tell yourself that you need to finish your algebra homework within an hour so that you can watch your favorite show before bed. Setting a goal with a clear reward at the end will help motivate you to stay focused on completing your work.