 Something fun & cool. Something other than stamp collecting .Good hobbies are sewing,creative writing,most sports(with the exception of rarely heard of sports),and music. Try to have at least 3 or 4 interesting hobbies.;
, DON'T go around saying 'hi' to everyone like a maniac. Just try being nice more often. For example, if you have the same classes with someone, yet don't know his/her name, go up to them and say, "Hey, we have the same classes don't we? What's your name?" and smile very politely.
 Such as the popular group, the smart kids, the skater dudes, surfer dudes...everyone. Try to open up a bit and accept people for who they are. Not everyone is like you. And they'll very much appreciate it if you don't judge them just by who they talk to or what they look like. People will find you very unique and fun if you get along with all types of people. :) Just avoid bullies and girls who gossip too much.(But still treat them nicely, just don't hang out with them)

, Please, do not wear black lipstick, black eyeliner, black eye shadow and all that if you're a natural bubbly person. (Nothing against people who wear all black). Dress like how YOU feel. But don't show up to school looking like a hooker. That will open you up to a new set of problems. If you're more of a girly girl, try showing that more by your clothes. I know appearance isn't everything. But it does play a huge role in inviting people in. I mean, who would think that a girl who wears sweat pants (even though they're super comfy) and over sized t-shirts, interesting (or even attractive)? Just make sure you dress appropriately yet fun. Don't wear too much makeup. For middle school, use clear concealer for bags\ zits\ red spots, a blush one shade lighter than your skin tone, eyeshadow one shade darker than your skin tone, and clear lipgloss. For high school, use the same thing but with brown\ clear mascara, brown eyeliner. Both middle schoolers and high schoolers can curl their eyelashes.
 Trying to be "interesting" doesn't mean you have to change yourself at all. You're just trying to find the fun side of you.
 Just because you have new friends, doesn't mean you have to be rude to another person or dismiss them at all. Be polite, kind and help anyone in need when you can.
 They were the ones who always stuck with you. Be sure not to instantly ditch them. They should still be your friends.
 Take up new things. If you're good at volleyball, try swimming. You wouldn't want to be good at just one thing would ya? It's always good to have at least 2 things you are really good at. Everyone needs to have something to say at the end of the day new.
 Always! Have a shower every day. Brush your teeth at least twice a day. Make sure you smell awesome all the time. Brush your hair neatly, cut your nails. Wash your face with face scrub.
 Music is the main thing. EVERYONE likes music. However, different people like different things, so find the type of music you like.
 How cool is that? You're one of the most awesome, most interesting girl in school And you get good grades. Make your parents proud, hon. People respect you more if you are smart.
 You should go to parties have fun, learn to have a good time, but, don't lose control and become a party animal. Remember not to be a party pooper either.
 We all know that a group of friends includes a circle of drama. Try not to get caught up in that drama. If you do, this may lead to losing some good friends.

