 Obviously, one of key things about saving money is that you have to have money to save. Earning more gives you more chances to save more. Even though you may not be old enough to get a traditional job, there are ways that you can earn some extra money.Start a lawn mowing business in the summer and a snow shoveling business in the winter. You can even rake leaves for neighbors in the fall. Charge different fees depending on the amount of work to be done and on how large the lawns are. You can advertise your services by making up flyers and sticking them on posts and asking your neighbors to put them up on their doors.Provide pet care services for friends or neighbors. Pets need a lot of care and many pet owners would rather entrust their pet to a responsible child or teenager than send them to a kennel.House sit for neighbors when they go away on vacation. Look after their pets, water their plants, and pick up their mail. This is a great way to be both neighborly and to gain a little extra something on the side., Host a neighborhood bake sale or lemonade stand in the summer. Take your used video games to a local games store, or your old but still-in-good-condition clothes to a consignment shop. If you're familiar with buying-and-selling online, consider selling old baseball cards, electronics or collectibles over various well-known sites. Hold a garage sale once or a couple of times a year.There are lots of great ways to make a little extra money by offering a product for sale or by trading in your old stuff for cash. Be creative so you can meet your savings goal!

, If you get some cash on holidays or your birthday, always save at least half of that. Some families even give children savings bonds for college or money earmarked for long-term savings. Put those in the bank though, not in your piggy bank.


Remember about the "out of sight, out of mind" principle. Take out your savings share and put it away immediately. Convince yourself that you only got $60, not $120 for your birthday by making half of it "disappear" right away.
 Put all of your spare change from leftover lunch money or what have you into a glass jar or piggy bank and cash it in every once in a while. You will be surprised at how much you can save without even really trying very hard!Many banks (especially if you have an account there) have change-counting machines that don't charge fees. So don't worry about those little paper sleeves for pennies, etc.
 See if your parents will “match” your savings in order to encourage you to develop good saving habits. Let's say you save $40 a month and put it into a savings account. You could ask if your parents would be willing to match your savings and add $40 of their own.


Akin to the "matching donation" idea that charities employ, this method will provide you with extra incentive to save. Your parents may or may not support the idea, but they might be more willing to do so if you're saving for something that is important to them, like your education.