 Before continuing, install your favorite softwares, tweak your system settings, delete unwanted documents, and so on. You might even want to go as far as re-installing your entire system to get a clean start. Here is a short list of what to do before remastering.


Install favorite programs
Uninstall unwanted programs
Remove all personal documents, pictures, music, etc.
Change default username and password
Clear browser's history/cache
Update/upgrade softwares;
, This remastering program is no longer supported, but it is still completely functional and works like a charm. In short, search for remastersys_3.0.4-2_all.deb in this website. Then download and install the deb package. This article will provides more precise instructions on how to do that.
 First, right-click the ubiquity entry and click Mark for Installation. Then mark all additional required dependencies to be installed as well. Next, mark ubiquity-frontend-gtk and it's additional dependencies to be installed as well. This is the installer you will use when installing your system to someone else's machine. Optionally, you can download a slideshow to be displayed during the installation.
 After Synaptic completes the installation, search your applications for Install RELEASE. If the software is present, you are ready to continue on to the next step.
 Navigate to /etc/lightdm/ and check if there is a file called lightdm.conf. If not, open your text editor, like gedit or mousepad, and create a empty file there. Name it lightdm.conf.
 You will be required to provide an administrative password. Then click Customize. In this section you can do the following:


Change the splash image
Change the Grub image (boot manager)
Change the Plymouth theme (boot animation)
Select user settings
Configure Remastersys settings

, If you want your system to contain any personal documents and software settings, click the Backup option. If you want your system to resemble a Linux distribution, select the Distribution option. Depending on the size of your system and the speed of your computer, this process will take a minimum of 10 minutes.




This article will guide you in creating a bootable USB stick.

This article will guide you in creating a bootable CD/DVD.

