 Once you’ve established what your report will focus on, write down everything that you know about the topic. This will give you a place to start. Even if you don’t know much about the topic, having a starting point for your research alleviates the pressure of not knowing where to start in the writing process.


As you write down what you know about the topic, look for gaps in your knowledge. For example, if you're writing a report about the history of a park in your city, you may realize that you don't know who originally designed the park, or what the area was before it became a park.
Write out questions you'll need to answer in order to complete the report, such as "What year was the park founded?"

, After you’ve picked your own brain about what you already know about your report topic, it's time to turn to books, articles, and other good sources of information so you can find out more. Verify what you know and expand those ideas by finding more information that supports your ideas. Utilizing different sources can help to build your bibliography of references.It depends on the assignment, but you should aim to use at least three different sources of information when gathering research for your report. Utilize sources such as articles from scholarly databases, articles from newspapers and magazines, book excerpts and credible, trustworthy websites.Many of the sources you need can be found online, which will help you to write your report as quickly as possible.
 All of your sources will contain more information than what you need to complete your report. It's up to you to read the sources and figure out which facts you'll need to include. You may want to print out the sources material so you'll be able to write on it and highlight the parts that will be useful for your report.


Take notes that will help you begin to construct an outline for your report. For example, you may decide to focus your report on comparing your city park's original usage to its modern usage.
Write down the bibliographical information for each of your sources.

