 For an example, the word arithmetic. It sounds fairly hard, right? Well, think of the word this way: A-rat-in-the-house-might-eat-the-ice-cream. Take the first letter of each word and you get: "arithmetic." Now, when that caller says, "ARITHMETIC!" you'll know exactly what to spell. Although this might not work if you need to learn 400 words, but it will definitely help if you are struggling with 1 or 2.;
, As soon as you get the study guide, start studying. Whenever you have free time, before you go to bed at night, it doesn't matter. But not having to cram three days before the Spelling Bee really does make a difference...if your brain learns the words slowly instead of rapidly, it will give you time to process the information--plus, your brain doesn't enjoy having to handle so much stress which is caused by impossible words and very little time.
 A nice, quiet room with good lighting would be an ideal place. Choose a day where you have nothing else to worry about, time, and your ready-to-think brain. Also, make sure there are as little distractions as possible. (TVs, the neighbor's dog barking, music, etc; should not be heard/seen at this time.)

, This can be done in any way, really. Like, while you are walking the dog, spell the word c-a-n-i-n-e in your head. Or, when you are doing the laundry, d-e-t-e-r-g-e-n-t. You should probably do this after your study--don't try to guess how to spell a word, you may misspell it. (English has some very weird rules that are sometimes not followed.)

, If you are struggling over a few words. Don't stress out. Get a reliable adult or friend to help you test on your spelling words.
 You've studied, you've worked, you've done everything you can--now it's time to shine! Study as little as possible during this time, you probably just want to kick back and watch a movie. (Try to watch Akeelah and The Bee, it has some good tips.)br>

, Interest is of importance in study. If you are lazy and want to do nothing, you won't memorize words any more.

