 Cut a potato in half with a knife. Drizzle dish soap onto the cut end of the potato. Rub away rust by firmly scouring rusted areas with the soapy potato. This method can be messy; work over a sink or outside for easier cleanup.


The potato-soap approach to rust removal is most effective on small, light rust stains that are easily accessible.;
, Scrub away loose rust flakes with a wire bristle brush. Cut a lemon or lime in half with a knife. Sprinkle a generous amount of salt onto rusty areas. Squeeze the juice from your cut lemon or lime over the salt. Wait 30 minutes to an hour, then scrub at the rust with the rind of the lemon or lime. Rinse the metal with water and then dry it with a towel.


It may take several applications of salt and lemon/lime juice before the rust is removed. Repeat this process as necessary.
This method is suitable for light rust stains, especially those on kitchen knives. Use caution when cleaning knives to prevent accidental cuts., Rinse the rusted metal with water and shake it dry over your sink or outside. Sprinkle baking soda onto areas with rust. The soda will stick to the still damp metal. Leave the soda for about an hour, then scour rust away with steel wool, a scouring pad, or a metal bristle brush. Rinse the item with water and dry it with a towel.


This technique is most useful for light rust, rust rings, rusty baking pans, and other kinds of thin metal that have developed rust.
While scrubbing, use firm, steady pressure. It may take some time before the rust comes free. If rust remains after rinsing, repeat this process until the rust is completely removed., Fill a bucket with enough vinegar to completely submerge the rusty metal. Remove loose flakes of rust by brushing afflicted areas with a wire bristle brush or steel wool. Soak the item in vinegar overnight, then rinse the item in water and dry it with a towel.


Larger rusty items may not fit in a bucket. In these situations, saturate rags in white vinegar and wrap these around rusty areas. Leave the rags on overnight, then brush, rinse, and dry the item as per usual.
This rust removal technique works well for severe rust, especially on steel tools. Vinegar will not harm the surface or integrity of steel.
The longer you leave items in vinegar, the more effective it will be. Soak heavily rusted items for longer periods of time. Repeat this process as necessary to remove stubborn rust., Follow the directions on the citric acid to mix it with hot water to form a cleaning solution. Immerse your rusted steel item in the solution for 8 to 10 hours or overnight. Avoid soaking items for more than 24 hours. After soaking, use a stiff or wire bristle brush to remove any leftover flakes. Rinse the item in water and dry it with a towel.


Citric acid can be purchased at most grocery and health stores. You can usually find it in the canning section. In some cases, citric acid may go by the name “sour salt.”
Most citric acid products are prepared by adding 2 or 3 tbsp (30 to 44 ml) of acid to a moderate amount of hot water in a bucket.
Citric acid will remove paint from items. It is safe for use on steel, and works well for removing heavy rust.