 Not only are they good for your body, but they are great for your skin because they’re full of vitamins and antioxidants. Incorporate as many fresh fruit and veggies in your diet as possible.Apricots, blueberries, and yellow bell peppers contain antioxidants, which can help keep you looking youthful.Avocados can help hydrate your skin.
Carrots can help brighten your complexion
Pumpkin and kiwi can help keep your skin soft, smooth, and supple.
Spinach, kale, and other dark, green, leafy vegetables contain antioxidants that help protect your skin from environmental factors.
Tomatoes can help protect your skin against sun damage.
 Fats aren’t necessarily unhealthy if you eat the right kind. Monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats can actually help keep your skin healthy and youthful. Incorporate foods with healthy fats in your diet in moderation.Olive oil contains monounsaturated fatty acids, which are good for you.
Salmon, sardines, and mackerel contain omega fatty acids, which are part of a healthy diet.Grass-fed beef contains omega-6 fatty acids, which can help keep your skin taut and youthful.If you’re a vegetarian or vegan, try walnuts instead. They also contain healthy fatty acids., Processed or refined carbohydrates, as well as unhealthy trans and saturated fats can be potentially damaging for your skin. Avoid consuming too much sugar too as it can cause breakouts in acne-prone skin., Chocolate is often thought to be being unhealthy, but it actually contains antioxidants, which can hydrate, soothe, and protect the skin. Stick to 1-ounce (15-gram) portions, you can get all its benefits without packing on weight.


Chocolate can also help improve skin texture and appearance and prevent acne and premature aging.Chocolate also has some cardiovascular benefits, though the extent of these is still debated.For the healthiest option, choose dark chocolate.
 If your skin starts to look a little dry and dull, it may mean you’re not drinking enough water. Drink at least 8 8-ounce (240-milliliter) glasses of water daily to rid your skin of toxins.Drinking so much water may sound like a hassle, but it can leave your skin looking youthful, bright, and glowing.
Drinking plenty of water may also help reduce acne and keep your skin looking clear.
 Being in the sun is good - it boosts your vitamin D levels and keeps your bones in tip-top shape. However, the sun’s rays can be very harmful. Choose sunscreen with a minimum SPF30 for daily use and reapply every two hours.Wear sunscreen every day, even during the darker, colder winter months.Avoid the sun between 10am and 4pm, as this is when its rays are most harmful.
If you don't like wearing sunscreen, consider using a moisturizer or foundation that already has sunscreen in it.
If you swim or sweat a lot, you may need to reapply sunscreen more often.Avoid tanning beds. They contribute to skin cell damage and all too often lead to skin cancer., Not getting enough sleep can make your skin appear dull and sallow and result in bags or shadows under your eyes. Getting enough sleep will reduce wrinkles and under-eye puffiness, and give you a healthy, glowing complexion.Teens need about 9 hours of sleep a night.
 Stress can not only wreak havoc on your mind and sleep, but your skin as well. It can lead to acne, breakouts, and other skin problems. Set realistic goals and limits for yourself, and leave time each week to do things that you enjoy.Take a walk around the block to work off your stress. The fresh air may also help calm your mind.
Try some breathing exercises. They will force your mind to focus on the exercise and help you forget whatever it is that is stressing you out.

Meditate. It is an ancient practice that has been around for centuries—and for good reason! Many people find that it helps them clear their minds and relax.
 Exercise increases blood flow to your skin and supplies it with oxygen and nutrients. The sweat can also help flush out the toxins in your skin, so aim to get at least 1 hour of physical activity every day., Smoking depletes oxygen and nutrient levels in your skin. It also damages collagen and elastin, which results in wrinkles.Smoking often leads to premature aging, such as fine lines around the mouth.
 Hair has natural oils that can wreck havoc on your skin, especially if it’s very sensitive. To prevent damage, use a silk or satin pillowcase or hair scarf. That will also help prevent creases and wrinkles on your face., Clean your makeup brushes regularly to prevent the build up and spread of acne-causing bacteria. Avoid going to sleep with the night’s makeup still on -- it will clog your pores and lead to breakouts.If you find that you’re often too tired to wash your face at the end of the day, keep makeup removing wipes in your bedside table so you can quickly remove most of the residue before you go to sleep.
 Consulting a doctor who's trained in identifying and treating skin problems is your best bet for pursuing anti-aging care. If you’re worried about wrinkles, easy bruising, or potentially concerning moles or birthmarks, check with a qualified professional rather than jump on the latest fad.Talk to your doctor about having any bothersome age spots or tags removed.
 Aging is natural, and there’s no clinically-proven way to look 15 years younger from one day to the next. Using sunscreen, applying moisturizer regularly, and living a healthy lifestyle will get you the farthest. Beware of health scams. You can spend thousands of dollars on face creams and treatments and see no results. If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
 Vitamin C prompts the production of collagen, vitamin B3 helps with cell regeneration and may improve the elasticity of skin, and Vitamin E has anti-inflammatory properties., Retinol, in particular, is made from vitamin A and signals to your skin that it should produce more collagen and elastic fibers. It can also reduce the signs of early skin aging, including loss of elasticity and wrinkles.Retinaldehyde and tretinoin are derivatives of Vitamin A and can also promote skin healing.
To see results, you’ll need to use a retinoid product for a few months.
Some people experience sensitivity and irritation with retinoids. Start out applying the product every other night to minimize the possible dryness, redness, and flaking.
 It helps draw water into the skin to plump it up and smooth out wrinkles. A moisturizing night cream with hyaluronic acid can help give you a more youthful appearance if you use it regularly., Chemical peels, lasers, and dermal fillers won’t necessarily put a stop to the aging process, but they may offer a temporary solution to your concerns. You can also talk to your doctor about Hormone Replacement Therapy, though you can’t expect an anti-aging result.Speak to your doctor if you're interested in these procedures. They're not appropriate for everyone, and your dermatologist can advise you whether they're right for you.

