 The heat of the water relaxes your skin and opens your pores, which helps gets rid of of excess oil, which may cause blackheads and acne.The water doesn't need to be so hot that it is uncomfortable, just warm enough for cleansing.;
, This doesn't mean to just get some soap and rub it all over your face. Choose an oil-free, water-based skin care product for best results.Some kinds of cleansers may be specifically marketed for facial care; it is up to you to judge whether or not these help you with your complexion.


Over-the-counter acne creams may be desirable, as they contain ingredients such as benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid, which help dry skin oils.But keep in mind that medicated cleansers, as well as facial scrubs, products containing astringents, and body wash, may irritate your face rather than cleanse it. Use what feels right for your body.
 Cleansers, if drying on your skin, may themselves be irritating. You may wish to wash it off with colder water, which can make your skin feel tighter. If you wear makeup, always remove it before going to bed.
 Facial lotions will moisturize your skin, keeping it from producing too much oil. There are many kinds of different skin types, so there are many kinds of different lotions. Choose one that fits your skin type and lifestyle; for example, if you are acne-prone, you may want to try an oil-free gel rather than a heavy lotion. Other lotions contain plant-based oils that may be necessary for skin that tends to be dry., Keeping your bed linens clean is key to maintaining clean pores. If dirt, oil, and bacteria build up on your sheets, then they can transfer to your skin and clog your pores. Additionally, silk pillowcases can help prevent wrinkling, which can minimize the look of your pores., Keep your pores clearer with a diet that features fruits, vegetables, dairy, and lean meats. These foods will provide you with nutrients that can help the overall look of your skin. Choose foods that are low-glycemic and minimally processed to promote healthier skin.To stay hydrated, drink 8-10 glasses of water., Clean pores don't just happen in the shower; they must also be maintained. Choose a daily sunscreen that will protect your skin, and make sure you keep your skin clean (for instance, after exercising) without overwashing.