 Apply a hair mask at least once a month to provide deep conditioning and to encourage softness and shine. Use a hair mask that's specially designed for your hair type, whether your hair is dry, oily or colored. Good hair masks can be found in pharmacies and hair salons. Alternatively, you can make your own hair mask, using ingredients from your kitchen.



For all hair types: avocado and honey: Cut and scoop out the flesh from a ripened avocado and mix in a tablespoon of organic honey. Apply to hair and allow it to sit for 20 minutes before rinsing it off in the shower.For dry hair: olive oil and egg: Combine three tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil with two eggs and apply the mixture to your hair and let the mixture sit for 20 minutes before rinsing in the shower. If you do not like the smell of raw eggs, you can use a ready egg oil (eyova) instead.For oily hair: apple cider vinegar and lemon: Combine 1/4 cup of apple cider vinegar with the grated peel of an entire lemon and allow it to set for 15 minutes to absorb the excess oil from your scalp, and then rinse in the shower.For flaky scalp: banana, honey and almond: Mash together 1/2 a ripe banana and add two tablespoons of honey and a few drops of almond oil and allow it to set with a shower cap on for 20 minutes before rinsing., Apply to serum to wet hair before drying, or to freshly blow-dried hair. It will help keep your hair soft and shiny, while minimizing frizz.


Usually only a very small amount of serum is required (dime-sized amount).
Apply serum to ends and mid lengths of hair, but avoid the roots, otherwise your hair will look greasy.
 It is crucial to apply some sort of heat protection product before subjecting your hair to high temperatures from irons and dryers. Heat is your hair's worst enemy, so use a heat-protection spray to lock in moisture and minimize burning and breakage.


Heat protection products come in many forms, including sprays, serums, mousses and creams.
Always apply heat protection to wet or damp hair to ensure it absorbs fully. If you apply to dry hair, it will sit on top of the hair and will not provide adequate heat protection.
 You know how important it is to protect your skin from harmful UV rays, but what about your hair? The sun can be drying and damaging to your hair, so it's important to use products that are specifically designed to minimize of sun damage. These products can help prevent highlighted hair from lightening too quickly and looking fried, and they can keep dark hair from turning brassy or red.Most UV shields are finishing products such as UV-based hairsprays or leave-in conditioners.
Keep in mind that UV shielding products always need to be applied to damp hair. Otherwise, they'll sit on the surface and won't sink into the hair., Avoid shampoos, conditioners and other hair care products that contain harsh sulfates, parabens or sodium chlorine. These ingredients will build up in hair over time, causing damage and weighing down your locks.