 Recognize the timeslots you have available to work on homework. You will have different amounts of time to work on homework different days of the week. This will require you to plan accordingly. If you’re involved in extracurricular activities on certain days of the week, get in the practice of working on conflicting homework assignments ahead of time.


Think about how long it will take you to complete assignments and plan accordingly.
Schedule specific portions of larger projects separately.If you struggle with finding large enough time slots to complete your homework, recognize that you need to make the time to do so. For instance, if you spend a good portion of each evening socializing with friends (online or in person), do all of your homework before you go out or get online.
 Getting up earlier will almost immediately improve your ability to get more done on a typical day. Even if you only get up a half an hour earlier every day, you can use this extra time to get ahead on reading and other responsibilities.


Kick starting your day will increase your productivity generally and prepare you for more efficient homework sessions.Stick with it. If you get in the habit of getting up a bit earlier, you’ll likely start going to bed earlier as well.
Don’t fall into the trap of staying up late working on homework, as your focus and productivity is greatly diminished late at night.
 This may seem obvious, but it will likely take more effort than you think. It’s easy to get distracted by friends or others’ activities.


Wear headphones and sit facing a wall if you’re prone to visual distraction.
Remind yourself that getting your homework done during school hours allows you to do whatever you want in your free time, including hang out with friends.
 One of the reasons you should start thinking about assignments as soon as they are assigned is to ensure you understand what will be necessary to complete your homework before you sit down to really work on it (in terms of both time and materials).


If you are ever unsure of an assignment, ask your teacher about it as soon as you have a question.
Get a jumpstart on weekend homework on Thursday or Friday. If you know you’re going to need to do some homework over the weekend, try to get it done earlier so you can relax and enjoy yourself over the weekend as well.
Do not leave all of your weekend homework for Sunday.
Try to plan weekend social activities for Saturday, and dedicate at least a few hours of Friday evening to schoolwork. If you do end up with plans on a Friday night, make sure you set aside a few hours on Saturday to work on homework.

