 All cases of benzodiazepine withdrawal should be overseen by a doctor who is familiar with the process. He will monitor your safety and progress, making adjustments to your alprazolam withdrawal schedule as needed.


Tell your doctor about all medications and supplements you’re taking. Be sure to mention any medical conditions that you have. These can affect your tapering schedule.;
, Most of the worst-case withdrawal scenarios result from abruptly quitting alprazolam. Quitting cold turkey from any benzodiazepine is unsafe and is not recommended by benzodiazepine experts. It is possible to reduce your alprazolam withdrawal symptoms by taking smaller amounts of the drug in small increments over a long period of time, letting your body adjust to each taper. Then, you can incrementally taper down again. You will not drop off the drug completely until you are down to a minimal dosage.


Tapering schedules with vary with each individual, depending on length of use, dosage, and other factors., If you have been using Alprazolam for a long time (over six months or so), your doctor may switch you to a longer-acting benzodiazepine such as diazepam.Your doctor may also recommend this option if you are on a high dose of Alprazolam. Diazepam works the same way as Alprazolam, but it is longer acting. This means that it stays in your system longer, which may result in fewer withdrawal symptoms.


Another benefit of diazepam is that this drug is readily available in liquid form and smaller dose tablets. Both of these options aid in tapering. The switch from alprazolam to diazepam can be immediate or gradual.
If your doctor chooses to switch you to diazepam, she will adjust your initial dosage of diazepam to equal your current dosage of Alprazolam. Generally speaking, 10 milligrams of Diazepam equals one milligram of Alprazolam., Your doctor may recommend that you divide your total daily dose into a schedule that you take three times a day. This will, of course, depend on your dose and time of use of the benzodiazepine. For example, if you have used alprazolam for a long time, you may have a longer taper schedule or smaller reductions per week.


Your dose schedule may also be adjusted according to how you respond to the taper.
 If you are on diazepam, the doctor generally will recommend decreasing either 20% to 25% of your total dose every two weeks, or 20% to 25% every week first and second week. Then you will likely decrease your dose by 10% every week thereafter. Some doctors recommend tapering 10% every one to two weeks, until you are at a 20% dose. Then you might taper down 5% every two to four weeks.If you are taking diazepam as a replacement for alprazolam, your total dose should not decrease more than about 5 mg of diazepam per week. It should also go down to decreasing by one to two milligrams per week when you reach a small dose like 20 mg of diazepam., No one model fits everyone, just like no pair of shoes fits everyone. Your taper schedule will depend on different things such as how long you have been on Alprazolam and your dose, and your withdrawal symptoms.


If you have been on low, sporadic doses of Alprazolam, your doctor may not recommend tapering or may taper faster than someone who has been on a chronic, steady or high dose.
Generally, anyone who has been on a benzodiazepine for over eight weeks will require a taper schedule.

