 A dance choreographer may require that you bring a headshot (professional photograph) and a dance resume. A dance program admissions committee may have collected all information in advance and require that you simply show up in appropriate dance attire.;
, In open call dance auditions, a headshot is sometimes required. A headshot is typically an 8-inch by 10-inch (20.32 cm by 25.4 cm) photograph of the face. In the dance world, however, it is common for dancers to pose for a full-body photograph that highlights their dance strengths or flexibility. Casting directors typically keep the headshot, particularly if they plan to call you back for a second audition.
 Include your name, contact information and a list of dance accomplishments. List the names of the dance schools you attended, any degrees in dance, and the dance productions and companies for which you've performed. Some dance employers also require a description of your hair color, height and weight.
 If the dance audition requires that you perform a dance solo, choreograph it ahead of time.


Choreograph a solo that highlights your strengths as a dancer and a choreographer. If you are trained in several styles of dance, choose a style that is in alignment with the dance program or choreographer's needs. For example, if applying to a ballet school, choreograph a ballet piece rather than hip hop, unless you're confident that dance versatility will be a selling point.



Wear a leotard and tights. If auditioning for a ballet, jazz or modern dance piece, a leotard and tights are standard attire. More conservative schools prefer distinct colors, for example black leotards, so inquire about these specifics ahead of time.
Bring the right dance shoes. Wear ballet slippers for a ballet class and pointe shoes if you will perform advanced ballet movements. Bring tap shoes to a tap audition. Jazz auditions typically require jazz shoes. A modern or contemporary audition is usually performed in bare feet. For hip hop, wear athletic shoes.
 To ease any nervousness, give yourself enough time to find the audition location and to get warmed up.


Warm up before the audition begins. Avoid auditioning with cold muscles. As soon as you arrive at the audition location, find a spot for warm-up purposes. Once your muscles are warm, stretch them so that you are as flexible as possible.
 It's normal to feel nervous during an audition, particularly if you're auditioning for a highly sought after dance job or slot in a dance school. More than likely, you'll be taught a dance routine on the spot and asked to learn it quickly and perform it, either as a solo or in a group. The more relaxed you are, the easier it will be to rely on your natural talent and dance training to impress the dance judges.

