 If you have an LCD or and LED HDTV, then your TV should have HDMI input ports at the back of the panel. You can refer to your Samsung Galaxy device’s user manual to verify whether it supports HDMI or not.


Most of the high-end Galaxy devices support HDMI connectivity. This feature was introduced after the release of Samsung Galaxy S, so older devices may not be supported.;
, The HDTV adapter by Samsung is usually sold separately from the devices, and you can buy one online from their official store.You can also purchase non-branded HDTV or MHL adapters for Samsung Galaxy devices, which are much cheaper than the original ones from Samsung.


Samsung advises to use only the original Samsung HDTV adapters with the Galaxy devices. Non-branded cables may be inferior in quality or may not work at all.
MHL adapters are the older version of the Samsung HDTV adapters. They work best with the older generation Galaxy devices, but may not work with the latest Galaxy tablets and smartphones.
Apart from the Samsung HDTV adapter which connects to your Galaxy device, you will also need a standard HDMI cable to connect your TV to the HDTV adapter.
 Connect the MicroUSB end of the HDMI adapter cable to your Samsung Galaxy device. Connect one end of the standard HDMI cable to your TV and the other end of the cable to the HDMI adapter.
 The HDMI adapter will not work without a power source, so you need to plug in your Micro USB charger into it.


You can use the MicroUSB cable of your Samsung Galaxy device and connect it to your TV as a power source. You can also connect the HDMI adapter to a Micro USB charging adapter if your TV does not have a USB port.
The HDMI adapter will also keep your Galaxy device charged, so the battery does not drain while it is connected to the TV.
 Press the “Input,” “TV/AV,” or “Source” button on your TV’s remote control. This should display all of the available inputs, including the HDMI channel. Select the HDMI port you have connected the Galaxy Device to, and it should start displaying the display of your device on your TV.
 If you open an app, play a video or view a photo on your device, it will be reflected on your TV as well.


If you cannot see the display of your Galaxy device being mirrored on the TV screen, disconnect the HDTV adapter and reconnect it.
 In order to experience the best sound quality, you may have to change the sound settings from stereo to surround.


Go to the Settings app by tapping the “Gear” icon in the app drawer. Navigate to “My Device” tab and then find the “Accessory” tab.
Locate “Audio Output” and tap on it to select “Surround” as your preferred audio output.

