 In the scrum the hooker is the middle of the front row. Usually if it is your teams ball, you will be able to signal, via your hand which should be visible to your Scrum half, when the ball goes in, This way, you have the element of surprise. Now that the ball rolls in, you want to sweep it back. The ball always (should) comes in from your left. If you are right footed, you want to sweep across the "tunnel" with your foot and gently roll it back between your Loose head Props legs. It sounds pretty easy but it's a challenge whilst the other teams hooker is contesting you.;
, You have no idea when it rolls in and the other Scrum half may try to roll it towards their own side (illegal but popular). The best thing you can do is to shoot out with your good leg and try to either kick or steal the ball. If you can kick it out to your scrum half, he might be able to keep possession of it. Another move involves trying to kick the ball onto the other hooker's legs and so it bounces back to you.
 If it is your teams ball, you are most likely throwing in, so you want to call out your play and throw it through the 'tunnel' so it falls down close to the 'pod' you are throwing to. If your team maintains the ball and the line-out becomes a maul, you want to join in the action.
 If the other team has the ball you will stay in the same area as before, but this time facing side ways towards the other team. So on your outside you have the Opposite Hooker/thrower and on your inside you will have the line-out. When the play is called, you want to read it. If you can learn their calls throughout the game, and give calls/codes of your own, you might very well be able to counter the enemy's move, but if you fail, it might not go down too well. When the ball is thrown, you want to follow the ball on your side, and as soon as it is caught/given to the scrum-half you want to rush into him and tackle him.
 When the ball is being handled by the backs, you want to have a supporting role; following the play and making it to the breakdowns. As a hooker, you are one of the faster/lighter forwards and you should be one of the first on the scene. In rucks/mauls, you are a third prop, and your job is to wreak havoc in the other team's setups. A play might be called where the forwards would advance as a whole to smash through the opposition's defensive line, in this situation, all you can do is smash forward.

