 Over-the-counter Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (or NSAIDS) can be very effective at relieving cramps. NSAIDS are not only analgesics (painkillers) but also anti-inflammatories, which means they help to stimulate blood flow to the uterus, thereby reducing cramping. They may also help reduce the amount of menstrual flow.Common NSAIDS include Ibuprofen and Naproxen.


Not everyone can safely use NSAIDS, however. People who are younger than 16, or who suffer from asthma, liver, or kidney problems should not take NSAIDS. Consult your physician before beginning any painkiller regimen.NSAIDS are the most effective for cramps, but you can take alternative painkillers if you are not permitted to use NSAIDS.For example, painkillers such as acetaminophen might be helpful., In order for the NSAIDS to work effectively, you cannot delay taking them. Begin taking NSAIDS when you first detect your symptoms, and continue taking them as directed for 2-3 days or until symptoms subside. Be sure to follow all package instructions, however.Consider keeping a menstrual diary so that you know when you can begin to experience symptoms each month.
Be sure that you are not taking too many NSAIDS. Follow all instructions on the medication and from your doctor. NSAIDS do have some side effects, especially with long-term use, so be careful not to overdo your painkillers each month., While vitamins do not relieve pain if you are currently experiencing severe menstrual cramping, Vitamin D supplements might be able to prevent menstrual cramps from occurring in the first place.Other supplements that might help reduce cramping are Omega-3 fatty acids, Magnesium, Vitamin E, Vitamin B-1 and B-6.You should consult your physician before beginning a vitamin regimen to ensure that you will not experience any adverse effects. Always follow package instructions carefully when taking over-the-counter medicines and supplements.
 If your cramping is severe, talk to your doctor about prescription options to help you manage the pain. There are a few options that your doctor may recommend:


Hydrocodone and acetaminophen (Vicodin, Lortab) may be recommended for moderate to severe pain caused by cramping.Tranexamic acid (Lysteda) can help if your cramps are caused by excessive bleeding. You take this medication only during menstruation to reduce flow and cramping.