 A flute that works better has a better tone. Period. If your tuning cork is messed up, a key is leaking, the rods are misaligned, or your flute is ailing in any other way, that will negatively affect your tone. To some extent, you can fix things yourself--sticky keys or loose screws--but for most things have your flute checked at a music store., The quality of the metal (whether nickel, silver,gold, or even platinum) and the craftsmanship that went into making a flute drastically affect its tone. They say a master flutist can make even the lowest quality flute sound great, but for the rest of us, instrument quality makes a difference. If you have a beginner's flute and want to play seriously, consider buying a new one. Professional and intermediate flutes are crafted more precisely, and it is easier to get a good tone on many notes., Most beginning flutes are nickel or silver plated nickel. Pure silver (sterling silver) is the next quality up. If you are purchasing an intermediate flute, first go for an all silver headjoint and silver plated body and keys. Then all silver headjoint and body with plated keys, then all silver flute. You can also customize your flute with different gold contents, gold plated on silver, platinum, and more!

Platinum makes your flute sound darker and more powerful, and gold makes your flute have a warmer and luscious tone.
The most important part of the flute is the head joint, so if you cannot afford the body and foot joint, make sure to update the head joint's metal quality at the least.
Some companies sell head joints with "wings" on the lip plate. The "wings" help direct the air in the flute and minimize the amount of air that escapes. It helps you have a clearer tone and sound less airy.
Watch out for gold plated lip plates. They don't affect tone at all and are just for looks.However a better quality riser, the short "chimney" that attaches the lip plate to the head joint, does improve tone.
 There are many components that allow a flute to work, but in particular, look for flutes with open key holes, an in-line G key, a B foot, a gizmo key, and a split E mechanism.





 Open hole on top, close hole or plateau keys on bottom

Open hole keys: These allow the air to go through when uncovered, and this leads to a fuller, more resonant tone. The open holes also create less air resistance, so it is easier to play notes. This is highly recommended, but it will take some adjustment once you switch because you will have to cover the holes completely with your fingers. Start out with plugs in the keys that are hardest to reach, so you can play normally, and work at playing without the plugs while you practice.




 Inline on top, offset on bottom

In line G key: This is a matter of personal preference and won't really affect the tone. An in line G key just means that one key will be a bit harder to reach (see the image to the right). If you have small hands or are used to playing with an offset G key, it is fine to stick with that. The main reason an in line G key is preferred is for the pleasing look of the keys.




 B foot on top, C foot on bottom

B foot: You can purchase a foot joint with a few extra keys that enables you to play one chromatic step lower than usual (a B). This is a good idea because you will probably come across the note in advanced flute literature. A flute with a B foot can also produce fuller tones than the same one with a C foot.




 The gizmo key is the long, little one, closest to the viewer.

Gizmo key: This key will almost always be included in a B foot and makes it easier to play high C or C# (5+ ledger lines).A split E mechanism indicated by the red arrow

Split E Mechanism: A split E mechanism divides the action of the upper and lower G keys. Normally the G keys close together; in a split E mechanism, that is still true, but the lower G can close when the third octave E natural is played. This provides ideal tone hole venting for the high E and can improve tuning and tone for a flutist.