;
, To get the most surface area, try to slice the bread diagonally, instead of straight down.
 You do not need to coat both sides with olive oil. The oil will help create a "barrier" between the topping the bread, and prevent it from getting too soggy.
 Depending on how big your baking sheet is, and how many slices you have, you may need to make several batches.
 The rack should be about 4 to 5 inches (10.16 to 12.7 centimeters) from the heat source. When the edges turn golden brown, take them out.


You can also toast them under a broiler for 3 minutes, turning once.For richer bruschetta, melt some butter in a large skillet. Heat the bread slices in the skillet on both sides until they are golden brown., After this point, you can start preparing the traditional tomato-basil topping, or you can use a different, more unique one., Begin by heating 2 tablespoons of olive oil in a small skillet, then add 5 cloves of minced garlic. Stir, and fry the two together for 1 minute. Remove the garlic when it becomes golden, but don't like it become too brown.
 Make sure that the bowl is large enough to fit the rest of your ingredients. You will eventually be mixing everything in this bowl.
 For a more unique and colorful bruschetta topping, use 1 pint of red grade tomatoes, and 1 pint of yellow grape tomatoes., Take a few basic leaves and stack them. Next, roll them up like a burrito and cinnamon bun. Use a sharp knife to cut the basil into thin, narrow slices. Repeat this step until you have used up all your basil leaves.



For a more flavorful bruschetta, add 2 tablespoons of grated parmesan cheese., This will give the tomatoes enough time to absorb all the flavors., Make sure that you are spreading it on the oily side; the oil will help keep the bread from getting too soggy. You can also serve the mixture in a bowl with a spoon. This way, your guests can pick up how much they want.
 This section will give you several different recipes for bruschetta toppings. They range from sweet to sweet n' savory, to savory.
 Cut a clove of garlic in half, and rub it over the oily side of the toasted bread slices. Finish off with a drizzle of olive oil and a sprinkle of salt and/or pepper.
 Spread some gorgonzola cheese over the oily side of each bread slice. Bake, broil, or grill the bread, cheesy-side-up for a few more minutes until the cheese has melted. Transfer the bruschetta slices to a platter, and drizzle each slice with honey. Serve immediately.You will need about 8 ounces (225 grams) of gorgonzola cheese and 3 tablespoons of honey.
For an added crunch, add some chopped walnuts or pecans on top.
 Spread 2 tablespoons of ricotta cheese over the top of each bread slice. Add 1 tablespoon of marmalade to each slice and serve., Spread some cream cheese over the bread slices, then drape a slice of salmon over each one. Finish off with a sprinkle of dill., Spread some goat cheese onto the toasted bread slices. Place a slice of prosciutto over the cheese. Add two, thin peach slices. Finish off with a drizzle of olive oil and a pinch of sea salt. Serve immediately., In a small bowl, combine 8 ounces (225 grams) of ricotta cheese and the zest of 1 lemon. Add salt and pepper to taste and spread over the toasted bread slices. Finish off with a drizzle of honey and a sprinkle of thyme. Serve while it is still warm., Slice enough strawberries to cover the tops of the toasted bread slices. Generously sprinkle the strawberries with sugar. Turn on the broiler, and heat the bruschetta for about 2 minutes, or until the sugar caramelizes.