 Base your decision on how the software meets the needs of your organization, rather than familiarity with the platform that the program is developed in.;
, Most likely, multiple users will need access to the database at the same time, so the database should support multiple users. Even if you start with a single user, plan for growth of your organization, and expect others to need access to data.
 Microsoft Access and SQL server are some common packages that are easy to use for building a simple database. If you need more advanced designs, it may be better to purchase a system that contains most of the features you need and have it customized, rather than build a custom application.
 While it can be overwhelming and time consuming to examine products in detail, it can take much longer to try to get a database to work if it just doesn't meet your needs.
 Databases hosted on an Internet site have a smaller footprint, without the need for a server and related expenses like support and backup.
 Simple programs like MySQL are free, or very inexpensive, and are useful for many small applications. They can be customized while still saving on overall expense.
 It should be simple enough for the most inexperienced user, with features to ensure that data is entered correctly and checked for errors. Ideally, the database should offer the ability to customize interfaces for power users and administrators.
 Any database that stores private information should be protected from intruders. Companies that collect credit card information are required to encrypt data stored in databases and meet other requirements.
 Most database platforms are relational databases that that use structure or schema, based on tables and fields that relate to each other and include common elements. Non-relational databases are useful for capturing values from non-standard elements like web content, emails and documents.
 Knowing the lingo will make it easier to communicate with vendors and compare options. Get to understand the types of databases and platforms, including Microsoft Access and SQL server as well as free database options.

