 If you're completely unfamiliar with an area, you're more likely to be taken advantage of. This can impact your safety as well as costing you more money than you anticipated.For example, if the taxi driver knows that you don't know anything about the area, they may take you on a long, meandering route to run up the fare.
However, in most countries if you give the driver a specific route they must follow it.
If the taxi driver goes in the wrong direction, or tries to take you on a different route or argue about which way to go, thank them for their time and exit the cab immediately.
 Maintain your safety by ensuring that someone else knows when you are getting in the cab and approximately how long your trip will take – even if that person isn't local.If someone knows you're in a cab, they'll know that if they don't hear from you within a certain amount of time that something might have happened to you. They can take steps to call the appropriate authorities.
If you are meeting someone at your destination, call or text them when you leave so they know when to expect you and can take action if you don't show up on time.
 When you are intoxicated, you are vulnerable – especially if you are in a strange location far from home. This vulnerability is intensified if you're traveling in an area where you aren't fluent in the local language.Protect yourself by not consuming alcohol if you are traveling alone, unless you are in your hotel or other protected place and won't need go anywhere.
If you do have alcohol – say, a couple of glasses of wine at dinner – drink a cup of coffee to sober up a little before your taxi arrives. Don't tell the cab driver that you've been drinking.
 Women in particular should avoid any sort of personal conversation with the cab driver. It can be difficult, particularly if you're on a long ride, not to engage in small talk. However, you will be safer the less the cab driver knows about you personally.If the cab driver asks you personal questions, you can simply say "I don't feel comfortable talking about that." Remember that you are under no obligation to talk to your cab driver.
You also can tell the cab driver initially that you are not interested in carrying on a conversation. Tell them that you've had a long day and you simply want silence.
 Unscrupulous cab drivers who've pegged you for a foreigner may attempt to pass off counterfeit or out-of-date currency as the real thing when giving you your change.Learn about the local currency before you travel to an area, and know what to look for. If the cab driver gives you currency that you suspect is fake, ask them to exchange the bills. If they refuse, call the cab service immediately.
 If you're traveling in a foreign country, make sure you know what number to call if the cab ride takes a turn for the worse and you need assistance from law enforcement.Ideally, you should program this number in your phone so you can call it as quickly as possible if the need arises.
 While you should take care to hide expensive electronics, your phone also is a safety line. If trouble arises or you sense danger, you need to be able to get to your phone quickly.If you have your phone in your hand, keep it lowered at lap level so no one on the street can see it.
Don't put your phone in your back pocket so that you're sitting on it. This can make it difficult to get out in an emergency situation.
If your phone is in a front pocket, make sure the pocket is deep enough that your phone won't slip out when you sit down.

