 While society tends to favor extroverted or outgoing personalities, this doesn't mean that you don't have just as much value. Make a list of all the positive effects your being quiet and reserved might have.You may be an especially good listener.
You might be playing it safe and smart.You may be a good observer of situations and people.
You may be seen as modest.
You may be seen as thoughtful.
What else do you think might be good about being quiet and reserved?;
, If you are having trouble making a list of positives about being quiet and reserved, start writing down specific instances where your personality helped you. You may find that your memory is biased to remember negatives but this technique can help you to find the positives about your personality.If you have a smartphone, jot down your notes there then transfer them to a word document or write your notes down in a journal.
If you don't have a phone that you can take notes on while you're out and about, consider keeping a paper and pen on you so you can write your thoughts down during the day before you forget what happened.
 People have studied the power of quiet and reserved personalities. There are several resources that might give you a new and empowered perspective about yourself, for example:


Try reading the book Quiet by Susan Cain: http://www.npr.org/books/titles/145928609/quiet-the-power-of-introverts-in-a-world-that-cant-stop-talking

Try reading about the evolutionary logic behind your personality. In some environments, introverts thrive more than extroverted individuals, particularly when being outgoing comes with costs (like when living somewhere with lots of infectious diseases, since being outgoing exposes you to more diseases).In other words, there is no one 'best' personality from the perspective of success or survival, but rather it depends on a complex array of things such as one's environment: http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/26/opinion/sunday/26shyness.html


, Once you have realized that there are may positives to being quiet and reserved, try to accept yourself for who you are. Self-acceptance is a positive trait in and of itself. And, as long as you are happy with how you are, that matters most. In fact, many would suggest that being comfortable in your own skin is more important than having in one kind of 'skin' in particular. There a number of tips you can try to become more comfortable in your own skin:


Write down a list of your strengths.
Forgive yourself for past wrongs you have done. Try to keep in mind that mistakes can allow you to learn but don't need to hold you back in life.
Treat yourself well and remember that perfection is not part of the human experience; you will have quirks and faults just like everyone else, and that's OK!

, There are a number of quiet and reserved people who have become successful in their own ways. Consider these individuals:


Bill Gates, founder of Microsoft.
J.K Rowling who wrote the Harry Potter series.
Albert Einstein, one of the greatest physicists of all time.
Rosa Parks, famous Civil Rights activist.

