 The early stage of rabies can last from two to ten days. During this time, the cat will seem sick with non-specific symptoms. Early non-specific signs of rabies include:muscle pain
restlessness
irritability
chills
fever
malaise, which is a general feeling of sickness and discomfort
photophobia, which is a fear of bright lights
anorexia, or a disinterest in food
vomiting
diarrhea
cough
inability or unwillingness to swallow;
, If you think your cat might have come in contact with a rabid animal, check to see if he has any bite marks or signs of a fight. The rabies virus can live on the cat’s skin or hair for up to two hours, so wear gloves and a long-sleeved shirt and pants before handling the cat. When an infected animal bites another animal, the infected animal’s saliva may transmit rabies to the healthy animal. Once the disease enters the body, it travels via the nerves to the spinal cord and brain.Take your cat to a veterinarian right away if you notice any:


bite marks
scabs
scratches
ruffled fur with dried saliva
abscesses

, The dumb form of rabies the most common form of rabies in cats. A cat suffering from dumb form rabies will seem lethargic, confused, and sick.In this form of rabies, cats are not vicious and rarely attempt to bite. Symptoms of dumb or paralytic rabies include:paralysis (inability to move) of the legs, facial muscles, or other parts of the body
dropping of the lower jaw, leading to a “dumb” look.
excess salivation that creates a foam around the mouth
difficulty swallowing

, Cats with the furious form of rabies are often aggressive, display abnormal behavior, and will foam around the mouth. Most people think of these behaviors when they think of rabies, but the furious form of rabies is less common in cats than the paralytic form. Call animal control to assist you if you think a cat is suffering from the furious form of rabies. A cat with furious form rabies will attack, so do not attempt to capture the cat on your own. Signs of furious form rabies include:profuse salivation that looks like foam around the cat’s mouth
hydrophobia, seeming afraid to go near water or frightened by the sound of water
aggression, such as baring teeth as if ready to bite
restlessness
disinterest in food
biting or attacking
abnormal behavior, such as chewing on its own body

