 There are a variety of self-tanning gels, creams, lotions, mousses and sprays on the market from which to choose. You'll also need to select a self-tanner based upon its shade, which is dictated largely by a color additive called DHA (dihydroxyacetone).Choose one with your skin tone in mind, not the desired result. If you have a fairer complexion, go for a medium tone. If you have an olive complexion, go for a darker tone. Here are some more tips.


The best way to select one initially is to go online and read reviews.
Self-tanners that contain green pigments help offset the orange effect.Lotions are often best for beginners because they take longer to absorb, giving you more time to correct mistakes, while mousses and sprays dry faster so are best used by the more experienced.
Gels spread easily and work well for people with normal to oily skin.
Do a skin patch test first by applying some to your stomach, which is usually pale, and let it dry and set overnight. In the morning take a look to see if the color looks good on you., You want to prepare your skin prior to applying the self-tanner you've chosen. So shave or wax, exfoliate from head to foot and make sure your skin is completely dry. The last part is critical. Also apply Vaseline to your eyebrows and as close to your hairline as possible so if you get the self-tanner on your eyebrows or hair neither will change color.If you wax, however, do so at least 24 hours before you put on the self-tanner so your skin doesn't become irritated. Waxing, in fact, might be better than shaving because shaving every day can reduce the life of your tan by stripping it away.
For the same reason, limit your exfoliation. Self-tanners typically only last up to a week, so don't exfoliate until right before you reapply. Avoid exfoliators that are oil-based because they leave residues that can cause streaking., These will keep your hands from getting overly orange or dark while you are applying the self-tanner.Alternatively, you can thoroughly wash your hands with soap and water after you apply the self tanner to various sections of your body., Dab some non-oil-based lotion to your knees, ankles, elbows, around your nostrils and other particularly dry areas to help the self-tanner better absorb into these areas. Some people will put a thin layer of lightweight lotion all over their body before applying self-tanner, but this is not needed and many recommend against doing it altogether.
 To eliminate tan line creases from bending over, start at your feet before moving on to your ankles and legs. Use about 1 teaspoon (4.9 ml) at a time and blend using small, circular motions with your hands. Next apply it to your stomach, chest, shoulders, sides, arms and armpits. Remove your gloves and apply a little to your hands, avoiding your palms. Then use a lotion strap, wand, or sponge paintbrush to cover your back with the self-tanner. Finally, apply it to your face by using a dime-sized amount to your cheeks, forehead, nose, and chin, blending outward with your fingertips. Use the remainder around your hairline and jawbone.Wash your fingertips thoroughly with soap and water after applying the self-tanner to your face.
You can buy the items for back coverage online relatively inexpensively. If you don’t feel comfortable using them, you could ask someone to apply the self-tanner to your back for you.
If you’re using a spray self-tanner, you can apply it to your back in the shower. Hop in, look over your shoulder, spray plenty into the air behind you and then step back into the mist. Do this several times to make sure you get enough on your skin., To speed up the drying process, take a blow dryer, and on low heat, blow-dry all the areas that you’ve applied the self-tanner. You only need to apply the heat for a few seconds to each area. After that, it’s a matter of waiting. Even if some claim to dry in 15 or 20 minutes, wait at least an hour before you put on any clothes or go to bed.Before putting on clothing, use a brush to thinly coat your body with talc-free baby powder. This will help prevent any color from getting on your clothes.Because getting wet is your tan’s worst enemy during this time, don’t shower or exercise (sweat) for at least six hours after you apply self-tanner.
Your best bet is to put the self-tanner on about an hour or two before you go to bed. You also might want to wear long sleeves and pants, and put some towels down on your bed, to ensure no color gets on your sheets.
 If you wake up and notice splotches, streaking or uneven distribution, there are a couple of things you can do to help fix the problems: a) add just a little bit more self-tanner and blend it really well (this works best for areas that are lighter or for splotches) and b) rub lemon juice on the area for 1-2 minutes and then buff it with a damp towel (this works better if an area got too dark or for streaking).
 Different self-tanners last for different lengths of time, though typically you will need to reapply once per week. You can help lengthen that amount of time by moisturizing regularly; washing with gentle, non-abrasive cleansers; avoiding acne treatments containing retinol; and not exfoliating more than once between applications.


Remember: Although you look tan, you still need to wear sunscreen when you go into the sun.