 Realms doesn't work in older versions of Minecraft, and Snapshot releases are not supported for this feature, so make sure you have your Minecraft updated in order to create or join servers.


The button only appears if you are playing the newest official released version, which at the moment is 1.8.7

You must have validly purchased your copy of Minecraft in order to purchase a Minecraft Realms server.
Uninstall any mods or texture packs, as these can often cause Realms to not work properly.
Minecraft Realms is currently only available for the PC version, though a Pocket Edition version is planned for the future.;
, As soon as you click on Minecraft Realms, you will be directed to the network window, similar to Multiplayer.


You can see the More Info button at the bottom of the screen, which, if clicked, will pop up a browser that leads to the Minecraft website.
The Configure button is for customizing the settings for your game.
Lastly, you will find the Play button.
 In order for you to create your very own Realm, you must subscribe first. Depending on which type of subscription you purchase, you will have a different length on your server rental.


Existing subscription can be renewed via the link in-game found in the Minecraft Realm page by clicking More Info. This will take you to your Mojang account page where you can choose to extend your subscription.
Anyone wishing to buy a Realm must migrate their account to a global Mojang account.
Subscriptions are available in chunks of one, three, and six months. The basic price per month is $13, but this goes down for longer subscriptions.
 After subscribing, the Create Realm option will be available and ready for you to use. Click on Create Realm, give your Realm a name and a description, set the difficulty, and you're ready to play the server.


Once you see your Realm pop up on the list, you can go ahead and double-click to play it.
Compared to using Hamachi or Port Forwarding, Realms stay online 24/7 with or without the host playing in the server.
Realms can only be accessed by people you allow. You can invite up to 20 people to join your Realm, and 10 can be connected at once.
 If you want to change the settings, create backups, reset your Realm, or invite players in your world, just go to the settings on the Configure Realm page. Click on the button to open up the window to start customizing your Realm.
 In this section, you're able to edit the name, change the description, increase or decrease difficulty, and switch the game mode of your Realm.


Once you're done, click the Done button, and your changes will automatically be saved.
 This will "whitelist" players to the Realm, and they will be able to access it. To invite a friend, click Invite then type in their username.


You can highlight an invited player's name and click the Uninvite button to un-whitelist them, thereby blocking their access to your Realm.
 The Backups button lets you access backups of your Realm. The Minecraft Realm service regularly backs up your game, allowing you to revert to a previous world state if something goes terribly wrong.


You can restore your Realm to a previously saved backup, or download the latest backup directly to your computer.
 If you want to restart your Realm and delete everything that has been created, click the Reset Realm button. This button will reset your world, allowing you to start over if you want to. You can revert to a previous world if it is still on the backup list; other than that, the change is permanent.


In this setting, you have the ability to specify a seed or pick from a list of custom maps that you wish to play with.
 Click the Subscription Button. This button will allow you to view your remaining subscription time for that Realm, as well as follow a link you can use to extend it.
 Click Close Realm. This is to close down your created Realm. This will make your Realm unavailable to anyone but you. It's not yet proven if this is reversible, so it's best to leave it alone for now.


Do not do this unless you no longer wish to own a Realm.
 As mentioned, you need to update your Minecraft to the latest official version; otherwise, the new Minecraft Realm button won't be available.


Also, if you have any resource packs installed, remove them.
 After updating your game, click on Minecraft Realms. Make sure that your friend who created the Realm added you to their whitelist. If they did, you will be able to see an invitation icon at the upper part of your screen, next to the Minecraft Realms title.


Click the invitation open, highlight the server name, and then press Accept.
The Realm will appear on your list after clicking Accept, and you can start playing it with your friends.
Choosing Reject will remove your name from the whitelist. You will no longer be able to access the Realm unless the owner of the Realm invites you again.
 With the Realm name in your list, highlight the name and double-click it or press Play to join.


Highlighting the Realm name and pressing Leave Realm will make the Realm disappear from your list. You will no longer have access to the Realm unless the Realm owner invites you again.

