


Consider the type of surface you'll be walking on and choose wedding shoes that offer enough stability. For example, you can wear most kinds of heels inside, but if you're getting married on a lawn or a beach, wedges, flats, and even elegant flip-flops are an excellent choice.
If you're getting married in a cold church during the winter, you'll need shoes that keep your feet warm but are still elegant. If you're getting married during a rainy season, the water can stain your shoes, especially if they're satin or suede. Make sure to apply a water-resistant coating to protect them.;
, If so, choose shoes that can be easily combined with other outfits and are durable enough to wear often.



Color is an important factor. Though most brides choose shoes in the same color as their dresses, some prefer a contrasting or bolder color such as bright red or light blue. If you choose wedding shoes in the same color as your gown, bring along a piece of the gown's fabric when buying wedding shoes to make sure you choose the exact same tint.
Determine how high you want the heels of your shoes to be, and how narrow the toes. Be very careful not to buy shoes for your wedding that are too uncomfortable to wear for a long period of time, as you'll need them during the ceremony, the reception, and the wedding dinner or party (unless you change outfits and/or shoes after the ceremony).
Decide what types of embellishments you want your wedding shoes to have. You can choose them to match the decorations on your dress or to contrast with your dress. For example, if your wedding dress has a lot of lace on it, you can choose lace shoes with the same pattern, or choose elegantly simple shoes with no embellishments. Or if your dress is very simple, with clear lines and few or no embellishments, you can choose wedding shoes with embellishments such as diamonds or flowers to match your wedding jewelry.
If your wedding dress is a mini-dress or another dress that leaves part of your legs bare, your shoes become more of a focal point, so be sure to coordinate them properly with the dress.
If you find shoes that are the right style but not the right color, formal wear shops can usually dye them to match your dress or another color of your choice.
 Make sure to keep the receipt so you can return them in case anything is unsatisfactory.
 You can return them if they're unsuitable.

