 If you are not dating him, he might not be worth your concern at all. If you are already dating him, assess his language to see if he is trying to express genuine concern for your well-being or if he is just making a hurtful comment about your physical appearance.Either way, your response is a chance to tell this person how you allow them to treat you in the future. If he is simply being nasty, kick him to the curb. Criticizing a loved one will never lead them to lose weight, and often causes bitterness and unintentional weight gain. If he can’t discuss it in a helpful or sympathetic way, he’s not worth worrying about.
If he is trying to express concern for your health, turn it into a two-way conversation, without blaming or hurting feelings. He may just want to keep you around this world as long as possible and serious health problems are associated with being overweight.
It is OK to decide to not spend time with negative people who focus on appearances!, The best way to close down negativity is to counter it with positivity. Say something about yourself, focusing on your good qualities, or say something nice about the boy. Either way, you are redirecting the tone of the conversation in a good way. Your most important qualities are those that affect what kind of person you are, rather than what others think about your appearance. Say something like, “That’s your opinion, but I think of myself as a straight-A student,” or “…as a loyal and committed friend.”
If saying something about him, be sure to focus on non-physical qualities so that he knows that defining someone by their appearance is unacceptable.
 If you can’t think of something nice to say in return, or feel too emotional to respond confidently in that way, simply change the conversation by starting a completely new one. Ask him about the test you just took in class, or if he is ready for tomorrow’s exam.
Mention the latest news item and ask how he feels about that situation. Nothing stops “haters” more than bringing up a topic that is clearly more important to talk about, like the latest earthquake or political conversation.
Ask, “How about that _______ game last night?” or “Have you played yet?”

, In the US and other Western cultures, everyone is expected to fit within generally agreed upon ideals of perfection, which are completely unrealizable in real life for almost everyone (including models).The media celebrates being extremely thin and treats overweight people like they are failures and don’t deserve love, from themselves or from others.


Think about what you can say to challenge society’s standards of beauty, particularly weight.
Do some research to prepare a response in advance if this is a comment you hear often (about you or other girls/women). Collect a couple statistics, or one great example of a photo-shopped ad of a famous model.
 It is not a medical term. Make him qualify his comment with a real opinion. Either he will rethink his statement and assumptions, or it might start a useful conversation leading to increased education.


Obesity is a medical term, defined as being 20% over ideal body weight based on your body type and height.“Fat” only means something because societal standards have defined it as a meaningful word. It is unlikely, though, that he can explain it with any substance.
 Whether you know this boy or not, one way to shut him down is to thank him for the lessons he has provided, whether about whom you will befriend in the future or about how to be a better person.