 There are hundreds of dating websites to chose from, for every lifestyle and almost any country you can name.;
, Yahoo and MSN offer, with a few exceptions, global instant messaging, and usually these services are free.
 Think about whether you are interested in developing your romance into something permanent, and how far you are willing to go if you do.
 Since you are going online looking for romance, chances are you may be looking across cultural boundaries for a certain type of person you wouldn't expect to find at a local grocery store or laundry.
 It is a reality that with so many troops deployed and many more people working far from home for contractors, missions, and other reasons, that even long term married couples rely on online romance to keep the fire burning while they are separated.
 "Plentyoffish.com" is a Canadian based website with live chat, photo personals, and global searches that is free to use in all of its formats.
 Remember, these profiles go out into the net for potentially millions of people to look at, so be careful what you put on to begin with. If you post a picture, you may end up standing in a supermarket checkout line beside someone you saw online the previous night, wondering, does he/she recognise me?

, If you are a 5'6" tall guy, and your profile reads 6'2", it will be hard to pass off as a typo if you ever meet.
 If you are using these for other communications, set up a new account specifically for these romantic encounters.
 This doesn't have to be an ironclad rule, but it helps to keep in mind that minutes can turn to hours chatting online.
 The more familiar you are with your new "friend" the more you may want to slip past your comfort zone. Respect their comfort zone as well, though, or you might find yourself back at the dating site looking for someone else.
 Again, this may go into an area where the decision to use the web cam and how it is used is between consenting adults. You can have a dinner date over the web cam, or play rock paper scissors. You can fall a sleep on Skype together, the possibilities are endless. Using a webcam is vital for you both to prove your identity, if your lover does not want to go on camera with you ever, there may be something she or he is hiding. Please understand that your lover may just be busy or tired that day.
 If you are familiar enough to have a home address, you may mail it directly, or order from an online catalog and have it shipped directly. Be careful about sending money to people online, there are plenty of people who are online only to scam or take advantage of lonely hearts.
 They may have a bad day, and not feel like talking, or family or personal issues may arise that keeps them from a planned "rendezvous".
, You may get involved as a fling, hobby, or some other self gratification exercise, but as far as you are able to know, the person you are sharing online intimacy with is a REAL PERSON with REAL FEELINGS!

