 If you frequently open your windows, install window screens. These should fit snugly over the window, so there are no gaps. Screens allow you to keep the windows open, but prevent your cat from falling out of the windows.If you rent your home and can’t install screens, consider purchasing an adjustable screen insert that will fit into the open window.
Another option is to only open the top part of the window instead of the bottom, as long as you are confident your cat cannot reach or jump to the top portion.;
, If you'll be heading out of the house for a while, remember to close all of your windows. You should also close off access to balconies or railings that your cat could fall from.You can also just close the door to rooms with windows, if you don't feel like closing all of the windows.
 Even if you close off a window or balcony you might open it occasionally, so it's important to check how wide the door, window, or railings are. The space of any opening should be smaller than your cat's head. If it's larger, your cat will try to squeeze through and could become stuck or fall.For example, you can roll up a towel and lay it in the door track of a sliding door. This will remind people that you're trying to keep the door closed or only open the door a little bit.
 If you'd like your cat to still have access to a balcony, you'll need to prevent it from jumping up on railings or fire escapes. You can attach chicken wire or thick netting to the balcony railings. It's important to attach it from floor to ceiling (not just from the floor to the railing), since your cat can jump up high.You'll need to check the netting or wire frequently. Ensure that it's not coming loose, that it's still secured, and that there aren't any holes.
 If you have a balcony, never let your cat go on it alone. You should always watch your cat when it's on the balcony, so you can keep it from jumping up on the railings or on furniture that it could fall from. Avoid letting your cat sleep next to an open window or while perched on a high place.It can be difficult to monitor your cat at all times, so take precautions to ensure your balcony and windows are secure.
Try to move furniture or storage containers away from the railing. This may prevent your cat from jumping up on the railing.
 If your cat enjoys sitting near an open window or likes jumping around dangerous places (like a fire escape), take care not to startle it. Frightening your cat could cause it to lose its balance and fall.For example, if you see your cat perched near an open window, try not to start up the blender or make a sudden noise that could surprise your cat.
 If you see your cat fall, take it to the veterinarian immediately, even if it only fell from one or two stories. Cats are more likely to have worse injuries when falling from small heights because they don't have as much time to prepare for the landing. If you didn't see your cat fall, but your cat is showing these signs, you should take it to the vet:Appears to be in pain (especially when walking)
Has difficulty breathing or is breathing at a faster rate than normal
Has broken bones
Has facial or oral damage (fractured jaw, broken teeth, bleeding or bruised face)
Doesn’t want to be petted or handled as usual, as this may indicate an injury

, Many injuries caused by feline high rise syndrome are internal, so you may not be able to tell how injured your cat is simply by looking at it. The vet can run tests (like x-rays), examine your cat, and give it pain relief.Your cat may need to stay in the hospital for treatment. Your cat may need surgery, dental work, bandaging, and pain medication, so treatment may last for several days before you can bring your cat home.

