 Wipe up any pooled water from the floor, then move the new water heater into position.


Twist the heater around so that the plumbing locations are lined up with the appropriate pipes.
Use a carpenter's level to ensure that the heater is sitting straight. Use some wooden shims to adjust the level if necessary.
 Wrap a couple of layers of Teflon tape around the threads of the new temperature and pressure relief valve (included with your water heater) and use a pipe wrench or pliers to screw it tightly into place. Attach the discharge drain pipe.
 Take two six inch lengths of 3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm) copper pipe and attach a new adapter to each of them.


Solder the adapters to the pipes at a work surface away from the water heater, as you don't want to place a heat source too close to the tank.
Attach the adapters to the hot water output and cold water input at the top of the tank using pipe joint compound or Teflon tape.
Some local plumbing codes will also require you to attach plastic lined nipples to the bottom of each pipe assembly. This prevents galvanic corrosion, something which is particular important in hard water areas.
 To connect the hot and cold water lines, cut or extend the old pipes so they reach the newly connected ones.


Solder the two edges of pipe together, using copper slip couplings or dielectric unions (to prevent electrolysis).
If you can't get the old and new pipes to align properly, connect them using pieces of flexible copper pipes or 45 degree elbows.
 Grab the vent pipe and position it directly above the draft hood on the water heater. Use 3⁄8 inch (1.0 cm) sheet metal screws to secure it tightly in place.
 Before you reassemble the gas line, clean the threaded ends of the pipes with a wire brush and rag, then apply a little piping compound to each.


Use two pipe wrenches to screw the first nipple into the gas valve, then continue to reassemble the remaining fittings.
The last connection should be the union fitting, as this connects the new line to the old. Once this is connected, you can turn on the gas supply valve.
To connect electric heaters to their power supply, reconnect the power lines and ground wire to the junction box.
 You can check for leaks by soaking a sponge in soapy water (made with dishwashing soap) and holding it against each newly connected joint on the water heater.If there's a leak, soap bubbles will form on the surface of the sponge. If this happens, you will need to tighten or reconnect the joints, or a call a professional plumber.
If there are no bubbles, the joints are secure and you are free to turn on the water and power supply.
 Turn on the main water supply and the cold water supply valve to start refilling the tank. Turn on a remote hot water faucet -- at first nothing may come out, or the water will splutter. Once a full flow of water is running from the faucet, the tank has been refilled.
 You can turn the new water heater on by lighting the pilot and setting the control knob to "on". Set the temperature somewhere between 110 and 130 degrees Fahrenheit.


If your water heater is electric, turn the power on by reinstalling the fuse or resetting the circuit breaker in the power panel.