 Go to the website (search Google) and sign up. Registration is quick, easy, and open to all ages (if you are under 13, ask for parent's permission. If you do not wish to register, skip this step.;
, If you wish to work without the magic of the internet, download the Scratch 2.0 offline editor, available on the Scratch website. You do not need an account to download, but you will need Adobe Software to use it. If you are required to download the software, follow the instructions. You may also download the original Scratch 1.4 editor, but this guide won't fully cover it (this is a Scratch 2.0 guide!).
 You may find it on your desktop (or wherever you put it on the computer) or by clicking Create on the Scratch website. You will see 4 sections: The Canvas (the white area with the Scratch cat), The Coding Area (the blank gray area), The Sprite Screen (the gray area with a picture of a cat), and the Backpack.
 At the top of the screen, find five icons. Let's play with them all, from left to right. First, click the stamp icon. This is the duplicate tool. Move the cursor to the cat and click on it. You will see a second cat appear right next to it! Now click on the scissors. Click on one of the cats and it will disappear. This is called the Delete tool. Now click the icon in the middle. Keep clicking on the cat and it will grow. Click the icon next to it, and then keep clicking on the cat. The cat will start to shrink. The question mark icon is like a help function. Click on anything with the Help tool active and a Pop-up will show up explaining about the aspects of the selected thing.
 The cat on the white area (canvas) is called a Sprite. All the things on the canvas are Sprites and can be manipulated in many way. A simple technique is to click and drag the Sprite to anywhere on the canvas. In the Sprite area, select the sprite and hit the I button next to it. The sprite screen will change to show information of the current sprite. These are more advanced settings that are not discussed here, but try them out!


See those Lego bricks? They aren't lego. They are used in programming. Above the bricks are ten categories for those blocks. We will discuss them later.
 In traditional programming languages, you would probably just have print Hello World as your first ever program, but in Scratch, they don't follow that tradition. Instead, let's make our Sprite (the cat) move!


Select the cat and go to the coding section. In Scripts, choose the Events tab.
Drag the When Green Flag Clicked block to the main part. Notice the nub at the bottom of the block. This indicates which other blocks are compatible with this block, as all blocks have nubs or holes in them, like fitting together a jigsaw.
Go back to the Motion tab and drag a Move XX Steps block towards the other block you already placed.
If the edge of the first block turns white, let go of the mouse and the two blocks will snap together! If you want the cat to move farther in one go, change the value of the move block to 20, 40, 60, etc. (1 step = 1 pixel). Now click the green flag. The program will run and the cat will move.



Drag the blocks from your other program into the scripts screen and they will disappear. This program won't feature the cat, so right click him (or use the scissors) and click Delete. This program will use data, which in technical terms are called Variables and Lists. We won't discuss Lists this time.
Go to the Data tab. Click the button that creates the variable. Name it anything you want, but we will call it 'Clicks'. If you have an account, you can store the variable in the Cloud, but this requires an account, so we won't discuss it. Try it if you wish, though!
Once you finish creating a variable, 4 new blocks will appear. Let's create a Sprite. Next to 'New Sprite', click the Paintbrush.
Create a circle by clicking once (Top left corner of new circle) and then clicking on the opposite side of your new circle.
Add text by clicking inside the shape and typing. We recommend typing 'Clicks'. When you are done, go to the Scripts tab.
Drag the following blocks, in order: Green Flag, set (variable) to 0. In a separate area: when this sprite clicked, change (variable) by 1. Child's play, really.
Now start your program. When you click on your shape, the variable that you created should start going up. When you click the Green Flag again, the variable should return to 0.
 There are a lot more features, including new ones like custom blocks, that we have not discussed. We may discuss the more advanced features in a separate guide, but there is one extremely important feature if you have an account: Sharing.


There are over 4 million projects (as of Dec 7, 2013) in the Scratch community, and that number is growing fast. You can share and unshare your projects at the press of a button by clicking 'My Stuff' and clicking the appropriate button.
When you share a project, don't forget to give it a name and description by clicking and typing in the appropriate text field. You can also comment, like, and remix other projects made by other people. It's a large and growing community, so join it and have fun!
To view projects on the Scratch Website, you need Adobe Flash Player. Download it from the Adobe website.

