 If your nose is shiny and oily, it will attract more attention. If you feel self-conscious about your upturned nose, more attention may be the last thing that you want. Reducing shine will help minimize the attention that is drawn to your nose.


Try oil-absorbing sheets or wipes. For example, the company Clean & Clear makes oil absorbing sheets that soak up excess oil without smudging makeup or leaving behind traces of powder. They come in small, portable packs and are an easy solution for an oily or shiny nose.
Use a matte foundation. A matte foundation, especially one designed for use on oily skin, can help reduce the shine around your nose. You can choose between a liquid or powder foundation, but the most important thing is to find one that reduces shine. For example, Nars makes a mattifying, sheer foundation that helps to control shine and even skin tone.;
, Acne, especially if it is located mainly on or around your nose, can draw more attention to your upturned nose than you would like. An easy way to make any kind of nose look good is by taking care of your skin.


Use an anti-acne face wash. Neutrogena, Clean & Clear, Cetaphil, L’Oreal, and Garnier all make anti-acne face washes that can be found easily at most drugstores or grocery stores. Follow the instructions on the bottle, which usually include washing your face twice a day and following up with a light, oil-free moisturizer.
Look for face washes with benzoyl peroxide, which kills acne-causing bacteria, reduces inflammation, and helps to clear blocked pores.As an alternative, look for face washes with salicylic acid, which helps to unclog pores and correct the abnormal shedding of cells., If you have an uneven skin tone, certain parts of your face, such as your upturned nose, may be more noticeable. Luckily, evening out your skin tone is easily achieved.


For short term improvement, you can apply a concealer or foundation. Concealers and foundation can be found to match your natural skin tone, and with correct use, no one will notice that you are wearing makeup. Try MAC Studio Finish SPF 35 Concealer- it comes in eight different skin tones and offers SPF protection as well.
For a long term solution, you can look into getting a laser treatment or having a microdermabrasion session. These professional treatments will help remove dead skin and discoloration and will often result in a significant improvement to the evenness of your skin tone. These treatments require a visit to a dermatologist or skincare professional.

