 If you notice your child having problems going to the bathroom, she may need more hydration. A lack of water in the system will cause dry stools. Give your child more water per day, which will make her stool softer. The softer her stool, the easier it will be to have a bowel movement.


You can also give her diluted juice, which will have the same effect. Use prune juice, apple juice, or pear juice. Use only 100% juice. Juice with added sugars are not healthy for your child.
Dilute it by adding one ounce of water for every ounce of juice. Try to give her at least 32 ounces of water every day. If you use diluted juice, make sure 3/4 of her daily liquid intake is water., If your child is suffering from constipation, you may need to help get things moving. To help, gently massage your toddler’s abdomen to stimulate bowel movements.


Start at the lower right part of the belly, applying pressure to the abdomen in a gentle, circular motion. Massage it up and then across the belly. Next, move to the lower left part of the abdomen.
You may feel a mass in the lower left part of the abdomen. Don't worry because that is normal. What you feel is the stool.
Never press hard. You may cause injury., If you child is potty training, too much stress may be causing him to avoid going to the bathroom. The experience should be a calm and low-pressure experience for you and your child. Pressuring your child to have a bowel movement is not helpful and can cause your child to resist the action.


Give your child a reward for using the toilet. Read to him or tell him a funny story so he is relaxed. Even if his use of the toilet is unsuccessful, reward the effort.
Don’t force your child to do anything he isn't ready for. He may start thinking the toilet is a punishment and that he should avoid it., A good way to help your child get over constipation is to keep her active. Walking or running is a natural remedy for constipation. Movement helps digestion and encourages bowel movements.


Take your child to the park or encourage her to play outside more each day. This will also have the added benefit of making her more healthy., If every other remedy has not worked for your child, consider buying over-the-counter fiber supplements, such as Citrucel and Metamucil. When you give these to your child, make sure that you give him at least 32 ounces of water. These have to be taken with water or it can cause issues.


Talk to your pediatrician before giving any to your child to ensure that you have the right doses for his age, height, and weight.`

, Travel, hot weather, or stress can all disrupt your child's routine and, as a result, her bowel function.If at all possible, try to create and stick to a routine for toileting your child, such as taking her to the bathroom following a meal.
 If your child has been constipated for a long time or if it is severe, talk to your doctor. He may discuss giving a laxative to your child if other treatments have not worked. Never give your child laxatives without talking to your doctor first. It can be dangerous if a laxative is not given under your pediatrician's guidance.


Generally, a pediatrician will suggest over the counter laxatives such as Miralax and Glycolax.
Your pediatrician may also suggest an enema or suppository in rare cases.