

Move your hands slightly away from your face and flick your index fingers outwards and upwards. This signifies the way your face looks when you are surprised. ;
, It should be made into the 'modified bent hand' position.


Bend your fingers twice towards the palm of your hand as if you were waving. ,


Turn it sideways and place the side without your thumb on your cheek.

Move your fist forwards and backwards slightly.



Cross your arms over your chest in an 'x' shape.
 Your palm should be facing inward.

Move it upward a few times. To sign excited: Spread your fingers apart, close to your chest.






Point your middle fingers inwards toward you, still keeping your fingers spread apart--the middle fingers will be facing you, the others will face outward.
Flick each hand, one at a time up off your chest a couple times, making sure that only your middle finger is actually touching your chest. The movement of each hand will almost look circular.



Take your other hand and lay it flat on the top of the fist, in a modified '5' handshape.

Move the hand on top downward so that it pushes the fist down.




Slowly let them go downward.


To sign disappointed: Make a 'd' sign with one of your hands.






Place your index finger on your chin.


Turn one of your hands in half a circle forwards and backwards as the other hand turns the opposite direction as the first hand.



Turn it back and forth once or twice.
To sign shame: Keep your hands flat and your fingers together.






Place the back of the hand on your cheek and flick it out.
To sign guilt: Make a 'g' sign and hold it on the side of your chest near the opposite arm.



Alternatively, you could make the 'b' sign and tap the back of your hand against your face twice.



Tilt it a little over to the side and put your index finger next to your mouth.

Slide your hand downward.


To sign doubt:






Make a 'thumbs up' sign and turn it sideways.
Make small circles going forward with the sideways thumbs up.


Hold them next to your eyes with them facing downward.
Move them up and down in small motions.


To sign fear:

Keep your hands flat and spread your fingers apart.
Hold your hands up to your chest.
Shake them from side to side, almost like you are shaking in fear.


To sign embarrassed:






Keep your hands flat and hold them up to your face.
Slightly move them back and forth.

To sign bother/annoy: Keep your fingers together but stick your thumb out. Do this with both hands.






Turn one hand on its side.

Take the other hand and, with the side of the little finger, tap in between the thumb and index finger on the other hand a couple of times.


To sign mad: Make your hand into a clawing position.






Place your hand over your mouth and nose or just your mouth.


To sign anger: Make your hands into clawing positions.






Place them onto your chest.
Flick your hands to the sides.



