


If you own an AT&T tablet device, Motorola Lapdock, or Motorola Atrix 4G, you will have up to 14 days after your purchase date to return it or have it exchanged.
Your defective phone can be exchanged or replaced at an AT&T retail store or returned by mail if you ordered it over the phone or online. Refer to the instructions on your packaging or contact AT&T Customer Service at 1-800-331-0500 to learn how to return your phone by mail.
Apple iPhone owners must contact Apple directly at 1-800-694-7466 for iPhone technical support and additional warranty information.
You may be required to pay a restocking fee if you return the equipment with broken physical parts or missing pieces. The restocking fee will cost 35 dollars (26 euros) unless you purchased an iPhone, iPad, or tablet, in which the fee will be 10 percent of the original purchase price.
You may not be eligible to receive a refund if your phone contains physical or liquid damages.;
,


Visit the myATT Online Account Management website featured in the Sources section of this article to access AT&T's phone troubleshooting tool. The troubleshooting tool will provide you with steps to fix your phone before replacing it through the warranty exchange program.
If you do not have Internet access, call AT&Ts Customer Service at 1-800-801-1101 for technical support or to find an AT&T Device Support Center near you. For a full listing of Device Support Centers you can also visit, www.att.com/dsc.
Register for or log into your myATT account using your phone number and password.
Point to the "Support" tab at the top, then point to "Wireless" and select "Wireless Essentials."
Look to the upper-right corner of your session to verify that a photo of your mobile device is displayed. If no photo exists or the photo displayed does not match the model of your current mobile phone, click on the "Change" button and select your phone.
Scroll down the web page and click on "Troubleshoot your device" to launch the troubleshooting tool. If the "Troubleshoot your device" link is not displayed, you must call AT&T's Warranty Service Center at 1-800-801-1101 for assistance with troubleshooting your phone.
Select the best answers to the questions and prompts provided by the troubleshooting tool based on the problems your phone is experiencing. The steps provided by the troubleshooting tool may resolve any problems or malfunctions your phone is experiencing.



The Warranty Service Center will replace your defective phone if you qualify for the warranty exchange program. To qualify, you must have purchased your device brand-new and have owned it for between 31 and 365 days. A refurbished device can be exchanged through the warranty program if you have owned it for between 31 and 90 days.



Follow the instructions provided with your replacement phone to learn where and how to send the defective phone back to AT&T.



If you own a defective device that is refurbished, you will be required to perform an upgrade if you have owned the phone for more than 91 days.
If your defective mobile phone still has the ability to make phone calls and receive text messages, dial the star key, the numbers "639," then enter the pound symbol. You will then receive a text message informing you of your upgrade eligibility status.
You can also perform an upgrade at any AT&T retail store or on AT&T's website when you log into your myATT account.



Filing an insurance claim is the only alternative to upgrading if your phone was lost or stolen, contains physical damage, or has been exposed to water.
Contact Asurion at 1-888-562-8662 to file an insurance claim and receive a replacement phone.
You may be required to pay a deductible fee of between 50 and 199 dollars (36.67 and 145.94 euros) for a replacement phone depending on the model of your defective phone.

