 Head shots are an essential part of receiving roles because casting directors use them to get a basic idea of who you are so they can decide if they want you to audition. It is highly recommended that you get these pictures professionally taken in order to get a quality picture that is flattering, and shows the casting director you are serious about acting.


While they are expensive, you only need two great head shots to get started.Keep in mind, head shots range from $50-$1000, so be sure to do your research before going just anywhere. You don't want to break the bank, but remember that you want to capture the attention of the casting director with your photos., Your resume needs to be professional and free of any errors. It should include your personal statistics such as your height, weight, eye color, hair color, and body measurements. Include any work you have done, any training your have had or are currently doing, related experiences, talents and skills. Here are some other things to include in your resume:Current contact information so the casting or acting agent can contact you.List any acting memberships you may belong to.Explain the type of role you believe you are best fit for to better inform agents and recruiters about your type. For example, state if you want a leading role, supporting role, voice-over part, or a non-speaking role such as an extra or stunt-double.Include whether or not you can speak multiple languages. This may open you up to more acting parts., Your cover letter is your chance to create a personal connection, and add a professional element to the auditioning process. Cover letters should be catered to the specific job you are seeking. Here are some essential pieces to include:


Start your letter with a greeting, and explain your interest in the specific role.
State where you went to school, what you are currently working on for your acting career, and what your goals are. This will show your commitment.
Talk about your best acting accomplishments, or anything you are currently working on. This will show that you have skill and experience.Suggest for them to take a look at your head shot and resume to get to know more about what type of actor you are., This can be in a binder or folder, and should have your head shots, acting resume, cover letter, and possibly a business card inside. This allows you to keep all of your important materials in one organized place. If you have done previous acting work, you should keep it on a DVD, or stored digitally, so you can be ready to show it to a casting director or agent.