 Current AVMA recommendations suggest that a .22 caliber handgun or right loaded with a solid-point bullet is sufficient for calves, but is not be recommended for use for more mature, larger stock. You are best to go with a handgun or rifle that have muzzle energies above 300 ft/lb. It's important to use solid-point bullets as well with these higher-caliber guns.

Bulls will need heavier-powered firearms to be euthanized. The best are those that are capable of 1000 ft per lb of muzzle velocity to be able to penetrate the very thick skull of a bull.

Some countries, like in Canada, dictate that the .22 rifle is not humane for euthanizing any cattle, but rather firearms with muzzle energy of at least 300 ft/lb are ideal for calves under 400 pounds, and firearms with energies at 1000 ft/lb or more are recommended for mature livestock from cows to bulls.


Shotguns are an excellent alternative to handguns or rifles, but they carry a little greater margin of risk, especially if used at greater distances than the recommended 1 to 2 yards (1 to 2 meters) from the intended target. Use of the 12, 16, and 20-gauge shotguns are ideal for mature cows, bulls, elk, and horses loaded with slugs or No. 2-, 4-, or 6-size birdshot.

The .410 or .28 gauge shotguns should not be used on larger animals because of the lower muzzle velocity.
 Make sure it's loaded with the proper type of bullets (like solid points, never hollow nor soft-points) or slugs if using a shotgun. You may need more than one bullet or slug to do the job, just in case., Restraint is not needed when euthanizing via gunshot, and an animal can be on its feet and mobile, or are down or debilitated to be effectively killed. The latter two are less difficult with placement of the bullet. However, when the animal is on its feet, on the move and posing to be a dangerous threat, the recommended standard of shooting at the forehead may be much more of a challenge.

A downed or compromised animal is easier to shoot at the head. This is because the angle of the shot is very important for the bullet to not only penetrate the brain, but also into the brainstem. It is very difficult to aim perpendicular to the head when the animal is standing up or moving away, unless you are very very tall or the animals are very short and small.

You can also shoot them at a closer distance, at the recommended 1 to 3 feet from the intended target.


Animals on their feet generally won't allow you to get at arm's-length from them, and you wouldn't want to especially with dangerous stock. These animals will need to be shot from a distance, aiming for the lower chest just above the elbow (or behind if the animal is moving away at an angle you can still see the target zone), the head, or neck.

Shooting a cow or bull like this would be no different from hunting and shooting big game, because they all have the same anatomical features where bullet placement is ideal for a one-shot kill.
 Be prepared to make a second shot immediately after the first if the first shot is not successful. Aim for the right location to make the second shot count this time.

As mentioned, the closest you should be to a downer or debilitated animal is one to three feet away.
 Be careful with animals that were on their feet and mobile as they may be down and thrashing around violently, which is to be expected with euthanizing via gunshot. Using the steps above, assess the animal for signs of unconsciousness then death, which will come very soon after the shot has been made.

There is no need to follow with a secondary euthanasia technique following a gunshot, unless the animal is going to be slaughtered for meat. Then exsanguination will need to be used to save the meats being used for consumption.
 As with the cap-bolt method, disposal of cattle euthanized with gunshot is more flexible. They can be rendered, buried, burned, or used for consumption.

Euthanizing a sick animal with drugs still in its system may have some restrictions, especially with concerns of drug residue. This type of animal should neither be consumed nor rendered for the sake of food safety laws and regulations.

