 The most common purchased food for chameleons is crickets. You can buy them at your local pet store. If there is no local pet store then you can always purchase them online or by phone. Avoid feeding your chameleon bees and wasps.


Baby chameleons need a smaller breed of crickets. They also like and can survive off of fruit flies.
You may see the term "gut loaded" crickets. That simply means the crickets have been fed a nutritious diet, which helps get lizards the nutrients they need. You may also see they are "calcium dusted," which helps the chameleon get its calcium.
Chameleons also enjoy types of insects like wax worms, meal worms, super worms, flies, moths, and grasshoppers.
In addition to store bought bugs, you can give the chameleon bugs, spiders, moths from your house or garden. A mixed diet is good. If your chameleon eats the bugs from your neighbor's garden, the neighbor may be impressed.
 There are different ways to do it. If you see your chameleon licking shiny objects, that is because he is thirsty and looking for dew to lick.


Spray the leaves or side of the tank with a spray bottle for the chameleon to lick.
You can buy a waterfall at a pet store. These cost a bit but are nice/pretty.
Some people have taught their chameleons to drink from a bottle. See if you can train your chameleon to act a bit like a dog!

, First, buy a thermometer to go inside the cage. Next, put a heat lamp at the top of the reptarium. That way, the chameleon can come up and bask in the heat if he or she wants, but come down if it is too hot. A basking spot created by a simple 60-watt household bulb works well, too (but you will still need a full spectrum light because a household bulb does not provide UV). The basking spot should be about 85-90 degrees F (29-33 degrees C).


Chameleons like it colder at night, but in any normal house that is not going to be a problem.
Get good quality full spectrum UVA/UVB light. Be sure it is a regular light bulb, not a compact fluorescent. It helps to produce Vitamin D for absorbing calcium.
Time outside basking in the sun is another way for your chameleon to get Vitamin D.
The floor of the enclosure should have some material that helps maintain humidity. Shredded coconut husks work well.
 Buy a low-cost humidity meter (hygrometer.) If the humidity is below 50%, adjust the misting or water system to keep the chameleon comfortable. Humidity can be too high as well; over 80% on a constant basis can lead to mold and fungus growth.


Use a drip system, bought from any pet store or online. The best ones have a timer.
Spray or mist your chameleon. You can use a spray bottle from any store. Spray the water on the leaves in your enclosure. This helps humidity and enables them to drink as well. Make sure the water is warm, but not hot.
Buy a pressure sprayer if you like. Get them at your local hardware store. It lets you spray a very fine mist.
Buy an automatic misting system, but they cost a lot and can be hard to set up.
Manually give your chameleon water by using an oral syringe or rodent bottle. Use a syringe without a needle from a local pharmacy. Drop the water straight into your chameleon's mouth. The chameleon may or may not be thirsty, so if at first you don't succeed, try again.
 Interacting with your chameleon isn't needed, but can be a lot of fun. Each chameleon has its own personality and some like being handled more than others. Feeding your chameleon by hand is a good way to interact so it won't be as aggressive toward you. You may also find the chameleon likes to be taken outside to bask in the sun.


Know how to do it safely, without losing your self-camouflaging pet.
Taking your chameleon outside is another way to get the UVA/UVB that a healthy chameleon needs. Not only do they love basking in the sun, it keeps them healthy!

, Remove any dead things at the bottom or else parasites and bacteria will come. Remove the chameleon from the enclosure so it won't be disturbed.


Create a cleaning solution using water and a bit of dish soap. Spray on the walls, floors, and anything like fake plants, not the real plants. Use a paper towel to clean and dry off. Mist your enclosure and, again, dry off with a clean paper towel.
Alternatively, use something naturally disinfecting like vinegar and baking soda. Use hot water and rinse well.
Change the material on the floor frequently to remove dead bugs, shed skin, fecal matter, mold or fungus, etc.
Clean the enclosure daily or every other day.
 (The technical term is "becoming gravid.")


They can start getting eggs around 4-6 months and can lay up to 3 clutches of eggs a year.
Read up separately about how to take care of a pregnant chameleon. They need a place to dig and lay their eggs.
 Don't get stuck and not know where to go with a sick reptile.
