 Keep in mind that the basic recommendation of 8 eight ounce glasses of water per day is flexible. You will need to drink more on top of this depending upon the following factors:


How much you exercise
Your environment (hotter temperatures, or even humidified air indoors, require greater water consumption)
Your altitude (higher altitudes are more dehydrating)
Pregnancy and breast-feeding, both of which increase your water needs.
 For an average workout, you will need 1.5 to 2.5 cups of additional water (on top of the 8 eight ounce glasses of water per day that are already recommended). You may need even more than this if the duration of your workout is over an hour, or if it is a workout of particularly high intensity.Note that, for workouts that are very intense or longer than one hour in length, an electrolyte sports beverage is preferable to water to maintain your hydration.
This is because intense exercise causes you to lose a lot of salt through sweat. Without adequate salt, regardless of how much water you drink you will be unable to effectively absorb it through your digestive tract.
Therefore, to compensate for lost salt, the electrolytes in the sports drink (such as Gatorade or Powerade) are key, and will help you to absorb the water you are drinking more efficiently.
 It is important to know that illnesses - particularly ones that involve diarrhea and/or vomiting - require exceptional efforts to stay hydrated. If you only vomit once or a couple of times, such as during a food poisoning attack, it is less worrisome than an ongoing illness of three to five days with consistent diarrhea and/or vomiting (such as the Norwalk virus or other gastrointestinal illnesses).If you have a gastrointestinal flu, you will need to make a big effort to stay hydrated at this time. Your best bet is an electrolyte sports drink rather than pure water because, similar to intense endurance exercise, you will be losing a lot of salt through diarrhea and/or vomiting. Take small sips frequently throughout the day.
If you cannot keep the fluids down or if you are continuing to have diarrhea and vomiting despite efforts to hydrate yourself, then you will need to go to a clinic or urgent care setting for intravenous hydration.
In order to adequately hydrate yourself when there is salt loss involved, you will need to replace not only the water, but also the electrolytes (hence why Gatorade, Powerade, or another sports drink is your ideal option).
If you have an illness of this nature, sip on fluids consistently throughout the day and consume as much as you are able to. It is better to sip slowly and often than to drink a lot at once, as consuming too much at one time may trigger further nausea and/or vomiting.
Note that, in very severe illnesses, you may require IV fluids in a hospital setting to maintain hydration. See your doctor if you are concerned as it is better to be safe than sorry.
Other medical and health conditions may also affect your hydration status, though seldom as severely as a gastrointestinal flu. Speak to your doctor if you would like further information as to how your health conditions (such as kidney disease or other chronic diseases) may have an impact on your water consumption and hydration status.
 If your child is sick, he or she may become dehydrated much faster than an adult and may need to be seen by a physician sooner than an adult would. If your child becomes listless and hard to wake, then emergency medical attention is necessary. If your child has no tears when crying, take her in for an evaluation. Other symptoms of dehydration in children include:not urinating or urinating less than is usual (an infant might have dry diapers for three hours or more)
dry skin
feeling dizzy or lightheaded
constipation
sunken eyes and/or sunken fontanels
rapid breathing and/or rapid heart rate

, For nursing women, the recommended water intake is 13 cups per day. In both of these cases, you will need additional fluids to support your growing baby, and/or to aid in milk production which uses a significant amount of water.

