 If you are sexually active, you can prevent syphilis by limiting your number of sexual partners. Your risk of contracting syphilis goes up with the number of sexual partners you have. Sexually active people who have only one partner in a monogamous relationship are safest, as long as neither partner has sex with anyone else. For some people, however, this might be unrealistic. Therefore, try to limit your number of sexual partners. f you have more than one sex partner, your risk of STIs (including syphilis) increases. The more partners you have, the greater the risk.Practicing abstinence will reduce your chances of getting syphilis to nearly zero.;
, The sex conversation is always an uncomfortable conversation, but it is one of the best ways to avoid contracting STIs (or STDs), like syphilis. Before you engage in sexual activity with a new partner, take time to talk with them about your sexual history, as well as their sexual history. You can make the conversation less awkward and accusatory by initiating the conversation and offering to relate your sexual history first.


You can initiate the conversation by saying, “Hey, I am really attracted to you, and I would like to take our relationship to the next level. Before we venture down this path, however, I would like to tell you about my sexual history and the last time I got tested.” Tell them about your sexual history, and ask them about theirs. Then suggest that you both get tested before having sex.
Your partner might be resistant and respond with something like, “I haven't been tested, but I know I don't have any diseases.” You can respond by telling them, “Some people don’t even know they have an STI, like syphilis, because symptoms can be dormant. This doesn't mean I don't trust you or I think you are lying to me, but there's no way to really know for sure unless you are tested.”, It is important to use condoms when engaging in sexual activities. What is more important, though, is knowing how to use condoms the right way. Every time you engage in sex, use a condom.


Here is a guide to using male condoms the right way:Check the package and make sure it is intact, and look for an expiration date before using the condom. Do not use the condom if it is past the expiration date, as the latex can degrade and weaken, making the condom more likely to break.
Ensure that the condom does not have any tears or defects.
Store your condoms in a cool, dry place. Do not store them in your wallet for long periods of time; the heat and friction can damage them.
Only use latex or polyurethane condoms. Do not use lamb skin condoms.
To prevent breakage, use lubricants that are water-based or silicone-based. Oil lubricants, i.e., baby oil, petroleum jelly, cooking oil, can cause the condom to break.
When putting the condom on, leave space at the end of the penis to collect semen.
Do not use more than one condom at a time or reuse a condom.


Here is a guide to using female condoms the right way:Check the package and make sure it is intact and look for an expiration date.
Carefully open the package to avoid tearing the condom. Make sure there are no tears or other defects.
The condom will have one open end and one closed end. Squeeze sides of inner ring of the closed side together with your thumb and forefinger and insert into your vagina. It is similar to using a tampon.
Use your finger to push the inner ring up as far as possible until it rests against your cervix — you may not feel it. Make sure the condom is not twisted and the open, outer ring is outside your vagina.
To remove, gently twist and pull the condom out of your vagina.
Store condoms in a cool, dry place.
Never reuse a condom and do not use both a male and female condom at the same time.



