 Obesity is one of the main risk factors in developing acid reflux.If you are overweight or obese, you should losing some weight if you want to prevent yourself from getting reflux. Eating healthy and exercising are the two main paths to weight loss.



Stick to a healthy diet. Try to eat the five basic food groups (fruits, vegetables, lean proteins, whole wheat, and low-fat dairy products) every day. Avoid bad fats found in fried foods, candy, and other empty-calorie items.

Exercise regularly. Doctors recommend that you get at least 30 minutes of exercise four to five days a week.If you exercise consistently, it can help you lose weight. Try walking, running, biking, swimming, or hiking. You can also go to your local gym and speak to a fitness trainer. A trainer can help you develop an exercise plan that's right for your needs.
 Aside from other health problems it causes, smoking can play a part in the development of acid reflux. This is because cigarette smoke damages mucus membranes in your body.Smoking also increases the amount of acid your stomach makes. Further, it relaxes the muscles that keep food from traveling back up your esophagus.
 When you eat, your food travels down your esophagus and passes into your stomach. Gravity keeps the food in your stomach, making it harder to come back up in the wrong direction. When you lie down, you take away that gravitational pull.


This makes it much more likely for food to go the wrong way and travel back up into your gullet, causing heartburn and reflux.The best thing to do after you eat is actually to go for a walk. A short walk will help your stomach start to digest.
 If you are concerned that you might develop acid reflux, you might want to go prop your head and shoulders up when you lie down.


Keeping your upper body elevated above your feet will help food stay in your stomach until digested, rather than coming back up., When you wear tight clothes, the fabric, waistline, or belt can put added pressure on the stomach. This squeezes it while its trying to digest.The added pressure might be a little too much for your belly, and your food might work its way back up your esophagus.

