 If you're doing the same task day in and day out, this can get repetitive and boring. Instead of accepting the tasks you're dealt, volunteer to do something new. Approach your boss and ask if you can take on some new responsibilities in the office.See if there are any places in your office where extra help is needed. For example, maybe your company's social media profile is a little lax. Volunteer to ramp it up a little.
 One reason people dislike work is that they feel overwhelmed. If you go into work every day feeling incredibly stressed, you're likely to be unhappy. Work on organizing tasks into a to-do list every day to help yourself remain calm.Prioritize items on your list. For example, separate it into sections of items that need to be done today and items that could wait.
You'll get a feeling of accomplishment crossing items off your to-do list. This can lead to you enjoying your job as you'll feel a sense of pride.
 If you're concentrating at the task at hand, you'll have less time to think about stress or dissatisfaction. When working on something, give it your full attention and push worries or fears out of your mind. This will keep you occupied, allowing you to better enjoy your work.If you have a lot of downtime, you may find yourself worrying then. Try to bring things like books and crossword puzzles to the office to keep yourself occupied during downtime.
It can initially be hard to focus on one thing at a time. It takes practice, but with time you should be able to increase your concentration, leading to a happier work environment.
 If there's something you don't love about your job, take action to change it. Bosses love employees that are always looking for ways to better the office, so be on the lookout for ways to make positive changes that benefit everyone.For example, say you're using a somewhat dated software in the office. Suggest that your boss upgrade to a software that's easier to use. Volunteer to teach other employees how to use the software so things run smoother.
Maybe some people are struggling with deadlines. Volunteer to teach a brief class on time management with employees to improve productivity.
 If you're feeling like your job is stagnant, try to learn something new. Whether it's a software you don't know how to use or a particular type of copywriting, use downtime at work to forge new skills. If your boss sees you've learned something new, you may be able to move up in the office. This can lead to better positions down the road., If you get five minute breaks, take them. Stretch your legs, take a walk, have a snack, or do something else to relax. Even if you don't have actual breaks, get up for about 30 seconds and stretch. Even tiny breaks from work help.

