 Some toddlers may do well sleeping in the same bed, though they may talk and play until they fall asleep. You can try having your children sleep in the same bed, or you can try having them sleep apart—see which works best for your toddlers.


One downside to having them sleep apart is that they might try to look for each other and delay going to sleep.;
, Part of getting your children to fall asleep easily is creating an atmosphere that is conducive to sleeping. Some ways to make your children’s room cozy is to:


Lower the blinds so that there is less light in the room.
Add a nightlight if your children do not like complete darkness.
Keep noise to a minimum and consider playing soothing music.
Set the temperature to moderate; the room should not be too hot or too cold. This will partly be based on your children’s preferences.
 Before putting your children to bed, pick up or move anything your children could trip on in the night. Put away toys and other items that could distract them from going to bed, or that could be dangerous if played with without your supervision.


Cover all electrical sockets to make sure your children cannot stick their fingers into them.
 Getting your children the same pajamas and bedding will reduce the chances that they will fight over these items when going to bed.
 Your first thought may be to keep your children in their room by closing the door. However, closing the door will keep them from being able to call out to you if they need you. Instead, consider putting a tall baby gate in front of the door so that you can see into the room and can get to your children quickly if need be.
 Try to stick to the same routine each night to make putting your children to bed easier and more efficient. Aspects of the routine to consider include:


Brushing teeth and changing into pajamas.
The time your children are supposed to get into bed.
Whether or not you read a story, sing a lullaby, etc.






Let your children pick one toy to bring to bed with them each night.
 After you have gone through the routine you have created, tuck your children in for a final time, give them kisses, and tell them that you will be nearby if they need you. You should also make it clear that it is time for bed.
 Another part of your nightly routine should be to try to leave the room at the same time each night. Getting into this habit will help your children to recognize that it really is time for bed.


Again, tell them that you will be nearby, but that they should try to go to sleep.
 If your children are having a really hard time staying in bed, set up some consequences for getting out of bed. You can also create rewards for staying in bed all night.


Consequences could be taking away the toy that they brought to bed with them, or telling them that they will not be allowed to watch their favorite TV show the next day if they do not go to bed.
Rewards could be getting to do something fun the next day, like going to the park or getting a treat.
 Your toddlers will most likely cry for the first several nights that they sleep in their room without you. Do not go to your children when they begin to cry; let them adjust to the situation. If you go to them every time they cry, they will get into the habit of crying every night.


If they call out to you, tell them that you are in your own room and that it is time to go to bed.
If they say they need water or to go to the bathroom, only allow them to do this once each night after they have already been tucked in.
 One of the most effective ways to keep your children from getting out of bed is to stick to your established routine. After a couple of days or weeks, your children will adapt to the routine.


Of course, you may still encounter problem nights where your children refuse to fall asleep. This is normal.
 Explain bedtime to your children and why sleeping is important. Talking about going to bed before bedtime may help your children to adjust to the idea of going to sleep.


This may also be a good time to discuss rewards and consequences for staying or not staying in bed.
 You may want to consider giving your children a book that they can look over together. While picture books are engaging, the book will also most likely make your children sleepy.
 Try to tire your children out by doing lots of physical activities with them during the day. The more your children run around, the more likely they will be to very tired by bedtime. Limit the amount of time your children sit in front of the TV because watching TV will not help to release their energy.


Take your children to the park.
Start teaching them sports.
Let your children run around in the backyard.
 Making sure that your children are sleepy by bedtime also involves reducing the amount of naptime they have each day. You can also consider doing away with naptime entirely if your children are particularly energetic.


Turn your children’s nap time into playtime to help them release their energy.

