 The drum brake is located behind the wheel. Once the wheel is out of the way, you will have access to the brake drum.
 Removing the drum will provide you access to the inner workings of your brakes, which are mounted on the backing plate. To do this, you will need to first remove the dust cap in the center. Underneath, there will be a retaining nut and cotter pin. Use pliers to remove the cotter pin and a socket to remove the nut. The drum should now slide off.If you have trouble sliding the drum off, check to be sure there are not additional bolts or clips holding it to the hub.It is possible for the brake shoes to get stuck against the drum. In this case, you will need to remove the rubber plug on the back of the backing plate to gain access to the brake shoe adjuster. Use a flathead screwdriver or brake adjuster bar to retract them., The brake shoe liners should not be less than the minimum recommended thickness. For the leading brake shoe (the one closest to the front of the car) this is usually around 1/8 inch. For the trailing brake shoe (the one closest to the back of the car) this is usually around 7/64 inch.Check your service manual for your car’s exact specifications and replace any brake liners that do not meet that standard.
 These springs are responsible for returning the brake shoes to their proper resting location after you remove your foot from the brake pedal. It is important that these springs are not damaged or loose. As long as the springs are still tight and are not damaged or overly rusted, you can continue to use them.If you need to remove the springs to replace them, or so that you can remove and replace your brake shoes, using brake spring pliers can make this a breeze.
 It is best practice to change the wheel cylinder anytime you have the brake drums off. The brakes will continue to work as long as the cylinder does not leak or stick, but it is impossible to look at the cylinder and determine how much wear is on the inside.To replace the wheel cylinder, you will need to first remove the brake line with a wrench. Next, unbolt the cylinder from the backing plate by removing the one or two bolts that hold it there. Install the new cylinder by bolting it into place where the original was, and then connecting the brake line.

