 If you intend to primarily use your bookshelves to contain books (how novel!), then it is best to assess your inventory before you begin. Remove all your books from your shelves, dust them off and clean and polish your empty bookshelves before you refill them.Go through your books and decide which ones you want to keep and which ones you want to give away. You can donate books to friends, your local library or a literacy council.
You will probably want to keep books that have strong sentimental value, such as favorite books from childhood or your studies, beloved novels or comic books.
If you have newer books that you have received within the past year but haven't read, then give them away. It is unlikely you will read them and they take up valuable space on your shelves.;
, One of the most logical methods for organizing your books is by author. You can take your books and arrange them alphabetically by the author's last name.This will make for a convenient system for finding books. Make sure that you always put your books back in correct order.
If you have multiple books by the same author, you can then arrange that author's books by their titles alphabetically or you can arrange them chronologically in the order that they were published., You might find a better way to arrange your books is by similar types. If you are a big fan of mysteries, consider dedicating a couple shelves to your favorite thrillers.


You can consider other genres and time periods such as science fiction, fantasy, horror, or gothic novels. You can also arrange by different types of writing, such as short stories, plays, poetry, and novels.You could also arrange your books alphabetically by author within each genre's category.
 For the true bibliophile, this might seem like a strange idea, but if you have an eye for design, arranging books by color can add an appealing sense of balance to a room.If you don't want to group exact colors together, you can generally divide books by light and dark colors.You can also arrange your books by exact colors so they form a rainbow of colors in your room. Start with bold, bright colors like reds and oranges and then move to cooler, deeper colors like greens and blues.Arranging books by color can give a sense of visual order to a random collection of books.
 It can be hard to remember which books you have simply just by looking at your shelves. If you want to keep a list of your inventory of books, try popular web sites such as Library Thing and Delicious Library 2.Library Thing in particular has a social media component where you can receive feedback from other users. You can look to them for feedback on arranging your library.
 Books can take up a lot of visual space in the bookshelves. If you stagger other decorative pieces into your bookshelves, this can help break up the space from the monotonous look of the books. If you have collections with items like bowls, pictures, vases, statues, paintings, or clocks, these can be great things to display on your bookshelves.
Arrange some of your books in stacks. Most of us put books into shelves vertically with the spines facing outward. Consider arranging a few books on a shelf in a stack in which the lay horizontally. Put the largest book on the bottom of the stack and then move upward with smaller books.Turn the spines outward so you can see the title., When you make room for other items in your bookshelves, you can see the background of the shelves more clearly. Consider painting your shelves a bright color to add a bright spot to your room.If you are renting an apartment and are not allowed to paint your walls (or don't want to take the time to do this), then painting your bookcase is a good way to add your distinctive style to your space.
 If you prize a uniform look on your bookshelves, then consider wrapping your books in a white paper. You can also achieve a uniform look by using decorative pieces all in the same shade of color (or a neutral color like white or black).


You can also place storage bins or boxes in a common texture and color -- like wicker or fabric -- on a bookshelf. This will give a very organized, uniform look to your shelves.
 Bookshelves can take up a large amount of space and set the mood for an entire room. Because they are quite expensive, you have perhaps bought the most affordable option you can find or have inherited them from friends and family.


Think about ways you can personalize your bookshelves if you cannot afford to buy your ideal ones. If they are wooden, consider re-staining them in a different color or repainting them so they fit the aesthetic of the larger room.You can also use a brightly colored wall paper pattern and apply it to the inside walls of the bookshelf or even the outer sides of the shelves., Bookshelves are commonly used to balance a room and often placed on either side of a table or sofa. Consider other corners or rooms you might not usually place them in (like a bedroom or breakfast nook).


You can also consider building in shelves to different rooms if you do not have room for a stand-alone bookshelf. This can save lots of precious space if you are in a small space., If you no longer have the need for extra bookshelves, consider reworking them for other purposes before donating them or throwing them away.For example, if you have a 5-shelf bookshelf, consider removing the top three shelves and moving the unit to your front entrance or foyer. You can add hooks to the back of the shelf and then use it to hang coats and hats. Add storage bins for shoes and umbrellas in the lower two remaining shelves.You can also use bookshelves or built-in shelves to hold things like china and kitchen appliances if you do not have enough cabinet space in your kitchen.

