 Take a deep breath and keep your cool, even if you feel angry or hurt. Avoid shouting at your child or saying something you’ll regret later. Keep your reply level-headed while making it clear that their behavior is not acceptable.For example, you could say something like, “We don’t talk like that in this house. Try again in a politer tone of voice.”
If you overreact or raise your voice, your child will get the message that you aren’t in control of the situation.
If you’re too angry to handle the situation calmly, take a short “time-out” to cool down before you talk to your child.
 Tell your child what will happen if they behave with a bad attitude, and enforce your rules. Your child will be more likely to take you seriously and adjust their behavior if it impacts them directly.Choose logical consequences. For instance, you might decide that if your tween refuses to stop texting at the dinner table, they will lose their phone privileges the next day.
Invite your child to help you come up with consequences for negative behaviors. They’ll be more likely to think the rules are fair if they helped make them.
 Your kids learn from you, so show them what a good attitude looks like. Pay attention to your own behavior and be aware that your child may pick things up by watching you, such as a negative attitude. Treat other people with courtesy and respect, and maintain a positive outlook whenever you can. Avoid complaining excessively or speaking rudely.If you have a negative attitude yourself, don’t be surprised when your child picks it up from you.
 It takes time to unlearn bad habits and replace them with good ones. Praise your child when you can see they’re working hard to improve their attitude. Avoid getting angry if they slip back into old habits – instead, remind them about what kind of behavior you expect from them.It takes three weeks to create a habit. If your child has had an attitude problem for a while, allow at least this long for them to adjust their behavior.

