 Depending on how you want to use the vodka, price will be an important consideration. More expensive vodkas like Belvedere, Ciroc and Grey Goose offer subtle flavors and aromas for $30 or more. These vodkas are most suitable for making drinks with a high vodka content, or for shots at a special occasion. A liter of less expensive vodkas like Smirnoff and Svedka can be purchased for $10 to $15, and these vodkas are perfect for larger parties with guests more interested in social drinking than flavor profiles. Cheaper vodka is also best for making cocktails or mixed drinks with low alcohol content, as the more pungent taste of fruit in these drinks will drown out the majority of the subtleties in more expensive vodka.;
, Cheap to medium priced brands like Smirnoff and Absolut offer a very wide selection of vodka flavors, from passionfruit to green apple to whipped cream and even fluffed marshmallow. Specialty brands like Bakon provide more interesting flavors like bacon vodka, while more expensive brands focus primarily on the core taste. Consider purchasing flavored vodka if you wish to make the taste of a shot less pungent, or if you are making a mixed drink with complementary flavoring. Bakon's bacon flavored vodka, for example, is an interesting choice for making bloody marys, as the bacon taste matches the bloody mary. Fruit flavored vodka, like raspberry or peach Smirnoff and cherry infused Skyy may work better for fruity flavored mixed drinks.
 Stronger vodkas offer 80 to 100 proof selections, providing drinks with up to 40% alcohol content. Higher alcohol content vodkas will have a more strong taste, and many consumers will prefer to chase these vodkas or use them in a mixed drink. Vodkas with less alcohol content may be more expensive but will generally be less pungent.
 More expensive vodkas will be distilled up to 4 times, enhancing the flavoring and intensity of the drink. These vodkas will also be made of less ingredients, using mostly potato or wheat. If you have a tighter budget, you may sacrifice the number of distillations or filterings for price, impacting the quality of the vodka.

