 Creating a schedule helps you take control of how you spend your time, which will help to make you more efficient. Try making a daily agenda that details how you will spend each hour of your day. Don't forget to include key things like sleeping and eating.Sticking to a schedule will help you make sure that you devote time to achieving your goals. For example, if your goal is to get a role in the school play, you can schedule time to study the lines for your audition.
Choose a scheduling tool that is right for you. You can hand-write your tasks in a day-planner, or you can use technology to help you. There are many apps you can put on your smartphone to remind you to do certain things throughout the day.
 Everyone works differently, so find a schedule that works for you. Try doing each of your tasks at a different time each day. Take note of when you seem to be at your most productive.Maybe you will find that you are more of a morning person. If you feel at your sharpest early in the day, try getting up early and getting your most important tasks done first.
If you are more of a night owl, try saving your most important studying for later in the evening.
Don't be afraid to try different routines to see which works best for you.
 Being a teenager comes with a lot of different responsibilities. You have to schedule school, family, friends, and other activities. Sometimes you might feel like there is simply too much on your plate. When that happens, don't be afraid to say "no" to joining a new club or taking on additional responsibilities.When sticking to a schedule, you need to keep your priorities in mind. Make sure that you save time for what is really important to you.
For example, if a friend asks you to run for student council, but your priority is drama club, don't be afraid to say no. Try saying, "Thanks for thinking of me, but I've got a lot going on right now, and I need to stick to my schedule."

, Once you've made your schedule, you want to learn to make the most of your time. To be truly efficient, you need to learn to focus on the task at hand. Take steps to improve your concentration.Try doing brain teasers. Games such as Sudoku and crossword puzzles can exercise your brain and lead to increased concentration.
The mind-body connection is also important for concentration. If you can stay relaxed and not tense, you will be better able to focus your mind. Try doing deep breathing exercises or mediation to help clear your mind.
 The point of good time management is to help you more efficiently achieve your goals. That includes both your short term and long term goals. Make sure to schedule time to evaluate your progress and to make any necessary changes.Try choosing a time each week to check in with yourself. For example, schedule a 15 minute block of time marked "Evaluation". Use that time to reflect on your progress.
If you feel like you are not advancing towards your goals, consider making adjustments to your schedule.

