 Your cat may be a very fastidious groomer, but this can actually lead to the increased frequency of hairballs.By allowing your cat to handle all of her grooming herself, she ends up collecting all of the loose hair in her coat, which she then swallows and can eventually vomit up in the form of a hairball. By doing some of the grooming yourself, you limit the amount of loose fur your cat can swallow.


This is especially true of long-haired cats, which are at the greatest risk of developing hairballs. The longer fur on these breeds of cats is more likely to knot together in the stomach, leading to increased hairballs.Note that it’s still completely normal for even short-haired cats to get hairballs, so don’t think you can prevent them simply by adopting a shorter-haired cat.;
, A rubber mitt or a brush (such as a Zoom Groom) will grip the loose fur and drag it out of the coat. Be gentle if you use a brush with metal tines since these are more likely to irritate your cat’s skin than a rubber brush. Whichever option you choose, ensure that it will reach the undercoat and not just the top layer of your cat’s coat. You should also brush in the direction of the fur growth rather than against it.If you have a long-haired cat, use a comb to gently remove any tangles before using the brush to avoid pulling on healthy fur and irritating your cat’s skin.You can also sprinkle a tiny bit of talcum powder on a tangle to help remove it.Cats have unique personalities and often take to a specific type of brush. You may have to try a couple of options before your cat finds the brush she likes and with which she’ll sit through a grooming session.
 Brushing can pull up a large amount of loose fur that doesn’t necessarily come off onto the brush. After a good brushing session, you should also wipe your cat’s coat down with a dry, clean cloth that will attract the remaining loose fur., Grooming your cat will be a never-ending battle, so prepare to do it often. If you own a long-haired cat, you should brush daily to reduce the risk of hairballs.For short-haired cats, you should brush at least weekly and more often whenever possible.


Note that you should increase brushing for outdoor cats between spring and fall since they’re likely to shed more during summer months. However, indoor cats can shed constantly all year long.