 A minimum size for a box turtle habitat is 20 gallons. Bigger is always better, and a turtle will not only grow to the size of its cage. If you cannot afford a glass aquarium, a 30 gallon Rubbermaid tote can make an excellent home.
 The substrate for an eastern box turtle home should hold humidity well and be at least 6 inches deep so they can burrow. Eco Earth, sphagnum moss, peat moss, and fertilizer-free, organic potting soil are all good choices. Keep the substrate moist by misting it daily, but don't turn it into a swamp!, You should have two hides, one for the warmer side of the enclosure, and one for the cool side. They should be big enough for the turtle to enter and exit comfortably, with about one inch of clearance on all sides. Decorations are not necessary, but they make the enclosure look better. You can decorate with rocks, sticks, or herbs for an edible decoration. Make sure you don't inhibit your turtle's movement, though! You should make room for a food and water dish and a large pool for soaking and drinking, too., You should have a heat lamp and a UVB lamp hung over the cage so your turtle can thermoregulate and synthesize vitamin D3 and calcium. Be sure to add a large, flat rock for basking. The heat lamp should be a spot lamp on one side of the cage so the other side is cooler. The wattage should be around 75 and the basking rock should be no more than 90 degrees Fahrenheit., You can get your turtle online, but that can be risky. You can buy it from a pet store, but you should only buy from a quality store. You shouldn't take a turtle from the wild, and in many states it is illegal. The best place to get a turtle is a breeder or an animal shelter., It should have no discharge from the nose or eyes, no parasites such as mites or ticks, and it should feel heavy in your hand. You should buy or rescue a turtle that is captive bred and eats well., The facility should be clean, and the enclosures should be fresh and should not smell or have feces or uneaten food lying everywhere., You can feed your turtle romaine dusted with calcium and super worms every other day. Sometimes you might add a strawberry or a piece of banana. Some turtles, especially hatchlings, will refuse to eat veggies. You should feed hatchlings a high protein diet, so eating greens aren't as important for them., It is normal for your turtle to refuse to eat for a few weeks when he is just adjusting to its new home. Still offer food during this time, and if it doesn't eat for more than three weeks, alert your veterinarian in case he has worms or a similar intestinal disease., Don't overdose! Also, sprinkle the salads with cod liver oil and grated carrots for vitamin A once or twice a week., Most turtles love strawberries and tomatoes! Don't give them treats like this more than twice a week, as they are high in natural sugars. Some foods that turtles can eat are romaine, mustard greens, okra, grated squash and zucchini, earthworms, super worms, sweet potatoes, and chopped, boiled chicken. These are only a few foods you can offer. You can find more complete lists elsewhere., Be sure to discuss the issue of worms. Some warning signs your turtle is sick are: rapid weight loss, discharge from the eyes or nose, listlessness, a soft shell, shell deformities, ulcers, wheezing, or refusing to eat. Take your turtle to the vet if you notice any of these signs., Unless you are breeding them, there really is no need to hibernate your turtle. If you do decide to do it, you need to know the details. Read up on How to Care for a Hibernating Turtle for more information.