 Make sure your cat is up-to-date with its vaccinations and shots. Additionally, take your cat to the vet at least once a year for routine check ups and dental visits.


Ask your veterinarian about the Savannah cat’s nutritional, grooming, and health needs in order to keep it at its optimal health.
In general, this is a healthy breed. However, make sure to purchase your cat from a breeder who can guarantee its health in the form of a written statement.;
, Use a metal comb, and brush in the direction of its hair growth. Make sure to brush its entire body, including its abdomen and chest. Additionally, rubber brushes are great for removing dead hair from shorthaired cats.As your brush your cat, run your hands over your cat’s fur and feel for lumps, bumps, bald spots, and/or swelling. If you notice any of these signs, then take your cat to the vet since these are common symptoms of a skin infection.
 Trim its nails every 10 to 14 days. You can either take your cat to a professional groomer or trim its nails yourself. If you choose to trim them yourself, you will need to acclimate your cat to having its nails and paws handled first. Do this by:Massaging your cat’s toes and paws with your fingers for a three second maximum. Do not squeeze or pinch its paws if it pulls away. Once your cat is calm, take its paw again and press the pad to extend the nail. Then give your cat a treat for good behavior.
Clipping a piece of macaroni near your cat’s ears as you press the pad to extend the nail. Then release your cat’s paw and give it a treat. This will get your cat used to the sound of its nails being clipped.
Only clipping the white part of the nails. Do not clip the pink part of the nails, i.e., the quick. This part of the nail contains nerves and blood vessels and it will bleed if it is clipped. Keep a styptic stick or powder nearby in case you accidentally clip the quick.
Trimming only one or two nails in one sitting until your cat is comfortable with the process. After trimming one or two nails, make sure to reward your cat with praise and treats.
 You should check your cat’s ears once a week. Look for debris and wax, and make sure there are no signs of an infection. Make sure there are no bald spots on the outer ear, and check to see that the inner surface is light pink and clean. Gently fold back your cat’s ear to inspect its ear canal. Its inner ear should be free of debris and dirt, have minimal earwax, and have a healthy pink color.If you need to clean your cat’s ears, use a damp cloth or cotton ball to wipe away any dirt and debris. Never stick anything into your cat’s ear canal to clean it.
If you notice a large amount of wax, swelling, blood, or smell an odor, then take your cat to the vet to see if it has an ear infection.
 Try to brush its teeth at least three to five times a week. If not, then once a week is fine. Make sure to use specially formulated cat toothpastes and toothbrushes; do not use a human toothpaste or toothbrush. Clean your cat’s teeth at home by:Touching its gums with a Q-tip or by gently massaging them with your finger. This will help acclimate your cat to getting its teeth brushed. Practice this for one week.
Applying a small amount of toothpaste onto your cat's lips. This will help your cat get used to the taste of the toothpaste. Practice this for a week as well.
Introducing the toothbrush to your cat. Gently push its lips back and touch the toothbrush to its teeth and gums. Practice this for a few days.
Applying toothpaste to the brush. Then gently scrub your cat’s teeth in a downward motion to remove plaque and tartar. Make sure to reward your cat with praise and treats for good behavior.
 Check your cat’s litter box once, if not twice, a day for cleanliness. As a general rule of thumb, check it in the morning and evening. If you see waste, make sure to remove it immediately. Re-fill the litter box with fresh, clean litter after you have removed the waste.Try to wash its litter box every 10 to 15 days with hot water and mild soap. Do not use cleaning products that contain ammonia, deodorants or scents (especially lemon).

