 There are few types of Covenant forces, such as Brutes and Jackals, and every type has its own strengths and weaknesses. Some may be more susceptible to grenades, while other easier to kill with headshots. Learn how to kill each type of Covenant effectively before tackling a large group.;
, Covenant forces are usually mixed, with several unit types and ranks combined into one small unit. Observe the force's movements to discover who the leader is and what weapons they have.
 Although you may find yourself with only a plasma pistol and Needler, try to keep good attacking weapons such as the sniper or beam rifle or battle rifle for big battles such as this. Having a few grenades handy is also a good idea.
 Never launch an attack if you don't have cover, higher ground or access to weapons and grenades. If you have at least one of these conditions, then you will probably stand a good chance of withstanding a hard fight.
 This target should be carefully selected based on a few factors: rank, easiness to kill and threat. For example, the force's leader would be a prime target or a model with a devastating fuel-rod gun. Any enemy which is easy to kill and would pose a big threat in later battle is a prime target to eliminate first.
 Whoever you've chosen, it's probably for a good reason, so finish him off and do it quickly. Since you have the element of surprise, consider trying to stick the target, although head-shotting him would be much easier.
 Secondary targets may include enemies which also pose a major threat, such as snipers or turret-gunners, or those with powerful weapons, such as rockets or Gravity Hammers.
 You've lost the element of surprise and need to kill as many enemies as you can before they begin to form a plan to counterattack. Throw a few grenades to gain some time while they dodge the explosions.
 Although they may be a silly little enemy on their own, in large groups they are dangerous, especially if you are trying to aim up a Brute later on. Grunts are fairly easy to kill - one burst from a battle rifle will usually kill - so they should take up much time to eliminate. Drones are a little more hazardous - they can deplete your shields quickly and they're hard to get a lock on. Use a SMG or assault rifle to clear large areas on them and the battle rifle to pick off the last ones.
 A few grenades should kill any Jackals, but if there are only a few Jackals left, focus on killing the Brutes first. From there you can wipe up any Jackals left alive using a combination of melee and battle rifles, since it will be easier to engage in close-range combat with other hostiles eliminated.
 Any stray Jackals or Grunts roaming around shouldn't be too hard to kill, so relax and spend the rest of your time collecting any ammunition or special items.
 This article of course is targeting only one specific scenario with a medium, mixed infantry-based force. In other levels you may encounter all-brute forces or those with only drones. Vehicle based units are a different matter again. Throughout the campaign you will find numerous varieties of Covenant units, so be prepared for anything.

