 Like most stressful conversations, it's a good idea to have some lines prepared in advance. Make a point of knowing how to open up the conversation, as well as how to break the rejection and end the conversation. Keep in mind that prepared lines only serve as a general guideline. The best way to let a girl down easily is to roll with the flow of the conversation.


You might, for instance, open the conversation by saying "I don't think this is going to work. I'm sure about that now, and it's important for you to know that has nothing to do with who you are as a person."
At the same time, you won't do yourself any favours by planning too much. No interaction will ever go the exact way you expect it to, and if you leave yourself little room for improvisation, you'll fall and stumble the first time things don't go according to plan.
 If you want to let a girl down easily, you need to show her she is still worth your time and respect. Dropping her a line over text message or social media is impersonal, and just about everyone is worth more than that. Keep short on any details when you call her to meet up. No one will willingly meet someone purely for the sake of being broken up with. Breaking up in person is, however, a much better choice for the long run.


For example: "Hey. I think it's a good idea for us to meet. Would you be free to meet at the park tomorrow morning?"
Choose the place to meet based on what you anticipate her reaction will be. If she's prone to anger or even violence, meet up somewhere in public. That way, she will be less likely to make a scene. If the girl is shy and prone to crying however, it's better to do it someplace private, like her home. This will keep her from feeling embarrassed in public.
 As tough as it may be to balance the break up with tenderness, its a necessary thing if you want to make it as painless as possible for the girl. Though you don't want to condescend or give her the impression that the decision isn't absolute, it's important you word things in such a way that makes it sound like you still care about her, even if the feelings are not romantic.For example, follow up the break-up declaration with a positive affirmation: "Even though I know we can't be together, that doesn't mean I don't care about you or want you as a part of my life. You're a really cool person, and I really mean that."
Don't expect this to remove the pain or spectacle from her reaction. Even the nicest way of wording a break up is going to provoke feelings of heartbreak.
 Making things go further than they need to will only confuse the girl. You should break the news right after saying hello. Remind yourself what the purpose of the meeting is. It's not to 'hang out'; if you are more interesting in spending time together than breaking up, it's probably a sign you should not be breaking up in the first place.


Be simple and leave no room for interpretation. At the same time, don't be mean or rude. This can be a tricky thing to balance, but you should break the news with something like this: "I don't think this is going to work out. I'm absolutely sure about it. I don't want you to think that this because of you. It's about where I am in life."

, You can be as to-the-point as you like, but only offering the news of the break up and leaving will seem cold. The girl is going to want some answers. One way you can word it delicately is by offering a reason or two why the relationship can't work out between you two. It is crucial that these reasons don't paint her in a negative light. External reasons, like school, work, family and other priorities can factor in. This will ease the blow to the girl's self-confidence.


Let her know that you don't have time for a relationship: "There are lots of reasons I don't feel I'm ready for a relationship right now. I'm very focused on school and don't feel like being with someone would match my priorities."
It is definitely preferable that you are honest with the reasons. Even if you don't find the girl attractive, there may still be reasons why a relationship would be less than optimal. No matter how close you are with the girl, or what your relationship history has been, she probably deserves your total honesty.
 In virtually every case, the girl is going to have something to say in response. You may even ask her for her feelings on your decision.She may be angry, or she may be desperate and try to get you back with some quick words. She might even be relieved. If you took the time to realistically consider how she might react towards letting her down, you should have an idea of what to expect. All the same, give her some time to thrown in her two cents.


She may be upset, but it's very important you remain calm. Two upset people is a perfect recipe for argument and disaster.
Allowing her to respond and say her piece is an important part of healing. Venting is healthy, but it's good to keep a limit on it. If an interaction goes on for too long, it invites chaos.
 Brevity is your friend when it comes to letting a girl down easily. The longer your conversation goes on for, the more likely it is for fuel to be added to the fire. If you want to make sure the damage is minimized, try to put a cap on the amount of time the conversation lasts for. Ten to fifteen minutes is a reasonable amount, taking her time to respond in consideration. Say goodbye, and don't be afraid to leave even if she's trying to push the conversation on indefinitely.

