 First things first, you need to donate to the Museum. To unlock the option to build the Museum Shop, you have to donate at least 20 things to the Museum, with at least one item from each of the four categories (art, fossils, fish, bugs.) Fossils can be dug up with a Shovel, fish can be caught with a fishing rod or by diving in the Island, and bugs can be caught all over town with a net. However, Art has to be bought from Crazy Redd.

One day a week in your town, Crazy Redd’s tent will appear in the town square, near your town tree. When you enter the tent, you’ll see that he has 4 paintings or sculptures on display, and he’ll inform you that your character can only buy one artwork for that day. Now examine what you wish to buy using A, and when you buy an item, you receive the artwork the following day. Choose carefully, though! Redd is known to forge artworks, and once you buy, you can't change your mind and switch to a different item. There are many guides on the Internet that tell you how to spot a fake from an original, so don’t be afraid to look it up.;
, After you donate those 20 things, go to the Town Hall, sit in your mayor's seat, and start a new building project. The Museum Shop will be in the list, which is what we want. You’ll then start a fundraiser in town, in which you can also donate some Bells to ensure that you get it built faster.

To help raise funds to build the Museum Shop, go into your train station and give money to Lloid (the gyroid). Then you can choose how much you want to give.
 Once you raise enough funds, the Museum Shop will open in the next morning! It sells random items a day, but it’s the only place to buy your Silver Shovel, Net, and Fishing Rod for 500 Bells each. You also need to unlock them through donating a certain amount of corresponding items, but the items you donated to unlock the Museum Shop counts as well.

For the Silver Net, you need to donate about 30 bugs. For the Silver Fishing Rod, you need to donate 30 fish. For the Silver Shovel, you need to donate 15 fossils.
The Silver Nets and Fishing Rods have a wider radius for catching bugs and fish, while Silver Shovels have a chance of spawning Gems instead of Bells from a Money Rock.

