 Editing is one of the most underrated art forms in cinema, but that is almost by design. The best editors are invisible, making their cuts and changes perfectly. As a result, the audience, never has to think about editing. The footage just flows together. When you start editing your movie, make sure you know what the story, point, or thesis of your film is. All of your editing needs to service this idea., Editing version of paint and brushes is the "cut," which is simply when you transition from one shot to another. This is how films tell stories -- the images cut from one to the other, and each cut shows the audience a slight change or progression, like "she enters the building," or "he is talking now." They can be simple or symbolic, such as Stanley Kubrick's famous cut from a tossed bone to a space station in 2001: A Space Odyssey. Knowing how to use cuts to tell your story is vital to film editing.Hard Cut-- a cut to another angle or shot with no transitions. This is the most common cut in film.

Smash Cut- An abrupt shift to completely different scene/image. This calls attention to the cut, often signalling a surprise or big shift in the story.

Jump Cut-- An abrupt cut made within the same scene, usually to a slightly different angle. Though uncommon, they show confusion or the passing of time.

J-Cut-- Cutting to the audio of the next shot, but not the video. This is a great way to link two scenes thematically, or provide narration.

L-Cut-- Cutting to the video of the next shot, but still playing the audio from the old scene. This is a great way to show a character talking about something, like a promise, then doing it (or breaking it).

Action Cut-- A cut in the middle of some movement. For example, showing a door opening on one room then cutting as it opens to a shot of the same door opening from the other side.

Superimposition: When two different videos layer on top of each other, implying that they are connected and intertwined. This is often used in transitions, too.Matching Shots: When the shape of one video is mimicked in the next. For example, you might have a shot of your eyes, then cut to your eyes in sunglasses or someone else's eyes. This links the shots, but usually hints at some fundamental difference as well.
 Many editors think in terms of individual frames -- the still shots you see if you pause the screen -- and compile them like musicians use notes.How does your movie flow? How does the speed of the cuts contribute to the pacing of the video? In general:


Quick cuts give a scene high energy and propulsive movement.
Slow, infrequent cuts build tension, suspense, and focus. They slow the movie down, allowing the to viewer contemplate a shot or idea.
It takes a human brain 3-5 frames to recognize an image. So you may confuse the audience if you try to be too rapid. This, however, could also be the goal., Color correction is the process of adjusting hue, saturation, brightness, and contrast of each video so that they all look the same. It is hard to get this right by yourself while shooting, so basic color correction while editing is almost always necessary. All video editing software has filters and effects for color correction. Many programs also have automatic correction, but it is often hit or miss.


You can also play with color correction to get surprising effects or specialty lighting, like soft yellow glows or dangerous, intense red tints.
If you are looking to submit your film to festivals or events, consider paying for professional color grading., The only way to become a better filmmaker is to share your film with the world. Ask them, in their own words, to explain what they thought happened and comment on what they do and don't like. Brainstorm ways that you could improve it together and try incorporate their suggestions into your next film. Who knows -- maybe they'll help you make it.

