 Most experienced tic tac toe players put the first "X" in a corner when they get to play first. This gives the opponent the most opportunities to make a mistake. If your opponent responds by putting an O anywhere besides the center, you can guarantee a win.In this example, you are going first, and using X as your symbol. Your opponent goes second, and uses O.





;
, If your opponent plays her first O in the center, you have to wait for her to make a mistake before you can win. If she continues to play correctly, she can guarantee a tie. Here are your two options for your second move, followed by instructions on how to win if she makes certain moves (if she doesn't, just keep blocking her plays and the game will be a tie):


Place your second X in the opposite corner from your first, so there's a line going "X O X" diagonally across the board. If she responds with an O in one of the other corners, you can win!Place your third X in the last empty corner, and your opponent won't be able to block you from winning with your fourth X.







Or, place your second X on an edge square (not a corner), not touching your first X. If your opponent puts down an O in the corner that's not next to your X, you can use your third X to block her move and automatically win with your fourth X.
 If your opponent puts his first O in any square besides the center, you can win. Respond by putting your second X in any other corner, with an empty space in between the two X's.


For example, say your first X is in the top left square, and your opponent puts an O in the top middle square. You can put your second X in the bottom left corner, or the bottom right corner. Don't put it in the top right, since that would put an O between your two X's instead of an empty space.
 Most of the time, your opponent will see that you have two X's in a row and block you. (If not, just win by making a row of three X's.) After this happens, there should be an empty square that is in line with both your first and your second X, with no enemy O's blocking that line. Put your third X in this square.


For example, take a piece of paper and draw a tic tac toe board with the top row "X O _", the middle row "O _ _," and the bottom row "X _ _." If you place your third X in the bottom right corner, it's in line with both of your other X's.
 After your third X, there are two empty squares that will win you the game if an X goes into one of them. Since your opponent can only make one move, he can only block one of those squares. Write your fourth X into the square he didn't block, and you've won the game!

