 By phrasing the question casually, you can find out what you need to know with minimal risk. Try asking, "So who are you going to the dance with?" If you know one of her friends, you can also ask them, but be aware that the friend may tell the girl you asked.;
, Don't ask her the day of the dance. She might already have a date by then, and there's a chance that she'll think she wasn't your first choice. Ask her around two to three weeks before the dance. Also, it will give her time to figure out what to wear.
 You don't have to go all out and wear something like a suit; save that for the dance. Just make sure you've showered, your hair looks nice, and that you're wearing an outfit that doesn't look sloppy.Use deodorant and brush your teeth beforehand.
Don't overdo it on the cologne, as this might push her away.
 Technology is becoming more and more dominating with text messaging and social media taking over.It's becoming more common for kids and teenagers to talk to each other through virtual means, but you learn more about someone when you talk to them in person.If you really want to impress her, be cordial and ask her to the dance in person., Find a private area at school (but not too private), and ask her there. If you ask her in public, she may feel pressured to say yes and this also puts her in an embarrassing situation.Asking her in public could also be embarrassing for you if she declines your invitation!

, If she says she doesn't like you in that way or just says “no,” then back off! Nothing ticks a girl off more than an annoying guy that doesn't leave her alone. Not only is it rude, but it can make her dislike you more.


If she says "no," do not ask why. Say something like, "Oh, all right. No problem."
If she says, "I'll think about it," don't call her for a confirmed response. Wait until she calls you back. If she doesn't call back three days before the date of the dance, take it as a no.
 Do not prepare what to say or practice in front of a mirror. Trying to memorize and then present a prepared speech will just make you more nervous. Go with the flow!

, Take a deep breath and walk by her. Look her straight in the eyes and keep your head up during the conversation so you appear present and engaging.No matter how nervous you are, take your time.
 Begin asking her to the dance by saying something like, “You look very nice today.” Hopefully, she'll appreciate the compliment and it will make the “asking her out” part so much easier.
 If it's a smaller dance, try something simple like bringing her flowers or candy. There won't be as much pressure on her to say yes if you stick with something simple, and she'll appreciate the kind gesture.If it's an important dance like the prom, then you should pick a creative way to ask her to the dance. For example, put a bunch of keys in a bucket and label one with the words “find the key to my heart.” Label it with your address, and hopefully she'll follow cue and come over to your house where you can finally ask her to the dance.You can also stick with something simple like balloons or cookies that say, “will you go to the dance with me?”

