 Rhodesian Ridgebacks require frequent movement and exercise to stay happy and healthy, so be sure to schedule regular, rigorous exercise for your pet outside of everyday walks (2-3 times a week for about an hour). Jogging and hiking are activities that are well-suited to the breed’s stamina level and athletic tendencies. Bring your dog along for your outdoor workouts and stay fit and content, together.Wait until your dog is at least 15-18 months old to exercise it vigorously – strenuous exercise can cause problems for developing bones.;
, Rhodesian Ridgeback dogs love to run, but the breed has a natural inquisitiveness that could lead to being easily distracted. The sight of a squirrel or another dog, for example, could lead the dog to run out into traffic and get hurt. Try running with your dog on a leash, an activity that will provide your pet with exercise and stand as a bonding activity between the two of you., Rhodesian Ridgebacks do best with some outside space - ideally a large yard. Due to their adventurous spirit and natural proclivity to dig holes, however, dogs of this breed should be supervised at all times when outdoors. The yard should also have a sturdy, tall fence (i.e. a fence that is at least 6 feet tall); Rhodesian Ridgebacks have been known to clear fences as tall as 5 feet (1.5 m)., Rhodesian Ridgebacks are proficient swimmers and enjoy the activity very much. In terms of exercise, swimming is an ideal option for the level of energy and stamina that the breed possesses. Organize family swimming days (at a lake or dog-friendly beach) to include your pet in, but make sure to always keep a close watch on it both in and out of the water., While Rhodesian Ridgebacks love to run freely, they need a safe, enclosed space to do so. Bringing your pet to the dog park will let them exercise off their leash and socialize with other dogs; it is also a good option for exercising your pet if their energy level starts to exceed your own. Try to visit a dog park at least once a week so that your dog is accustomed to playing with other dogs and comfortable with the experience whenever you go., Lure coursing is a performance circuit developed for sighthound breeds like Rhodesian Ridgebacks to demonstrate their instinctual hunting skills. Within this system of mechanized lures and pulleys (simulating live prey), sighthounds are evaluated based on their agility, speed, and stamina; your dog can participate in either competitive or non-competitive coursing tests.For more information about getting started, find lure coursing or sighthound clubs in your area by visiting the American Kennel Club website at https://www.apps.akc.org/apps/clubs/search/.

