 You can probably find most of them at Lowe's or a local lumberyard.;
, Nail them together to make two walls and a floor. Drill holes for ventilation. Make sure you put the walls on top of the floor, not on the sides, or else the ceiling won't fit.
 Drill holes along the edges of the two long sides of the big sheet of plastic and along three sides of the small sheet. Attach the big sheet as the ceiling and the small one as the back wall. You can even attach the small one a little high for ventilation and/or cleaning the cage.
 Drill a hole big enough for a finger in the small piece of wood (if you have a biting rabbit, drill the hole partially through; if you have a nice bunny, drill it all the way through) for easier opening of the cage. You will put this in the slot, but not yet. First we need a latch and décor.
 When you turn it right, it should latch the cage.
 Drill a hole through each dowel about 4-6" down. Insert washer through both holes. Put a 2.5" bolt through the washer and screw on a nut, preferably .5" thick. Somehow attach both buckets, one to each dowel on the same end with the openings facing each other and so that when you close the scooper the edges match up exactly.
 This will act as good terrain for the animal.
 Also find a soft rag or some nice cloth twice the size of the padding. Place the pad on one side of the cloth. Place the other side on top of the pad and sew the edges of the cloth. For a hammock, tie a piece of string/strip of cloth on either side of the bed and nail/duct tape to cage ceiling. For regular bed, place in cage under shelter.
 Cut off a corner of the box the size you want for the roof. Cut off a long strip of the box for the walls.
 Cut the plug off (the rest of this part will be useful, it's not just to rip things to shreds). Now, you need some sort of plastic packet(look in your cupboard) about the size of your fist. In the middle of one of the two shorter sides, cut an inlet about the size of the part of the beach ball nozzle you blow into and dump out/eat all of the food in the packet (rinse at least 5 times). Now, use waterproof glue to glue the end you blow on to the packet(rubber/plastic cement is fine, but if the packet is plastic, don't use hot glue or the packet will shrivel and you'll have to start over again). When dry, tie the water bottle to one of the vent-holes you drilled in the side of the cage.

