 Everything we interact with on a daily basis is made of atoms. Atoms are the base unit of every element on the periodic table—meaning breaking any pure element such as gold or oxygen into smaller pieces would make it no longer the respective element., Every atom from hydrogen to uranium is composed of atomic particles called electrons, protons, and neutrons. What makes each element different is simply the number of each particle inside the atom., One of the things that sets the types of atomic particles apart is the electrical charge of each. Electrons have a negative electrical charge, whereas protons have a positive charge and neutrons have a neutral charge.The charge of each particle is balanced such that atoms with equal numbers of protons and electrons have an overall neutral charge from the two having each other out., Another thing that sets the atomic particles apart is their location in the atom. Protons and neutrons are tightly bound together at the center of every atom is what is called the nucleus of the atom. Electrons, however, are arranged in rings that revolve in high speeds around the nucleus.This makes it much easier for an atom to lose electrons from the outermost ring encircling it than it does for the atom to lose the protons housed in the nucleus., When an atom sheds electrons, it’s always by losing them to another atom. When an atom loses electrons, that means the atom then has more protons in the nucleus than electrons around it. This results in an overall positive charge to the atom. Inversely, the atom that gains the electrons from the shedding atom then has more electrons revolving around it than protons in the nucleus, and this means an overall negative charge. Charged atoms are called ions., You can think of ions as similar to magnets. Oppositely charged ions attract (and ions of the same charge repel each other) the same way that opposite poles of magnets attract one another (and like poles repel one another). Static electricity is simply the discharge caused by the imbalance in the positive and negative charges in atoms.You can see examples of both the attraction and repulsion forces with the standard static balloon experiment. Blow up a balloon and rub a side of it against your hair for ten seconds. The rubbing causes your hair to shed electrons into the balloon. Your positively charged hair stands up because each positively charged atom in the cells of your hair repel one another. You can then take the negatively charged balloon and hold it to the wall. It will stick to the neutrally charged wall via forces of attraction until enough of the extra electrons have dispersed into the wall to negate the force., Now that you know the process that leads to the electrical imbalances which cause static electricity, you just need to know what objects mostly easily build such a charge.


Certain objects are much more prone to shedding electrons. As mentioned, dry human hair is one. Other materials in this category include: dry human skin, leather, fur, glass, nylon, wool, and aluminum.Materials that easily collect loose electrons include: teflon, silicon, vinyl (PVC), polyurethane, styrene (styrofoam), polyester, gold, brass, silver, copper, and hard rubber.This means that causing friction by rubbing items from the first category against items from the second category is a great way to charge each. This is why polyester clothing has so much static cling and why certain combs cause hair static.