 Before you can learn to love others, you will have to learn to love yourself. This isn't the sort of vain, self-absorbed love; it's the love that accepts you for the person you are, that delves deep to unearth the skills and values that truly make up who you are and embraces these. Remind yourself that you are a kind, compassionate person and most of all, that you're worthy. Coupled with virtuous and kind actions, this will help you to be more self-accepting and understanding.


Try writing about your experiences from the perspective of a totally loving, accepting friend, rather than from your own point of view. Studies suggest that getting this kind of distance can help you process negative emotions rather than ignore or repress them. Acknowledging your feelings is a key component of self-compassion. We’re often far kinder to others than we are to ourselves; show yourself the same acceptance you would a loved one.Give yourself small moments of self-compassion throughout the day, especially when you notice that you’re experiencing something unpleasant. For example, if you are really behind on a project at work, you might judge yourself or work yourself into an anxiety attack. Instead, first use mindfulness to acknowledge your stress: “I’m feeling stressed right now.” Then, acknowledge that everyone experiences this from time to time: “I’m not alone in this.” Finally, give yourself a compassionate touch, such as placing your hand over your heart. Repeat something positive to yourself: “I can learn to be strong. I can learn to be patient. I can learn to accept myself.”, Take time to appreciate your talents and best features, whether they are physical or internal. The more hostile you are toward yourself, the more hostile you are likely to be toward others.Begin by keeping a record of when you experience negative thoughts about yourself. Note what the situation was, what you thought, and the consequences of those thoughts.
For example, you might create an entry that looks something like this: “Today I went to the gym. I was surrounded by skinny people and started feeling fat. I felt angry with myself and ashamed of being at the gym. I didn’t even want to finish my workout.”
Next, find a rational response to those thoughts. This can be difficult, but by consistently challenging your negative self-talk with cold, hard facts and logic, you can change how you think.
For example, a rational response to the above situation could look like this: “I go to the gym to take care of my body and health. That is an act of kindness and caring for myself. Why should I feel ashamed of caring for myself? Everyone’s bodies are different, and mine may not look like someone else’s. The people at the gym who are very fit could have been working at it longer than I have. They might just have good genes. If others judge me based on my appearance, do I even really value their opinion? Or do I want to value people who support and encourage my acts of caring for myself?”Self-criticism often comes in the form of “shoulds,” such as “I should have a fancy car” or “I should wear a certain clothes size.” When we compare ourselves to standards set by others, we can end up unhappy and ashamed. Determine what you want for you, and reject what others say you “should” be., Sometimes, we can become complacent with ourselves and our lives. Monotonous routines can keep us stuck in reactive or avoidant patterns of behavior. You may also have developed unhelpful habits and behaviors without even realizing it.For example, if you were hurt by someone earlier in your life, you might be more inclined to construct boundaries that keep other people at a distance. These boundaries may help keep you from getting hurt again, but even more importantly, they keep you from potentially experiencing joy and connection with others.
Experimenting with new routines, such as participating in social activities or seeking out new friendships, can be a great way to discover capacities you didn’t even know you had. It can also help you form relationships with others and discover new things about your emotions.Finding ways to break out of your habits can also bring you into contact with diverse people who can change your perspective on life. Research has shown that unhelpful attitudes, such as prejudices or fears, are often improved by experiencing someone else’s culture or perspective.You will find that you can learn from others, and they can probably learn from you, too.
 These emotions are a natural part of life, but if you constantly feel angry or jealous toward others, you are going to have a difficult time finding happiness. As with cultivating self-compassion, accepting the behaviors and desires of others is a necessary step in becoming the type of person you want to be.


Anger can often occur because we believe things “shouldn’t” happen to us. We may become angry if we perceive things going a way other than how we envisioned. Developing the flexibility to appreciate that things will not always work out the way you expected will help you reduce your anger.Focus on those things in life that you do have control over, and worry less about what you can’t control. Remember: you can control your actions, but not their outcomes. Focusing on your actions rather than trying to control uncontrollable outcomes can help you relax and feel less anger when things go awry (which they will, from time to time)., Forgiveness has physical health benefits. Dwelling on grudges and past wrongs can increase your blood pressure and heart rates, while practicing forgiveness can reduce your body’s stress.Despite its many benefits, forgiving others can be one of the hardest things in the world to do.Think about the wrong you want to forgive. Notice the thoughts you experience about that wrong. How do you feel towards that person? How does your body feel?
Reflect on that experience through the lens of learning. How could you have done something differently? What could the other person have done differently? Can you learn from this experience for the future? Transforming a painful experience into a learning experience can help you let go of your sense of injury.
Talk with the other person. Don’t make accusations; that will only put the other person on the defensive. Instead, use “I”-statements to express your feelings, and ask for them to share theirs with you.Value peace over justice. One reason why it can be so hard to forgive is our sense of “fairness.” The person who wronged you may never “get what’s coming to them,” but holding on to your anger and injury ultimately only harms you. Don’t make forgiveness contingent on a particular action or result.Remember that forgiveness is not absolution. The wrong still happened, and you haven’t made an excuse for it by forgiving it. What you have done is release the burden of carrying your own anger around with you.
 Gratitude is more than a feeling; it’s an active practice. Cultivating an “attitude of gratitude” can make you a more positive, happier, healthier person.Gratitude has been shown to help people overcome trauma, strengthen their relationships, and show compassion to others.Keep a gratitude journal. Record things that you experience for which you’re grateful. These can be small, like a sunny morning or a delicious cup of perfectly brewed coffee. They can be impossible to measure, such as a partner’s love or a friendship. Paying attention to these things and recording them will help you store them up so you can remember them later.Savor surprises. Something unexpected or surprising can have a stronger effect on you than something mundane. Even these can be small; for example, note when your partner does the dishes or when you get a text from a friend you haven’t heard from in months.
Share your gratitude with others. You’re more likely to remember positive things if you share them with others. Sharing also has the benefit of brightening someone else’s day, and possibly inspiring gratitude of their own., Humans, like many other animals, are built to build social relationships with those around them.From an early age, we learn how to “read” others and imitate their behaviors. We do this to fit in, to get what we want and need, and to feel connected to others.However, empathy is more than being able to interpret others’ behaviors and sense their emotions. It’s about imagining what it is like to experience life as they do, to think what they think, to feel what they feel.Cultivating empathy will help you be more sensitive toward other peoples' feelings, learn to bond with others, and feel less isolated. And practicing empathy will help you to treat others as you would like to be treated.


Studies have shown that loving-kindness meditation, or compassion meditation, can stimulate the area of your brain responsible for emotional activity. It can also help you feel less stressed and more stable.Mindfulness meditation has similar effects, but is slightly less useful in developing empathy.Research has shown that actively imagining what others are experiencing can help boost your empathy.Even reading fiction can encourage you to take on someone else’s perspective.Suspend judgment whenever possible. Research has shown that we are less likely to empathize with people whom we believe are responsible for their suffering -- i.e., people who “get what they deserve.” Recognize that you don’t know the other person’s circumstances or past.Seek out diverse people. Studies have shown that exposure to someone else’s culture or beliefs can help you empathize with them.The more exposure you have to people who may think and behave differently from you, the less likely you are to form uninformed judgments or hold on to prejudices.
 We are far more likely to experience real gratitude for immaterial things, such as the experience of feeling loved or an act of kindness. In fact, striving for more material things is often a sign that you are trying to fulfill some deeper need.Research has shown that materialistic people are often less happy than their peers.They feel less happy with their lives as a whole, and are more likely to experience negative emotions such as fear and sadness., Not everybody can afford to donate thousands of dollars to their favorite charity, but that doesn't mean you can't make small contributions to help those in need. Helping others not only benefits them, it benefits you. Research has shown that people who are altruistic are happier and may even experience an endorphin boost known as a “helper’s high” from doing good for others.Volunteer. Instead of spending your weekends in front of the TV, volunteer at your local homeless shelter or SPCA. Serving others can help you feel more connected to them, and can help you feel more like part of a community than an isolated individual.Practice random acts of kindness every day. This could be as small an act as helping an elderly person carry groceries to their car, or giving somebody the right of way when driving. The more you do this, the more you will realize how gratifying it feels to help others, which will ultimately help you overcome selfishness.
Research has shown that the “pay it forward” principle actually exists. Altruistic acts spread from person to person. Your small show of kindness and generosity could inspire someone else to do the same thing, which could inspire someone else, which could inspire someone else, and so forth., We can spend so much time focusing on our own behavior that we don’t take the time to notice how we are affecting others. Part of this is a psychological defense mechanism to help us handle interactions with others.If everyone responds to you in a similar way, you may have developed some habits that aren’t helpful. You could be allowing your defense mechanisms to get in the way of growth.


For example, consider how others respond to you. Do they seem to get hurt easily by things you say? It’s possible that, rather than everyone you know being overly sensitive -- which just isn’t likely --- you have developed a defense mechanism of putting others down in order to make yourself feel better. Experiment with different ways to communicate with others that don’t elicit the same hurt response.
Look at how you interact with others. Look for patterns, and determine which of these patterns are helpful and which aren’t. The more you learn to be flexible and adaptable with your behavior, the better attuned you can be to those around you.