 An anemometer is a device that measures wind speed.It consists of 3 or 4 cups mounted on wires attached to a central rotating shaft. Wind catches the cups and makes them spin. The faster the wind blows, the faster the cups spin around their axis.


You can either buy an anemometer or make your own.
To make your own, get five three-ounce paper cups, two straws, a sharpened pencil with an eraser, a stapler, a small sharp pin, and a ruler.Color the sides of one of the cups to make it distinct from the others.
Punch a hole in the side of four of the cups about 1 inch from the rim. In the fifth cup, punch four holes equally spaced around the cup about 1 inch from the rim. Also, punch one hole in the bottom of this cup.
Push one straw through the side of one of the cups leaving about 1 inch of straw inside the cup. Staple the straw to the side of the cup. Feed the rest of the straw through the fifth cup with 4 holes in one side and out the other. Place a second cup on the end of this straw and staple it in place. Make sure all of the cups face the same direction.
Repeat the above step with the other two cups, feeding the straw through the remaining two holes in the middle cup. Again, make sure all cups are facing the same direction.
Carefully, place a pin through the intersection point of the straws in the middle cup.
Feed the pencil through the bottom hole of the fifth cup and push the pin through the eraser. Make sure your anemometer can spin freely. If so, it is now ready to use. If not, adjust the pencil so the eraser is not directly up against the straws.
 When one of the cups completes a full rotation, the distance it travels is the circumference of the circle. To calculate the circumference you need to measure the diameter of the circle.


Measure the distance from the center of the anemometer to the center of one of the cups. This is the radius of the anemometer. Doubling this distance is the diameter.
The circumference of a circle is equal to the diameter times the constant pi or 2 times the radius times pi.
For example, if the distance between the center of the cup and the center of the anemometer is 30 cm (1 foot), the distance the cup travels in a single rotation is 2 x 30 x 3.14 (rounding pi to 2 decimal places), or 188.4 cm (74.2 inches).
 You want enough wind to spin the anemometer, but not blow it over. You may need to anchor it to the ground or a post to keep it upright.
 Stand at a fixed point and count the number of times the colored cup rotates around the circle. Possible intervals are 5, 10, 15, 20, 30 seconds, or even a full minute. Set a timer to go off at your specific time interval to ensure accuracy in the count.


If you don’t have a timer, have a friend watch the clock, while you count the rotations.
If you purchased an anemometer, mark one of the cups in some way to allow you count properly.
 This will give you the total distance the anemometer traveled in the time you were watching it.


For example, your anemometer has a radius of 30 cm (.98 ft), therefore it travels 188.4 cm (6.18 ft) in a single rotation. If it rotated 50 times during your count, then the total distance is 50 x 188.4 = 9420 cm.
 The equation for speed is total distance divided by the amount of time it takes to travel that distance. Taking the total distance the anemometer spun and dividing it by the amount of time you counted for will give you the current wind speed.


For example, if you counted the number of rotations in 10 seconds you would divide the distance traveled by 10 seconds. Speed = (9420 cm/10 sec) = 942 cm/sec (30.9 ft/sec).
Multiplying 942 cm/sec by 3600 gives 3,391,200 cm/hr, divided by 100,000 (the number of centimeters in a kilometer) or 33.9 km/hr.
Multiplying 30.9 feet per second by 3,600 gives 111,240 feet per hour, divided by 5,280 gives 21.1 miles per hour.

