 The most popular services are Blogger and WordPress, but there are many other services available. Some of these services are completely free to use (such as Blogger) while others may require you to purchase a domain (your blog address) or pay a fee for hosting (online storage space).;
, When you use any blogging service to create the blog you will be asked to choose the following blog attributes.


Blog URL: The URL (also known as the domain address) is the complete address of the blog, usually beginning with "and ending with ".com". If you are getting a free domain address, you may be required to include a name for the blogging service that is providing the address as part of the URL. (For example, if you create your art blog with Blogger for free the URL may look like "artblog.blogspot.com" because Blogger requires that you include the word "blogspot" to indicate that you have a blog that is hosted through Blogger). Try to use the main keyword that describes your blog within the domain address.
Blog name: Ideally, the name of your blog should match the main keyword used in your blog's domain address. For example, if your blog is about abstract art then you should include the keyword "abstract art" in the blog's name and URL. Alternately, you may want to include your name in the blog name and URL (such as "Art by Bill Joe") if the main objective of the blog is to promote yourself as an artist. It all depends on what type of art blog you want to create.
 The template basically determines the design of your blog and how content should be displayed within it. The template should match the theme of your blog or the style of art that will be displayed on it. Most blogging services allow you to preview different templates to help you pick the best one for your blog. Here are some attributes included in the template.


Font: The font refers to how the letters, numbers and punctuations will be displayed on your blog. The template specifies the font name as well as the font size and color.
Color scheme: Each template has a color scheme that specifies the color of the background and also the color of other design elements such as the header and menu bars.
Background image: At times you may be allowed to select a background image for your blog. If so, you can choose a background image that compliments your blog's theme but make sure it does not interfere with the readability of blog posts.
 Here are some ideas to help you get started.


Create content that is unique. Being an artist is all about being different and expressing who you are.
Share personal stories so people can relate to your work.
Proofread each blog post before publishing to minimize grammatical errors that may make your blog less appealing.
 Here are 2 methods of branding that you may want to consider.


Add your signature to the images that you want to brand. Although using this method does prevent others from claiming your work as theirs, people may still try to republish your signed artwork without your permission or try to remove your signature using image-editing programs.
Create watermarks. Watermarks are a more effective method of branding because they cover the whole canvas area occupied by the image. The watermark can be a faded texture or symbol (for example, the artist's logo) and can be made using an image-editing software such as Adobe Photoshop by creating a new top layer containing the texture or symbol and then increasing its transparency.
 Of course, people want you to share your art on your blog or at least see your style of work. Adding images is even more crucial if you want to sell artworks or encourage people to hire you as an artist to create custom art because your customers will want to know more about the products or services that they are paying for. There are a few methods that you can use to add images.


Upload images directly as part of your blog posts. Many blogging services display an "Add Image" link at the top when you create a new blog post. Click your mouse on the area where you want to add an image and then use the link to select and add the image.
Create an art gallery. Websites such as Starving Artists are created in particular for artists to create galleries of their work. After signing up with such a website, you can upload images onto your gallery and add a link to your gallery page on your blog.
Make slideshows. Websites such as Kizoa and PhotoSnack let you upload images and then choose from different themes and styles to create your slideshow. The website will also give you an HTML code that you can post within the HTML of your blog where you want the slideshow to be displayed.

