 Incorrectly holding the leash can not only lead to injuries, to you and/or the dog, but it also can reinforce bad habits for your dog. Try a few of the following suggestions:


Well-mannered dogs can be controlled by simply placing a thumb in the handle of the leash, and then enclosing the hand around the rest of the leash.For more control, fold the handle a couple times into the palm of your hand. Ensure the handle protrudes towards the bottom of your fist so it slips out when uncontrollable force yanks the leash. This leash accordion can be let loose for more slack if the dog needs more room.Hold the leash firmly in both hands while draping it across your lap. This works well if the accordion is in a hand close to your hip, and the other is naturally on the other side.
Use two hands. With one hand extended holding the leash folds, use the other hand to hold the portion of the leash closest to you. Brace that rear hand on your back hip for more support.
Try selecting a shorter leash for more control. The shortened length of the leash will provide less leeway for the dog to pull and knock you off balance.
 Keep your dog stationary to distract it from pulling. There are various methods to get your dog to stop in its tracks.


Teach it the sit command. When it starts pulling, command it to stop. If there are distractions nearby, let it stay seated until everything passes.
When you have a moment that you aren’t completely focused on the dog and your walk, step on the slack of the leash to keep the dog stationary.
Try the baseball bat method. Hold the leash in both hands against your stomach, much like you’d hold a baseball bat, and keep your feet shoulder-width apart.That should keep the dog from moving.
 Backwards pulls cause resistance. You don't want the dog to feel like it's fighting you.


Use quick sideways tugs for corrections. Try using quick sideways tugs to make fast obedience corrections. These types of corrections are particularly useful with slip collars.Reverse direction. Instead of pulling back or going sideways, just turn around and start walking as if that's the desired direction. Don't acknowledge your dog until it catches up to you. Once it does, praise and reward it for being at your side.Tire your dog out first. Dogs often pull because they have an abundance of energy and want to run around. Before you go on your walk, play a game or rough-house with your dog to expend some of the excess energy.Walk quickly. When your dog is walking at a brisk pace, it will have no chance to spot or smell something distracting. Your dog will be focused and interested in what you are doing instead., Use a firm voice to give commands such as "heal" or "halt", while making sure to keep a firm grip on the leash. When the dog is calm, resume walking. With practice, the dog will understand they need to stay by your side. Remember that you are in charge and you set the pace of the walk., Many dog trainers and walkers recommend positive reinforcement with animal training. Use the treats incrementally to reward small movements and responses to commands.