 The eBay Bucks Rewards Program is only available to accounts tied to a US address. The account must be in good standing (no holds or suspensions), and you must have a valid PayPal account in good standing as well.


You must be at least 18 years old (same as eBay's standard user age policy).
If you are in the UK, you can sign up for Nectar. This allows you to earn Nectar points for your eBay purchases, which you can spend on future eBay purchases.;
, Enrolling in eBay bucks is free as long as you meet the requirements above. Finding the enrollment page can be difficult, so visit this site to enroll.


Signing up is as simple as clicking the "Sign up" button on the enrollment page. You must be |logged in with your eBay account in order to enroll.
 Once you enroll in the program, the "Bucks" icon will appear appear beneath the price listing on all qualifying pages. You will also see how many eBay bucks you will earn (2% of purchase price). You can earn up to $100 eBay Bucks per transaction. The following products will NOT qualify for eBay Bucks:eBay Motors, including Parts & Accessories
Classifieds
Bullion (Other currency is eligible)
Real Estate
eBay gift cards (Other gift cards are eligible)
Business & Industrial

, In order to earn Bucks for your qualifying purchase, you must pay using PayPal. Other payment methods will not qualify for Bucks.
 eBay Bucks are tallied at the end of each quarter, and you must earn at least $5 in order to receive your Bucks. eBay considers the following to be the calendar quarter periods:


January 1 - March 31
April 1 - June 30
July 1 - September 30
October 1 - December 31

, After the earning period has ended, eBay will apply a certificate to your account with the Bucks you have earned. It can take up to 15 days after the earning period has ended for the Bucks to appear.


You can check your Bucks balance by opening the "My eBay" page and selecting "eBay Bucks" from the Buy menu on the left.
You should receive an email informing you that your Bucks Certificate has been applied to your account.
 Once you receive your Bucks, you will have 30 days to spend them. After 30 days, any unspent Bucks will be removed from your account. Bucks do not roll over into the next period, and spending your Bucks does not earn you new Bucks.
 When you find something that you want to spend your bucks on, choose PayPal as your purchase method. In the item subtotal section, you will see a checkbox allowing you to apply your current Bucks balance to the purchase. Check the box to apply the Bucks to the purchase total.If you are having difficulties finding the box to apply your Bucks, you can copy the certificate code from the "eBay Bucks" section of the "My eBay" page and enter it into the "Coupons, gift cards or certificates" field during checkout.

