 When you begin playing Call of Duty online, you will not have a wide selection of sniper rifles to use; more experienced Call of Duty players will have more sniper rifles unlocked. Choose a sniper rifle, as well as a backup weapon you are proficient with, then design the rest of your class to your choosing. Most snipers try to make themselves stealthy through the use of suppressors, smoke grenades, Claymore mines (to cover your back when hiding), perks that muffle noise, etc. Once you have used a certain sniper rifle for a while, you may choose to customize it with attachments and camouflage.;
, Sniper rifles are useless to most players unless the player can aim the rifle properly down sight. Practice is best done against friends in a private lobby or against enemy bots. If you can't find anyone to practice with, or your version of Call of Duty does not support the use of bots, try practicing in the campaign mode, or by shooting inanimate objects in a private lobby by yourself.
 You should plan to stay unseen and be able to take out a high volume of enemy players from this spot. Your spot should be a good vantage point for a large area of the map, yet not dangerous or conspicuous. Try spending about 30 seconds to 1 minute to scout your spot; once it looks clear, situate yourself.
 Look for enemy players. If you have chosen a good spot, enemy players should be readily visible. Don't waste time aiming for their head if it is too difficult a target; sniper rifles will often eliminate targets in one to two hits if opponents are shot above the waist. Aim for the chest area first; if you cannot line up your sniper rifle's crosshair with the target's chest, try aiming for the target's legs. As soon as your target is steady in the crosshair, take the shot.
 It is difficult to take more than 2 shots in one location. If it seems that the opposing team has not discovered your location, then you should check your rear and see if you are being ambushed. Do not sit somewhere for so long that enemy players can easily find and kill you.
 If you are a productive sniper without a Scavenger perk, your clip will run out of bullets before you die and respawn. In this case, you should switch to your backup weapon and search for another primary weapon. If you do not have a backup weapon, use your knife.

