 In a small bowl, stir together 3 tablespoons (48 g) of hoisin sauce, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of soy sauce, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of rice wine vinegar, and 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of sesame oil with a fork until well blended. Next, mix in 1 teaspoon (3 g) cornstarch to thicken up the sauce and set aside.If you want a thinner sauce, you can omit the cornstarch.;
, Set a medium-size skillet on the stove and turn the heat to medium. Allow the pan to heat for 1 to 2 minutes before adding 1 teaspoon (15 ml) of vegetable oil. Let the oil heat for another 1 to 2 minutes.If you don’t have vegetable oil in your pantry, you can substitute olive oil.
 Once the oil is heated, turn the heat up to medium high and place 1 pound (450 g) ground chicken in the skillet. Use a wooden spoon to break up the chicken, and allow it to cook until it is no longer pink, which usually takes 4 to 7 minutes. Transfer to a dish, and set aside.Make sure to drain the excess fat from the ground chicken before transferring it to a dish.
You may want to cover the ground chicken with foil after you remove it from the heat to keep it somewhat warm.
If you prefer, you can substitute ground turkey for the ground chicken.
You can also swap the ground chicken for sliced or chopped grilled chicken.
If you’re in a hurry, you can even purchase a rotisserie chicken from the grocery store, cut the meat off of it, and mix it in with the vegetables and sauce.
 Place the other teaspoon of vegetable oil in the skillet, and allow it to warm over medium-high heat for 1 to 2 minutes. Add 1 cup (50 g) of grated carrots and 1 cup (149 g) of chopped bell peppers to the pan, and cook for 4 to 5 minutes or until tender.You can add to or replace the carrots and bell peppers with any other vegetables that you like, such as chopped onions or chopped mushrooms.
 When the carrots and peppers are tender, mix in 1 8-ounce (227 g) can of water chestnuts that have been drained and chopped, 3 cloves of minced garlic, and 1 tablespoon (15 g) of minced ginger. Allow the mixture to cook for approximately 30 seconds or until the pan starts to give off an aroma.If desired, you can also season the mixture with salt and pepper to taste.
 Transfer the ground chicken back to the skillet with the vegetables and mix in ¼ cup (59 g) of the sliced green onions. Stir until all of the ingredients are well combined., Next, pour the sauce that you made earlier over the mixture, and stir with a wooden spoon to ensure that that chicken and vegetables are well coated. Allow the filling to cook for about a minute or until it’s warmed through.You can tell when the filling is sufficiently warm when the sauce starts to bubble.
It’s a good idea to taste the mixture to see if it needs more hoisin sauce before removing it from the pan. Add up to 2 tablespoons (32 g) more depending on your taste.
 Take 2 small heads of lettuce, and use a paring knife to cut off the root at the bottom of the heads. To separate the leaves, you can use the knife or your hands depending on how firm the lettuce is.You can use any type of lettuce that you like for these wraps, such as iceberg or romaine. However, lettuces with sturdy, broad leaves, such as bibb and butter, typically work best.
 After you’ve all leaves off the heads of lettuce, fill a large bowl with water and swish the lettuce through it. Let the leaves sit in the water for a minute or so to dislodge any dirt or grit. Next, transfer the leaves to a salad spinner and spin the lettuce until it’s dry.Depending on how large a bowl you have, you may have to wash the lettuce in batches.
If you don’t have a salad spinner, lay the lettuce out on paper towel and blot the leave with another sheet of paper towel until dry.
 Once the lettuce leaves are washed and dry, you can fill the wraps. Place a generous spoonful of the ground chicken and vegetable filling in the center of a leaf. Wrap the leaf around it and eat.If you are serving the lettuce wraps to your family or guests, pile the lettuce on a plate, place the filling in a bowl, and give everyone a spoon so they can assemble their own wraps.

