 You can treat skin blemishes all you want, but if you don't treat the thing that's causing it, acne will keep coming back. Now, this can't always be done. For example, if you're a teenager, your acne is likely a result of the fluctuating hormone levels that come with puberty, which can't be stopped until you outgrow it. You can also inherit a predisposition for acne from your parents, which can't be helped.However, there are many things that cause acne that can be helped, and you should take measures to avoid those behaviors.
 Androgens are a family of hormones that includes testosterone, which is produced by both men and women (though in higher levels in men).Testosterone increases the body's production of sebum, an oil that moistens the skin and keep it healthy. But when you have too much testosterone, the body makes more sebum than it can expel, making sebum accumulate and clog the skin. This can lead to inflammation and acne.Teenaged acne in both boys and girls is often due to increased androgens. Unfortunately, it's often worse in boys, who have higher levels, and the underlying cause is untreatable until they outgrow puberty.
Teenaged girls, though, can take prescription birth control to regulate their hormones, and therefore their sebum production.Steroid use also affects androgens and sebum production. Stopping steroid use will likely improve the skin.
 Leukotriene B4 is known to increase sebum production and lead to inflammatory acne. By bringing your Omega-3 fatty acid levels up, you can prevent uncontrolled production of leukotriene B4 and help prevent acne. Foods you should look for include


Walnuts
Avocados
Flaxseeds and flaxseed oil
Fatty fish (halibut, herring, mackerel, oysters, salmon, sardines, trout, tuna)Leafy green vegetables
Foods and drinks fortified with omega-3 fatty acids (check the packaging)

, Conventional thought on acne has been that its primary cause is bacterial, and it progresses to inflammation. However, recent research suggests that inflammation may actually lie at the heart of acne at all stages, not just late stages.The presence of bacteria, this research argues, only serves to make skin conditions worse.


Talk to your dermatologist about getting a prescription for anti-inflammatory medication to treat the underlying problem, rather than just treating the acne itself.
 Everyone’s body reacts differently to food. Your friends might be able to eat foods that make you break out, and not get a single pimple. Take note of which foods seem to trigger acne in your body, and take lengths to either reduce or eliminate those foods from your diet. Foods with a high “GI” (glycemic index) ranking may make acne worse.High-GI foods to watch out for include:


Processed foods such as white bread, bakery products, potato chips, and french fries. These are usually “simple” carbohydrates that don’t offer much nutrition. Choose low-GI foods such as whole oatmeal, whole-grain bread, vegetables, and beans. If you crave potatoes, sweet potatoes and yams are lower-GI than white potatoes.Sugar. Your body’s ability to regulate blood sugar may be linked to acne. High-GI foods and beverages often contain significant amounts of sugar.
Dairy products. Dairy is not as strongly linked to acne as high-GI foods, but some studies suggest a connection. The American Academy of Dermatology does not recommend eliminating dairy products from your diet unless advised by your doctor, as they also contain essential nutrients such as calcium and vitamin D.Choose lower-GI dairy products such as reduced fat yogurt over high-GI products such as ice cream., Research suggests a link between cigarette smoking and adult-onset, non-inflammatory acne, called “smoker’s acne.”Though more studies need to be conducted on this link, a recent study of women found a direct correlation between the number of cigarettes smoked and the severity of acne. Reducing or eliminating cigarette smoking from your routine may be able to improve your acne.
 Some cosmetics cause cells to build up in the hair follicles, causing black- or whiteheads that can become inflamed. This condition, called “acne cosmetica” or “cosmetic acne,” can be easily avoided by putting a little thought into what beauty products you put on your skin.Look for non-comedogenic makeups that won’t clog your skin up, and avoid beauty products that have heavy perfumes in them.
Avoid lotions and makeups that include penetrating oils like lanolin or isopropyl myristate, which can also trigger acne.
 A popular myth suggests that a tan can help treat and prevent acne, but scientists have found no evidence to support that.In fact, both the sun and tanning beds damage your skin and raise your risk for cancer. Always wear sunscreen and stay out of the sun during peak hours (10AM to 4PM).Be aware that some acne medications or other types of medication can actually make your skin even more sensitive to the sun. These drugs include antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin, tetracycline, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim; antihistamines like diphenhydramine (Benadryl); drugs used to treat cancer (5-FU, vinblastine, dacarbazine); heart drugs like amiodarone, nifedipine, quinidine and diltiazem; Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like naproxen and the acne medications isotretinoin (Accutane) and acitretin (Soriatane).

