 You can search online or ask people who share your beliefs what place of worship and prayer they go to.;
,, You might be able to find helpful books and videos about particular faiths in the religion section of your local library or bookstore. Books that may help could be a bible , the tao te ching (the central taoist text), the bhagavad gita (A hindu text in the form of dialogue), The art of peace (Morihei Ueshiba's spiritual teachings), a qur'an, a Buddhist bible or the Hebrew bible.
 Faith can be reasonable and rational. Faith is not superstition. As a seeker, you will be looking for reasons for your faith, for truth about spiritual matters, and for seeing your own evidence of a divine being. Be open-minded about the supernatural, without being gullible.
 Examine documents that support faith in your god. Receiving your god is as salvation by your god's grace, through faith, not by works, lest any boast -- but it's the gift of your god. You're saved for good works appointed that you walk in them. Be cautious of people or organizations that mock your god and faith or that profess to possess no clarity about your god. Most churches, synagogues, or temples have at least some truth.
 Ask one to offer some direction to peace. This does not need to be a pastor, prophet, minister, apostle, nun or evangelist. Simply ask someone that you respect about their personal convictions, how and why.

What are the attributes or characteristics of the nature of God?
How is an infinite being revealed to mortals?
What is God's assessment of people?
If people need redemption, how is it transacted?

, Most religions recognize prayer as a basic function of faith. Tell your god about your quest and your reasons for choosing to become a seeker. Ask your god for help understanding your god's ways and truth while seeking your god with your whole being.
 It has been said that in order to find your god, one must give up on one's, finite concept of who and what your god is. Using your finite mind to try to grasp infinity is like asking a fish to comprehend all the oceans of the world. You're bound to find something you aren't 100% ready for such as grace/love that passes all understanding. If you don't, you're not being honest with yourself in your search. Maybe your god isn't even a "He!"

, Religion and your god are not the same. It isn't necessary to decide on a denomination to find your god.
, Change your mind. Do not allow yourself to be discouraged, in the way of finding your god's grace by faith. Don't look to others to get you to your god, but try to express your god's grace with all your heart, to help others, forgive and pray.

Without accepting the light of grace and faith you could not see your path/way. Seek the old path.
 Give peace to others; pass God's grace forward. "Blessed are peacemakers".