 If the alarm remote is not working, use the key directly. Often times opening up the door will stop the alarm. If the driver's side door won't unlock, try the passenger door., Put the key in the ignition, and turn the car on. If this doesn't turn off the alarm, try turning on and off the dashboard lights a few times without revving up the engine. , Factory car alarms have some simple reset protocols to help turn off an alarm. Most of the tricks rely on using the key in the door; simply put, a lot of factory car alarms have a door sensor, so working with the door might be the go-to for a quick fix.


Put the key in the driver's door and turn it twice to the right, then twice to the left. Then insert your key into the ignition and start the car.Turn the key into the unlock position and hold it for two seconds before opening the door. , If the alarm is still sounding after the initial troubleshooting, you'll want to silence the siren as quickly as possible. Car alarms rely on the electronic component of the vehicle, and disconnecting the battery should both silence the siren and reset your alarm. Open up the hood, locate the battery, and with a wrench, remove the negative terminal. Then reconnect it after a minute has passed.


If it is more easily accessible you can also unplug the wiring harness that connects to the car's horn or siren. If the horn or siren gets unplugged it can no longer make noise.
 Locate the alarm and transmitter system; refer to your owner's manual for the exact location. Hit the reset switch or turn it off and on., This should both silence and take the alarm out of commission until the fuse is replaced. Find the alarm fuse in the fuse box. Remove it, and put the fuse in a plastic bag. You can store it in your glove compartment for safe keeping.


If you cannot locate the alarm fuse right away, remove fuses to see if the alarm will stop. Doing this will not cause damage to the car, but make sure you return the fuses after you've determined they are not for the alarm.Some car alarms, when tampered with, prevent a car from starting as an anti-theft function. If you remove the fuse and cannot start the vehicle, you will have to take the car to a mechanic or dealer.
 If none these reset methods work, try speaking with a mechanic or dealer. If they can recognize the issues over the phone, the fix might be simple. However, further diagnosis might be needed in person.

