 Before you dive into your new persona, you must know exactly why Mikasa does what she does. Become Mikasa's number one fan! Re-read the manga and re-watch the anime, this time focusing your attention on Mikasa and her actions. Contemplate her actions. What does Mikasa like? Why is Mikasa so brave? What does she wear? Who is her family? Who are her friends? If you need help, you can try reading Mikasa's article on the Shingeki No Kyojin wiki.;
, Personality is the most important part of acting like Mikasa. You can look like Mikasa all you want, but if you're nothing like her, people won't be convinced.


Externally, Mikasa is somewhat cold and silent, but naturally gifted when it comes to slaying titans and using her 3-D Maneuver Gear. To act like Mikasa, you need to shed any hyperactive or talkative tendencies you have, as Mikasa is neither of those things. Rather, try for a mysterious, but strong silent-type that Mikasa Ackerman exemplifies. She is known for not being the star of the party. If you're going to act like Mikasa, you don't need to try to be in the spotlight - the spotlight will usually find you.






Internally, Mikasa is determined, loyal and somewhat vulnerable beneath it all. She doesn't give up easily, nor does she do anything without putting all her effort into it. Mikasa is passionate in all that she does, and has a deep relationship with a small circle of friends.
 You're not going to become Mikasa Ackerman overnight. If you're into roleplaying, make Mikasa your muse. If you like fanfiction, write a short story featuring Mikasa as the main character. Think up a situation and ask, "What would Mikasa do?" The point here is that you need to totally immerse yourself in Mikasa's head.
 Now that you have become an expert in all things Mikasa, you should begin practicing her traits in real life.


If you really want, you could even change your appearance to look more like Mikasa, although this is not necessary. If your desire to act like Mikasa is only temporary, you could purchase Mikasa-related cosplay gear, such as her red scarf or a Survey Corps uniform, or even make it yourself. Keep in mind that cosplaying can get very expensive, whether you are buying or creating your gear.
