 One way to encourage your senior dog to play is by incorporating treats into the game. Most dogs are motivated by food and will happily play food related games. Some of the easiest and most stimulating games that you can play with older dogs include foraging for food. These games will not only encourage your older dog to get up and moving, but they will also stimulate their brains allowing them to problem solve. These are also typically low energy games that are even appropriate for older dogs with mobility issues. Try out the following food-related games:Food hunt: Simply scatter dry food across the floor or yard and allow your dog to use their nose to find and eat the food. This activity will stimulate your dog and they will happily search for food.
Three Cup Monte: Cut a small hole into the bottom of three empty yogurt cups and place them top down on the ground. Place a small treat under one of the cups and then have your dog sniff the cups until they find the treat. You can also try rearranging the order of the cups once the treat has been hidden to make it harder for your dog. Always allow your dog to have the treat, even if they don’t initially choose the correct cup.;
, As your dog ages, it may lose its hearing and be unable to follow simple commands, such as sit and stay. One way to stimulate your senior dog is by spending time teaching them hand signal commands. Dogs thoroughly enjoy spending quality time with their human and training can actually feel like a game to many dogs. Use food-based rewards to teach your dog hand signals.For example, teach your dog to sit using a hand signal. Simply place a treat in your hand, stretch your arm out in front of you (palm facing up) and then move your arm downwards to the side of your leg.
At first you may need to give the signal and physically adjust your dog into a sitting position.
Once sitting, give the dog a treat. Repeat this until the dog learns the signal command and no longer needs to be adjusted.
You can teach other hand signals either by following standard dog obedience commands or by following American Sign Language commands.
 One way to encourage your dog to play and be active is to actively engage with your dog on a regular basis. Some aging dogs will slow down and can even appear depressed. If you want to help lengthen your dog’s life you need to continue to play with them. Get down on the floor and enthusiastically play with your dog. If you give energy and time to your senior dog, they will be encouraged to play and interact with you.