 If you're going to be getting up close and personal with your partner, it's a good idea to make your mouth, face, and body appear tantalizing and enticing for them. While everyone may have their own particular grooming routine (your go to mints, that special vanilla scented perfume, that musky cologne), the basics of good grooming include:


Brush your teeth. No one enjoys inhaling the onion and garlic after taste of your lunch or your stale, I just woke up morning breath. So before you approach your partner for a kiss, brush your teeth and have a mint to keep your breath fresh and pleasant.
Wash your face and keep it clean. This is another grooming habit that should not be ignored before enjoying a kiss with your partner. In fact, 53% of women prefer to kiss a clean shaven man.Regardless of if you have whiskers or a clean face, keep it clean and appealing to your partner.
Wear clean clothes.You want to feel confident about experiencing a good, sensual kiss with your partner, so dress the part and make sure you're sporting clean clothes.Avoid any clothing with spikes, sharp metal, or details that will get in the way of sensual enjoyment.
Apply a little cologne or perfume. Smelling good is a big turn on for both sexes, but especially for women. Studies have shown that above all other physical characteristics, women ranked a man's scent as the most important feature for sexual interest in him.Of course, the key word is "a little", as a big turn off can be a partner who reeks of an overpowering cologne or perfume. So apply just a little bit of scent to your body and don't overdo it.;
, Don't be shy about telling your partner what you like or asking what your partner prefers in terms of a good kiss. Rather than feel embarrassed about talking about your kissing dos and don'ts, communicating with each other will ensure you both have an enjoyable time. Be sure to discuss your preferences before you go in for a kiss, not during the kiss, so your partner doesn't take your comments as a rebuke., Create a private and romantic setting for you and your partner, like an intimate dinner at home or a beautiful view in a park. Consider if your partner has mentioned a special spot or location they enjoy spending time in and if it's an appropriate place for an intimate moment, suggest going there or bring them there. A comfortable, romantic mood will set the stage for a great, sensual kiss., Physical interaction like hand-holding or cuddling before you kiss can work as ice breakers and will indicate to your partner that you are interested in some lip action., As you lean in for a kiss, make sure your partner is also leaning in. Engage in eye contact to ensure you are both consenting to a kiss.


A good rule is to always close your eyes when you kiss, as your pupils will be dilated and it may appear a bit creepy or weird to your partner if you keep your eyes open., About 95% of the time, your partner will tilt their head to the right. If you can't tell which way your partner's head is going to tilt, go right to be safe.Regardless, if your partner is starting to tilt in one direction, go the opposite way so your noses don't collide before your lips do.


If you make a miscalculation and tilt the same way as your partner, or miss their mouth completely as your eyes are closed as you lean in, laugh it off and keep going. A certain level of awkwardness can lead to a great, memorable kiss., Studies have shown that women think the biggest mistake men make when they kiss is being too aggressive with their tongues. Men claim that women don't open their mouths wide enough as they kiss.So try to find the sweet spot between an open mouth (not too wide, like you're about to eat a plate of pasta) and a gentle kiss (not a big smack or with too much tongue)., Now that your lips are connecting, apply a little pressure to your partner's lips. You can kiss them a bit faster and a bit deeper.


If by this point your partner is very responsive to the kiss, you can begin to French kiss, which is just a fancy way of using your tongue as you kiss. Relax your tongue and move it against your partner's tongue in a calm, languid way, like licking an ice cream tongue. Avoid a totally limp or totally stiff tongue, and do not jam or aggressively stick your tongue in your partner's mouth., One of the most important aspects to creating a sensual kiss is varying where you kiss your partner.Try kissing different parts of your partner's face, paying special attention to the ears and neck. You can bite softly on their lower lip and nibble gently on their earlobe.And if you are sensually kissing a consistent partner, change up where you kiss them so your intimate moments don't feel mechanical or repetitive., Kissing isn't just limited to your lips, so consider your posture and body position as you kiss. Press your body against your partner's, and use your hands to gently stroke or touch your partner's neck, back, waist, and butt.Once you have engaged in relaxed, gentle physical moves, you could escalate to straddling your partner, or laying down to face each other as you kiss.


As the kiss becomes more sensual, it is important to always listen and tune into your partner.By paying attention to your partner's breathing, body language, and lip movements, you can gauge if they are enjoying the kiss and are ready to escalate further., Don't fall off the kissing train, especially once the early stages of your relationship have passed or the honeymoon period fades. Often, people in a long-term relationship stop kissing and lose that intimate, sensual connection.The intensity and emotion of your early kissing can actually become even more passionate as you get to know your partner better, and the communication between you two becomes stronger and more upfront. That old adage can certainly apply to kissing: practice makes perfect.

