 One hundred percent organic essential oils are always the best option when purchasing essential oils. Aside from the environmental benefits of buying organic products, this will also ensure that you're getting an oil that came exclusively from a plant, without added artificial ingredients.


You will notice a price difference between 100% organic oils and those that contain synthetic chemicals. While organic options will be more expensive, the cheaper options are potentially dangerous to inhale.
Expect to pay around $10 for an ounce of some high quality essential oils, and up to $40 for others. You only use a few drops at a time, so one ounce (30 milliliter) jars can last you a while.;
, You can practice aromatherapy with essential oils via many different methods. One of the best ways to do so is with a diffuser designed for essential oils. The diffuser disperses steam produced by heating a mixture of water and essential oil.Steam allows the aroma of the oil to fill an entire room. Further, you may find the visual aspect of dispersing steam to be relaxing as well.
Diffusers can be purchased from around $20, with larger or more feature-laden models available for $40-$50. Find one at your local health supplies store or online.
Follow the directions on the model you purchase regarding the ratio of water to essential oil. You will likely only need to use a couple drops of essential oil in a full tank of water.
 You can also steam a mixture of water and essential oil yourself. As one option, simply put a few drops of essential oil into a pot full of water and heat it on the stove. Set the burner to keep the water slowly simmering, and add water as needed.Alternatively, you can heat water on its own in your tea kettle. Once it boils, remove it from the burner and allow it to cool down enough to stop boiling, but remain steaming. Meanwhile, place ten to twenty drops of essential oil into a ceramic bowl. Fill the bowl about a third of the way with hot water. The steam will diffuse the oils into the room.
In both scenarios, too much heat risks destroying some of the properties in the oils that offer therapeutic benefits. Further, imperfect mixing of the oil and water may mean the aroma is faint relative to a electric diffuser.
 Add a few drops of your chosen essential oil(s) to a warm bath top to make it even more relaxing. If you tend to take showers instead, add a drop or two of essential oil to a bottle of liquid soap (or directly to your loofa).Fill the tub with water before adding the essential oil. Make sure to mix well.
Some people also find that soaking their feet in a warm foot bath also helps them relax. Try it yourself, and add a drop or two of essential oil directly to the foot bath.
 While the benefits of aromatherapy are well-established, they also have a time limit. An hour is a good benchmark for the maximum amount of time you want to spend in a space that smells prominently of an essential oil. Longer exposure times may actually lead to over-stimulation, which won’t help you de-stress.