 Many young recruitment consultants make the mistake of trying to be friends with all of their potential contractors. You are likely to lose respect and lose contractors if you don't focus on your best business and meeting skills.;
, A positive and realistic attitude is important because you will be dealing with people during a large part of your day. Come to work motivated, ready to listen and focused on motivating others.


The role of recruitment consultant is a highly social role. If you are not driven to communicate with others and pitch to new clients, you are unlikely to succeed.
 Few new recruitment consultants can get by with a 40 hour work week. While you are developing your list of contractors and your business clients, you will need to spend hours researching and contacting people, outside of producing job descriptions, interviewing contractors and arranging appointments.


Once you develop a good list of businesses and contractors, you should start to get new customers through referrals. Once business and contractor referrals are coming in regularly, you can cut back your time spent looking for new business, in order to focus on keeping quality contacts.
 Market yourself to businesses where you believe you can successfully place candidates regularly. Focus on producing a prospective client kit, generating reviews from other businesses and keeping your business contacts happy so that they provide you with a steady stream of positions to fill.
 You should be adept and phone calling, interviewing and emailing. Many recruitment consultants struggle with finding a balance of keeping in touch but not pressuring the contractors.


Check in with your contractors to see if they are happy with their job. If you are trying to find a job for someone who is currently employed, their work situation can change weekly or monthly. Schedule times to meet when you want a more in-depth view of their perspective.
 Try recommendations from company employees, word of mouth, job postings and developing your own website to post positions.

