 Fill a large bowl or shallow baking dish with 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) of water and a handful of ice.


Note that the bowl needs to be wide enough to fit the bottom of the saucepan you'll be using.
You can also use this ice water in case you accidentally burn yourself during the cooking process. If you burn yourself with the metal saucepan or the hot syrup, simply dunk the burned area into the bowl of ice water to immediately stop the damage.;
, Place the isomalt crystals in a small to medium saucepan. Pour the water into the saucepan, as well, and stir the two ingredients together with a metal spoon to combine.


You only need enough water to wet the isomalt. When combined at this stage, the contents of the saucepan should look like wet sand.
If you need to alter the amount of isomalt, make sure that you change the amount of water, too. Typically, you need three to four parts isomalt for every one part water.Use distilled or filtered water. Tap water contains minerals that can cause the syrup to turn yellow or brown.
The saucepan and spoon should be made of stainless steel. Avoid using a wooden spoon since previously absorbed material can seep into the syrup and give it a yellow tint., Set the saucepan on the stove over medium heat. The contents should reach a steady boil; do not stir or disturb them until they do.


Once the contents reach a boil, use a nylon pastry brush to scrape excess off the sides of the pan and back into the main mixture. Do not use a natural bristle brush for this.
After cleaning the side of the saucepan, attach a candy thermometer to the side. Make sure that the ball of the thermometer touches the hot syrup, not the bottom of the pan.
 If you want to add food coloring to the isomalt syrup, this is the ideal temperature to do so. Add the number of drops needed to achieve your desired color depth, then stir the food coloring into the boiling syrup using a metal mixing spoon or skewer.


Don't worry if the mixture gets stuck at around 225 degrees Fahrenheit (107 degrees Celsius) for a little while. At this temperature, the excess water is boiling out. The temperature will not climb further until this water boils out.
Expect the mixture to bubble rapidly when you add the food coloring in.
 In order to create isomalt glass or similar isomalt decorations, the liquified syrup must be allowed to reach this temperature. If it does not, the structure of the isomalt may not be altered enough to allow the decoration to set properly.


You should actually remove the saucepan from the heat when the thermometer reads 333 degrees Fahrenheit (167 degrees Celsius). The temperature will continue to climb after that, even if you try to quickly stop the melting process.
 Once the isomalt reaches the correct temperature, quickly transfer the saucepan to your prepared dish of ice water. Stick the bottom of the pan inside the water for 5 to 10 seconds or so to stop the temperature from climbing further.


Do not let any of the ice water get inside the saucepan.
Remove the saucepan from the water as soon as the hissing sounds stop.
 Isomalt pours best at about 300 degrees Fahrenheit (149 degrees Celsius), so you should keep it warm in the oven until you are ready to use it to prevent the syrup from cooling too much.


The oven should be set to 275 degrees Fahrenheit (135 degrees Celsius).
Keeping the isomalt syrup in the oven for 15 minutes will usually help it achieve its ideal pouring temperature. During this time, the bubbles will also have time to escape from the syrup.
You can keep isomalt in the oven for up to three hours. If you store it longer, the mixture can begin to yellow.
 Make sure that they are evenly spread out to promote even melting.


If using isomalt sticks instead of nibs, break the sticks in halves or thirds before placing them in the dish.
Isomalt nibs and sticks come in clear forms and pre-colored forms. If you want to create a colored creation, use pre-colored nibs.
Since melted isomalt can get very hot, using a dish with a handle may make it easier and safer to handle the melted syrup. You could also use silicone baking dishes or bowls since silicone is fairly heat resistant. If you use something without a handle, however, consider placing the dish on a microwave-safe plate to limit the amount of contact you'll need to have with the dish itself.
 Continue microwaving them in this manner until the entire batch has been melted down.


Note that air bubbles will naturally form as the isomalt melts.
Use oven mitts to protect your hands while handling a dish of hot isomalt.
Stir the melting isomalt with a metal skewer or similar utensil. Avoid wooden utensils.
It takes an average of one minute to melt roughly five nibs. This amount of time can vary depending on the strength of your microwave and the size of the nibs, however.
 Stir the melted isomalt one last time to remove as many air bubbles as possible.


You must make sure that all of the bubbles are out of the melted isomalt before you try to use it. If there are bubbles in the syrup, there will be bubbles in the finished decoration.
 If the isomalt begins to harden or set before you have a chance to use it, you can simply reheat it in the microwave by putting the dish in and reheating it in additional intervals of 15 to 20 seconds.


You should be able to let the melted isomalt sit out for up to 5 or 10 minutes before it starts cooling.
If additional bubbles begin to form, stir the isomalt to help release them.
 Spray an even layer of nonstick cooking spray into each mold, giving each one a thorough, even coat.Use a dry paper towel to clean off excess cooking spray from the top of the molds.
Make sure that the molds you use are labeled for use with isomalt or sugar-based hard candy. The high temperatures you'll be working with could melt molds that are not durable enough.



Adding more could cause the bag to weaken or melt. Adding too much can also cause burns.
Using pastry may can make it easier for you to work with the melted isomalt, but many find the step to be an unnecessary one.
Do not cut off the tip of the pastry bag before adding the isomalt. Leave the tip intact for now.
Make sure that you still continue to wear oven mitts while handling the pastry bag. The heat of the melted isomalt can still burn you through the bag.
 Place just enough melted isomalt into each mold compartment to fill it.


Only cut the tip of the pastry bag when you are ready to fill the molds. The isomalt will pour out quickly, so you'll need to be careful.
Regardless of how you pour the melted isomalt, you should let it pour out in a thin stream. Doing so will minimize the number of bubbles that form.
Lightly tap the bottom of the mold on a counter, table, or other hard surface to release any bubbles from the syrup after you fill the molds.
 Depending on the size of your molds, the isomalt should harden into a stiff decoration within 5 to 15 minutes.


Once the isomalt cools, it should naturally pull away from the sides of the mold. You should be able to simply tip the mold on its side and watch the pieces tumble out.
 The isomalt decorations can be stored in airtight containers or used immediately.


If you plan on sticking the decorations to something like a cake, apply a little corn syrup or melted isomalt to the back of the decoration using a toothpick, then stick the decoration onto the cake. It should remain in place without any difficulty.

