 Disabled children who understand that they are valuable and have many strengths and talents will be less vulnerable to bullies. Focus on the child's skills and the positive contributions they make.Teach the child that although they are different from other people in many ways, those differences do not mean that they are not as good as others, or that they are not worthy of love and respect.
Building the child's confidence also entails talking to them about the fact that some people can be mean or cruel. Explain that these people are insecure and need to put others down in order to feel good about themselves.
Help the child identify things that they like about themselves, and encourage them to do nice things for themselves each day, or find something that makes them happy.
Remind your child that they are important, special, strong, and very much loved.
 When a disabled child tells you that they are being bullied, you must let your own emotions go. While it's natural to feel angry or frustrated, expressing that anger in front of the child may upset them more.Keep in mind that most children are reluctant to tell anyone that they are being bullied because they fear an angry reaction, or that they will be blamed for the behavior. The best thing you can do is be warm and supportive to the child.
This doesn't mean you should bottle up your feelings, but save your anger for later. If the disabled child sees you angry, they may misinterpret your anger and believe you are angry at them. Remember that children are like sponges and absorb everything within their environment — your reaction can have a major impact on how they learn to deal with stressful and intense situations.
 If the child is non-verbal or has intellectual disabilities, drawings and social stories can help them understand bullying behavior. They need to know how to recognize it and how to respond to it if it happens to them.Keep in mind that disabled children are more likely to be bullied. They need to learn coping strategies before it happens. This doesn't mean you assume the child will be bullied – it simply means that you make sure they are prepared if they are. With a social story, you want to insert the child directly into the story so they understand what to do if they encounter a bully.
For example, you might create a story in which someone says they will be the child's friend if the child does their math homework for them. Assume the child's name is Taylor. The story would go "My name is Taylor. This is my school. At school I study math. I enjoy math and I am very good at it. A student in my school is Tommy. He is not good at math. One day Tommy says that he will be my friend, but only if I do his math homework for him. I tell Tommy I do not need his friendship, and I will not do his math homework for him. When I come home from school, I tell my mother what Tommy has said to me."

, If the child has delayed social development, they may be more vulnerable to bullies because they lack the skills to interpret certain behaviors or ways of speaking. Teaching the child about social interaction can help them understand how to deal with bullies.For example, you can use pictures of people with different facial expressions to teach the child to recognize when someone is being sarcastic or insincere.
Teach the child directly with examples how to identify threatening or bullying body language, and how to interpret various tones of voice.
 If the child has a circle of friends who love and respect them, they are less likely to be bullied. When a bully approaches, friends who are around can stand up for the child and protect them.Friendships often are formed based on mutual interests. Find out areas in which the child has talent, or has special interest, and look for groups related to that area. For example, if the child really enjoys science, you might find a science club the child can join.
Building friendships will also improve the child's confidence and self-esteem, making them less vulnerable to bullies. Remember that bullies typically pick on someone they perceive as an easy target. If the child has a lot of friends around them, they won't be seen that way.
Disabled children often become the target of more subtle bullies who will use emotional manipulation and conditional friendships to exploit them. If the child already has several good friends, they'll be less susceptible to this kind of bullying because they won't be desperate for friendship or companionship.

