 If your parents don’t give their approval to you to start shaving, simply accept their decision without complaining or getting angry. Recognize that they only have your best interests at heart and there will come a time when they feel it’s right for you to start shaving.


Thank your parents for their time listening to you. They will be much more likely to say yes at a later time if you deal with rejection in a mature and respectful way the first time.
 Know that many parents, especially mothers, will try to delay you from shaving as long as possible simply because they know that once you start, shaving quickly becomes an annoying burden and waste of time.


Imagine waking up an extra 15 minutes early in the morning, or having to take the time to shave when you’re late for a pool party or want to wear shorts but need your legs to be smooth first. Shaving is an on-going chore and time commitment.
 Know that body hair is natural and considered very beautiful on women in many countries. It’s your decision, and you can choose not to shave at all.


Know that shaving has no hygiene benefits. Shaving does not benefit your health or hygiene and is not required in any way. In fact, body hair holds good bacteria that can help you ward off dirt and illness.Shaving only makes your hair grow back more prickly and sometimes darker and coarser. Note that once you shave for the first time, your leg hair may be more noticeable than it was before and have to be shaved more and more often.
 Consider the fact that most people don’t even see or notice your leg hair! Even if it seems like you’re the only one who doesn’t shave, many people won’t ever be close enough to your legs to notice, or won’t even care!

, Don’t let other girls pressure you into feeling like shaving your legs is a requirement or necessary to fit in.


Try finding a friend who doesn’t shave yet either and teaming up with her to show other girls it’s okay not to shave.You can tell other girls that you don’t care or you don’t want to shave your legs, or you can tell them about the negative effects that you know, like razor burn or hair coming back in thicker and darker after shaving.
 If you really can’t deal with having your legs exposed without feeling embarrassed, cover them up with tights or pants.


You can also wear tall boots and leave the rest of your legs bare, as most of the hair is usually on the bottom of your legs.

