 Use a fine comb to brush the hair out to its full length. Start just behind one ear, combing towards the other. Treat all hair above this line as the top section. Comb it up and use hair clips to clip this section up., This will give you a more accurate cut. Split the hair here into a left and right section, and hold the right section tautly between your index and middle finger.
 Use hair shears to cut the hair along your fingers. Remember that hair tends to shorten when it dries. For every one inch of hair you want to take off, cut half an inch.


Note that curly hair is much longer when straight and wet. For every inch you want to take off, cut no more than a quarter inch., Make sure to hold some hair from the right section to serve as a guide. Follow the length of the right section as you cut the left.
 Start these side sections along a line about an inch above the ear, going around your child’s hair. This should include the back sections you’ve already cut. Use hair clips to secure the rest of the hair to the top of your child’s head., Hold the right section between your index and middle fingers. Make sure to include hair from the back section in your grip. Hold the hair tautly and cut along your fingers.
 Your child’s hair should then have the same length all around. You can check the length by running your fingers through the child’s hair at various sections, pulling lightly on the hair. If any long hairs stick out, trim them to match the rest of the hair.
 While cutting in smaller sections takes more time, it will make for a better, more accurate cut. Holding the released sections between your index and middle finger, cut to match the length of the side sections., How you do this depends on the kind of bangs you want to give your child.


For straight bangs, part the hair horizontally, starting about an inch back from the child’s forehead. The part should end at the outside corner of each eye. Clip the remaining hair back, and cut the bangs across the middle of the eyes.For triangular shaped bangs, choose a point on top of the head, depending on how wide you want the bangs. Comb from this point to the outside of the eyebrows, and clip remaining hair back. Again, cut across the bangs so they fall at the middle of the eyes.