 To attain hair that looks like Michael Jackson, it’s necessary that you use hair softener to loosen your hair, then use a chemical perming solution to create permanent curls. This hairstyle demands daily application of heavy moisturizers and activators, to maintain style and shine.When sleeping, wear a shower cap or silk scarf.
If you don’t want to permanently alter your hair, you can wear a wig.
Michael Jackson donned his famous hairstyle in 1982 on the cover of his multi platinum selling album “Thriller.”;
, For those that have light hair, dyes that contain demi or semi permanent colors are the best types to get. High lift and permanent colors will cause breakage and dryness with permed hair.You can buy hair dye at department stores, malls, or hair salons.
If you already have dark hair, you can skip this step.
You can go to a hair salon to get your hair dyed and permed by professionals if you don’t feel comfortable doing it at home.
 Look online or at a hat shop or boutique to find a fedora hat that looks like the one Michael Jackson wore. Look for a white fedora hat with a black trim-ribbon or an all black felt hat with a black trim-ribbon, as this where the variations that Jackson often wore.


Michael Jackson’s black fedora hat is displayed at the National Museum of African American History and Culture., Michael Jackson had a variety of different outfits, and many of them have become iconic. However, the constant thread throughout his clothing was the use of pleather or leather, large buckles and zippers. Try to find clothing that incorporates all of this to really look like Jackson.


Find a red pleather jacket to look like Jackson in his music video for “Thriller.”Jackson upgraded to a black leather jacket in his music video for “Bad.”, Michael Jackson was famous for wearing sequined clothing.Sequin is when you apply shiny vinyl plastic to clothing to create the appearance of gemstones.


You can buy sequined clothes or you can apply them to existing clothes.
Jackson first wore a sequined vest in 1983 when he performed the moonwalk for the first time., Another fashion statement that Michael Jackson made was wearing a single white glove. You’ll probably have to find a pair of white gloves, then discard one of them.


Adding sequins to the glove will also make you more like Michael.
You can buy gloves at most department stores or malls.
 Michael Jackson often wore his iconic black dancing loafers and white socks as a fashion statement. To look like Michael, you need to replicate this look. Wear pants that reveal your socks, and make sure to pull them up.


White socks and black shoes made Michael Jackson’s dance moves more noticeable and drew attention to his feet.Michael Jackson used gravity defying shoes to pull off his “lean” move. These shoes bore a slotted heel that would slide onto bolts that were on stage., Michael Jackson loved and embraced the Ray-ban brand of sunglasses over his years as a pop star.Like many of his wardrobe choices, these sunglasses would become an iconic aspect of his look.


You can find these style of sunglasses on Ray-ban’s official website., Perhaps one of the most iconic aspects of Michael Jackson’s career was the dance moves that he performed onstage and in his music videos.Watch old music videos of Jackson and practice doing them in your room to perfect the moves.


Read articles like Moonwalk or Spin-Like-Michael-Jackson.
If you’re struggling to get the moves down, you can watch tutorials on Youtube.
Joining a dance class will help you with basic aspects of dance, like rhythm and movement.
There are full length instructional videos that you can buy online.
 Other than his dancing, Michael Jackson is best known for his voice. Known as one of the greatest singers of all time, he won 197 music awards over his lifetime.While you probably won’t be able to replicate his famous voice, you need to make sure that you can at least sing some of his more popular songs. Start practicing with a vocal coach, and let them know you want to hit the high notes like Michael Jackson.


If you absolutely can’t sing, lip-syncing may be an alternative if you still want to perform.
Read Sing-Like-Michael-Jackson to get additional tips on singing like MJ.
Practice vocal warm up exercises at home to improve your singing voice.
 Everyone has different mannerisms and tendencies, and Michael Jackson was a unique man with specific mannerisms. Watch his interviews to get a feeling for his demeanor and facial expressions.


Practice in the mirror so you can replicate Michael Jackson.
Act like Michael Jackson in front of friends to get their opinions on your accuracy.
 While Michael Jackson had an impressive vocal range, he would often speak in a very low and gentle voice for reporters or the media. When impersonating Jackson, make sure to use a similar tone.


To hear what you sound like, try impersonating Michael Jackson in a sound recorder then play back the recording to see what you actually sound like.
Michael Jackson was often very shy and this reflected in his vocal intonation., Many people who knew Michael Jackson personally, have said that he was a loving and gentle person.As an impersonator, you need to maintain the same gentle demeanor when talking with people.


Over his career as a musician, Michael Jackson often made charitable donations to organizations that helped underprivileged children., A great way to get your name out there is to attend Michael Jackson conventions. People may be impressed by you, and hire you for future gigs. Make sure to network when you are at them by talking to as many people as you can.


Take photo opportunities with fans and post them to social media.
Take any available opportunities to perform at these conventions.
The Sunburst convention in Florida brings together a multitude of celebrity impersonators.In June, 2015 Jackson's mother held a tribute convention with a dancing competition with a prize of $5,000., One way you can make money as a Michael Jackson impersonator is to participate in celebrity look-alike competitions.


People can make a living by impersonating celebrities if they participate in competitions regularly., Celebrity impersonators can make anywhere from hundreds to thousands of dollars for a single gig at a live show. You can participate at corporate events, grand openings, birthday parties, and concerts.If you’re good at dancing and singing it will be easier to land gigs.
Look online for potential gigs near you.
 A great way to build a platform for a fan base is to be active on popular social media networks like tumblr, Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook. Post photos of yourself in your Michael Jackson attire to gain the attention of people online. You may even be able to get booked for a gig through social media.


Make sure to reply to positive comments and stay away from arguing with people online.
Make sure to post appropriate content and stay in character when posting videos or images.
 One way to get your impersonation talents out to the world is to create content on Youtube that features your Michael Jackson skills. Create videos that showcase your dancing or singing skills, and make sure to look like Michael when you do it.


You can monetize your videos to earn money for views.
Make sure to update your channel with new content so you fan base has something to come back for.

