 When filling an OSHA complaint you are legally protected from retaliation and should have the option to remain anonymous. Sometimes, however, those rights are violated. There are some types of representatives who can approach OSHA on your behalf. Discuss the situation with one if they are at your disposal.


A union representative or similar representative of an authorized employee bargaining unit can legally represent you.
You can also approach an attorney. Lawyers are legally allowed to act on your behalf in OSHA complaints.
Other potential representatives include clergy members, social workers, family members, government officials, and nonprofit groups.;
, You should file a complaint whenever you know that an unsafe workplace exists. However, it helps if you can cite a specific regulation that your employer is violating. A comprehensive list of regulation is available here.
 You need to provide enough information for OSHA to take some form of action. Most essentially, you will need to describe the type of hazard, how many people are exposed to it, and where it can be found.


If you can, include photos of the hazard, or make a drawing. If it is available, include documented evidence from your employer that the hazard exists. Provide as much detail as possible.
Be very specific about where the hazard is. If it is in a large factory, draw a map to illustrate its location or provide very precise directions. Explain when the hazard occurs and how long it has been going on.
Indicate if you know that your employer is aware of the situation. He will be subject to additional fines if he is. Provide any possible evidence that he or any government officials know about the hazard., If you file a written and signed statement, OSHA is obligated to investigate the situation. If you make a phone call, or do not sign your name, OSHA is not obligated to investigate. Your anonymity will be better preserved if you make a phone call, however, it should be safe even if you make a signed statement.


Even when you do sign a statement, you can indicate that you want your name hidden from your employer. Your identity should not be revealed., You can file your complaint online here. The form is short and easy to submit. It does not provide space for additional documentation but that can be provided in follow up conversations with OSHA.
 A standard form can be downloaded online and printed out. After completing it, you should send it to the local OSHA office, which can also be found online.


A Spanish language form is also available.
 Calling is the quickest way to reach OSHA and so OSHA encourages you to follow this course when you believe that the situation is an urgent threat to someone’s wellbeing. You can find a number for the closest regional office online or call 1-800-321-OSHA.
 Certain hazards will result in an immediate investigation. In other cases, OSHA will contact your employer about the complaint. If the employer denies the charge or claims that the hazard is fixed OSHA should contact you and allow you to dispute this charge. OSHA will use its discretion as to whether to further investigate the situation., If OSHA decides not to investigate, you can write a signed complaint to the regional office. If the hazard is a violation of OSHA regulations, the agency should investigate. , You should be able to keep your identity secret when filing an OSHA complaint. However, if your employer does find out that you are responsible and you believe they have retaliated against you, there is legal recourse. You must notify OSHA within 30 days of the alleged act of retaliation, but are permitted to make your statement in any language.


To file an online complaint visit OSHA’s Whistleblower Complaint Form.
You can also download a Notice of Whistleblower Complaint Form and mail it or fax it to the local OSHA regional office. If you cannot download the form, you can already write a letter to the regional office detailing the incident in question.
To file a complaint via telephone, call the nearest OSHA regional office.

