 Narcotic pain medications, some antidepressants, some anticonvulsants, aluminum-containing antacids, and some blood pressure medications are just a few examples of medications that commonly lead to constipation and irregularity.You should always consult your doctor before making any changes to a prescription regimen, but in some cases your doctor may be able to switch you to a drug without constipation as a side effect.


If you currently take narcotic pain relievers, then getting plenty of fluids and moving around frequently can help to promote peristalsis. Peristalsis is the wave like motions of your colon that helps to move waste through your body and promote bowel movements.
If you have recently has surgery and are taking narcotic pain relievers, then you may be encouraged by your surgical care team to take a stool softener along with the pain medication to reduce your chance of becoming constipated.
 Several varieties of laxatives and stool softeners are available over the counter. You doctor will likely recommend one of these options if a necessary medication has caused your irregularity. However, you can also use these options as directed even when a medication is not the cause. Just be sure to check with your doctor first if you have a chronic GI condition. OTC options include:Osmotic agents - These options (such as Milk of Magnesia and Miralax) help stool retain fluid usually absorbed by the digestive tract, easing the passage of bowel movements.
Stool softeners - These products (including Colace and Docusate) mix fluid with your stool to soften them and ease passage. Doctors especially recommend these options for those who strain during bowel movements or for women who suffer from constipation after childbirth.
Lubricants - Lubricants (such as Fleet and Zymenol) coat stool, helping it to retain fluid and move more easily down the lower digestive tract.
Stimulants - These options (which include Dulcolax and Correctol) contract the intestines, causing them to move stool more quickly through your intestinal tract. Though available over the counter, you should reserve stimulants as a last resort for severe cases, and you should avoid stimulants containing phenolphthalein., If OTC options have proven ineffective, you can also see your doctor and ask about prescription options. Chloride channel activators (such as Amitiza) increase the amount of fluid in your gastrointestinal tract to help with the passage of stool., Inactivity is one of the major lifestyle causes associated with irregularity. Studies have shown increased activity leads to a faster, more effective metabolism. Thirty minutes of aerobic exercise (that gets your heart rate up) three times a week is recommended. Jogging, swimming, biking, and power-walking are all good forms of exercise. However, even fifteen to twenty minutes of walking a day can help with bowel motility., Stress may also contribute to constipation, so it is important to do things to keep your stress under control.Try to set aside at least 15 minutes for yourself every day. During this time, use a relaxation technique to help reduce your stress. Some things you can try include:


Meditation
Yoga
Deep breathing
Progressive muscle relaxation

, Probiotics have not been proven to help with constipation, but there is some evidence that they may help to ease it. Probiotics may also be especially helpful for combatting digestive changes caused by antibiotics because probiotics can replenish the good gut bacteria that antibiotics kill along with bad bacteria.You can get probiotics just by eating yogurt once per day, or you can take a probiotic supplement. Talk to your doctor for recommendations and before starting any probiotic supplements.
 Especially for women who have been through multiple pregnancies, weakened pelvic floor muscles can lead to irregularity and even an overactive bladder. You can strengthen these muscles with different exercises either standing or laying down.


While standing, assume a squat position and pull in the muscles of your glutes.
While laying in your back, elevate your pelvis in the air with your knees flexed at 90° angles. Thrust your pelvis off the ground while clenching your buttocks.
For either exercise, do ten repetitions while holding each for five to ten seconds. Perform three sets daily.
 Irregularity is often a symptom of an underlying disease or condition. If basic lifestyle changes haven’t proven effective, then see your doctor to rule out other causes. These may include:Irritable bowel syndrome
Anorexia
Diabetes
Hypothyroidism
Multiple sclerosis
Parkinson’s disease
Spinal cord injury
Stroke
Colon or rectal cancer
Bowel obstructions

