 Choose fresh, ripe pods with an even green color. They should be free of blemishes. Discard any which have black spots or mold.;
, As with the pod, discard any individual peas with spots, mold or other blemishes.


Get some helpers if you have a lot of peas to shell. This is a time consuming job but it's more fun if you can chat with others around the table while shelling. However, work quickly to transfer the peas to blanching, as peas start losing their freshness once exposed to air and the pea skins toughen.If you don't have helpers, shell only a few at a time, blanch, then shell some more, blanch those ones, etc.
 Tip the peas into a colander. Wash under running water, picking out any debris that you notice as you're cleaning them.


Tip into another colander and rinse out the first colander to clear away the dirt that washes off.
Rinse again. Then tip back and rinse another time.
 The peas need to be blanched to stay fresh-looking and green. Without blanching, they are likely to go brown and taste bad. To blanch:


Bring a large pot of water to the boil. Fill a large bowl with ice cold water and toss in a few ice cubes. Set to one side for dunking the peas into once blanched.
Add the peas in batches. If you are doing a lot of peas, you'll need to blanch them in batches. The peas should be kept inside a colander with handles that overlap the pan or in a muslin/other cloth bag and lowered into the boiling water. Otherwise, you'll find it really hard to retrieve them all fast enough when the blanching time is up.
Blanch for 3 minutes. Keep an eye on the pot in case it tries to boil over.
 Plunge them straight into the bowl of ice water to stop cooking instantly.
 Gently press down to remove excess water.
 The faster the peas get to the freezer, the greater the chance of them staying fresh and whole. If they stand too long at room temperature, they risk turning mushy. Place the blanched peas into resealable bags or suitable freezer containers. Pack them in as tightly as you can, to eliminate the air space. Leave about 1/2 inch/1.5cm at the top to allow for expansion during freezing.


Gently press down to remove excess air from the packages. Pouring ice cold water over the outside of the package can help eliminate more air.
Seal, label and date.
