 If you are unfamiliar with the details of the breed, do some research online by typing “German Blue Ram Cichlids” into a search engine. You will see a number of aquarium center websites and hobbyist blogs describing the detailed characteristics of Rams. They are an Amazonian fish, so many of the sites might describe how to create an “Amazon” freshwater tank.Blue Rams grow to an adult size of 2–3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm) and have a life expectancy of between 3-4 years. This means that you should consider these fish as an extended commitment of care.
The males of the species can be identified by their more pronounced dorsal fine. The females have additional coloring on the ‘false eye’ mid-body. Females are usually also slightly smaller.;
, Make sure to buy or ‘adopt’ your Blue Rams from a reputable online or brick-and-mortar fish dealer. Choose a store that you have worked with before or that you’ve researched online. If you have friend who also has a tank, ask for their advice regarding good places to purchase.


Some fish dealers breed Blue Rams en masse for sale purposes. These fish are heavily treated with hormones, making them less suitable for breeding and lowering their life span. Be wary of ‘cheap’ Blue Rams. The breed was introduced in 2009, so they should still be relatively expensive., Before you put your Blue Rams in your tank, you must prepare the water. Blue Rams are especially picky about water parameters. Place your tank under a faucet, or use a small bucket, and fill with room temperature water. Then, get out your water conditioner and squeeze a few drops into the tank. This will make the tap water safe for your Blue Rams.After you've treated the water, let your tank sit for one full day before introducing your Blue Rams.
 Place your Blue Rams in their plastic bag directly in the water at the top of your aquarium. Let them sit in the bag for 15-30 minutes. When this time is up, open the top of the bag just a bit. Let a little tank water into the bag. Repeat this process every 3-5 minutes for another half-hour. Then, open the bag fully, net your cichlids and place them in the tank., For the first twenty-four hours especially, keep a close eye on your new additions. Observe how they interact with the other fish. Try to see if they experience any difficulties navigating amongst the plant life. Monitor their physical behaviors and appearance. If one of your cichlids appears listless or sickly, remove it quickly as it may spread infection to the rest of the tank.