 You don't want to be that person who keeps up a textual exchange hours after there's nothing left to say. When you're talking to a new love interest at a bar, you should talk just long enough to hook the person and then say you have to leave so you don't drag out what started off as a good conversation. Well, the same goes for texting.


If you're doing most of the talking in a textual exchange, it's time to stop texting.
If you keep sending long messages and getting nothing back but one-word answers, then it's time to stop texting.
If you can just feel that both of you are struggling to find something to say, then it's time to end the conversation.
If you have the sense that you're doing most of the talking every time and that the person you're texting doesn't seem too eager to get back to you, it may be time to end the conversation -- for good.
 Whether you're just stopping the conversation because you're busy or because you're going to meet up, you should leave the person you like with something to think about. Don't just say, "Bye!" or that person won't be thinking about you after you stop texting.


If you're meeting up, don't be afraid to say that you can't wait to see that person.
If you have to go, tell the person where you're going and what you're doing. This will make you look like you have a great life outside of texting and will intrigue the person on the other end of the conversation.
Leave an opening to pick up the conversation at another time. Say that you're looking forward to chatting about whatever is on your minds later.
 If your texting sessions have been going really well and your flirting is getting fierce, then you should take your relationship to the next level and use texting as an opportunity to ask the person out.


Keep it light. If you're in the middle of a conversation, just say, "How would you like to pick this up over dinner or drinks?"
If you've really been texting the person a lot, you can say, "I really like texting you, but I think I would like talking to you even more. How about we continue this in person?"
You can also be more casual. Instead of asking for a real date, you can invite the person out to join you and your friends for drinks or at a party.

