 Park the car in a well-ventilated area and start the engine. Let the engine warm to operating temperatures.


You must do this while the car is in a well-ventilated area since the process will usually create a lot of smoke.
Vehicles with automatic transmission should be kept in park. Vehicles with manual transmissions should be put into neutral, and the parking brake should be applied throughout the process.;
, Open the hood of the car and locate a vacuum line that distributes evenly to all cylinders of the engine.


On most vehicles, the best option will be the vacuum line from the brake booster PCV.
Since different vehicles are set up in different ways, you may need to choose a different option. If in doubt, seek a professional opinion before attempting this method.
 Carefully disconnect one end of the selected vacuum hose.


If using the brake booster hose, disconnect the hose going to the manifold. The check valve should remain on the hose going to the brake booster, and you should not allow Seafoam to pass through the check valve during this process.
 Carefully pour one-third to one-half of the bottle directly into the detached hose.If necessary, position a funnel in the opening of the hose and pour the Seafoam in through that.
The manufacturer recommends against the practice of drawing Seafoam into the hose using suction.



You will probably see heavy white smoke coming out of the tailpipe. This is normal and should not be cause for alarm.
 As soon as you finish pouring Seafoam into the vacuum hose, turn off the engine and allow the car to sit for 10 to 30 minutes.


The longer you wait, the deeper the Seafoam will sink into the engine. Regularly maintained engines may only need a 10-minute wait, but for engines with a lot of suspected buildup, a full 30-minute wait would be better.
 Start the vehicle again and drive aggressively for five to ten minutes, or until your tailpipe stops pumping out heavy white smoke.


Drive legally. If possible, go on a road where you can reach speeds up to 60 MPH (97 km/h). This is best done at night or during another time when traffic won't be an issue since your tailpipe will produce a lot of smoke.
Once the smoke stops, the engine is clean and the process is complete.

