 You will need only a compass and a magnet. Any type of compass will work, but a disk magnet or bar magnet will be the simplest type of magnets to use for this method.;
, While the end of the compass needle that points North is usually the red end on a typical compass, it’s a good idea to check. If you know where geographical North is from your current location, you can easily note which end of the compass needle points North.


If you are not sure where your geographic North is, you can determine which end of the compass needle is the North end by going outside at noon, when the sun is at the highest point of the sky. Hold the compass flat in your hand with the South end of the compass nearest to your body.Note the position of the compass needle. If you live North of the Earth’s equator, the North end of the needle will be pointing towards you and the South end of the needle will be pointing toward the sun. If you live South of the equator, the South end of the compass needle will be pointing towards you., Be sure that the surface is free of any magnetized or metal materials that could cause a false reading. Even objects like a keychain or pocket knife can interfere with the experiment.You will notice that the North end of the compass needle is pointing to your geographical North.
 If you are using a disk magnet, the North and South poles will be on the two flat surfaces.If you are using a bar magnet, the poles will be on either end., With a disk magnet, you will need to stand the magnet on its side and hold it with your index finger so that one of the flat sides is facing your compass. If you are using a bar magnet, place your magnet perpendicular to the compass, so that one end of the magnet is close to your compass.
 Since the compass needle is a small magnet, the South end will be attracted to the North pole of your magnet.


If the North end of the compass needle is pointing toward your magnet, you have found the South pole of your magnet. Rotate the other side of your magnet toward the compass; the South end of the compass needle will now be pointing directly to the North pole of your magnet.