 Depending on the theme of the party and the age and gender of the host, different gifts would be recommended. You'd get a 13-year-old girl something different than a 28-year-old man, of course. Think of the purpose of party. Are they getting married? Is it for their graduation? Think of these things and you may know already what to get. The present should be something they could use for the purpose of the event e.g. baby items for a baby shower. Below are some sample ideas for different occasions. Try a few of these or think of your own.


Mom's birthday/Mother's Day. Try jewelry, a cookbook (if she likes cooking), a book she'd love to read, a movie you can watch together, or a poem you wrote about her.
Dad's birthday/Father's Day. Get tickets to a sports game, a mug with a funny saying, a watch, or a scrapbook of your memories together.
Teenager's party. Get gift cards to the movies, CD's/iTunes gift cards, a journal, a T-shirt, or a movie.
Gift for a young child. Get a stuffed animal, an easy book, bubble blowers, crayons/markers, toy trucks, or barbies (or other toys).
Gift for your friend. Get a photo frame for a picture of you two, a gift card to their favorite store, a magazine, a book, or some origami.
Baby shower. Get pajamas, bottles, blankets, books, toys, bibs, soaps, nursery lamp, or baby powder.
Wedding. Get cookware, a frame, a platter, ornaments, a wedding canvas, pillowcases, or a vase.
 This step could be the hardest part, but is possibly the most important. You'd want to get them something that is useful and something they like, right? Think of their interests. Are they into soccer? Art? Reading? Ask another person on what they are into. Ask their sibling, parent, or a friend of them to give some ideas without giving away the secret. Or, simply ask them if they have a wish list, either on a website, or a verbal one. Just ask for some ideas or ask what they like, but you can keep it a surprise if you want.


Are they always saying, "I could really use a _________", or "I can't believe I lost/broke my ________." There's a gift idea!

, Always set a budget. Once you start to get some gift options, make sure you aren't paying too much or too little. The gift doesn't have to be expensive. It's the thought that counts. On the other hand, you shouldn't be paying too little. If you're low on cash, just get a 15 or 20 dollar gift card to a place they like. Look online for great deals. But, avoid the dollar store. That's a little cheap to go there for a gift, but it may give you ideas for one. Think of the item. Should I be paying $30 for a T-shirt?. No. What about $15?. Better. Just use your brain.
 This has 2 positive reasons: if you're low on cash, you don't have to worry about spending a fortune, and it shows how much you care. This is especially great for family members. Instead of just buying a card and signing your name on it, why not make one yourself? Gather up some photos of you and the person you are giving the card to, some markers, paper, stickers, and a few other items and you could make some of these things:


A scrapbook of your memories
A photo frame with a picture of you
An A-Z list of memories
A CD of a song you made together
A video of a dance you two made
Top 10 reasons why they're the best
"Coupons" e.g. one free sleepover

, Experience gifts include tickets to a game or concert, a vacation, dance lessons, skydiving, and more. These could be very pricey, but are great to give because they'll usually teach them something new or maybe even be a life changing event. Don't feel like you have to get one, but the receiver will be so happy that you got them an experience gift.
 Many deals are online only, and some items are online only. Search up a gift you might want to get and see what pops up. Look at ratings and reviews. You could get extra savings or maybe even a free gift, so consider buying the present online.

