 Create an activity box for your child that they can open when school is unexpectedly canceled due to a snow day. Equip it with crayons, paint, paper, glitter, glue, popsicle sticks—anything that can quickly and creatively become part of a fun, snow-day art project. It will feel like opening a holiday or birthday gift.Add a few polyurethane balls of varying sizes in the box along with some glue, buttons, colored construction paper, and some toothpicks. Your child can build and decorate a snow man for a fun snow-day project.
 Push the coffee table out of the way, grab a stack of sheets and blankets, and have your kids build a fort in the living room. Use clothespins to clip sheets together and drape them over kitchen chairs, the back of the couch, or the dining room table. They will have a great time designing and building their fort, and afterward they will have a cozy space to play and read all afternoon., Instead of gathering around the table when it is lunch time, opt to have an indoor picnic instead. Pack a basket or a bag with some apple slices, carrots, a sandwich, and a bottle of juice and water. Lay a large blanket out in the middle of the dining room floor, or deliver the lunchtime goodies into their indoor fort., Let your child stay in their pajamas all day and watch their favorite film. Pop some popcorn and hit play on their favorite movie. They’ll be excited to be watching their favorite Disney movie instead of sitting in their usual grammar lessons.
 If it is too cold to go outside to play in the snow, grab a bucket and bring some of the snow inside. Fill the bathtub with snow and let your child dig, build an igloo, or take their favorite toys on an arctic adventure. When play time is over, simply let the snow melt and run down the drain., Making foam dough is simple way to whip-up a fun and entertaining activity to pass a snowy afternoon. Mix equal parts corn starch and shaving cream in a mixing bowl. Let your child mix the ingredients with their hands, and add a few drops of food coloring to brighten up the dough. The mixture creates a light, fluffy, and sandy mixture that your child will have fun playing with for hours.The foam dough is very messy, so make sure you keep your child in the kitchen while they play. Lay some garbage bags around their feet to catch any foam that may fall to the floor.

