 If your cut is deep, wide, or jagged, your doctor may decide that you need stitches (a.k.a. sutures) or staples for it to heal well. When a doctor stitches or staples a cut, he or she will first clean the cut and give you numbing medicine by injecting it around the wound. After the doctor completes the stitches, he or she will dress the cut with a bandage or gauze.Stitches use a sterile surgical needle and thread to join the edges of a cut together. They can be absorbable, and dissolve over time, or non-absorbable, and will need to be removed after the wound heals.
Staples used on cuts are special surgical staples that perform the same task at stitches and must be removed like non-absorbable stitches., It is important to take care of your stitches or staples to make sure the wound heals well and does not get infection. To do this:Keep your stitches or staples dry and covered with a bandage for several days. The doctor should tell you how long this should be. It is usually one to three days depending on the type of stitches and the size of the wound.
Once you can get them wet, gently wash the wound over the stitches or staples with soap and water when you shower. Do not submerge the wound underwater, like in a bath or when swimming. Too much water can slow down healing and result in infection.
After washing the area, pat it dry and apply antibiotic ointment. Cover the area with a bandage or gauze unless otherwise directed by your doctor.
 Your doctor should tell you specifically how long to do this. Stitches can break, causing the wound to open again. Call your doctor if this happens.


Call your doctor if you develop signs of infection (e.g. fever, redness, swelling, drainage of pus, or red streaks radiating from the wound).
 Non-absorbable stitches and staples will usually be removed five to 14 days after they are put in. Once they are out, make sure to protect the scar from the sun using sunscreen or covering it with clothes. Ask your doctor if there are any lotions or creams they can recommend to help your scar heal.Creams with vitamin E or silica in them can often help reduce keloid scars (raised, red marks) that result from major wound healing.

