 This is rather easily done by looking at the pigeon’s legs. Pigeons raised in captivity and sold for racing and show purposes will have a metal band around one of their legs.This metal band will have information on it, and you’ll need to catch the pigeon in order to read this info.
 Sometimes racing pigeons are just taking a break, and simply need to rest awhile before moving on. If the pigeon looks like it’s injured, or too weak to protect itself, you will need to catch it to take care of it. Under the circumstances the pigeon shouldn’t put up much of a fight and should be pretty easy to pick up.Place the pigeon in a basket, cage, large box or pet carrier.


If the pigeon is injured, but is also trying to get away, you can try getting close enough to throw a blanket or towel over the pigeon while it’s on the ground, then pick up the towel or blanket and carefully remove the pigeon.Make sure the box, basket, carrier or cage is lined with a towel, blanket or paper towels. If the pigeon is injured it will need to be kept warm until you can get it help., If the pigeon looks healthy you can leave it where it is, but you may want to consider putting out a bowl of water and some food (wheat, corn, small grains or fine seeds) for it to snack on while it takes a break. If the pigeon is injured or weak, provide it the same type of food and a bowl of water inside the basket, cage, carrier or box.If the pigeon is too weak to stand, or is having trouble with balance, do not give it water right away. The water bowl would be more a hazard than a help at this point., If the pigeon is gasping, has tremors or seizures, is bleeding or throwing up, you must take the pigeon to a vet right away.The vet’s office will be able to help you determine what to do with the bird after, including helping you read the tag and contacting the owner.
 If the pigeon is a racing pigeon, it most likely has a leg band from the American Racing Pigeon Union (ARPU). If this is the case, the number on the leg band will start with the letters “AU”. The next two numbers represent the year the pigeon was hatched and banded. The next three letters represent the specific pigeon club to which the owner belongs. And the final four numbers is the pigeon’s personal identification number with their club. Using the information found on the leg band, you can use the ARPU’s searchable band listing on their website to find the owner’s contact information.


If the number on the leg band starts with a “CU” the bird is registered with the Canadian Racing Pigeon Union (CRPU). You can use the lost bird form on their website to list your contact information and information about the pigeon and the CRPU will assist you in locating it’s owner.
If the number on the leg band starts with “IF” the bird is registered through the International Federation - American Homing Pigeon Fanciers Inc. You can use their IF Band Listing PDF documents to look up the owner’s contact information.
If the number on the leg band starts with “NPA” the bird is registered with the National Pigeon Association. Send an email to secretary@npausa.com to let them know you’ve found the pigeon and they’ll assist you with contacting the owner.
If the number on the leg band starts with “IPB” send an email to foyspigeon@zoominternet.net or call 1-877-355-7727 to report the pigeon you found.
If the number on the leg band starts with “ADA” the pigeon is registered with the American Dove Association (ADA). Send an email to secretary@doveline.com to inform them of the pigeon you found and they’ll help you with contacting the owner.
If the number on the leg band starts with “NBRC” it is registered with the National Birmingham Roller Club. You can use the online form on their website to send them all the relevant information and they’ll help you locate the owner.

