 Select foods such as red or green bell peppers, kale, carrots, romaine lettuce (not iceberg), tomatoes, celery, dandelion leaves, baby tomatoes, cucumber, parsley, apple, pear, and seedless grapes. These foods are high in the vitamins guinea pigs need. Fruits should be given as a treat due to their high sugar content. Broccoli and other cruciferous vegetables, though high in vitamin C, should be given in moderation, as too much can cause gas. Also watch the amount of calcium you're giving them in certain vegetables as too much calcium can result in bladder stones which can be very painful for your pig.


If you are at all doubtful whether a certain food is safe for guinea pigs to eat (especially if your guinea pig has never eaten it before), consult this link: http://jackiesguineapiggies.com/fruitandveg.html.;
, This can be achieved by getting small tablets to add to their food, or making sure they eat foods with plenty of vitamin C in them, such as bell pepper and kale. Avoid adding vitamin C drops to their water, this can dilute the water and cause mildew (NOT what you want for your pet).
 Although a couple ounces overweight might not seem like much, it can really hurt your guinea pig. High levels of fat in a guinea pig's body can harm your pet because their hearts are very weak. Having them run after a carrot in your hand for a couple of minutes can really get them moving. Allow the guinea pig to nibble on the end of it every once in a while so it doesn't lose interest in chasing the carrot.
 Walking around in their cage near their feces can cause their nails to pick up bacteria that can cause your guinea pig to get sick! You can purchase guinea pig or ferret nail clippers at your local pet store, or you can just use toenail clippers. Make sure you don't clip too close to the top of the nail. There is a nerve growing there and it can really hurt the guinea pig if you clip too close!

, Buy soft bedding, not cedar chips, so it doesn't hurt their paws when they walk around. Some people choose to clean out the poop and pee spots everyday, but you can take out all of the bedding every week and put in fresh, clean bedding for your pet. Both work effectively.
 Bathe them about every other month or every month if they have lice or mites. It is healthy for your pet to be clean. This helps reduce the risk of mites and skin disease. Use unscented baby soap so that the guinea pig doesn't get irritated skin. Use lukewarm water in a sink about an inch deep. Set the guinea pig down, but make sure that its nostrils don't go underwater because it takes very little for them to drown. Massage the soap into the space behind their ears and pet it down with the rest of their body. Rinse thoroughly with lukewarm water. Dry them off with a towel and place them gently back in their cage.
 Play with them for at least 15 minutes daily, but feel free to play with them as often as you like! Make sure that you don't tire your guinea pig out too much though! Reward them for good behavior with healthy treats, such as granola or fruit from the list above. Small amounts of treats are good for guinea pigs, but too much can make them fat and unhealthy!

