 The whole wheat dough has more fiber in it than dough made with white flour. It's simply healthier for you. The extra fiber in the whole wheat dough helps with digestion. You can make your own whole wheat dough, or you can find it premade in many grocery stores. Most whole wheat pizza dough recipes call for these ingredients: Whole wheat flour, yeast, water, salt, oil, and occasionally sugar. Some dough also requires hot water, all-purpose flour, and extra virgin olive oil. The olive oil and sugar make the dough more tender.Avoid pre-made dough that contains trans fat, though. Check the label. ;
, Put 3/4 cup of whole-wheat flour, 3/4 cup of all-purpose flour, 1 package of quick rising yeast, 1 teaspoon salt, and 1/2 teaspoon sugar in a food processor. Mix the ingredients by pulsing them together. Next, mix 1/2 cup of hot water with 1 tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil.
Pour the liquid mixture into the food processor, and mix until the dough holds together.
Add a little more warm water if it seems dry. Add little more flour if it seems too sticky.
Form the dough into a ball.
A second version of this recipe calls for you to mix 1 teaspoon of active dry yeast, 3/4 cup plus two tablespoons of warm water, and 1 teaspoon honey together. Mix them in a bowl, and let them sit for up to 5 minutes until you see a layer of foam. Whisk two cups of white whole wheat flour with 1/2 teaspoon salt. Add the yeast mixture to it, along with a tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil. , Put the dough on a surface that you dust with flour. This is important, so the dough doesn't stick to the surface. Now, you will be ready to knead the dough.


To knead the dough, also, dust the dough itself with flour to reduce stickiness. You've used enough flour when the dough bounces back when you put a finger on it. Put the ball of dough on the surface, fold it in half. Then use the heels of your hands to push into the dough. Turn the dough by a quarter and repeat, for 6-10 minutes.
Whole wheat dough has less volume, not rising as much as other kinds of pizza dough. Handle the dough more lightly when kneading it so it doesn't break. The dough won't stretch as easily without tearing. You could add little white flour to it to make it easier to work with. Cover the dough with waxed paper that you have sprayed with cooking spray. Place the sprayed side of the paper against the dough.
Let the dough sits for about 20 minutes.
For the second recipe, cover the dough with plastic wrap, and let it sit for 2 hours. It's done when it's doubled in size. , Roll out the dough using either a rolling pin or your hand. A 13-inch size circle is recommended.


Shaping the dough by hand will create the crust that is less dense than using a rolling pin. To roll out the dough by hand, dust your fingers with flour. Take the ball of dough and shape it into a circle with your fingers. Start in the middle of the circle, and press the dough outward, while spreading your fingers out, to widen the disc's size. Then, lift the dough, putting your fingers on the edges of the circle. It's more important to have the even thickness throughout the dough than to accomplish a perfect circle.
Roll the dough as thin as you can. Brush olive oil on the dough when done.

