 Each time you enter a conversation you have the opportunity to reinforce the beliefs you have about yourself. Additionally, being honest with people is something that will allow others to trust you.When you have a reputation for being an honest and courteous person, it will make it difficult for others to make you the target of a false rumor. Others will stand by you and disregard false rumors.
 If a person has a reputation for spreading rumors, it might be a sign of problems in the person’s life. Humans develop defense mechanisms to protect themselves and cope with life’s stresses and/or traumas. A person who habitually spreads rumors may be using a defense mechanism called projection.Projection involves a person incorrectly attributing, or projecting her negative impulses, thoughts and feelings onto another person. It may not make rational sense, but it is likely she may not realize she is doing it.
This defense mechanism is often due to a lack of insight and acknowledgement of one’s own motivations and feelings.
Be compassionate and understanding, but not at the expense of your own needs and wishes. You deserve to be treated with respect.
 People align themselves with others who share their attitudes and values, which in turn influences the decisions they make.You will be faced with decisions to either include or exclude people in your life.


If someone you know is spreading rumors and you’ve asked him to stop yet he continues, it may be time to exclude him from your life.
If you choose to say something to him you could state, “Hey ___, I’ve tried to be there for you as a friend, but I just can’t be around someone who spreads rumors like you do. I’m telling you at the risk of you spreading a rumor about me, but as a friend you need to know it’s wrong. It is ruining your friendships, and your reputation.”

, There might be times when you must stand up for yourself and expose the truth about a false rumor. It takes courage to speak up for yourself, but doing so will help you build confidence.

You have the right to be heard so don’t let someone silence you and take that right away.

You may notice it seems easier to speak up for someone else. If you are having difficulty speaking up for yourself pretend that you are speaking up for a friend – you.
 If you are having difficulty resolving the rumor and drama on your own, then you need to ask for help. You may need to report the incident to a boss or head of human resources, or a guidance counselor, or parent. There is help available to you from people who are trained in these types of situations. You are not alone.

