 The person who you’re helping will likely have a healthcare team that manages their medical and psychological needs. Because this person is living in a facility, this team is likely established into the patient’s weekly routines. You can help them by introducing yourself and working with their healthcare providers, and may prove an invaluable resource to both the patient and doctors.You may become a liaison between the patient, facility, and healthcare team.
You can also serve as the patient’s advocate.
If the patient has named you Power of Attorney, you will need to be proactively involved with the healthcare team to make informed decisions.
 When a person goes to live in a facility, it may feel to others as though they are not as accessible as they once were. Family and friends may also be a little uncomfortable with the facility, not knowing what to expect. Include them, talk with them, and encourage them to be active in the patient’s life. This will help family and friends feel connected, and help the patient feel less isolated.Talk with family and friends about the stage of Alzheimer’s disease and what to expect.
Give them tips on communicating with an Alzheimer’s patient.
Maintain the Alzheimer's patient’s dignity by not sharing confidential medical information or talking about them in their presence as though they are not there.
Plan activities, outings, or projects that they can do with the patient. For example, the facility might let you use part of the day room for a card game or art project.
 A person with Alzheimer’s disease will likely experience changes in their behaviors and emotions, suddenly and gradually, and if you notice a change, communicate what you’ve noticed with the facility’s manager. The person may be a bit more open with you than staff, and your speaking up about changes in behavior and emotion may help staff develop a new treatment plan for them.For example, they may become suspicious or paranoid. They may even think that facility staff are trying to harm them. Whether this is a sudden or gradual thought, you need to report it to the patient’s case manager, as they may become agitated or harm themselves.
You might notice that they vacillate between anger and giddiness pretty rapidly. This shows potential instability, but could also be an indication that they are stressed or having difficulty coping with something. Communicate this to facility management so that they can help the patient sort out the problem.
 This is important whether the person lives in a facility or not, but especially if they live somewhere other than their home. Their home is full of triggers and reminders that will help jog their memory, but a facility is a new place devoid of those cues. Make sure the person has personal mementos from home in their room. Reminiscing about the past with the patient helps them recall events, people, and experiences. Not only is this fun for both of you, but it helps you learn about them and it helps them remember details.