 Most people auditioning for Juilliard have had many years of training, honing their talent and skills and constantly relearning and reinventing their abilities. The level of Juilliard might not be for you if you've been studying merely for one or two years. Ask your teacher if Juilliard is right for you and be humble about the answer; if you need more time, take that as a constructive comment, not a criticism and get stuck into more practice and perfecting of your skills. Be strong and sensible in your goals and you'll get there someday!

, You want to feel secure in your performance abilities and know deep within that you're actually ready.
 First, go on the Juilliard website: Juilliard.edu to find your audition requirements. Sometimes, especially if you're auditioning for the Pre-College music division, the repertoire guidelines vary by age. Read the rules and guidance very carefully, to make sure that you fully understand what is expected. If you don't, contact the college to find out what is needed.
 First, work with your teacher to select what you want to do, making sure that it is something that will completely highlight your talent at its absolute best. If necessary, ask your teacher for additional advisers to come on board and help you make the best choice from a variety of opinions. Once you've chosen the audition piece or repertoire, learn it thoroughly. Practice daily, think about it when you're not practicing it, and take on board all constructive feedback so that you continue to improve. The better you learn what you'll perform in the first few weeks, the more secure you'll feel in the last few weeks.
 A common (and very helpful) thing to do is to attend a competition and compete with your audition selection. If you win, well, all the better for practice! You can also gather family members and/or teacher into a mock 'jury': it will give you a feel for what the audition will be like. If you don't succeed or feel that you didn't do very well, use this as an opportunity to reflect on what needs the most concentration for improvement––failure is not to be viewed as a bad thing, it's simply a nudge in the right direction and it's important to take hold of the lesson and make the most of it.

