 Interpersonal communication skills are one of the most important tools for a successful homicide detective. Much of your job is spent talking to people, whether it be the families of a victim, a murder suspect, or other law enforcement officers. Effective communication combines many skills including the ability to completely listen to details, asserting yourself, and recognizing the emotions of the person you're talking to. To become a better communicator, pay closer attention to what the person is saying both verbally and non-verbally, and stay in control of your emotions. In addition, be concise and complete with directions you give, and become better at being insightful to other people's feelings and emotions.Work on your communication skills by talking to a diverse group of people, and continually practice as a uniformed officer.
You may have to talk to grieving family members or an uncooperative murder suspect and have the ability to do both effectively.Other than communicating, you'll have to be good at understanding people's motivations and perspectives.
 As a homicide investigator, you'll have to make inferences and create leads based on evidence from a crime scene. The more experience you have, the more you'll understand the basic principles of categorically different murders.As a detective you'll have to ascertain the truth from clues. These can include a knocked over chair, a broken window, the position of the victim, or other forensic evidence.
You must also have the ability to pay close attention to detail.
 Create checklists for things that you need to do, or loose ends that you need to look into.Having notes to reference back to and having your documents and evidence neatly organized will save you precious time.


Create different folders for new evidence and documents on your hard drive for each case.
 While most homicide detectives have set hours like any other job, most are also on call 24/7. As a homicide detective, you'll be expected to arrive at a crime scene at any time day or night.Be prepared to change your sleeping schedule especially and prepare family or friends for your erratic schedule.


Always remember the importance of your role and the closure that you give grieving families.
Make sure to allocate time with family and friends, so you don't get burned out.

