 Thyme can be grown from seeds, plant divisions, or seedlings. However, growing thyme from seeds can be difficult because their germination is often sluggish and uneven. Most gardeners suggest buying young thyme seedlings, which you can obtain at any nursery, or take cuttings from someone else’s thyme.The most popular varieties of thyme are: Common Thyme, Golden King Thyme, Mother of Thyme, Lemon Thyme, and Garden Thyme.;
, Plant your thyme seedlings in spring about two to three weeks before the last frost.For best results, plant them in soil that is about 70°F (21°C). Space the seedlings 8 to 12 inches (20 to 30 centimeters) apart. Thyme thrives in full sun, so plant them in a very sunny area.


Most thyme plants will eventually grow to be 6 to 12 inches (15 to 30 centimeters) in height.
 Thyme likes dry, sandy soil with good drainage. Plant thyme in well-drained soil. Never plant this herb in soggy or heavy soil.This can result in root rot. If your soil does not appear to drain well, add some compost, sand, or organic material to help improve drainage.


Thyme can be planted as a ground cover, around paving stones, or near a wall, as long as the drainage is good. You can also plant it in containers.
 Thyme likes somewhat alkaline conditions and its nutrient requirements are minimal. If you need to raise the pH of your soil, add lime to it. You can fertilize the young plants in spring with compost, diluted fish emulsion or some other organic matter, but otherwise you won’t need to do much else to the soil., Weeds will compete for the soil’s nutrients and slow the development of young thyme plants. Control the weeds around seedlings either through weeding or mulching.Mulching with limestone gravel or builder’s sand can improve drainage around the plants and prevent root rot. You can try other mulches made of organic matter like leaf mold or straw, as well.
 Thyme is a hardy, drought-resistant herb. You need to water the plants on a regular schedule, but not often. Too much water will cause root rot. Give the plants a good watering when you see the soil around them has gone completely dry. Soak the ground thoroughly and wait until the soil dries completely before watering your plants again., Once your seedlings take off, the plants will need very little attention to thrive. Thyme doesn’t need a lot of nutrients to survive and too much fertilizer will cause it to lose its flavor and become gangly. Mulch your plants in autumn with organic matter like leaf mold, well-rotted animal manure or compost.


This will deliver the minimal nutrients thyme requires all year long, as well as protect the plants from frost once winter arrives., If you want your plants to continue being bushy and producing tender stems, you will need to prune your thyme back to half its previous height every spring. Do this after the last frost. If you do this, the next spring it will flourish again. After three to four years of growth with the same plants, their stalks will become woody and the plant will produce fewer leaves.


At this point you may want to start a new batch of seedlings, especially if you cultivate thyme for culinary purposes.Use an almanac to check when the last frost usually occurs. After this date, it may be safe to cut back the thyme.
 If you grow your thyme for culinary purposes, you’ll get the most potent flavor from the herbs if you harvest right before the flowers begin to open. As for the flowers themselves, feel free to pinch them off if you like. This will stimulate the production of more leaves.


However, the flavor of thyme won’t be negatively affected if you allow your plants to bloom. If you enjoy the way the flowers look, allow them to grow freely., You can harvest thyme at any point in the year, although the flavor is usually the best in June or July. This is when the flavor is most concentrated. Cut off fresh green sprigs in the morning. Leave behind the woody parts of the stalk. Strip the tiny leaves off the stems before using them.


When trimming off sprigs, always try to leave behind at least five inches of growth on the plant. This will help it continue to flourish.
The more you trim and prune your thyme, the more it will grow. Regular trimming will also make your plants grow in a more rounded shape.Check an almanac or online to see when the first frost usually occurs in your area. Stop cutting thyme about two weeks before this date.
 Hang the sprigs in a dark, well-ventilated area to dry them. You can also dry them by laying them out on a tray and putting them in a food dehydrator. Once the pieces dry out completely, the leaves will easily fall off the stems.After you’ve removed the dried leaves, store them in an airtight container until you’re ready to use them.


You can also store your dried thyme in the freezer or preserved in oil or vinegar.