 Search the web for resources for digital memory books and scrapbooking. You have a couple general options when it comes to digital memory books:


Websites that allow you to put together your memory book for display online. These sites act as aggregators where you can add and arrange digital content into virtual albums. Some of these websites focus only on pictures and their captions, while others allow you to also share stand-alone text, videos, audio, and URLs. You can either upload your own content or add content already on the web to your digital memory book.
Programs, templates, and websites for building a more traditional memory book which may be published later as physical hard copies. These will allow you to select a size and format for your memory book and arrange pictures and text onto each page just as you would a traditional memory book. They are often paired with an integrated print service that will allow you to order a printed, professionally-bound copy of your book.Even if you decide to keep your book digital, these services can be used to create shareable files.
 Scan or download all elements you plan on including in your digital scrapbook. Make sure to optimize your content for your platform of choice.


If you intend on printing out your book, remember to scan and save your images and pages at 300 DPI (dots per inch) at minimum. Save as a TIFF for perfect image quality.
If you intend to keep your book entirely digital or publish on the web, compressing images to lower their file size is likely appropriate. JPEGs are generally good for photos but often introduce artifacts. GIFs are more appropriate for text or simple art but are limited to 256 colors and don't work well with photos.
PNG-formatted images can be of good enough quality for print while not being too big for the web.With modern high speed Internet and large hard drives able to handle larger files, this format is becoming more common.
Some digital memory book programs have their own built-in image editors. However, you will likely need to touch up your pictures with an image editor before importing them. Adjust contrast and brightness and correct colors as necessary. Crop your pictures digitally just as you would with scissors.
 Although not entirely necessary, choosing and sticking to a font (or set of fonts) and color scheme for use throughout your book will give it a much more professional look. You can use text with multiple fonts, colors, and sizes in the same project as long as long as each is used for a different purpose. For example, you could use large all caps purple lettering for titles with smaller black text for your captions.


Pick colors that match your theme. For example, a memory book of your college years may use your school's colors.
 If you're using a template, allow it or your software to guide you through the process, adding text and pictures where necessary. If you are creating your memory book free-form, it will be up to you to decide how each page should look. Just remember that memory books should include both pictures and text. Use picture captions to tell a story.
 If you want professionally bound digital hard copies of your memory book, either use your software's printing service or find one online that's compatible. You can also choose to do an inexpensive version of this at home by printing out your pages and assembling them in a notebook or with binder clips. You may also choose to store your book onto disks or flash drives to share with others. If the file is small enough, you can even simply email the file out. If you're using an online scrapbooking tool, make sure your privacy settings allow it to be viewable and share the link to you page.

