 Make sure that it's the right email, and there is no sensitive content that you need to delete before you pass it along. When you forward an email, you automatically include the entire thread of emails that led to the current email.;
, If you are using Outlook 2010, open the Home or Message tab, and find the Respond group. If the message is selected in the message list on the main inbox screen, then you'll navigate through the Home tab. If the email is open in its own window, then you'll navigate through the Message tab.


On Outlook.com, try opening the email and selecting the Reply tab from the blue banner along the top of the screen. The drop-down menu should show options to "Reply," "Reply All," and "Forward." Select "Forward.", These people will receive the forwarded email. Make sure that you type the addresses right, and that you want these people to see everything in the message!


In the To box, write the email addresses of the primary person or people that you want to see the message.
In the Cc box, write the names of people that you want to receive a "carbon copy" of the forwarded message. All of the To and Cc recipients will be able to see who else was copied on the email.
In the Bcc box, write the names of people to whom you want to discreetly forward a "blind carbon copy" of the message. The person who receives the "Bcc" won't be able to tell who else received the email, and the other recipients won't see the address of the "Bcc" person., Any photo, text, or other file attachments will be automatically forwarded along to the new recipients unless you manually delete them from the forwarded message draft.
 You can type text above the "forwarded" text to elaborate or explain why you passed it along. You don't need to type anything if you don't think that it'll serve any purpose. Use your best judgment.
 Once you're ready to forward the message, click "Send" to forward it to all of the people that you have listed in the To, Cc, and Bcc boxes. Check your "Sent" messages box to make sure that the email went out without error.

