 The most prevalent hair typing system separates hair into four different general groups by texture: Type 1 (straight), Type 2 (wavy), Type 3 (curly), and Type 4 (coily). Each of these types can be further broken down into three subtypes A-C. In general, the system moves from hair that is the most straight and moisture-retentive (1A) to hair that is the most textured and prone to drying (4C).If you are of African descent, your hair is most likely to be Type 3 or Type 4. Types 3C through 4C will benefit the most from curl enhancers.


Not everyone's hair fits perfectly in this system. You may find individual hairs that share the qualities of two different subtypes or you may have hair of more than one subtype.
 Some hair types work better with this method than other. Some special considerations for certain hair types include:


Types 3A and 3B: While these hair types are easier to straighten, they are also more prone to losing curl definition. Curl enhancers are much less likely to work.
Type 3C: This hair type is more prone to drying compared to other Type 3s and benefits from added moisturizing.Type 4A: This hair type is the one most prone to damage. High heat and harsh chemicals should be avoided.
Type 4B: This hair type is tightly coiled and holds styles better than Types 3 and 4A hair, making it ideal for wash and goes.
Type 4C: This hair type usually does not form individual clumps or curls on its own but may do so with curl enhancer. If the enhancer cannot form curls by itself, the product may be used to enhance other curling techniques., Each person's hair has its own unique set of properties. As such, finding the curl enhancer that's right for you will take some trial and error. However, knowing your hair type will help narrow down your choices. In general, Type 3 hair responds well to sprays, while Type 4 hair needs thicker products like gels and creams.


Until you know what works best for you, buy the smallest size available. While the cost per ounce will likely be higher than a larger size, you won't be saving any money if you need to toss most of it because it doesn't play well with your hair.
Ask around for sample-sized products. Many salons and beauty supply shops offer trial samples that are either very inexpensive or completely free. These samples typically have enough product to figure out if it's right for you.
 Be sure to moisturize your hair afterwards if necessary. Some curl-defining products are oil-based and hydrate your hair, making them enough of a moisturizer on their own. Other products are water-based and non-moisturizing, while still others contain harsh chemicals that can dry your hair out further. For these, you will definitely need an extra leave-in conditioner or hair oil to moisturize your hair.


In general, products called creams or custards will moisturize.Some curl creams can work as a leave-in conditioner for 3C and 4A hair., Start with a quarter-sized dab of definer and lather it between your palms. If your product is extra thick or sticky, try mixing in a few drops of water. Coat your hair with the product using your hands., Smooth down the length of your hair with your hands together in a "praying" position. Do this a few times until there is no visible residue. Be sure to distribute the product evenly from your roots on out. Detangle with your fingers if you find any knots.


If you're happy with your curl definition from the product alone, simply allow your hair to air dry. You don't have to do anything else to lock your curls in place.
If you're in a hurry, you can blow dry instead. Use a low heat setting to prevent damage. , If your hair is very thick, you will likely need to "shingle" each individual curl. This may sound like a daunting task, but it's very simple and with practice won't take too much time.


After applying your product while your hair is still wet, separate out a small strand of hair with your hand.
Add a little more product to the strand. Rake your fingers through your hair until it's slick and frizz-free. Detangle with your fingers as you go.
Pull the first strand to the side and move on to the next. Repeat until you have a head full of individual defined curls.Dry your hair as normal, locking in your curls.

