 When you have ADHD as an adult, you may find that you over-extend, over-schedule, and over-commit yourself.You may spread yourself too thin, without taking enough time to address your physical, emotional, or mental needs. Slow down and boost your self-esteem by living a confident lifestyle, making yourself a priority, and doing things to make you feel good about yourself.

Make a list of your responsibilities and obligations. Include family/relationship obligations, school, work, and social responsibilities.
You may need to eliminate some things from your life in order to manage your ADHD. For example for a while you may need to choose between being on your community basketball team or the soccer team instead of doing both.
Make time to do things, like journaling, that can help you manage your ADHD and help improve your self-esteem. However, also make sure that you have plenty of time for sleep and idle time because these are crucial for people with ADHD.
 Taking care of yourself can help you manage your ADHD as well as live a more confident lifestyle.You will boost your self-esteem, be more focused, have better memory, and feel better about yourself if you are getting enough sleep, eating nutritiously, and getting physical activity.

Try to get six – eight hours of sleep each night. Try things like meditating, reading, or journaling to relax yourself before bedtime.
Eat nutritious meals and snacks. Make sure you include whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and other healthy choices in your food selections. For instance, try oatmeal topped with fresh fruit for breakfast.
Physical activity is a great way to cope with ADHD. It can also give you a sense of accomplishment that boosts your self-esteem. Join a sports team or start walking, yoga, or swimming on a regular basis. Many people also find that exercising in the morning helps them to have a more productive day.
 Whether you have ADHD or not, it can be easy to procrastinate on things you need to do. But this can cause you to miss deadlines, which can have negative consequences and make you feel bad about yourself. Instead, make an effort to start on your responsibilities as soon as possible.Be sure to give yourself more time than you think you will need to complete a task as well because there will be times when you are not very productive. Being on time and meeting your deadlines will boost your self-esteem.

If you find yourself putting off something that you should be starting, remind yourself, “Starting this on time will make me feel better about myself in the end.”
If you need to, put up reminders like “Get started” or “Don’t put it off” where you can see them on a regular basis.
 One of the best things you can do to manage your ADHD and live a more confident lifestyle is to get organized.Using a planner, agenda, or calendar can help you keep track of appointments, deadlines, and other important dates. This can help boost your self-esteem as you find yourself in the right place at the right time doing the right thing more often.

Use the planner or calendar on your electronic device. This way you can have your schedule handy at all times to review or edit. Having a large planner or calendar on your wall can also be helpful because it will serve as a constant visual cue.
Make reminders a few hours (or days) before to make sure that you don’t miss anything. If you’re using your electronic device you can set alarms as well.

