 Horses may not have ribbons in their mane or tail, and may only be plated up for English events. (Always refer to the Club or Body guidelines and rule book). This does not mean you can't read between the lines so to say.
 Bands come in various colours from the basic black and white to chestnut and bay colours. Many other colours are around, as well as clear, so have some fun with it and look around. On a white mane black bands look quite stunning, whereas with a black mane you could go for a white band. When using a different band colour to the mane colouring, make sure that the top of each section between the band and the crest are super neat and tidy. Contrasting colors make the bands stand out, and in turn, the faults. If your only new to banding or can not keep them neat, go for a matching colour to help hide those small imperfections. At the wither end of the mane there is always a piece of hair that doesn't band correctly, in western events this can be braided to keep it neat and tidy. Some people trim this off, others keep it. Whatever your choice, you should make it on a knowing slate. This piece of hair allows rain to drip away from the horses back and down to the ground. If this is removed, then the water will run down the spine and causes rain scald. If you do remove it, rug up.
 There are many different styles and methods to braiding and stitching them in. To make them interesting, give the braid a twist before doing it up or stitching it.
 A forelock is the hair between the horses ears which resembles a fringe. Some breeds usually put a band in it to keep it from moving around while keeping the forelock in position. Others braid it and stitch it to keep it out of the way and tidy. This all depends on the style and discipline. In Western usually you either leave it out or band it up like you would the mane. Because the forelock comes off the poll, which can be rather high, you may need two bands to make it sit correctly. For English and Dressage you can plait it or wrap it, again, just like the mane. NEVER cut or hog the forelock, as it is the horses natural fly swatter and wind screen wiper.
 If they are, use them around the eyes and muzzle, but ensure you only put enough on and not too much, as this will cause dust to collect on it and can detract rather than be attract the judges eye.
 Quarter marks are great to give your look a twist. Most clubs allow them, and some may even allow you to put some glitter spray onto them to give them a bit more of a shine. They come in heaps of different shapes and sizes, so shop around and if you can't find one you like, try making your own. Take into account the type of event you are riding, quarter marks only look good on an English horse during a hack class, they are not suitable during a western pleasure event or a showmanship event. So if you are competing in events back to back, make sure you can brush it out before your next class.
 Though many people stick with all-natural some like to glam it up or black it down. Black hoof polish is good to cover up any bumps and cracks as well as hiding any discolouration from hooves hitting coloured poles. It is best used on Hacking horses as it makes a real statement. Others prefer to use clear, to ensure the natural look is kept while giving it a gloss appearance. When using clear, you must ensure your horses hooves are spotless and tidy. If they have a bruise on their upper hoof, it won't be covered up. Some clubs such as Pony Club and General Riding Clubs allow you to experiment and play by adding glitter and sparkle. This has a great effect when used in the right situations. Go with your instinct and if in doubt, go clear. Look at your competitors and note what the winners do. If they all consistently have black or clear hooves, try the same thing. Always remember though, if your horses hooves look silly to you, then most likely they don't suit the choice you have decided upon.
 Some people prefer a natural tail. Others, a false tail. In some events it doesn't matter either way, other times it is greatly prohibited. If you are allowed to use a false tail, make sure it is the exact match to your horses current tail colour. If you have an Appaloosa, a Paint or a grey, you may have to bleach the tail to ensure a match with colour. Some false tail designers can make an individual tail to suit the horse. This works well for horses that have mottled dock skin resulting in a parti-coloured tail. If you prefer to flaunt what you have, ensure you protect the tail hair and promote the growth of it. Bag it up to keep it from getting dirty and only brush it with a tail brush when you really need to. If you continuously brush at it, it will gradually thin out. Condition it often to promote healthy growth and give it a good trim every few months. A basic tidy up is essential when showing, but only take a small amount off.
 Test them out to get the method perfect and if an opportunity arises to show them off, go ahead. A judge may give a positive comment on them, or one might say it did nothing for the combination. This is critical feedback, as another persons shimmer and shine may be another persons step up the ranking.

