 In order to feed the baby mouse correctly, you will need to determine its age. Consult a chart that shows photos of a baby mouse as it develops, and match your mouse to one the same size in the pictures.Baby mice begin to grow fur at about 3-5 days old.
Baby mice will open their eyes at about 10-14 days old.
Soon after a baby mouse opens its eyes, it enters the “flea” or “popcorn” stage. A healthy mouse at this stage will jump around a lot and will be extremely difficult to hold.
 Feeding or hydrating a baby wild mouse can lead to aspiration (drowning), if even the smallest amount of fluid gets into its lungs. If you see a bubble come out of the baby's mouth while feeding, the mouse has probably aspirated. Hold the baby upright (vertical) when feeding it – never rest it on its back, like a human baby.
If you do see a bubble, immediately flip the baby upside down (tail up, head down) to prevent any more liquid getting into its lungs.
Sadly, a young baby mouse is unlikely to survive aspiration. There is a very slight chance that an older baby will survive, if you turn it upside down immediately.
 An abandoned mouse may actually be a little older than it looks, because it is under-fed and malnourished. Feed the baby according to the age it appears to be.A newborn mouse will need to be fed every 1 to 2 hours if it is to survive, all day and all night. Someone will need to stay up through the night to feed it.
When the baby's eyes open (around 2 weeks old), you can decrease feeding times to every 3 to 4 hours.
 A baby wild mouse should be fed about .05cc per gram of their own body weight, each time it feeds. A 10 gram baby mouse, for example, should be taking in .5cc of milk every time it feeds. A feeding syringe should show cc measurements.Feed your baby kitten formula, watered down to half strength. Baby mice can't digest the thicker formula.
Hold the baby upright when feeding, to avoid getting any formula in its lungs. Grasp the baby around its middle portion (where a human's waist would be), with the baby's head at the top and its back feet at the bottom. The front feet will probably be inside your hand, depending on the size of the mouse and the size of your hand.
Dispense the kitten formula into the side of the baby mouse's mouth.
Be very careful not to get any milk in the baby's nose – the mouse will suffocate. You can dab its face with a Q-Tip after each dose of milk, to keep the airways clear.
If the baby appears to be losing weight, try to increase the amount of food.
Never force the baby to eat – feed it gradually.
If the mouse is extremely small, you can use a (new, clean) fine-tip paintbrush instead of a syringe. Dip the brush into the formula, then dab it into the corner of the baby's mouth.
 Baby mice will not eliminate their bowels on their own, and they will die from being backed up if you don't encourage them to go. After feeding, gently rub the baby mouse's belly and anus with a fluffy Q-Tip soaked in warm water, until it goes potty.Be careful not to rub so much that you irritate the baby's skin.
If the baby mouse will not go potty after several minutes, let it rest. Come back half an hour later and try again.
 Once the baby has its eyes open and seems healthy, you can add solid mouse food to its milk feedings. Continue to feed milk until the baby is 3 ½ to 4 weeks old.Suitable hard foods include: premixed rodent food (hamster food is best), cooked rice (they usually prefer white over brown rice), human baby food, and kitten food.
 An older baby that already has its eyes open can be given a rodent water bottle. Hang the bottle on the side of its cage, with the tip of the spout low enough that the mouse can reach it. Allow the mouse to use the water bottle on its own – it's okay if it doesn't want to use it at first.Don't give mice water in a bowl – they can easily drown.

