 To keep your hair silky, you need to keep it clean, but not too clean. The natural oils in your hair are what helps to keep it strong and healthy, but those oils can also trap dirt and become greasy, making you hair dirty. You need to strike a balance between too much cleaning and not enough to have silky hair, meaning that a gentle shampoo is an essential part of your cleaning routine.


Try to use shampoo made with natural ingredients, and avoid shampoo with strong artificial fragrances. These dry out the hair over time and affect the hair's ability to form its own natural oils. Read the ingredients and avoid shampoos with parabens and sulfates. It’s especially important to avoid sulfates if you have curly or wavy hair.
Even if you are not a child, children or baby shampoos can be quite effective in maintaining silkiness and using a minimum number of ingredients. These are usually gentle on the hair and on the eyes, as well as pretty cheap and available, making it an effective purchase, regardless of how old you are.;
, One of the best ways to get silky hair is by regularly conditioning, even if you're not washing your hair. Conditioner helps to strengthen the tips of your hair, keeping the individual strands strong and healthy, avoiding split ends and other hair problems that can affect the texture of hair. Just as you would with shampoo, look for conditioner that lacks in artificial fragrances and dyes.


If you have a short hairstyle, you will not be able to avoid getting conditioner on your scalp. Use a mild or volumizing conditioner to keep your hair from getting weighed down.
Though they're commonly marketed to guys, Try to avoid using Two-in-One shampoo and conditioner combos, as well as body wash-shampoo combos, which won't allow you to condition your hair separately, and can have a long-term drying affect, counteractive to the purpose of conditioner. Buy separate products.
 Depending on the natural oiliness of your hair, it may be good to supplement your cleaning routine by combing a small amount of oil into your hair, which can help enrich and strengthen it, as well as create the silky texture that you desire. Coarse hair is commonly treated by combing some variety of oil into it daily, or a few times a week. Good natural oils for the hair include:
/images/thumb/9/99/Get-Silky-Hair-if-You-Are-a-Guy-Step-3-Version-3.jpg/v4-550px-Get-Silky-Hair-if-You-Are-a-Guy-Step-3-Version-3.jpg
/images/thumb/9/99/Get-Silky-Hair-if-You-Are-a-Guy-Step-3-Version-3.jpg/v4-300px-Get-Silky-Hair-if-You-Are-a-Guy-Step-3-Version-3.jpg









Coconut oil
Olive oil
Argan oil
Gingelly oil
Moroccan oil
Mustard oil

, Hair gel, mousse, and spray are the quickest way to gunk up your hair and leave it feeling like straw. Use natural oils and caps to help style your hair if necessary, and avoid the use of styling products. If you must use artificial styling products, rinse them out of your hair thoroughly at the end of the day and condition your hair with natural oils to help replenish them.


Most styling products involve alcohol, which leech the moisture from your hair and ruin its ability to stay moisturized naturally. Don't get in the way of your body by using styling products, let your body work for you.
If you really want to use styling products, try waxes and pomades made with natural oils and beeswax. These products allow you to style and moisturize your hair at the same time.

