 Stay strong in your decision to leave the cult. Remind yourself why you wanted to get away, and tell any current members of the group that you don’t want to talk to them. Practice making your own decisions, and work on rediscovering your personality.Cults are so effective at controlling people because they break down their boundaries. It will take time, practice, and perhaps counseling to rebuild your boundaries in a healthy way.
 Many people will be sympathetic to you, even if they don’t fully understand the challenges you’re facing. Readjust to life outside the cult by spending time with family, friends, and other people who care about you. You may also want to look for a support group for survivors of spiritual abuse.If you’re having a hard time adjusting, consider talking to a counselor or cult expert who can help you reframe your life.
 Once the group realizes you aren’t coming back, they will probably cut off contact with you. Being rejected by people you were once close to can hurt a lot, even if those people are part of a destructive ideology. To cope, lean on your new support network and fill your time with productive activities like work or school., Reach out to other people who have left your cult and ask them how they adjusted, or search the internet for personal stories from people who have left cults behind. Learning about how other people coped with the transition can give you strength and confidence to do the same.
 Relearn how to think critically and make your own decisions. Expose yourself to different ideas by reading books and newspapers, watching interesting programs on TV, and talking to lots of people. Practice recognizing your faulty thought patterns, like overgeneralization and self-blame, when they arise.For instance, the cult may have taught you that when bad things happen, it’s your fault for not behaving correctly. Remind yourself that these thoughts are not true.
 Exit counseling can help you readjust to life outside the cult. If you were in the cult for a long time, or if you’re having severe emotional withdrawals, a counselor will be able to help you change your thought patterns and live independently. Look for a counselor who has experience helping former cult members.

