 The seasoning process requires you to basically "bake" a layer of fat into the pan so that it stays there semi-permanently. The fat protects the iron surface from oxidation (rusting).To start, warm up your oven.You can proceed to the next few steps while you wait.
 Generally, the easiest source of fat to work with for this purpose is cooling oil (e.g., canola oil, vegetable oil, peanut oil, etc.). Pour a small amount (no more than about one tablespoon) into the skillet and spread it around with a paper towel, coating the entire surface. Many chefs like to coat the underside and handle as well, though this is less important.


Olive oil isn't the best for this task — it has a lower smoke point than most other cooking oils, which means that it's more likely to give off smoke and may possibly set off your smoke alarm., You don't have to use oil — most types of cooking fat will work well. A few ideas are provided below:


One easy solution is to use bacon grease. Cook the bacon in the cast iron pan, drain the excess grease into a pan, and use a paper towel to coat the pan evenly with the remainder.
Lard or shortening also work well. For these fats, use a slightly lower temperature. 275-300 F (135-149 C) usually works well., Place the pan directly on a rack in the middle of the oven upside down (so the cooking surface faces the bottom of the oven. Put a baking sheet underneath to catch drips of excess oil. Let the pan "bake" like this for about one hour.
 After an hour, turn off the oven but don't open it. Let it gradually cool — this may take an extra hour or two. When the pan is cool enough to handle safely (use an oven mitt if you are unsure), take it out of the oven. Congratulations — it's now seasoned. It should resist rusting and stick to food less in the future.


If you wish, you can partially re-season your pan whenever you wish by adding a little extra fat after the next few times you cook. Just apply oil, lard, etc. with a paper towel as above, covering the surface evenly with a thin layer. This isn't essential, but it's a wise idea if you accidentally take some of the seasoning off (see below).

