 Find a barbell and load it with some weights. The barbell should be heavy enough to give you a good workout but not so heavy that you can’t complete the exercise using the proper form. Make sure the plates are securely attached to the end of the barbell. If you’re not sure how to do this, refer to the barbell manufacturer manual or talk to a gym employee.


This exercise can also be performed with sand bags, kettle bells, dumbbells, or cinder blocks. However, most people use barbells.If you have trouble using good form during the exercise, reduce the weight of your barbell.;
, Stand in front of the loaded barbell with your feet a shoulder’s width apart. Your back should be slightly arched with your shoulders pushed back. Keep your arms straight and your knees slightly bent.Stand close enough so that your feet are under the bar but not so close that your shins are touching it.
 Bend your knees and lean towards the bar, bending at the hips instead of curving your back. Grasp the bar firmly in both hands with the back of your hands facing away from you. Your hands should be a shoulder-width apart on the barbell.


Make sure to keep your back straight and your shoulders back. Otherwise, you may injure your back while lifting the barbell.
 Stand up, keeping your back and arms straight. Next, lift the bell upward, pushing your elbows underneath the bar. Rest the bar under your chin. Keep your elbows high to stabilize the barbell.Your back should be straight at all times.
Don’t lock your knees. If you do, you may pass out.
 Squat quickly, holding the barbell under your chin. While squatting, keep your back flat and your knees pointed outward.To squat below the parallel, lower yourself until you’re almost sitting.


If you have trouble keeping the bar steady, remove some of the weights. It’s better to have good form than to lift a lot at once.
Balance your weight on your heels and the outside of your feet.
 Stand quickly, keeping the barbell steady. While standing, keep your back straight and push upwards using your heels.Don’t stand so quickly that you stumble or fall backwards. The motion should be steady and controlled.


If you feel yourself starting to fall backwards, push the barbell away from you. This will stop it from falling on top of you.
 Use the momentum from your explosive standing motion to lift the barbell over your head.Straighten your arms and push your head forward. Your ears should come past your biceps.Lean your head back again and lower the barbell back to the starting position under your chin.


Don’t lock your arms when you lift the weight.
If you can’t lift the barbell into the air, use less weight.
 Use fluid, quick movements to repeat the process. A good thruster is one continuous movement instead of several smaller ones.If you’re following a particular workout, you will know how many repetitions and sets you need to do. If not, consider doing ten thrusters at a time until you become exhausted.


If you can’t complete a thruster using smooth, controlled movements, use less weight on the barbell.
 The better your form is, the more quickly you will build muscles. Good form means good muscle gains in the long term.To improve your form, watch yourself complete the exercise in the mirror. Other methods of improving your form include:


Asking a Crossfit expert for tips
Watching videos of people performing successful thrusters
Hiring a trainer for one-on-one advice

, Once the exercise becomes easy, you need to add more weight to the barbell. The more weight you add, the stronger you will become.If your workout is easy, you’re not going to see any progress.


Increase the weight slowly. For example, add five pounds to each side of the barbell each time you want to increase the weight.
Don’t add too much weight at once. You might injure yourself.
 If you start becoming overwhelmed, take a break. If you injure yourself, you won’t improve as quickly. Additionally, it’s important to understand the difference between working to exhaustion and working until you hurt yourself. For example, if your muscles begin to feel weak and wobbly, take a break.


If your heart rate jumps suddenly, take a break. Continue to monitor your heart rate and see a doctor if you’re worried.
If you experience chest pain or pressure, call 911. You may be having a heart attack.
If you feel dizzy, take a break. Eat a snack and drink some water.