 This is a very important step. Take some time off, look onto your past relationships, no matter how hurtful they were, and realize what went wrong, what happened that made it bad, and what you can do to prevent the same from happening again. If you can succeed at doing this, then by all means you probably won't need to keep reading =). But in case you are still a little unsure of yourself, read on and consider my advice.;
, What? Then what's the purpose of this article? The point I want to make here is that if you are looking for someone for the sake of having a boyfriend, then you're doing it all wrong. There are millions of "boyfriends" out there in the world, but there's only one Adam Smith, one person that captures your heart. A boyfriend is an object, but an individual is a person. You fall in love with people, not objects. Get it? Don't ever date someone just so you can have a boyfriend.
 If you feel the pressure from your friends, peers, or yourself that you need to find a "hot," rich, or popular guy in order to be cool, this applies to you. If you give in to these pressures, or give them too much value, then you've already failed at achieving what you want. These are probably the very pressures that are giving you a hard time in the first place, and you need to learn to let them go. Sure, being "cool" is great, but if being in the "in" group (especially if you're in high school) is just not who you are or what you're comfortable with, then you need to stop trying, because being who you are is important.
 Make lots of friends, not only male but female as well. The more friends you have, the more opportunities you'll get to meet new people and even more friends. This not only increases your chances of meeting that special someone, but if gives you lots of people to fall back upon if something happens to go awry. The best relationships start out as friendships, so stop trying to find someone and bond with them immediately; perhaps the right person is already just under your nose. Build a foundation first, get to know people, and then consider moving up.
 Don't set goals for yourself, like oh, I'm going to be at this stage with this guy on this day. Remember, you're not out looking for a boyfriend, you're there to make friends and have a good time, and perhaps just happen to meet someone who makes you happy to be you. Taking time to invest and make sure you've got it right will reap you happiness hundreds of times as much as if you just rush into something halfheartedly. Taking it easy will also show guys that you respect yourself, and you're not out looking for commitment.
 This is going to sound really cheesy, but don't ever forget who you are through this whole ordeal, because this is the most important part. It's true. Be yourself, because if you change who you are for someone you want to impress, they won't fall in love with you, and you won't be able to keep it up forever either. Sooner or later, if you put up a façade, you're going to stop being happy and its going to fall apart. Friends and boyfriends, good and bad, will come and go, and that's just a part of life, but don't ever let them change who you are. If you stay true to yourself through it all, you'll always be able to build something back up again.

