 This style manger is simple to make with wood pieces of the same size. For example, you could create slats that are 24 inches (60.9 cm) long and 1 inch (2.54 cm) wide for a manger large enough to fit a doll (representing Jesus) that's under 1 foot (0.3 m) long. Plan for smaller slats if you want a tiny manger, and larger slats if your manger will be holding a larger doll.;
, Any type of wood is suitable for a manger. Consider using scrap pieces you already have from an old wooden crate, a piece of furniture you no longer use, or, for a very small manger, popsicle sticks. You could also purchase wood from a local hardware or home improvement store to create the manger.


Consider pre-cut wood pieces. You can buy packages of wood pieces at craft stores if you're prefer not to cut them yourself.
If you can't find pre-cut pieces and you prefer not to cut your own wood, many home improvement stores will cut the wood for you.
 Using a table saw or the saw of your preference, cut the wood into 11 pieces that are the same size. In this example, the pieces will be 24 inches (60.9 cm) long and 1 inch (2.54 cm) wide.


Be sure to measure the pieces before you begin cutting, so you can make sure they all end up the exact same size. Use a ruler and a pencil to mark where the cuts should be made.
Saw the wood outside or over a table covered with newspaper for easy cleanup.
 The legs will form an "X" on each side of the manger to hold it up. The outside surfaces of the legs will be visible, so use the four most attractive wood pieces for the legs.


Cut a 45-degree at 1 end of each piece. The angled cut allows the bottom of each piece to be flat on the ground, providing stability for the manger.
Identify the center of each piece. Measure each piece, mark the center using a pencil, and drill a hole through each piece at the center.
Assemble the legs by crossing the holes over each other so that they form an X. Place bolts through the holes, threading the legs together. Use washers and butterfly nuts to secure them.
 To create the slatted look, begin by placing one piece of wood across the sets of legs at the place where they meet, in the middle of the V shape they create. Use a hammer and nails to nail the piece into the V on both sets of legs. Space the 7 remaining pieces of wood along the top of the legs to create the manger. Space the remaining 6 slats evenly along the legs, so that they span from one set of legs to the other. Nail the wood pieces to the legs to finish the body of the manger.

