 A cat with lice is intensely itchy, and this constant scratching should prompt you to check their coat for parasites., With good eyesight, you can see lice with the naked eye. They are about the size of a sesame seed, with an elongated oval body, like a grain of rice but smaller, and have three pairs of tiny legs.The lice scavenge sloughed skin cells and like to anchor themselves to hair shafts near the skin’s surface so they should be easy to look for by moving your hands through your cat’s fur.
 The adult louse lays these along hair shafts. To the naked eye they look like tiny white glistening specks stuck to the hair. They can also look like white dust but if you try to comb them out you will find they are tightly glued onto the hair shaft., Look for the adult lice or their eggs which will be glued onto your cat’s hair and will be easier to see than adult lice as they don't move away., Fipronil is a pharmacy controlled product so you can buy it over the counter from certain pharmacies. Products containing fipronil include Frontline and Effipro. Fipronil works by interfering with an insect neurotransmitter that is not present in mammals, which causes paralysis and death of the louse.


Apply this product once every 30 days. Treat all cats that may have come into contact with lice so they do not act as a reservoir of infection., Selamectin is an active ingredient in Revolution (US) and Stronghold (UK). It works by interfering with the louse's neurotransmission, causing it to become paralyzed and die.This is a prescription product so a veterinary surgeon must prescribe this medication for your cat.
Though products containing fipronil and selamectin are not licensed to treat lice infections as there is no licensed product, they are widely acknowledged as being safe and effective at killing lice., The back of a cat’s neck would be a good option.


Part the cat’s fur with your fingertips so that you can see the skin and apply the product there.
Allow to dry for two to three hours before stroking the cat, otherwise you risk wiping the product off.
 Spot on products are designed to produce a micro-fine layer of active medication over the surface of the cat's skin, so don’t over apply it.


If you want to improve the appearance of the cat’s coat, wait two days after applying the product to give the adult lice a chance to die. Then, comb the cat’s coat to remove the dead lice.
The eggs need to hatch out before they will die, so repeat the combing weekly until the comb is clean for two consecutive weeks.
 Combing only works if you get right down to the skin, and if the cat is badly matted the tangles need removing. Cats most likely to pick up lice are those who live rough or live in unclean conditions, and these are the cats most likely to have knotted coats.


If the cat only has an occasional tangled knot of fur then try snipping the knots out with scissors. Always take care to only cut the cat’s fur and keep the scissor’s blades away from the skin so it doesn’t nick the cat’s skin.
 The cat may need to be sedated because the knots tug on the skin and are uncomfortable, and many cats will not tolerate having the mats touched.
 This is a drug free way of trying to eliminate a louse infestation. You can use a comb that is similar to those used on children to manage head lice.


This method takes extraordinary patience and dedication, and it is all too easy to miss a part of the cat where lice are hiding, such as their armpits or groin.
This is also a time consuming method as it takes hours to properly comb through a cat, not to mention that it is a rare cat who will not lose patience after a few minutes.
, It helps to have a damp cloth or towel to hand to wipe the debris, nits and lice from the comb between swipes.
 If the cat is fidgety but not aggressive or overly anxious, then holding the scruff of their neck in one hand, or better having an assistant hold the cat's scruff will make it easier to comb them.


If the cat is acting aggressively, combing is probably not a good option. There's a good chance you will get injured, and also it is very unlikely you will be able to do a thorough enough job and get all of the lice.
 One major drawback of shampooing lice away is that once the cat’s coat is dry there is no residual action of the active ingredient. This means there is nothing on the coat to kill future lice that hop on, so if the cat goes back onto dirty bedding there is nothing to stop her becoming reinfected immediately.The use of shampoo has largely been superseded by products that are more effective and easier to use, such as spot-on treatments.
In the days before spot-on treatments, the shampoo commonly used against lice was seleen. Seleen is a thick green shampoo that contains selenium sulphide. This chemical decreases excess skin cell shedding and food for the lice. But it is not licensed for use in cats so use Seleen on your cat at your own risk., Most cats dislike baths and being shampooed. Cats that do like bathing are probably show cats and the least likely to pick up lice in the first place, by virtue of their pampered lifestyle., Gather the necessary materials, such as towels, medicated shampoo, and a jug to pour the water.
 The water should reach the cat's elbows or just below their elbows. Pour warm water over the entire cat, taking care not to get it into her ears or eyes.


If necessary, put cotton wool in her ears to protect them.
 Repeat this process until the whole cat is shampooed.


If possible, leave the shampoo in the cat’s coat for 10 minutes to allow for the maximum effect before rinsing.
Rinse the cat well with plenty of fresh warm water and then towel dry the cat.
 Wash the cat’s bedding as well as any other bedding in the room and spray any soft furnishing such as sofas and beds with an insecticidal spray suitable for killing flea eggs and larvae, such as RIP Fleas or Staykill.Always use these sprays in a well ventilated room and remove any reptiles, birds, or fish from the room to avoid toxicity.
Leave the room uninhabited for two hours after spraying to allow any lingering aerosol to settle out of the atmosphere so that it doesn’t get breathed in by you or by your pets.

