 The current drywall is in direct contact with the ceiling joists. This allows sound from the floor above to pass directly through the joists with little resistance. Once the old drywall is removed, you can install a new ceiling with an air gap between it and the floor above.
 Decoupling alone is very effective at reducing the sound of conversation and high-pitched noises, but it can make low frequencies (such as stomping feet) sound louder! To get the best of both worlds, apply damping compound to a new sheet of thick drywall and screw it onto the subfloor from below.See above for detailed instructions. Take care not to use screws that break through the floor above.
Alternatively, complete the rest of this method first, then reinforce the new ceiling with a second layer. Reinforce both ends if extreme soundproofing is required.
 Standard R19 fiberglass insulation is just as good as the more expensive "acoustic" insulation. Fill the gaps between the joists, but avoid over-compression, which can carry vibrations through the floor.Cellulose, mineral fiber, cotton, or polyester are effective alternatives. Do not use foam insulation.If you choose the floating ceiling joist approach (see below), install the joists before you insulate.
 This is the most effective decoupling method, but may not be feasible if the ceiling space is taken up by ductwork. To do this, install a new joist between each pair of ceiling joists. The new joists should extend 1–2 inches (2.5–5cm) further down than the original joists.Ideally, the floating joist can rest on the inside layer of a decoupled wall. This creates another air gap between the joists and the outside layer of the wall.
If you choose this approach, you do not need to follow the rest of the instructions. Just install more drywall over the joists, then fill in the perimeter with acoustic caulk.
 Installing hat channel (furring channel) and sound clips is less effective than floating joists, but uses less vertical space. For best soundproofing, choose furring channel marked "087F125-18" or confirm that it meets these specifications: ⅞" (22.2mm) depth; 25 gauge; hemmed long edge. Twenty gauge channel is more common, but significantly worse for soundproofing.Alternatively, you can purchase resilient channel, which is designed for soundproofing. However (at least in North America), resilient channel is not standardized, so it's difficult to guarantee it will work.Read customer reviews before purchasing.
 Install the channels no more than 24" (61cm) apart, and position the end channels within 6" (15cm) of the wall. If there is a vent in your ceiling, end the channel flush against the frame of the vent on either side. Place additional short lengths of channel on either side of the vent to increase stability.If the channel is not long enough to reach across the ceiling, overlap channel lengths by at least 6" (15cm) and screw together. Do not install sound clips onto overlapped areas.
Place the channels within 16" (41cm) of each other if you plan to support a triple layer of drywall.
 Hat channel alone is not very effective, especially under non-dampened drywall.Install soundproofing clips through the hat channel as follows:Place clips around the perimeter of the ceiling, within 6" (15cm) of each wall.
Fill in the first channel with sound clips spaced 48" (122cm) apart.
For best results, shift the next row's sound clip placement by 16" and fill it out, spacing clips 48" apart as before. Repeat the shift for each row. To save money (using about 10% fewer clips), arrange clips in a grid pattern instead, using the same positioning as the first channel.
See your clip product instructions for how to fasten. Avoid over-tightening, which can reduce soundproofing.
 Install drywall sections perpendicular to the channels for maximum strength. Fill in gaps around the perimeter with acoustic caulk.


Applying damping compound and adding a second layer of drywall is recommended, especially if you did not reinforce the subfloor above.

