 Take an assortment of options with you. Everyone enjoys different reading materials – bring along what you like and what you know you’ll read. Certainly pack that thick novel you’ve been meaning to read for months, but don’t force yourself into reading it by only bringing that with you. Give yourself some variety to keep things interesting.


Bring a personal reading light if you will be doing any traveling at night.
If you have limited free space in the car, considering loading books onto your Kindle or tablet. Aside from saving space, you’ll also be able to read from a tablet easily in the dark.
Bring a couple of old favorites along that you’d like to reread, as well. If you find yourself unable to get interested in the new material you brought, you’ll have dependable materials on hand to turn to for entertainment.
 You can use this blank notebook for anything you like – writing journal entries, sketching, making lists, taking notes, writing down song lyrics, putting your thoughts on paper and so on. Bring several pens with you, in case one runs out of ink. If you enjoy sketching, bring pencils, too. If you’re feeling stumped about what to sketch, try drawing things you see outside your window as you travel along.


Your sketches don’t have to be masterpieces – just have fun with them. You’ll be inside a moving vehicle anyway, which could interfere, so keep that in mind.
If you’re journaling, be sure to put your notebook away in your bag or backpack after you write in it, so the content stays private.
 A long car ride is the perfect opportunity to listen to all the albums you’ve been meaning to check out, explore new podcasts, listen to audiobooks, watch videos and more. Fill up all the usable space on your device(s) and give yourself a wide assortment of things to choose from. Don’t forget to bring along your best and most comfortable headphones.


If you’re an audiophile, bring noise-cancelling headphones.
Keep the volume reasonable or you could end up with a headache after a few hours of listening.
 Make sure you pack all of the adapters and cords required to operate and charge your devices. If you forget any of them, don’t worry – you can probably pick up whatever you need at a gas station or truck stop.


If you have several devices, pack them safely in a padded case to prevent damage.
 If you’re the only passenger, bring games and other forms of entertainment that you can do by yourself, such as crossword puzzles, Sudoku, handheld video game devices and so on. If there are other passengers, consider bringing a large board and a deck of playing cards, and any other games that can be played by two or more people. You can also pass the time with games that require no props, like 20 Questions.
 Travelling with multiple passengers on a long car trip can present a challenge because they probably aren't going to agree on everything, especially when it comes to what's playing on the car stereo. This kind of frustration can be avoided by coming up with a system of rotation, allowing everyone a chance to play whatever they want during their "turn."

