 You can move the chicks to an outdoor pen between four and five weeks of age.


Your big pen should have a door you can walk through, a big water container (chickens drink lots a water in the summer ), a big food container, roosts ( or pole the chickens fly up to, to sleep), and last but certainly not least, nesting boxes.
You need at least one nest per two chickens and no more than one nest for three. Make sure there is a roof, and a place to go to avoid the wind. Don't rush yourself into making bad nests, they don't start laying until between eight and fourteen months old. If the nests are on the wall, slightly tilt them forward when nailing them in.
The tilt will make the nest slightly uncomfortable; the hen doesn't roost there and doesn't become broody. (You can let a hen go broody, but it is best to move her out of the big pen and move her to a small pen by herself ). Put some straw or hay in the nests to soften the fall of the eggs when they are laid so they don't crack.
 While constructing you pen, make sure the wire is in the ground so nothing can dig its way in and so your chickens don't dig their way out. Stray or neighboring dogs and cats might try to make their way in, make you pen double wired (Try normal wire or fencing, then line it with chicken wire after ).


Don't forget about wild animals, like raccoons, possums, snakes, bobcats, or even birds of prey. Don't leave any holes in your pen, for most of wild raccoons and possums, if they can get their heads in, their body might follow.
Always check around your pen for scratches in the ground or "attempts to breaks in". A rooster is a good line of defense when protecting you chickens from harm. A rooster though should have at least ten hens to prevent them from losing feathers (if a rooster has less than ten hens, he will end up over mating them and making the hens' backs featherless).
Some roosters can be "trained" to know not to attack you when you enter the pen. Others, however, will always be aggressive and should be taken into precaution when entering the pen. If a hen gets hurt, don't lose hope. You can give them Neosporin, bandages, and antibiotics for chickens. If a hen does get hurt, don't leave her in the pen. Chickens instinctively peck red; in this case, the red is blood.

