 Almost every campaign begins with the support of family and friends. These people already know you and want you to succeed. They’re the first people you should reach out to for help when looking for volunteers.Be direct when asking for support. Let people know that you understand that they’re busy, but would appreciate any kind of help they could offer.
Organize a party or event for your family and friends to help you. For example, invite everyone over to your new office for a “Headquarters Setup” party. Have meaningful tasks ready for people to do when they arrive, and supply everyone with food, drinks, and gratitude.
Social media such as Facebook and Twitter are great ways for getting the word out. However, you'll also need to make personal, individual asks. Don't rely on one mass e-mail or status update to do your recruiting for you.
 It may sound silly, but having a title can be a great motivator for people. It helps them feel like they’re responsible for a specific task or goal. This can be especially helpful in making friends and family feel like they’re really volunteering for something, not just helping you out for personal reasons. Some roles could be:Volunteer coordinator
Hospitality coordinator
Webmaster
Office manager
Campaign manager
Press liaison

, Let them know you're grateful for all of their hard work and that you couldn't do it without them. Offering a simple "thank you" is great, but if you can do more, you should. Sending appreciative individual emails can be a great way to let someone know you value their work.


Provide snacks and refreshments for volunteers.
Learn each person's name and a little bit about them. Treat volunteers as individuals and ask how they're doing.
 Your political campaign can’t run solely on the power of your personal contacts. Ask the people closest to you if they can help bring more people into the campaign. Set a reasonable goal, such as asking if each person can recruit three to five other people.Your friends and family may be eager to support you for a while, but can sometimes burn out or need to take time away from the campaign to focus on their own projects. Having a robust network of volunteers means you won’t be too dependent on your inner circle.
When new volunteers sign on, be friendly and let them know you’re grateful for their efforts. Get to know them and listen to their suggestions. This will help them feel appreciated so that they’ll stick with the campaign.
 The people closest to you may want to help but might not have the time or energy to actually volunteer. Be gracious and accept support in whatever way they offer. Let them know you’re grateful for all kind of contributions.Some people have plenty of money, but no time. If they want to write you a check, accept it gratefully. If you’re low on volunteers, you could use the money to hire stipended staff.
Even those with little time or money can help in some way. They could bake cookies for you to give out at the office. They could donate goods or services for you to raffle off as a fundraiser. Offer creative ideas of ways people can contribute if they’re short on time.

