 Give groups a topic such as a reading assignment. Each student in a group would (1) tell each other and agree how to split up and (2) read their part, find information in their part and answer a question. Then (3) the group leader or reporter (or group members) would present their findings to the class, (4) for all everyone to listen, write down notes or answers, and perhaps, discuss and give their take on that groups answers.
 This is where (1) each student individually reads a slip with one of several questions, processes or problems. (2) Each one writes an answer or solution. (3) Then students mingle to seek missing information and write it down to fill in the blanks on a chart, exercise sheet or data-gathering sheet.
 This involves (1) each one of the students reading separately. Then (2) they form pairs when instructed to pair, and (3) the pairs answer questions or do problems together. This may then move to "check and compare" if that is needed or if there is time.
 This is to (1) form groups of two students and work together as pairs to do their part of the assignment and then (2) join with a second pair in a four member group and check and compare the work with each other. Then (3) they return to their usual seating place.
 (1) Form an inner circle and an outer circle of students and interview each other as a pair. Then (2) rotate and fill in blanks or boxes on an answer-sheet or chart with information from each student's point of view, about the topic to be discussed. Repeat the interview and rotate once or twice. (3) Discuss the questions and answers to bring out and put together variations of different interpretations, if any.
 Each group of students is given a math problem for which they are to make a poster, with (1) a drawing/diagram (sketch), or a chart of the situation in the problem, (2) make a relation/function or math expression, (3) make a graph, (4) write a verbal explanation/paragraph, and then the reporter gives a quick presentation to the class and reads their paragraph.
 For academics, get a four inch (10cm) soft-foam plastic/rubber (Nerf) basketball and use a trash can sitting on a chair or table as the basket (or use a plastic breakaway hoops-rim) in the front of the class. Divide the class into two teams, and tape places on the floor or on the wall where the basketball hoop is located for point values for scoring from behind the marks or below the marks (low shots: lying, squatting, or sitting on the floor). Score a hoop from longer distances for more points: from about the opposite end of the classroom for the 6 pointer, a 3 pointer goes closer, 2 is closer, and any similar point system for low shots below the marks.


"Play a rewards game" similar to "basketball." This game may help by offering reward points for attendance. “Play basketball-shots” for (1) good behavior/conduct, (2) attendance, or (3) academics for making a score on classwork/test or quiz, or a reward for catching up on classwork and improving ones own grades or as a team – where a team member would earn and receive a shot for their team to make points by shooting the Nerf ball. Shooters could choose from five positions worth 1-5 points from different difficulties of questions answered correctly to then shoot from the correspondingly difficult position if the answer is correct. Lining up for shots in front of the class may make for some thrillingly moments for the student and class.
Decide why and how to allow students on each teams to earn the opportunity to play the game. This will be determined by your own rules – but in any case, only how and when you decide to allow playing. A team gets a shot for doing an objective or behavior very well.
If a member of the other team doesn't follow class rules then give the other team a shot.
Or, as a variation give five free points without shooting, if that works better for test days or other quiet times.
 For academics, consider a variation of the Nerf basketball for such things as a verbal "quiz/quiz-show". Members of the two teams compete for points that are earned in a number of ways.



Points may be used for receiving "grand-raffle tickets" to be drawn after school is out that year – for improving by the end of the school year, and the prizes are mailed out.
The Nerf games can be a year long team type of competition. The winning team may be announced after school is out at the end of the year.
 Have offices such as: a Scorekeeper, and Assistant Coach, and a Captain and Co-Captain with each one serving for a certain time to help you with certain things (in elementary classes call the captains "President" and "Vice President"). You, (the teacher) are the Head Coach. Offices could be rotated among the students who display better conduct.


Teams are good for motivation and control, since you can: when one team is noisy, give another team turns to make points – and they'll all learn to be quiet. If your class walks noisily to recess, or anywhere, you might consider letting them out one to three minutes later than they're supposed to be (at the end of the day)–or if they're good, let them out a minute early.

