 As you children get older, have them say “thank you” as a full sentence, highlighting what they appreciate about the gift. Teaching them these habits will prompt a polite and thoughtful response, even if they do not necessarily like the gift.For example, if you give your child a gift, instead of eliciting a simple “thank you,” encourage your child to express their gratitude by saying something like “Thank you for giving me such a generous gift” or “Thank you for the kind gift.”
It is important that you model this behavior yourself. If you are not saying “thank you” and expressing your gratitude, your children will likely not develop those habits either.;
, Teach your children that gifts are an act of love and caring. Remind your children that, even though a gift may have been disappointing, the intention was to please. Instead of focusing on their own disappointment, try to help them concentrate on the caring sentiment behind the gift.When they receive a gift, ask your child about the sentiments behind it. Ask them things like “Why do you think your Uncle Steve gave you this gift?” or “Do you think this gift says anything about how your grandparents feel about you?”

, Instead of fixating on the ways in which the gift is a disappointment, encourage your child to find a positive about the gift. You can practice this by imagining outlandish gifts and then naming what the positives of that gift might be. Ultimately, if your child cannot find anything positive about the gift, you can remind them that someone loved them enough to give them something.For example, if you are practicing gift acceptance, you might envision a stuffed animal that has four extra arms and two heads. Then ask your child what the positives might be of receiving such a gift.
You might also practice receiving “boring” gifts like clothes or school supplies. Ask your child what the positives might be of receiving a pair of socks or a pack of pencils.
 Teach your children that it is unacceptable to make fun of a present or embarrass the gift giver. Even if the giver is not there, being unkind towards them is not okay. Remind your child that their relationship with the gift giver is more important than the gift itself and that it is important to maintain that relationship.This may be a good opportunity to remind your child that if they do not have anything good to say, they should not say anything at all.
If your child is being unkind, you might say something like “How do you think that makes your Uncle Steve feel?” or “How would your Aunt Belinda feel if she was here?”

, If your child is upset about a gift, encourage them to talk to you about it privately. Let them know that you hear their concerns and are considering them. This is a good opportunity to restate to the child that the real value of the gift is the sentiment behind it and that they should appreciate the efforts of the gift giver.Depending on the gift, you may also want to talk to the gift giver to help them understand your child’s reaction and avoid hurt feelings.

