 Facebook uses algorithms to decide when and how often content shows up in other people’s feeds. Because of the way these algorithms are constructed, most of your content will get the most interaction shortly after its published. Frequently posting from your Page ensures that you’ll show up in other people’s feeds regularly., You shouldn’t post just anything in order to increase the frequency of your posts. The FB algorithm prioritizes Pages with media over pages and posts with plain text. Posting interactive media gives your Page’s update a better chance of showing up in your followers’ timelines more often., You should divide your posts roughly in half by content that is purely interactive and content that connects them to you more directly. This helps you avoid inundating your followers with requests for them to support you directly and instead keeps them interested in the Page itself.


Some good examples of interactive content are Facebook questions (where your followers can answer), memes, pictures, and videos. You shouldn’t use just any example of these types of content, though. They should all relate to the values of your company or brand.
Blog posts, infographics, tutorials, and event invitations or announcements are good examples of content that connects your followers with you more directly., An easy way to generate traffic for your Facebook Page is to host a Facebook contest. There are a lot of different ways to run a Facebook contest, but the easiest is to ask people to like or comment on your post to be entered.Facebook has some guidelines for using the site for contests, so make sure you’re following them.Facebook does not permit you to use personal timelines for contests, which basically means you can’t ask your followers to share something to enter (or get additional entries).
 If you have a Facebook Page, you’ll get a free Facebook Insights Page. The Insights Page can tell you a lot about who looks at your page, when, and for how long. This can help you to tailor your content and the timing of your posts to reach the most people possible., If you really want to make your Facebook Page famous, you have to make followers feel connected – getting them to interact with your content isn’t enough. Reply to your followers’ messages and posts in a timely manner (within 24 hours, if you can) and make sure that the content you share reflects the beliefs and views of your Page.