 If your girlfriend is coming over to your house, don't immediately invite her upstairs without talking to your parents first. Even though it may be awkward to chat with your parents with your girlfriend there, having your girlfriend and your parents talk is actually a way to make it more comfortable in the future. The more they get to know each other the less strange it will feel every time she comes over.
 Even if you are feeling weird or awkward, be respectful of your parents. Your girlfriend will appreciate that you have a good relationship with your parents and that you are acting mature. It will also make the situation a lot more comfortable because it will make your parents want to put forth effort into talking to you and your girlfriend. It could also save you the embarrassment or your parents calling you out in front of her!

, A good way to ensuring a good interaction is to stick to positive subject matters. No one wants to feel depressed, and sometimes when depressing subjects come up they cause a lull in the conversation. Plus, your parents want to know that you and your girlfriend make each other happy. Instead of talking about heavy or upsetting topics, talk about more happy subject matters.


One good thing you can talk about is a funny story that involves both of you. This puts your relationship in a positive light and will put a smile on everyone's face!
Smile when you're talking. You may feel really awkward but smiling is a way to put everyone at ease. Studies even show that smiling can improve your mood and makes you feel more relaxed!, Your parents are curious about your girlfriend! They want to know more about her and are excited to be meeting her. When you are all talking together, mention something positive about her, whether it be a talent or an interest of hers. This will give you all something to talk about, and will let you parents interact with your girlfriend. It can also help to take some of the pressure off of you if are still feeling nervous!

, This is a great topic if you are looking for things to talk about. Because it involves your girlfriend, she will be able to contribute to the conversation so the burden won't just be on you. Aside from having something to talk about, studies show that talking about shared experiences is a great way for couples to strengthen their relationship. , This is a tried and true way of getting any conversation off the ground. If you feel like you don't know what to talk about with your parents and your girlfriend, ask your parents a question! This keeps the ball rolling in the conversation and takes the focus from you. Even asking your parents about how their day went or what's for dinner will lead the conversation in a direction, and will allow your girlfriend to jump in to the conversation. 