 Nicotine inhalers have mouthpieces through which you inhale a small amount of nicotine. Nicotine nasal spray is a bottle with a pump you put into your nose and spray.The inhaler and the spray are good for cravings and withdrawal because they act fast. You control how much you give yourself by puffing or spraying as much or as little as you want. The inhaler also gives you something to do with your hands.The spray works faster than the gum, lozenge, and inhaler.
Inhalers and sprays are only available with a prescription. You can use it six to 12 times a day.
The inhaler and spray can be used with other quit-smoking aids.
When using the inhaler, hold the vapor you pump into your mouth in your mouth without inhaling. Blow it out. Never inhale the vapor into your lungs.You must check with your doctor before using the inhaler if you have lung issues, such as asthma. If you have a sinus condition, you shouldn't use the spray.
A side effect of the inhaler and spray is that they may make you cough or irritate your throat. The inhaler may irritate your mouth, while the spray may irritate your nasal passages or sinuses. The spray may also make you sneeze.
 Bupropion is a prescription medication also called Zyban or Wellbutrin when used as an antidepressant. It helps reduce withdrawal symptoms and the urge to smoke.This medication can take up to three weeks to start working, so most people start taking it a few weeks before their start date. It does not contain any nicotine. You must take the pill twice a day.Zyban is classified as an antidepressant.
Zyban may cause seizures, and those with certain medical conditions or using certain drugs will be at higher risk. Tell your doctor about any and all medications and/or medical conditions if you are interested in Zyban.It can also cause weakness, rapid heart rates, insomnia, agitation, headache, dry mouth, and may cause serious depression and suicidal thoughts.Bupropion can be used with NRT. The pill is generally used for 12 weeks.
 Varenicline is also known as Chantix. It is another prescription pill that helps reduce withdrawal symptoms and the urge to smoke. Chantix can also block the effects of nicotine if a person starts smoking again.Varenicline takes a few days to get into your bloodstream, so start taking it a week or two before your quit date. You must take the pill twice a day.Chantix can cause mood or behavior changes, confusion, anxiety, panic attacks, hallucinations, extreme fear, suicidal thoughts, fainting, nausea, vivid or strange dreams, vision trouble, severe skin reactions, and impairment to drive or operate machinery.The pill is generally used for 12 weeks.

