 Anger and depression are separate moods, but the two are often linked together so tightly that it can be difficult to distinguish one from the other.Irritability is often considered a symptom of clinical depression, but the connection goes deeper than that. Unchecked anger can actually trigger or worsen depression.
Justified anger that drives you toward positive change can be a positive emotion, but oftentimes, people who struggle with depression find themselves dragged down by anger instead of helped by it. This anger is typically explosive, but for some individuals, it can be so deeply rooted that you barely recognize it.
If your bouts of anger leave you feeling guilty, they're only feeding into your depression, no matter how good they feel initially. You'll need to control this type of anger before you can learn to control your depression.;
, Before you can control your anger, you need to identify it. You'll also need to identify your depression and learn to distinguish one internal state from the other.By intentionally labeling your emotional state, whether it's anger or depression, you can capture your feelings and help prevent them from running unchecked.
If you habitually suppress your anger, you may have trouble labeling it for what it is. Anger can masquerade itself as motivation by driving you to perform some immediate form of action. When the action you feel inclined to perform involves causing pain (emotional or physical) to yourself or others, the underlying state is likely anger.
 Anger is often symptomatic of a much deeper issue. To control your anger, you'll need to address the cause of it.


The anger might be connected to the root of your depression. Past traumas, for instance, can trigger or worsen depression and may also cause bouts of anger to emerge when memory of that trauma threatens to resurface.
Even if you can't connect anger to any past trauma, it still has a present day cause. You'll need to find a solution to that cause if you want to control the anger it evokes.
 As soon as your temper flairs, you need to work on calming yourself down. Anger can be useful when harnessed properly, but if you let it run wild, it can quickly overwhelm you. The reactions that follow could also lead to depression.


Some immediate steps you can take to calm yourself include deep breathing and positive self-talk.Try taking a few deep breaths from your diaphragm. Once you've steadied your breathing, repeat a calming word or phrase like "breathe," "relax," or "it'll be okay." These actions cut your angry thoughts off before they can build to a heightened state.
 Step away from the cause of your anger and take some time to calm down. Distracting yourself and releasing the powerful burst of energy in a controlled, healthy manner can take the edge off your anger and help you control it more effectively.Consider exercising to expel excess energy. Go for fast-paced walk or jog. Jump rope or do jumping jacks. Any form of exercise that gets your blood pumping can help.
Alternatively, do something that relaxes and distracts you. Listen to soothing music. Take a bubble bath. Hang out with friends. Doing things that create positive energy may help you balance out the negative emotions you currently feel.
 Turn to someone you trust and talk to them about your feelings. Make sure that you vent your anger without inflicting it upon your confidant. In other words, talk to him or her about your anger and its source without getting angry at the individual listening to you.


Wait until you're calm enough to control your emotions around other people. If you lash out at your confidant, you may damage your relationship and create feelings of guilt that could feed into depression.
As you talk through things, be open to constructive criticism and feedback. If your confidant has advice on how you can compromise or change for the better, consider it as rationally as possible.
 An alternate way to process your emotions is through writing. Consider keeping a record of your angry thoughts and experiences. Doing so can calm you down and help you understand your anger better in the long run.


Periodically read through your journal. Ideally, you'll eventually gather insights regarding the things that trigger your anger and your usual method of reacting to it. You may also notice patterns that connect anger to depression.
 It might seem impossible to find humor in a situation that initially causes nothing but rage, but finding humor in the crazy, chaotic happenings of life can make it easier to confront those circumstances.


Some circumstances are too serious to laugh about, of course, and you don't need to push yourself to find humor in a truly humorless situation.
If you can't find humor in the situation responsible for your anger, try looking for humor elsewhere. Doing so can distract your mind away from your angry thoughts and balance your emotional state.
 Ideally, you should try wishing your opponent well by hoping for a positive resolution that satisfies you both. When this is impossible, though, try focusing your thoughts, wishes, and prayers outside of your own situation and on someone else you can care about more easily.Try to look at the situation from your opponent's perspective to garner compassion for him or her. Even if you still feel that your opponent was in the wrong, the intensity of your feelings may soften as compassion builds. This can also make it easier to forgive the person who wronged you.
If you aren't able to wish your opponent well right now, focus on wishing happiness on someone uninvolved. Thinking positive, healing thoughts toward anyone can help shift your mind out of its enraged state and may prevent you from lashing out at others.
 When you're angry or depressed, it can be tempting to turn to alcohol or other substances that help numb the anger and pain you feel. Doing so will ultimately result in more harm than good, though.


Alcohol and drugs can increase the risk of acting on impulse, and if you're still enraged over your situation, that might have profoundly negative consequences.
Moreover, relying on drugs and alcohol can create unhealthy behavioral patterns that could result in future difficulties.
 Before taking any action, you need to make sure that you are able to stop yourself from doing something you'll come to regret later on. If you regret the things you did when you were angry, those regrets will likely feed into a deeper sense of depression.
 Anger can have a positive or negative purpose. When anger is connected to depression, however, it can be easy for even healthy bouts of anger to devolve into something negative.


Anger that serves a positive purpose pushes you toward growth and resolution. On the other hand, anger that serves a negative purpose is blindly driven by a sense of loss or inadequacy.
When anger has a positive purpose, it usually won't feed into depression. Anger driven by some negative force must be consciously addressed, though, if you want to prevent it from causing or worsening your next depressive episode.
 This is easier said than done, of course, but it's essential that you accept the circumstances surrounding your anger and stop obsessing over the wrongness of it all.


Consider whether or not you may have any unreasonable demands that prevent you from letting things go.
One common example is the expectation that life must be fair. This would be true in an ideal world, but the world is far from ideal, and injustice affects everyone in varying degrees. The sooner you can accept the truth of the matter, the sooner you'll be able to accept your unfair circumstances without obsessing about how unfair they seem.
 As your anger drives you to complain about your circumstances, pay close attention to the nature of your complaints and determine whether or not they're doing you any good.


Overt complaints hassle other people. If they allow you to work toward a solution, they might be beneficial. Oftentimes, though, they exist only as a means of pushing negativity onto others and prevent resolution from occurring.
Covert complaining causes you to hassle yourself. This type of complaining almost always builds into depression by causing you to become passive and encouraging guilt.
 Once you calm down and evaluate your anger, you can use whatever anger remains to help fuel you toward resolution. Depending on the circumstances, this may mean fighting the injustice causing your anger or moving on in spite of that injustice.


Whenever possible, focus on finding ways to deal with the issue so that it no longer creates the sensation of rage. Remind yourself that your anger won't actually fix the matter at hand; you'll need to take action if you want to remedy the problem.
 Suppressing your anger can cause you to turn it inward, which may only worsen your depression. You'll need to express your anger to the involved parties, but you'll need to do it in a way that helps rather than hurts. This will be easier to manage if you've gone through the process of calming down and evaluating your emotional state.


Your depression may build if you allow yourself to be stepped on, so submission isn't the answer. The key is to assert yourself without becoming defensive or hostile. Stand up for your own interests without attempting to squash the interests of everyone else involved.
 Don't be afraid of seeking professional medical or psychological help for your anger and depression. It might be a necessary step in controlling both emotional states.


If your issues with anger and depression are quickly spiraling out of control, or if you find yourself unable to control them alone, it's time to seek the wisdom of professionals. Your doctor may recommend using medication to control your depression. Counseling, like cognitive behavioral therapy, can also be used to help you manage your emotional state.

