 Confidence is key to being sexy. Even if your boyfriend already knows you well, having confidence will allow you to express yourself in exciting ways. If confidence is something you feel you struggle with, you should put some time aside to work on this part of yourself.Take control of your thoughts, and don't let any negative feelings get in the way of being self-assured.


Making a list of things you like about yourself can be a great help.
 Don't let yourself get too worked up over anything. Remember that you're worth being thought of as hot. If you're able to get outside your head and focus purely on your surroundings, your brain won't have the chance to trip you up.
 If the two of you have already been in a relationship for some time, it's quite possible that flirting has stopped being a regular part of your interactions. Reintroducing some of this playful teasing into the mix can do wonders for the relationship. Light touching on the waist, hands or shoulder can go far. Smiling at and complimenting him will show a revitalized interest.Teasing has its place even in long-term relationships. If he has a cute eccentricity, make a light jab at it. Just make sure he's not insecure about whatever you're poking fun at.
 If you're planning on meeting up later in the day or evening, it's a good idea to get him excited to see him by texting him. You can text him something suggestive or simply sweet. Something as simple as "I'm missing you a ton right now" will make sure he's thinking of you at that very moment.Every guy likes to be complimented, and a text message is an easy way to tell your boyfriend how you feel.


Emoticons like the 'wink face' can do a lot to suggest emotion if the two of you are far apart.
 Boyfriends are used to being the ones who make the date plans. It's really hot for a girl to take a guy out on an adventure. He'll be surprised and swept off his feet. Even if the date is to some place he's been before, the spontaneous experience will be exciting for the both of you, and it will definitely have an effect on how attracted he is towards you.

