 When you truly listen, you are not masked by a noise of thoughts and you can connect on a deeper level.


Experiment. When you find someone complaining or ranting about their life, just truly listen to them without any interpretation to it or conceptualizing them. Don't validate their story by reacting or confirming, no matter how sad their story is. But give them your full attention. You will witness that, most likely, they will come up with the solution themselves.
It's because when people complain, it's their ego that complains through them. The mind wants you to react and resist to create further suffering and seek validation to its story.Instead you give it your full attention, without any judgments or reactions. Resistance or reactions re-energize the mental patterns that have been running your life, while non-reaction dissolves them.
In the same way, your own mind complains to you through thoughts and craves your reactions. Remember people have a mind and you have a mind. Recognize the interconnection?
"Can you be there as the space for the other person? I would say that's the greatest gift you can give to someone" (Eckhart Tolle).
 Thoughts can be slippery, quick and can be gone in just milliseconds, especially pre-verbalized thoughts. However, they have a great power to manipulate us like a puppet. So a high degree of alertness is required to catch them.It's better to write your recurring thoughts and reactions, including the thought that 'You have to write down your thoughts.' Writing can help you recognize the space between you and thoughts. Plus, it helps you give them full attention and full attention implies full acceptance.Of course, it can be daunting to write down thousands of thoughts and reactions. So just spend some moments on this every day. You can also do this before meditation, as it clears your mind and allows you to go deeper within you. Alternatively, you can also verbalize thoughts. This means you verbalize what you are feeling and thoughts to go deeper into them. However, be aware that there is a sense of dis-identification from thoughts. Read How to Stay Rooted in Being for more depth.
 If you use your memories right, they can help you see the suchness and become more aware of your unconscious patterns without actually having to indulge into them again and again.

As an analogy, memories are like watching yourself the same way a sports person watches him/her in a game footage. You are in a more comfortable and much less stimulated environment, thus you are more aware. That's why having a good memory can help you become more aware or truth by not just focusing on times when you were unconscious but also the times when you were conscious. However, be honest and aware that mind doesn't falsify the memories.
 When you find yourself resisting what is, say "I allow" or "I accept" or "I forgive" or "I surrender," depending on the situation and your personality, again and again. It's even more effective if you synchronize your breathing with these phrases.


If you can't accept, then 'accept that you can't accept.' Or take action immediatelyRead How to Surrender to the Present Moment for more depth.
Understand that if you say 'I allow' or 'I forgive' etc, that is just a thought or pointer. It's what that thought points to; is what brings true acceptance. Otherwise you will remain stuck in the walls of concepts and thoughts. These words are not saying "look at me" but "look beyond me."When you observe resistance or a reactive pattern in you, then further resisting it or beating yourself over it is just more ego. Simply be aware and allow it to be.
 Have you noticed when a stimulus (which could be anything from your negative thoughts to some bad smell) is given to mind, it reacts or resists or creates irritation? Why did the mind create it? Because it holds the unconscious belief that its resistance, which you experience as negativity or unhappiness in some form, will somehow dissolve the undesirable condition.This, of course, is a delusion. The resistance that it creates, the irritation or anger in this case, is far more disturbing than the original cause that it is attempting to dissolve.

.

"The greatest difficulty is the mental resistance to things that arise, and the underlying assumption is that they should not" (Eckhart Tolle).
Have you noticed when a mental (or egoic) reaction occurs, it also causes physical reaction in form of energy movement in brain, body and possibly facial muscles? This movement is the physical manifestation of a mental reaction. If you are aware enough you can recognize the muscle movement as if resisting to 'what is.' The stronger the reaction, more taut the brain, face or body muscles become and may even cause physical pain. If the reaction is strong enough, you also feel heavy emotions in your body (pain body). Emotional, mental and physical dimensions are interconnected with each other.
Just as you watch the thoughts and emotions in you, watch physical reactions. It's like a priming effect, as becoming aware of this physical or emotional reactions also make you more aware of mental reactions, especially unconscious reactions., Did you notice your mental interpretation after reading 'Watch your inner-self?' Your mind might have asked something like, 'Hmm..... How can I watch my inner self?' or 'What does watching inner self even mean?' Now that mental interpretation of the phrase would become your definition of 'watching your inner-self,' and ego has found another concept or construct to identify with.The mind has a compulsive need to conceptualize what it experiences into fragments. One of the reasons is because concepts and thoughts are familiar and mind adheres to the known. As it thinks unknown is dangerous. This is why mind ignores and dislikes the present moment.

Are you sure that's what 'watching' means? It's alright to have concepts in the beginning, but be aware they are no more than stepping stones to be left as quickly as possible.In your spiritual journey, concepts may get replaced with better concepts. However, they are still concepts.
Let the true interpretation come through the stillness within you.
"Can you step back from your own mind and thus understand all things?" (Tao Te Ching). Read How to Surrender to the Present Moment for more insight.
 It may seem like a cliché, but meditation is about staying present and going deeper into yourself. There's no trying or doing involved, but an alert seeing.


One practice is to become aware of your breathing. Notice the gaps between the exhaling and inhaling cycles, the air going into your lungs, the movement of your belly, the path the air travels, and so on, as much as you can. Such a simple exercise has a great potential to help you connect with your true self. Read How to Meditate for more depth.
Be aware of your inner body and sense perceptions. Can you feel that your body is alive and full of life? Your hands, legs, lips, neck, toes, abdomen, etc. That's why meditation is not always necessary as you can be aware of these present moment anchors while doing chores or walking, driving etc. Read How to Stay Rooted in Being for more depth.

