 Be honest with the other person. If you want a monogamous romantic relationship, let them know. If you want a primarily sexual relationship in which you’re both free to see other people, they should know that as well. Don’t just assume they know what you want – tell them.

"I’d like to continue being with you, but I was hoping we could agree not to date other people. I really like you and would like to see where this relationship goes."
"I think we have great sex and I want that to continue. I’m really not looking for anything more at this time. How do you feel about that?"
"I’m not sure where our connection will lead, but I think we have something special and I want to take the time to explore that. How would you feel about waiting to have sex for a while?"

, If the other person is in agreement, figure out each of your expectations. Any relationship you choose to have is legitimate – from one based on sex to one that saves sex and is only about romantic love, and everything in between. Think about how to achieve your relationship goals if you and your partner want the same thing. If you both feel just lust, what kind of parameters will you put on your time together? If you both are feeling romantic love, what next steps toward commitment do you want to take together?

"I’d like for us to keep hanging out like this, but I’d really like you to meet my friends – they really want to meet you. Would you feel comfortable coming to a party with me?"
"I know we’re both busy and want to keep this pretty light. Why don’t we just get in touch when we want to have sex?"
"Can I call you my girlfriend/boyfriend? I know we hadn’t talked about this yet, but I was hoping that we could define each other in that way."

, You might find that your ideas about where it’s going change as time goes on. It’s possible that the romantic love you thought you felt was actually excitement and you just want to keep having sex with the other person and leave it at that. Or you might find the connection sex brings you leads to a deeper connection and the beginnings of romantic love.

"I know we had talked about seeing where this relationship went, and I think I’m happy for us to be friends who have sex together and leave it at that."
"It’s been great being intimate with you, and I am feeling a deeper connection. Would you be willing to hang out sometimes and not have sex and see where we are?"
"I’m confused. I thought I wanted a _______ relationship with you, but now I’m not so sure. I think I want a _______ relationship instead. How do you feel about that?"

, You’ve laid out what you want from a relationship, now you need to make sure the other person knows exactly what you need. In the first stages of a relationship, it’s easy to let things slide, but this can lead to problems later. Tell them what you want and need.

"I like going out for beers with you, but could we do some other activities instead this weekend?"
"It seems like you always want to spend Sunday with your family. I’m okay with doing that some of the time, but I want to do other stuff too. Do you think you could go alone this weekend?"
"I don’t like the fact that we've fallen into a pattern of just having sex and watching TV. Can we plan something else sometimes?"

