 If you want to see what the casino game is all about, decide on an amount of money you're willing to lose as a way of investing and then know when to quit. Gambling is addictive and can be dangerous, and spending more isn't a reliable way of making your losses reappear.
 Games in which you play an active role in the outcome of the game result in smarter bets than games in which chance plays a larger role. In general, the smartest game is always poker, both in video form and in person, as long as you've got the skills to play. The smartest casino bets are those made in the midst of a poker game by a player who knows how to play. Learn to play poker well and make smart bets if you want to make money at the casino.


Pure chance games like roulette, keno, and state-run lotteries offer the worst odds, making your investment worth the least in the long-run. If you want to make smart bets, bet on games in which your decisions and your play have some effect on the outcome.
Games like blackjack, craps, and baccarat offer better outcomes and smarter investments than other kinds of casino betting.
 Blackjack is still a game in which chance plays a huge role, but learning the proper strategy can help you make smarter bets and blackjack offers decent player odds you can learn to take advantage of. Basic strategy is a tabulation of odds that smart plays memorize and use to make the most probable bets and decisions at any point in the game. Learn when to stand, when to hit, and when to split or double down.If you want to really improve your chances of winning and making good bets, learn to count cards. It's not illegal, but it is generally against the house rules, making it something that pit bosses have learned to keep an eye out for.
 If you want to shoot craps with the high-rollers, bet against the roller. No-pass bets offer slightly better odds than pass bets, even if the roller makes point. Consistently placing no-pass bets still gives an advantage to the house, but it's not a bad one.
 Like craps, baccarat is a relatively simple up or down game when you learn the ins and outs. In baccarat, you either bet the dealer will win or the player will win, and the game is played by passing the shoe around the circle and dealing out two hands (one dealer hand, one player). The rules for taking a hit favor the house slightly, though the odds are incredibly close, making dealer bets always the smarter option, by a hair.
 While it's bad form to patrol the casino floor for people about to leave slot-machines (and is against the rules in some places) keep an eye out for people who've been sitting at a machine for hours without hitting any big pay-offs. When they get up to leave, play a few rounds. Those machines are statistically more likely to hit now.

