 Open a new tab on your browser and go to the Postcron website.
 The button is found at the right side of the Postcron website page. It will direct you to a Facebook login screen.
 Provide your Facebook login details. Enter your email address on the first text box and password on the second text box. Then click on the login button below the second text box. When you click the login button, Postcron will ask some questions.


Allow Postcron to use your profile—The first pop-up asks you to authorize Postcron to use your Facebook profile. Click “OK” to allow Postcron to use your profile.
Select the group of people you would like Postcron to post to—The second pop-up has a drop-down menu. The menu is represented with an arrow pointing downward. Click on that arrow and select the group you would like to autopost to. Some of the groups under this drop-down menu include your friends, public, and your friends’ friends. Friends means only your Facebook friends will be able to see your post. Public means anybody who visits your wall will be able to see your posts, and Friends’ Friends means the friends of your friends will also see the posts posted by Hootsuite. Click “OK” at the bottom of the pop-up page after selecting your group.
Enter your location—This is the last pop-up question. It requires you to enter your current city. Click the drop-down menu and select your location from the list that is displayed.
 Postcron will load for a few seconds and direct you to the management page. On the top page of the Postcron management page, you will see your Facebook profile picture and your Facebook groups. At the middle of the page is a text box with the hint text inside “Write something.” Compose the message to be posted here. There is no character limit.
 Once you are done typing your post, take your mouse and click the “Scheduling” button below the text box. This button is orange and is represented with a calendar icon. A calendar will show up.


Select the date and time for posting the post on Facebook. Take your mouse and click on the day on the calendar when you want your post to be published, e.g., 22 June 2015.
Set the time for the post to be published. Below the section for choosing the day on the calendar is a section for setting time. Start by setting the hour. On the hours section is a horizontal bar indicating all hours of the day. This is in 24-hour system. There is also a small vertical line on the horizontal bar that shows the current hour. Click and hold that vertical line, and slide it up to the hour you want your message to be published. You can slide the line right or left. Then do the same for minutes. Slide the vertical line up to the exact minute when you want your message to be posted to Facebook.
 Your post will automatically be published when the time and date you set comes. You will then be redirected to the Postcron management page.

