 Long-distance relationships come with a variety of challenges. One of the biggest is temptation. Establish with your partner at the beginning of the coupledom what you will and won’t tolerate, to avoid any question later on.


For instance, decide if seeing other people or going on dates with others is something you’re comfortable with. Make your feelings about this well-known if you decide to pursue a long- distance relationship. If you don’t, you may end up with a broken heart.Remember that it is not all or nothing. You might consider a lead in period of dating others, and set a date in the future after which you will not date other people.;
, If you’re like many, not hearing from your significant other for a few weeks is going to create some friction. However, hearing from them constantly throughout the day can create the idea that trust is lacking. Decide from the start how often you want to communicate with each other, and stick to that commitment.


For instance, you can set a rule that you should text each other each day to check in and you must speak on the phone at least twice a week. Deciding these rules now can prevent you from getting hurt or hurting your partner by making it seem like they aren’t a priority., Long-distance relationships are built on trust. You have to be able to trust the person in order to make it work. If you constantly feel like you are defending yourself or are being questioned about your intentions, or vice versa, you likely aren’t going to have a lasting relationship.


Make a rule that you are going to trust each other 100 percent. Decide that you are going to take the person’s word for it, and you’re not going to get insecure about how the other person feels. You may not be ready to handle a long-distance relationship if you can’t stick to these guidelines., Chances are you don’t want to stay in a long-distance relationship for the rest of your life. Decide how long you are going to be apart from the beginning. Having an end goal of living near each other can give you hope when you’re feeling unsure.


For instance, you can decide that you are going to move to where your partner lives after a year. Or, you could make a plan that if you are still going strong after six months, one of you is going to relocate.