 Most hotels keep a clothes iron in the closet, or have them available upon request. Turn off the steam and set the iron to the cotton or linen setting before you begin cooking.Make sure the water reservoir is empty, or you may have trouble reaching high temperatures.
 Most hotel rooms have a smoke detector that cannot be turned off. If you notice any smoke, remove the food from the heat and turn off the iron for a couple minutes before you get back to cooking.
 Place the sandwich or quesadilla between two layers of foil. Crimp the foil edges together to seal it into a packet. Press the iron over the entire packet for about 30 seconds. Turn over the packet carefully, without tearing the foil, and cook another 30 seconds on the other side.Repeat if necessary.


You can make any kind of grilled sandwich this way, as long as all ingredients are already cooked or can be eaten raw. Try a dessert sandwich with peanut butter and chocolate chips.
 Cut bacon strips in half and place them between two sheets of foil, crimping the edges together. Press the iron firmly over the entire foil packet. Open the packet carefully with a fork every few minutes to check to see if the bacon is done and to let out the steam. It'll take about 15 minutes to get crisp bacon.


You may need to pour out the grease occasionally to prevent the bacon becoming soggy. Pour out grease into a trash can or over other food (such as cooked rice), never into a plumbing drain.
Cooking raw meat with a clothes iron takes some bravery. For the lowest chance of bacterial contamination, wait until the bacon is fully crisp., Prop up the iron using a pair of rolled-up towels or other small objects. Make sure it is firmly wedged to create a flat, stable surface.


Keep the iron on the ironing board to minimize risk of burning.
 Always place heavy-duty aluminum foil between the iron and the food. Fold the edges of the foil upward to catch liquids.This will protect your food from contamination, and the iron from damage.


Use two sheets of foil if it is not labeled "heavy-duty."

, It's best to stick with foods that are safe to eat raw, or that have clear visible indicators that they are fully cooked. Here are a few options:


Grease the tray with butter and crack 1–2 eggs into it. Cook 7–10 minutes or until the eggs hold together, then flip them over and cook on the other side.
Wrap vegetables in greased foil and cook until desired temperature is reached.
Wrap scallops in the foil tray and cook until firm and milky white or opaque.Cook shrimp until it turns red and opaque., Use two wooden clothes pins to pick up the foil once the food is cooked, transferring it on to a plate.The foil will be quite hot, so don't touch it with your bare hands.


Never use plastic clothes pins, which could melt.

