 To make a pie crust that’s friendly to dieters and those with Celiac allergies, you can easily substitute gluten-free flour for regular flour. Some popular choices are King Arthur multi-purpose gluten-free flour or Erika’s All Purpose gluten-free flour, but you’re free to use whatever flour you prefer. Your pie crust will benefit from starchier ingredients, as they will help it hold together better and bake to a flakier finish.Rice, flax and other gluten-free flours may be too grainy to be useful for mixing up smooth pie crust dough.Different gluten-free flours have different properties, which will affect how the finished pie turns out. Do a little experimentation with various kinds of flour to find out which you like the best.;
, Combine the flour, salt and sugar in a large mixing bowl. Add half a cup of butter, chilled and cut into cubes, along with one whole egg. Fold the butter into the flour by hand, or use an electric mixer or pastry blender to churn the ingredients until they form a coarse mixture.It’s important that the butter be cold and broken up into small pieces. Big lumps of softened butter separate easily when heated, resulting in a runny, oily pie crust.Trade in the traditional butter for coconut oil or vegetable shortening to make a version of gluten-free pie crust that’s also free of dairy ingredients., Create a shallow well into the center of the dough mixture and begin slowly pouring in the ice water, folding as you go. The dough will begin to take on a smoother consistency. If it still feels too thick or dry, continue incorporating additional liquid one teaspoonful at a time until the dough is soft and malleable.It’s important to add the liquid component a little at a time to ensure you get just the right amount. Dough that’s a little too moist is preferable to dough that’s too dry.For richer pie crusts, use a splash of high-fat milk or buttermilk in place of water.
 Compress the dough into one or two large balls. Cover each lump of dough with a piece of plastic wrap and place them in the refrigerator for about half an hour. Keeping the dough cold will help it hold together when you roll it and ensure that it doesn’t get so soft that it starts to lose its shape.If you need a second sheet to place over the top of a filled pie, double the ingredients and make another batch of dough at the same time.
The colder the temperature of the dough, the easier it will be to roll and shape once you’re ready to put your pie together.
 Remove and uncover the dough. Sprinkle your countertop or a cutting board with a small handful of gluten-free flour to prevent the dough from sticking as you shape it. Have your rolling pin ready—this is the fun part!You can also roll the dough on a sheet of wax paper, or sandwich it between two separate sheets so you won’t have to use more flour than you need or worry about the dough sticking.After the dough comes out of the refrigerator, let it rest for about 15 minutes before shaping it.
 Press down firmly on the top of the dough ball with your palm to mash it into a thick disc. This will give you a more level surface to begin rolling. Use a light touch—you'll be doing most of the work with your rolling pin. Quickly coat the outer surface of the dough and rolling pin with flour.Start with as round a ball of dough as possible to make rolling and shaping easier.If you need to dust on a little more flour as you go, do it on your work surface rather than the dough itself.
 Using smooth, light passes, go over the dough with your rolling pin to begin flattening it out. Make your strokes in one direction at a time, then fold the dough over on itself and continue rolling. Folding the dough works out dry or sticky spots and helps you roll it into a rounder shape.Try not to press down too hard on the dough. This can result in a lumpy, uneven crust.If your dough feels too soft to work with properly, pop it back in the refrigerator for 20-30 minutes to firm it back up.
 After you’ve rolled the dough into a thin sheet, carefully lift it and lower it into a pie plate or tin pan, making sure it’s centered. Use your thumbs to crimp or ruffle the edges of the dough. Add a filling of choice, such as cinnamon apples, cherries, diced rhubarb, peaches and pralines or chilled custard, or simply bake the crust by itself to fill later.Your crust is now ready to be filled and baked, or preheated on its own to be filled with chilled ingredients later.
If you’re baking a filled pie, place the other sheet of dough over the top, cut it for ventilation and mold the edges of both dough sheets together.
 Set your oven to bake or convection and let it start heating up. Place the unfilled pie crust in the oven on the center rack. Keep an eye on the crust as it bakes. Depending on how thin you rolled the dough, it may take slightly more or less than the prescribed time to cook.
Be careful not to burn your crust. If it starts to turn a darker brown color, it means it’s too done.
 Set a timer for 10-15 minutes. When the timer goes off, the crust will have baked to a perfect golden brown color and be light and flaky to the touch. You can then let the pie crust cool and fill it with your favorite no-bake flavors, like lemon icebox, key lime or coconut or banana cream.Fill your empty pie crust with dry beans or pie weights to keep it from shrinking or losing its shape as it bakes.Switch the light on in the oven so you can watch the crust’s progress.
 If you’ve already filled your pie, you can bake it and the filling together just as easily. After the initial 10-15 minutes, reduce the temperature to 350 degrees F and leave the pie in the oven for an additional 30-40 minutes until the filling is hot and cooked through. Let the pie rest for a few minutes before slicing and serving, then enjoy!Pies made with hearty ingredients, like raw apples or root vegetables for pot pies, will typically need to bake a little longer so that the filling has time to soften.
Try making a beef bourguignon pot pie, spinach parmesan quiche or roasted vegetable tart for a filling and flavorful dinner that you can prepare in a single dish.,