 Go to figment.com and click on Sign Up at the top of the website. You will be asked to submit a username (using your real name is encouraged, but not required), password, email, and date of birth. Note: You may only join Figment if you are 13 years or older.;
, You can upload a photo for your profile, change your password, and add a little about yourself to your profile. When you join Figment, you will be given a link to a page to edit your profile, or you can reach the page by clicking on Edit My Profile at the top of the website.



Click on the My Writing tab at the top of the screen, and then click on the black button that says create something new.






Choose a title for your writing (don't worry, you can change this later), and write your story into the Content section, or copy-and-paste from another document if you want to publish something you've already wrote.






Fill in the details for your writing. You can add a title, description, and up to three genres. You can also add tags (which other Figment community members can look through to find writing to read; you can also add a tag to your story to enter a contest).






Choose a cover. Figment offers six covers to choose from, or you can upload your own cover (if you don't know how to create a cover, you can ask another Figment community member to create one for you). You can also choose to add the title of your writing to the cover. Tip: Writing with an attention-grabbing cover is more likely to be read.






You can also choose a page design; both default and parchment designs are available.
 Click on the figment library tab at the top of the screen and look for interesting writing to read. You can look at writing that is popular, newly added, or recently updated, or search genres or tags. You can comment on or review the writing, or "heart" it ("hearting" is similar to Liking on Facebook). Note: Figment also has excerpts from novels of published authors to read, which you can find under the features tab.
 If you enjoy another Figment community member's writing, you can "follow" them. This will mean that when the person writes anything new, it will appear on your "desk," which is the tab labelled my desk at the top of the screen.
 You can use the Forums to find readers and writing, promote your writing, ask for critiques, ask and answer questions, and just chat with other writers. To reach the Forums, click on the forums tab at the top of the screen. Tip: Because the Forums have a lot of categories, look carefully for the right category before you post a thread.

