 Understand what is being taught in class. A lot of students refuse to pay attention in class because they think that when they get home, they can just flip through the pages in their textbook and that's all. However, the question is, if you can study on your own and don't need any assistance of a teacher, then why bother to even attend class? It's just a waste.


Listen to the teacher upfront.
Take down notes on what the teacher emphasizes.;
, To achieve this, you must first have the knowledge of certain things; in other words, the first step is the very basic step to continue your pathway to studying smart. The following steps are the guidelines to studying smart.
 Be attentive in class, and jot down whatever is important in your notebook. Writing a notebook of your own is one of the best ways to study, because you understand it best. Do not worry about how others can understand the material; only worry about understanding it yourself.
 Use this time to fully comprehend and understand the material. The biggest mistake students make is to only try to understand when exams are approaching. This is the failure that almost all students make.


The time you use to revise before the exam should not be the moment you try to understand and comprehend certain knowledge. Your revision moment should rightfully be the moment of merely recalling what you have known. That being said, revision should not last longer than 4 hours. It all depends, however, because sometimes we might have more topics to go through.
 This helps to improve your critical thinking skills.


Remember to always relate ideas and concepts, rather than focusing entirely on memorization. Memorization doesn't help when a certain question is twisted. To relate concepts and ideas, you need to find your own way of relating them together.
For instance, if you are studying osmosis, try to relate the concept in daily lives; use the pickling process, for example. You could then relate to hemolysis, cremation, hypertonic or hypotonic.
This method works best for all subjects, particularly Additional Mathematics.
 Simply glance through any highlighted point you previously made. Then, try to relate everything you have just learned. Just picture the few main points in your brain.


For example, if you are studying the reactivity of elements in the periodic table, picture the main ideas. What happens when going down Group 1 and what happens when going down Group 17 and 18? How does it happen? Why it happens? Why is it the reactivity increases or decreases?

, Use at least 2 minutes for each break, for every 20 to 30 minutes of studying. During this break, you can have something to drink, or even simply glance through your window and see what's going on outside. However, remember to get back to work once you have rested!

, This helps you to rethink ways to recall back what you have just read. It is proven that reading doesn't impact much in storing things into your memory. Try to teach yourself whatever you know, as if you were the teacher; it is one of the best ways to learn.
 We all know the adage, practice makes perfect, so apply it now. Practice with the knowledge that you have, so that you know how to use and apply the knowledge. This plays the most important role in improving on additional mathematics and other science-related topics.
 Set up a revision timetable up to days, weeks or even months before the exam. The amount of revision time needed will depend on how big the exam or test is. You should revise the main topics for at least 20 minutes a day the week before the exam. Don't study at the last minute!

, If you are too tired then you will forget everything you studied and if you don't eat well your brain will not operate smoothly.
 Instead, say the formulas in your mind or the properties and its names instead of just reading the textbook all over again.
, Don't try to be Superwoman or Superman and try to cram everything in your head.Take a break after about 1 or 2 hours.
 Remember this quote from Nikki Bella: "I am fearless and therefore I do what I do".
 Try to get at least 8-10 hours of sleep.
, Take deep breaths and don't get distracted with other stuff.
, Focus on the possible and reasonable answers.
,,