 The photo will really shine if everyone in your family is dressed appropriately so that your picture isn't distracting--or just corny. Your clothes are one of the first things people will notice, so it's important that your look is just right.


Avoid clashing. You may love your teal pants, but they could clash with your mother's yellow sweater and ruin your family photo.
Your clothes should match. Wearing clothes in the same palette, such as greens and browns, or blacks, reds, and silvers, will look great together. Having the parents were one color scheme and the siblings wear another, or having the boys in the family wear one shade and the girls wear another, is a great technique to spice up your look.
Your clothes should match--but only to a point. If everyone is wearing the exact same sweater in your family's holiday photo, you may not be able to emphasize your unique personalities and may just look silly in the process.
Pick the right outfits well before the photo session. It could help to take a mock-photo wearing the outfits you have in mind a few days before, so you can see if the outfits look good together.
 The background should emphasize your family's strengths and should add unity and fun to your photo. You should think about it well in advance to avoid any last-minute location changes.


If you're taking an outdoor Christmas photo in the fall, make sure you find a patch of woods where the leaves haven't changed colors.
If you're taking your photo in front of the fireplace, make sure there aren't any goofy photos on the mantle that may distract your audience.
The background could reveal something about your family. If you all love spending your summers at the beach or at a ski resort, having the right background can emphasize what you love most as a family.
 If some members of your family are more excited than others, this may make people laugh or could just look strange. Check in to see that everyone is feeling positive before the shoot.


Showcase all members of the family equally. Even if your little brother is feeling lukewarm about the photo, you should avoid having him sulking behind the Christmas tree while everyone else is showing their million-dollar smiles.
 Everyone will know if you had fun taking photos with your family, or if you saw the occasion as a chore. Know that a family photo may be inherently a little cheesy, so it's okay to roll with it and make it your own.


Remember to laugh during the photo shoot, which will keep you from looking formal or stilted.
Tell some jokes during the photo shoot. Even if your dad's jokes are as corny as can be, they may still lighten the mood, and will make everyone look more fun in the photo.
 Use the photo as an opportunity to show what makes your family unique. Millions of families have had their photos taken before--what makes yours different?


Brainstorm some ideas for how to approach your dynamic in the photo. This can make your family grow even closer--and laugh in the process.
Show off your family's love for your pet. If everyone knows your sister is a bit obsessed with the family dog, she should be the one holding him in the photo.
Show off your family members' love for each other. If your two brothers are inseparable, they should be standing next to each other.

