 While behavior alone cannot confirm animal abuse or neglect, it can be a strong indicator. An abused or neglected animal might be aggressive, timid, or fearful. It might lash out at humans and other animals, or might cower away from its owner or passersby.Since these behaviors can’t prove that an animal has been neglected or abused, it’s important to look for physical signs of cruelty or, if possible, observe its living conditions.;
, Be on the lookout for signs that a neighbor or someone you know owns too many animals. Consider the size of their living space, and how adequate that space is for the number of animals you’ve seen. Note if stray animals gather in a yard or close by the residence.If you see any of the animals in residence, try to distinguish how many live at the suspicious location. Try to identify their physical condition, and look for signs of malnutrition or lack of veterinary care.
 Look for breed- and species-specific signs of malnutrition. Compare the animal in question to what’s considered normal for its species, breed, or mix of breeds.For example, a Greyhound and a Rottweiler each have particular body types and builds. Seeing rib bones might not be as alarming a sight in a Greyhound.  
Look for behavior cues like dizziness, confusion, trouble standing or walking, and excessive scavenging.
 Chaining dogs outside for long periods of time can be life threatening, especially in periods of extreme weather. If you see a dog chained in a neighbor’s yard, try to keep track of how long it’s unattended and that day’s weather conditions.If you’re concerned about a chained dog, you can call your local humane society or animal shelter anonymously to have an animal control officer visit the pet owner and discuss safety issues.
 Preventive care is a must for any pet for its own well being and for disease control. Obvious signs that an animal lacks veterinary care are key indicators of neglect.Notice the condition of its fur, such as matting or consistent dirtiness. Look for patches of missing fur, skin flakes, or patches of redness or irritation. Keep track of how long you observe these conditions without any indication of veterinary care.
Look for signs of fleas, ticks, and other parasite infestations, like excessive scratching and self-biting. Examine the fur for parasites if you can do so safely, such as if the animal belongs to a friend or family member. Avoid physical contact with animals that are unfamiliar with you.

