 One common mistake is buying too much food. Fruits and breads don’t stay fresh for very long. An accurate head count can help you avoid this pitfall. Buy enough food for everyone to enjoy about two helpings each.;
, Having a breakfast bar means you are going to have to pick out foods that you feel your guests will enjoy. Buy an assortment of hot and cold foods.Some foods to consider are:


Fresh fruit.
Oatmeal and/or cold cereal.
Breakfast meats and/or veggie meats. If you do buy animal products, be considerate of guests who need vegan, Kosher, or Halal options.
English Breakfast items, bacon, eggs, sausages, beans etc.
Breakfast Cereals
Danish Pastries, doughnuts, muffins, or croissants.
Fresh bread rolls

, Check the sell-by dates on all your food. Those croissants you buy today could be 48 hours old. Even if they’re safe to eat, you don’t want your guests eating stale bread products., You need to wash your food down with a glass, cup or mug of your favorite breakfast drink. Even if you know what your guests always drink in the morning, offer them a range of options. Some good choices are:


Orange juice or apple juice.
Water.
Coffee or tea. Have regular and decaffeinated options available.
Milk. Have a non-dairy option available for your guests who are vegan or lactose intolerant. Since soy allergies are becoming more common, aim for milk made from rice, almonds, or hemp seeds.
 Don’t forget your guests who take cream in their coffee. Offer a variety of sweeteners, such as raw sugar, honey, and artificial sweetener. If you’re serving pancakes or waffles, you should buy a bottle of syrup. If toast or bagels are on the menu, it’s a good idea to buy jam, butter, or peanut butter.
 If you have a large enough space, you could use several folding tables for your bar. On the other hand, if your space is limited, a kitchen counter will also work. Make sure your bar will be in one general location so that your guests can find what they need quickly.
 Lay out pancakes, cooked breakfast foods such as bacon and sausages and other main dishes before the other foods. This will help your guests to spot the stars of the show first. It will also help them to avoid taking up too much plate space with side dishes., Keep each category together. This adds a hint of aesthetic appeal. More importantly, it makes these perishable foods easier to monitor.
 Put hot foods on a hot plate or in a slow cooker. Keep them at an internal temperature of about 140 degrees F (60 degrees C) or warmer. Place cold foods on a bed of ice to prevent them from getting warmer than 40 degrees F (4 degrees C).Throw out any food that falls out of its safe temperature range or goes uneaten for two hours.
 Place the syrup near the waffles or pancakes. Put jam or peanut butter near the bagels or toast. This will prevent your guests from having to go out of their way to dress their foods., This will prevent items like syrup from dripping into the food in front of them. Even if you keep liquids in their containers, be courteous of your guests who might not want honey or jam on their waffles.
 Your guests shouldn’t have to wait for their bread products to pop out of the toaster when they could be enjoying their meal. Put your toaster on a light setting to accommodate everyone.If you have a guest or two who likes their toast or bagels “well done,” let them use the toaster for a second round.
 This will give your guests a chance to put their food on the dining table first. Coffee and tea drinkers can mix in their cream or sugar without holding up the food line. Your guests can also get refills without cutting in front of people trying to fill their plates.


Place the drinks station near an electrical outlet for the coffee maker and tea kettle.
 You need plates or bowls to hold our foods, so it makes sense to put them at the beginning. Stack plates and bowls face up. This will make them easier to grab., When your guests are filling up their plates, they shouldn’t also have to juggle other objects. Put napkins and utensils at the end of the bar so that everyone will have a free hand to reach them. You could go one better by putting them at the dining table., Even in a private home, it’s a good idea to keep everyone’s hands out of food others will be eating. Place tongs by foods such as muffins or fruit slices. Put a large serving spoon or ladle in the bowl of granola or oatmeal. Place a smaller tablespoon near the bowl of raisins. If you’re serving finger foods like Vienna sausages, stick toothpicks in them.

