 There are a wide variety of reasons why you might want to make a dilution at home, in the kitchen, or in another non-chemistry lab setting. For instance, the simple act of making orange juice from concentrate is a dilution. In many cases, products that need to be diluted include information about the dilution that needs to be made somewhere on the packaging. They may even have precise directions to follow. Here are some things to look for when searching for information:


The volume of the product to use
The volume of the diluting liquid to use
The type of diluting liquid to be used (usually water)
Special mixing instructions
You probably won't see information about the precise concentrations of the liquids being used. This information is superfluous to the average consumer.
 For simple household dilutions, such as the ones you might make in the kitchen, you only really need to know the volume of concentrate you're using and the approximate final concentration you'd like before beginning. Dilute the concentrate with an appropriate amount of diluting liquid, which is determined relative to the initial volume of concentrate being used. See below:


For example, if we want to dilute 1 cup of concentrated orange juice to 1/4 its initial concentration, we would add 3 cups of water to the concentrate. Our final mixture would have 1 cup of concentrate in 4 cups of total liquid - 1/4 its initial concentration.
Here's a more complex example: If we wanted to dilute 2/3 cup of concentrate to 1/4 its initial concentration, we would add 2 cups of water, because 2/3 cup is 1/4th of 2&2/3 cups total liquid.
Be sure to add your substances to a vessel that's big enough to accommodate the final volume you want - a large bowl or similar container.
 Adding powders (like certain drink mixes) to liquids usually doesn't need to be though of as a "dilution." The volume change created by the addition of a small amount of powder to a liquid is usually small enough that it can be effectively ignored. In other words, when adding small amounts of powder to a liquid, just add the powder to the final volume of liquid you want and mix.

