 A grand piano is long and low, which improves its sound over an upright but also causes it to take up a lot more floor space. For this reason, grand pianos are rarely seen in private homes.


Grand pianos, like uprights, are divided by size into “petite” grand pianos, which can weigh as little as 500 pounds, on to standard grands, and finally “concert” grand pianos, the largest pianos of all, which can weigh as much as 1300 pounds and measure more than 9 feet (2.7 m) across. However, moving a grand piano of any size requires the same basic steps.
 As always, clearing the way and taking measurements are the first steps to a successful grand piano move.


Because of the grand piano's bulk, it is generally moved on-end, so double check that any doors you plan to move your piano through are tall enough to accommodate its front-to-back length, with several inches to spare.
If the piano is too deep to fit through a door with several inches of clearance to spare, professional help will be required.
 This is where moving a grand piano becomes much more complicated than moving an upright. The safest way to move a grand piano (and the way that professional movers do it) is to load it onto a rolling skid board, which is basically a load-bearing board on wheels. With as many people as possible on hand to assist you, lift the bass corner of the piano and unscrew or otherwise remove the leg there. Gently set the piano down and secure the removed leg in blankets; then, with the help of your crew, blanket and tape the body and remaining legs of the piano itself.


Equipment rental shops should be able to rent you a skid board if you don't own one.
Be sure that the top of the piano is securely locked down, as well as the keyboard cover.
 Carefully lift the piano from the back end upward, while simultaneously lifting the keyboard end off the ground as evenly as possible. Once the piano is balanced on the skid board, it can be moved by slowly pushing it from the rear end while pulling from the front end. Extra helpers should stand on either side of the piano to help keep it upright in case of bumps and wobbles.


The goal is to set the piano vertically on the skid board with the left side (bass side) down on the board, so that the treble side of the piano points skyward and the keyboard is vertical.
Remember that the piano gets heavier toward the bass end, which means the center of balance is likely to be closer to that end than the other.

