 It's easier to work with the watch if you're unobstructed. Undo the strap or remove the band completely and turn the watch over., Four types of watch backs include snap offs, screw-off backs, swatches, and backs with screws holding them together. Examine the back of your watch to determine what kind of watch you have.Screw off backs will have notches around the edges on the back of the watch.
Snap offs will have a completely smooth back with a small cut or indentation where the back of the watch meet and watch meet.
Swatches will have a slot on the back where you can fit a coin.
 Once you remove the back, you'll be able to see the internal components of the watch. Often, there will be a something blocking the battery from slipping out. This could be a clip, retaining bar, and plastic cover.Look at the bottom of the clip to find the small hole near the bottom of the clip. Insert a small screwdriver into the hole and press up with your screwdriver to disengage the clip. This should make your battery accessible.Wear a pair of dust free latex gloves when replacing your battery.
Some watches won't have anything covering up the battery. In this case, you can skip this step.
 Before removing the battery, take note of its position and which side is facing up. Take a look at the writing on the battery so that you know which kind you should get to replace it. The battery will be round disc that's around 3







, Using plastic tweezers, position one side of the tweezers under the battery. Pry up with the tweezers to remove the battery from its casing., Take your replacement battery and stick it in the spot where your old battery was. Use the plastic tweezers to press it back into place. Avoid hitting or disrupting the other internal parts of the watch.
 If the watch is not working, you may have put the battery in backward, or it could be damaged. Double check that the battery is incorrectly installed. If it still doesn't work, consider taking it to a professional for repair.







