 as a friendly greeting. This way of saying hello can seem a little bizarre to English speakers, but it's seen as a kind way to greet someone in Chinese. The rough English equivalent is "how are you doing?" This is not necessarily an invitation to get a meal with someone.


This phrase is pronounced "knee chill-uh mah." The final syllable rhymes with "raw." The "chill-uh" is pronounced at a slightly higher tone than the other two syllables, like this: "kneechill-uhmah." This isn't pronounced like a question in English — it doesn't "go up" at the end.
In Chinese, this phrase is written "你吃了吗."

If someone says this to you, you can respond with "chī le, nǐ ne" ("吃了你呢"), pronounced "chill-uh, knee-nuh." This means "I've eaten, how about you?";
, This is a great way to greet someone you haven't seen in a few days. Just like in English, the person you're talking to can respond with as long of reply as she or he wishes. You may get a short, vague answer or a long, detailed one — it depends how your friend is feeling.This phrase is pronounced "zwee-jeen how-mah." The "zuì" almost rhymes with "Louie," but the "oo" is very short. The n in the second syllable is very light — almost silent. The final two syllables are pronounced as written.
In Chinese, this phrase is written "最近好吗."


, Just like the Japanese say "moshi moshi" and Spanish speakers say "diga," the Chinese have their own special way of answering the telephone. This one is very simple: it's just one syllable.


Pronounce this almost like the way you'd say the English word "way." Again, you're not asking a question like you would in English here — don't raise your pitch at the end of the word. Say it with a normal, descending tone.
In Chinese, this word is written "喂."


, This greeting doesn't come across as rude as its English translation might suggest. Here, you are basically showing your respect by expressing mild interest in the person's day-to-day life. A closer English equivalent might be "What are you up to?"


This phrase is pronounced "chih narr." The first syllable uses a sound that's almost like a combination of the English i and u sounds. The second is held a little bit longer than might seem natural — it's almost like "nah-er" with no break in between.
In Chinese, this phrase is written "去哪儿."


, This is the sort of greeting you'd use when you're meeting an old friend you haven't seen in a long time. It comes across as very warm and affectionate.This phrase is pronounced "how jyoo boo-jyin." The "jy" sounds are tricky — it's almost like there's a very short "ee" sound in the second and fourth syllables. Again, the n sound at the end of the phrase is very delicate.

