 You can write a story, a poem, or a journal. Try to get some experience writing and get your feelings out. If you’re going to have a lot of time on your hands, start a larger piece like a novel. Once you get into it, you might not be able to stop writing.For a story, think about characters. Imagine what makes them special and different. Why do they do what they do? What is the obstacle they must overcome? That is your conflict. Focus on how their personalities bring them into conflict and how that conflict is resolved.
If you’re writing a poem, try starting out with free writing. Just get your feelings down on page. Read it out loud to see what it sounds like.
If you can’t think of your own characters, consider writing fan fiction. Some people enjoy taking characters or settings from famous movies, books, and comic books and writing their own adventures. You can share your stories later, when you have computer access again, or you can just keep them to yourself.
 Experiment on the guitar or the piano. Once you’ve gotten some nice melodies down, put them together to build a song. If you don’t know anything about instruments, write lyrics and practice singing them.


Now there are plenty of electronic devices that will record your music. You can even apply special effects to the songs. Once you get your internet back, you can try posting the music online.
 Studies show that drawing is a particularly effective way to banish boredom.Practice using shading and perspective to improve your artistic abilities. Many artists learn by doing “master studies,” which means you try to analyze and recreate other great works of art., Letter writing is old fashioned, but many people enjoy the surprise of having a real, tangible letter in their hands. A letter is something a person can keep forever, as a keepsake of your relationship. It doesn’t need to be formal or stylistically perfect. Just write something meaningful that the other person would want to keep as a memento.You can consider writing a letter to friends, significant others, or even family.
Send it by mail or leave it somewhere you know they will find it, like in their room or locker.
Don’t write anything you wouldn’t want a third party to read.
 Look around and see how you can use the things around you to make art or useful household goods. With pictures and glue, you can make a nice memento for someone you care about. With wood and carving knife you can make a walking stick.