 When you listen to music, your heart actually tries to sync up with the beat.The faster the rhythm, the more excited your nervous system becomes. Experiment with different rhythms until you find the one that gives you a positive boost (without causing you to feel overly excited or anxious). Some songs with a good beat include:


"Dare" by Gorillaz.
"Kids" by MGMT.
"Sleepyhead" by Passion Pit.;
, The tone of music also has a big effect on your bodily response to it. In general, music played in a major key communicates happy emotions, while music played in a minor key communicates sadness. When you listen to music with happy sounds, you are more likely to feel an emotional boost.However, some people can even feel happy after listening to sad music.A few songs with a good tone include:


Lady Gaga's "Born This Way."
Rusted Root's "Send Me on My Way."
Peter Bjorn & John's "Nothing to Worry About."

, Just like rhythm and tone, the lyrics you hear can have an effect on your emotions. Try listening to music with a motivational message or a good story. Due to the close link between music and mood, listening to music with a positive message can help to shape the course of your day.Try listening to an uplifting song first thing in the morning so that you are ready to face the day.Songs with a positive message include:


Katy Perry's "Roar."
Survivor's "Eye of the Tiger."
Kid Cudi's "Pursuit of Happiness."

, Listening to familiar music that you naturally enjoy has been shown to release dopamine in the brain, generating a rush of happy feelings. It can even lower your heart rate and reduce anxiety and pain.When in doubt, reach for your favorite songs and give yourself a boost.This is true of both specific songs you already love, or artists and styles of music that you know you enjoy.
 Binaural Beat Technology (BBT) is a type of music that alternates different sounds to create new tones, and some people find that BBT can help to calm anxiety and even reduce pain.Try listening to some binaural beats music the next time you are feeling anxious or stressed and see if it helps you.
 Consider creating a “feel good” playlist to have on hand. Select upbeat songs that have a good rhythm, a good tone, and a good message. Be sure to select some of your old favorites as well. Then simply press play whenever your mood needs a quick boost.