 Like any breed of dog, the Cairn Terrier has a specific host of health problems that frequently affect them. Even if your dog has been bred with utmost care and its parents have no prior health issues, you should be aware of the potential health problems that could befall your terrier. Ask your breeder about any health problems that your puppy’s parents or relatives have had.


Lysosomal storage disease. This disease stems from an enzyme deficiency that causes nerve cell death. You can get your dog genetically tested to see if it is a carrier for this disease.
Cairn Terriers (and most other small dogs) can also develop Legg-Calve-Perthes disease (LCPD). In order to cope with this bone disorder, your dog will need surgery and portosystemic shunts. It also usually comes with a liver defect that requires surgery, too. You can’t test for this disease in advance.Craniomandibular osteopathy, a bone disease that affects the bones growing in the skull.Allergies. You can’t test for allergies in advance of getting your puppy, but they still could affect your dog.
Diabetes. If your dog has diabetes, they most likely will need insulin injections every day to keep them healthy. There’s no way to test for diabetes in advance, either.Obesity. Cairn Terriers are especially prone to obesity, and keeping your dog at a healthy weight is the best way to prevent other health issues., Like any dog breed, the Cairn Terrier has a distinct personality that comes with the good as well as the not-so-good. Make sure that you’re aware of your Cairn Terrier’s potential flaws so that you can try to prevent them and cope with them more effectively. However, these behaviors cannot be eliminated entirely from the dog. They are a part of who he is.


Digging. Don’t get attached to your flower beds or your lawn if you have a Cairn Terrier; if you leave them outside, they will dig. You can try to train this behavior out of your dog, but you should also protect any ground (like your garden, etc.) that you don’t want ruined.
Barking. Cairn Terriers can bark a lot, especially if they are unhappy or bored.
Chasing. Because they are terriers, Cairn Terriers have the instinct to chase things that are running away from them. Be careful, and always walk your dog on a leash so that he doesn’t chase something into a dangerous place., There are also lots of wonderful things about the Cairn Terrier that you should appreciate! You picked this dog for a reason, and you should pay attention to the things about him that are special.


Cairn Terriers are excellent watchdogs. They will be cognizant of anyone coming into their territory.
They are active dogs, but don’t need a lot of exercise. They will happily play with children, but they will not be stir crazy hanging out with you indoors.
Cairn Terriers are smart and independent. They are active dogs that have minds of their own, but they are also capable of learning many tricks.