 Like any skill or talent, improving your acting ability is a muscle that needs to be exercised if you want it to grow. Learning how to act from professionals in classes and workshops is one the most important and effective ways to improve.


You can find acting and improv classes in your city or at your college or university. Take classes that interest you and which will push you to improve.
A professional acting coach or teacher will be able to guide you in proper technique and give you tools that better you as an actor. You can’t always see what you’re doing. But a teacher can. And your teacher will be able to help you make adjustments, learn the basics, and teach you how to mentally approach your craft.
There are acting coaches and teachers who specialize in specific forms and can help you reach specific goals. If you want to learn to be better at auditioning on camera, you can find a teacher who will help you improve.
Put yourself in the right mindset to learn. Don’t think you are too good for classes. You’re not. For most actors, your job isn’t to be an actor. Your job is to learn and to audition.;
, In addition to getting on your feet and learning, reading and studying books on acting will help you improve your skills as an actor.


Treat acting like any subject in school. You have to do your homework and study. Because when it comes to acting, the test is an audition.
There are countless books for you to read on the subject of acting. Don’t just grab the first one you see. Ask your teachers and coaches for recommendations.
There are some books that have tremendous value like “Audition” by Michael Shurtleff. This book houses twelve guideposts that go way beyond just auditioning. The twelve guideposts in the book will show up in other books, in your technique, and in life. , Plays house a wealth of knowledge on acting. Plays will help you to understand how characters work and allow you to analyze the material. When you read plays pay attention to the stage directions, beats, and the dialogue. There is meaning in each part that can help you improve your skill.
Notice the heightened nature of characters. In plays, characters have a heightened sense of purpose and reality. Whether it’s Shakespeare or something modern. Each character has an ultimate objective, something to strive for. Every line, every action is a step toward reaching that goal.
Take notes on what you think these tactics and objectives are. Use what you’ve learned from class and books to break down the scenes and the characters. Practice the scenes and monologues out loud. Doing these activities will allow you to begin to understand how to portray characters from a page on stage or in front of a camera.
 Learn from your favorite actors. Watch interviews, read books on these actors, and study films the greats are in.


The actors that have made it can be another great resource for you. Pay attention to how these actors convey emotion, react to something or someone. Notice how truly talented actors seem can be completely immersed in a moment and live it as if it were real. Then go back to your work and think about how you can do the same.
"Inside the Actor’s Studio" is a great source for watching interviews with actors. You can learn how these talented actors approached acting. The kinds of studying that took place. How an actor approaches a scene or character.
Don’t just try to imitate your favorite actors. But pay attention to what these people believe is valuable and useful. Then try to incorporate it into your own studies.

