 Don’t rely on your child for a list of what they need for school. If a list isn’t available on the school’s website, ask the teachers if they can send you a list or give you some ideas. As a last resort, department stores sometimes have lists of common school supplies on their websites., Before you panic over the long supply list on the school’s website, realize that many of the items are merely requests.One good rule of thumb is to avoid items the list specifically forbids. Use your best judgment as to which items your child might actually need.
 Elementary teachers usually prefer their students to use #2 (HP) pencils with erasers. Students in middle- and high school usually use ballpoint pens. Stick to black or blue ink. Most students will also need notebooks or loose-leaf paper. Check the supply list for whether you should buy wide-ruled or college-ruled paper.


Children in elementary school usually need pencil bags or boxes to store their supplies for writing and art.
Most classrooms have pencil sharpeners, but it’s always a good idea to check the supply list in case your child’s teacher requires individual pencil sharpeners.
Middle- and high-school students might need highlighters for studying and general note-taking.
 Whether students use notebooks or loose-leaf paper, they still need folders for the documents they receive in class. Buy one folder for each class, each in a different color or pattern. That way, your child can pattern- or color-code each folder by class (red for English, green for math, rainbow stripes for science, etc.).
 Students in middle school and high school usually need day planners to keep track of their classes and after-school activities. Look for planners organized by the academic year, as opposed to the semester. This way, your child will stay organized from the first day of school in the fall to the last day of school in the spring.
 Children in elementary school usually need art supplies for a variety of activities. Buy one box of crayons, colored pencils, or washable markers. Other common materials you need to purchase are safety scissors and glue. Purchase glue sticks for younger students more likely to make a mess.
 Elementary school teachers usually request one or two boxes of facial tissues per student. Hand sanitizer also comes in handy during cold and flu season. Aim for one 8-ounce (about 237mL) bottle for the classroom and one travel-sized bottle for the backpack.


Students in middle school and high school need supplies for their lockers. Common supplies include plastic shelves, mirrors, and magnets. The school supply list should mention if a combination lock is required.
 Thanks to block scheduling, many older students take only two to four classes at a time.However, textbooks haven’t gotten any lighter. Buy a bag that can carry at least two to four hardcover textbooks, a large notebook or binder, and a pencil bag.

