 Before you talk to an attorney, you will need information about the fraud itself, as well as your customer agreement and any other documents related to your investment account and your relationship with your stock broker.If you previously filed complaints with any regulatory agencies, you should include any documentation related to that report and the outcome of any investigation.
Create a log with a timeline of events in the transaction or transactions that you believe were fraudulent, including any account statements or other information that documents each event.
You may want to write up an honest profile of yourself as an investor, including the reasons you wanted to invest and the types of investments you'd consider suitable. This can help your attorney analyze whether your stock broker paid attention to your needs and interests when trading on your account or tried to trick you into a riskier investment than you could handle.
 In some situations, such as if you were the victim of a Ponzi scheme, there may potentially be hundreds of other investors who suffered similar losses and would be willing to join your lawsuit.If you believe there is a possibility that your claim could merit a class action lawsuit, talk to an attorney who specializes in representing class action plaintiffs. The rules for filing and litigating class actions are extraordinarily complex, and fighting a class action requires significant resources, which is why there are law firms that work in class actions exclusively.
 Not only are securities fraud laws complex, but you can be assured the stock broker and his or her brokerage firm will have an army of attorneys on their side. If you decide to sue for stock broker fraud, you shouldn't do so without an attorney.A qualified attorney with experience in securities law also will be able to tell you how long you have to file a claim for recovery. The legal deadline, or statute of limitations, to file a claim depends to a large extent on the facts and circumstances of your case.
If you have friends or colleagues in the securities industry, you may want to ask one of them for a recommendation. Otherwise, you can begin your attorney search on the website of your state or local bar association. Typically these websites include a searchable directory of licensed attorneys in specific practice areas.
Many bar associations also have attorney referral programs that can point you to attorneys in your area who specialize in cases similar to yours.
 Your attorney will need as much information and documentation as you have to accurately formulate the allegations in your complaint.Provide your attorney with all the documentation you have, including account statements and balance sheets so he or she can calculate your losses and determine the damages you are owed by the stock broker or brokerage firm for the fraudulent acts.
Your complaint will include your name and address as well as the names and addresses of everyone you are suing, which may include not only your stock broker but also the brokerage firm where he or she works.
The bulk of your complaint will consist of your allegations, written in numbered paragraphs with a single factual statement per paragraph. These allegations must add up to a violation of state or federal securities law.
After listing the allegations, your complaint will identify the law violated and your legal theory as to why the allegations you listed constitute a violation.
The last paragraphs of your complaint will describe the monetary amounts to which you believe you are entitled as a result of the stock broker's actions.
 To initiate your lawsuit, you must file your complaint and any other required documents with the clerk of the court in which your case will be heard.Once your complaint is filed, your case will be assigned to a judge and given a case number. The clerk will issue a summons for each defendant you've listed in your lawsuit.
You must pay filing fees to file your lawsuit. If your attorney is working on contingency, he or she will add these to the costs to be deducted from any settlement or award you receive – otherwise you're responsible for paying them or applying for a waiver.
Filing fees typically are several hundred dollars, depending on the court in which you are filing your case.
 Within a short period of time after you've filed your complaint, you must have it delivered to the stock broker or brokerage firm you are suing for fraud.If you're filing your lawsuit in federal court, a U.S. marshal will hand-deliver the complaint and summons to the defendant. In state court, this duty typically is performed by sheriff's deputies.
 Depending on the court in which you file your lawsuit, the defendant will have between 20 and 30 days to file a response to your lawsuit.Typically the defendant will deny most, if not all, of your allegations as well as list defenses as to why he or she is not liable for the losses you've suffered.
The defendant may file a motion to dismiss, in which case you must respond to the motion and attend a hearing to defend your lawsuit. To successfully overcome this hurdle, you must be able to demonstrate to the judge that your case has merit and the allegations in your complaint, if proven, constitute a violation of state or federal securities law.
 At any point after you file your complaint, you can expect to get a settlement offer from the stock broker or brokerage firm you sued.The confidential nature of settlements should appeal to the stock broker or brokerage firm, especially if your lawsuit survives a motion to dismiss. Most securities professionals would rather settle quietly than litigate a very public fraud lawsuit.
Additionally, if you've not filed a class action, it's possible your stock broker might be concerned that one might materialize – particularly if he or she led other clients down the same investment path as you.
Your attorney must keep you apprised of any and all settlement offers, and will give you his or her advice on whether you should accept or reject the offer. However, keep in mind that ultimately you have the final word on whether to take a settlement.
When evaluating a settlement offer, take into consideration the time and expense of continued litigation, as well as the uncertainty that you will get what you've asked for when you go to trial.

