 It might seem like most of the calories in donuts, cookies, pies, cakes and other sweets come from sugar, but often sweets contain high amounts of fat.Most pastries are made with butter, and lots of it. When shopping, read the labels and avoid high fat content sweets. If baking, substitute healthy oils or bananas for butter for healthier, low-fat options.
 “Junk food” like potato chips and crackers often have high fat content, especially trans fats. Baked chips may be better, but check the ingredients list. Your best option is to snack on fresh fruits and vegetables, rather than processed foods.


Celery with peanut butter contains good fats and has great protein content.
Nuts like almonds, walnuts and cashews contain healthy fats and protein.
The sugars in fruit are natural and healthier than refined sugars in grocery store snack foods.
Dip raw veggies in guacamole or hummus rather than ranch or bleu cheese.
 Even if your dinner consists of a big healthy salad, it can still contain a lot of fat if it’s drenched in salad dressing. Dressings, gravy, butter, and sour cream are all high-fat additions to a meal, even in small amounts.Opt for “non-fat” varieties of toppings.Consider dressing your salad with olive oil or balsamic vinegar rather than salad dressing. Olive oil contains good fats and is even a healthy part of a Mediterranean diet.
Top your salads with nuts and olives rather than cheese and bacon bits – you can get a flavorful salad with added nutrition and protein rather than added fat.
Spread a healthy alternative to mayonnaise on your sandwich, like hummus, guacamole, or olive tapenade.
Remember to check the nutrition label of fat free and low-fat dressings as some of them are loaded with sugar to make up for the taste. Also, remember that some vitamins in salads are fat-soluble so they are better absorbed with fat, so adding a teaspoon of full-fat dressing will help you absorb these vitamins better.
 Skim and 1% milk have as much calcium as whole milk, but much less fat. You can also get low- or non-fat cottage cheese, cheese, and yogurt.Cheese counts as “low-fat” when there’s less than 3 grams of fat in each ounce.If you’re flavoring a meal with cheese, use smaller amounts of one with a stronger taste., Most of the cholesterol in eggs is in the yolk, so choosing egg-white-only options is a lower-fat way to eat eggs and get protein. When cooking, you can substitute two egg whites for each whole egg required., Restaurants tend to cook with lots of butter and fat, because it makes food taste good. Request your dish be prepared without extra butter or margarine, and request sauces and gravies on the side so you can choose your portion. Get salad dressing on the side or ask for oil and vinegar, or a balsamic – vinegar-based dressings have less fat than creamy dressings like ranch, french, and bleu cheese. If you want dessert, have fresh fruit or sorbet instead of butter-heavy pastries or ice cream.