 Whether you are a student or a teacher, starting a school newspaper is a great idea. A paper is a wonderful addition to any school. Your first step is to figure out how to convince others that this is a great idea.Make a list of the benefits of having a school paper. Write down that it helps empower students.
You could also note that working on a paper can prepare students for a variety of careers. It also teaches responsibility.
Use your list of objectives when you are sharing your idea with people. When you are explaining your goals, it will be useful to have them written down already.;
, Whether you are in junior high, high school, or college, you will need a faculty adviser. A faculty adviser is a teacher who will help you to get organized and publish a quality paper. This person can also be an advocate for your organization.Talk to your journalism teacher. This person is the obvious choice to help you head up a student paper.
If your school doesn't have a journalism program, head to the English department. An English teacher will be able to help you write and edit effectively.
Be respectful and polite. Try saying, "Mr. Anderson, could we schedule a time to talk? I'd like to speak to you about advising the school newspaper I am trying to launch."

, It takes an entire team of people to produce a great school paper. Before you can really get started, you need to recruit other students to join the staff. Try advertising your project.Put up posters or flyers around the school. Make them colorful, inviting, and specific. Try saying, "Wanted: Enthusiastic, fun, hard working students to join the new school paper!"
Talk to people you know. Ask your friends to help you spread the word about this exciting new organization.
Reach out to students with different interests. Remember, in addition to writers, you will need photographers and graphic designers.
 You should first decide whether you are going to produce a print or online newspaper. If you are going to make a traditional paper, you will need to find a printer. Talk to your local newspapers.Ask your faculty adviser to go with you to talk to the publisher of your city's newspaper. Discuss making an arrangement for your student paper to use their printing press.
You can also use a company that specializes in student newspapers. Try looking at a website of one of these companies.If you are planning to create an online publication, you will need to figure out how to publish it. There are many websites that you can use to create a professional looking publication.
Try contacting School Newspapers Online. You can also publish a paper online using wordpress.com.