 You have full control over it! Make sure it sounds like a language name though!

, You can choose how to pronounce the language, giving it the overall sound and feel you're going for. However, to make it more thorough and professional, you'll have to do some background to take it beyond sounds.
 This is where you can get creative. It could be anything you want. You have some choices:


Use pictographs or symbols. Many languages, like Chinese, use pictographs or symbols to represent their spoken language. If you choose to do this, you'll also have to come up with a pronunciation for each symbol. Each symbol will have its own unique sound. Numbers are a good example. This is a beautiful but cumbersome route.
Make up an alphabet or syllabary. Latin, Cyrillic, Greek, Hindi, Japanese, Arabic... Create a set of symbols which represent individual letters or entire syllables, or even diphthongs.
Use an alphabet already in existence. If you use our Latin alphabet, for example, you will simply have to create new words for things rather than coming up with an entirely new pronunciation system.
Combine different alphabets. Add accents to existing letters (ex: Spanish's ñ) to create new letters or sounds.
 These are the words for your language. You should start off by making common words first, and then move on to less common words.


Start with the foundation words, the words that will be used very often. These are words like "I", "he", "his", "and", "a", "to", and "the". Then move on to verbs such as "to be", "to have", "to like", "to go", and "to make". Don't forget about a e i o u y that makes a big part in accents.
Move on to common things. As your vocabulary grows, start naming everything you can think of. Remember countries, body parts, action words, etc. Don't forget numbers!
If you're stumped, remember you can borrow words from other languages. You can even alter the word. For example, the french word for man is homme. The Spanish word—hombre—is almost the same, with only a few letters/the pronunciation changed.
 Open the dictionary and begin copying words with their translations. Not only will this be helpful if you forget how to say something, but it will ensure you don't miss a word.


Try to make the words easily pronounceable—you don't want to be stuck with tongue twisters every time you open your mouth.
 One common pitfall for language makers is to use too many apostrophes in vocabulary words.
 These describe how sentences are formed. You can copy many from existing languages, but you should change some rules to stay original.
 You need to have a way to tell the difference between "book" and "books". Many languages add an -s as a suffix. You could choose to add a suffix or even a prefix to your words. You may even add a whole new word! (Examples: If book = Skaru, then books may equal Neskaru, Skarune, Skaneru, Skaru Ne, or Ne Skaru, etc.!))

, These will tell when something happened. The three main tenses are past, present, and future.


You may also want a way to tell the difference between words like "swim" and "swimming". But it's not necessary. For example in the French language, "Je nage" can mean "I swim" OR "I am swimming".
 These are things like -ly that turn English adjectives into adverbs, and -ness that turns words into nouns.
 Conjugation is how a verb is modified to show who is doing it. In English, we say "I like" and "He likes".
 Start off with a simple sentence like "I have a cat." You can then move on to more complex sentences, like "I like to watch television, but I prefer to go to the movies."

, Just like learning a foreign language, it will take practice before you can use your language with ease.
 You will love the confused look on their faces, you may look like a weirdo, or even a jerk, but don't let it discourage you!

, If you want to be able to use the language with your friends, you should teach them. You can even try to spread your language to as many people as you want.
 This way you will always have something to refer to if you need help remembering your language. You can even sell them to make a little extra money!


If you want to make your language well known, then write dictionaries of the language (including its alphabet) to learn your language, and give them out to everyone you want to use the language with.

