 Make sure it is clean and functional, check for holes, scrapes, marks, etc. If your school allows it, add any badges or patches you'd like to personalize it. A bag in good order is considered trendy and fashionable in most schools.


Make sure all your homework is done and in your bag. If you have to rush it in the morning you will end up ruffled and stressed, which is very unfashionable.;
, Do both your legs and your armpits, especially if you will be doing physical education the next day. If you are a school girl of 12 years old, or less, or you don't have hairy legs, you can skip this if you want.
 Not only does this look great, it will save you a lot of time in the morning. This step is only relevant if you have hair long enough to plait, if you don't already have naturally wavy hair, or, finally if you believe that wavy hair is trendy and fashionable. You can get to school without doing a double French braid in your hair and be trendy and fashionable.
 It really works, for looking trendy and fashionable, according to some, and saves time trying to do it in the morning. Do not paint your nails if nail polish is not allowed at your school.
 Give yourself plenty of time to get ready for school. If you don't wake up on time, chances are you'll start rushing and your make-up will go wrong.
 This will make your face cleaner and can help reduce the build up of oils on your skin, combatting acne. You could also try using a face scrub for smooth, clean skin.
 Try not to get your hair wet if you did two French braids. Wearing a shower cap will keep your braids completely dry. Not only will you look and feel clean, having a shower is a great way to wake yourself up ready to look alert and refreshed for school. Not looking alert and refreshed is considered unfashionable and un-trendy by many.
 Make sure your breath smells fresh and your teeth are clean. Don't miss out any teeth!

, Jazz it up by pulling the skirt above your knees, un-tucking your blouse and/or adding a pin or badge. If your school allows, wear a necklace, bracelet, or ring or earrings. If you don't have to wear uniform, wear something that is considered trendy and fashionable where you are. This can be anything from flared jeans and a cute Hello Kitty tee-shirt to a gingham dress or a pair of neat shorts and a pretty blouse.
 You can keep your hair open or style it into a high ponytail.


Try other popular hair styles at school, like buns, ponytails or pinning a bit of your hair back and securing it with a clip.
 Don't apply any make-up until you are fully changed because you'll smudge it. Use an eye shadow that matches or compliments the color of your clothes. Lip gloss, foundation and a touch of mascara is acceptable at some schools. Don't go over the top though, and check what your school's policy regarding make-up is. If you are a school girl of 8 or 9, you might decide to be trendy and fashionable without makeup.
 Though these steps should give you a good general idea of what is accepted as fashionable in most schools.

