 You can go to a walk-in center like Western Union or MoneyGram to send money overseas using cash. Western Union has over 500,000 locations around the world, and MoneyGram has almost 350,000 locations worldwide. You can find a Western Union and MoneyGram locations by visiting their websites. You can also find money transfer services in supermarkets, convenience and drug stores and at Walmart.Fill out the “Send Money” form, indicating the amount you want to send, how fast you want the money to arrive, and how it should be delivered to the recipient.
You can choose to have the money arrive at the recipient’s location within minutes or by the next day.
Indicate how you want to send the money. The recipient can either pick up cash at a local office, or you can have the money wired to their bank account or to a mobile wallet account on their smartphone.
Take the form to the counter and a representative will process your money transfer. You will need to present identification such as a driver’s license, and you will have to pay a fee.
The fees vary depending on how much money you are sending, when you want the money delivered and the location to which you are sending it.
Pay in cash to fund the transfer and pay the fees. You will pay with your own local currency, and the recipient will receive funds in the local currency of their location.
Get a sales receipt and a tracking number to share with your recipient. Use the tracking number to make sure the recipient receives the funds.;
, You can send money from your bank account to your recipient’s bank account. Or, if the recipient doesn’t have a bank account, you can still use your bank account to fund the money transfer. These transactions can be completed online with money transfer services like Western Union or MoneyGram.The recipient doesn't need to have a bank account for this to work. You can transfer funds from your bank account, and your recipient can receive the funds in person at a bank or at a money transfer service.
Go to the website of Western Union, MoneyGram or other money transfer service you wish to use.
Create a free profile using your email address, phone number, home address and a password.
Click the button that says, “Send Money Online Now.”
Enter the dollar amount you wish to send in U.S. currency and the location to which you want it sent. The website will exchange the dollar amount into the local currency amount at the recipient’s location.
Under Payment Method, click on “bank account” and indicate how quickly you want the funds deposited into the recipient’s account. The fees vary depending on the location and how quickly you want the transfer to happen.
Follow the prompts to enter account and routing numbers for your account and the recipient’s.
When you submit the transaction, you will get a tracking number. Share it with the recipient and use it to make sure the funds get transferred.
Another option is to transfer the funds through your bank. Many banks have account-to-account transfer options or have money wiring services of their own to access across different banks.
 You can use a debit or credit card to fund a money transfer either in person or online. If going to the money transfer office in person, fill out the paperwork at the office, only use your credit or debit card to pay for the transaction. Similarly, when creating a money transfer online, click on “credit card” or “debit card” when entering payment information.Credit card transactions can be more expensive than cash transactions. The money transfer office may charge you a fee for the credit card transaction. Also, your credit card issuer may treat the transaction as a cash advance, charging you a fee and a higher interest rate on the transaction.
 It is possible to send money via a prepaid debit card. The recipient can use the card to make purchases or withdraw cash. You can replenish the card from the United States with cash, a credit or debit card or your checking account.The fees for this service can be expensive. Expect to pay activation fees, monthly fees, inactivity fees and transaction fees.
 Use the browser on your smart phone to log in to a money transfer service. The process is similar to using an internet-enabled computer. However using an app on your smart phone offers some extra conveniences.For example, you can download a free PayPal app that lets you text funds to a recipient’s phone or email account.
Western Union has a smart phone service that allows you to transfer funds to users with mobile-phone wallets. The recipient must have a mobile wallet with a cooperating mobile phone service in the destination country.One issue with this option might be an inability or a difficulty in converting this payment to physical currency on the other end, so this method is generally useful if the recipient doesn't need cash.

