 The finality of the death may take a while to sink in, even if you were expecting the person to die. There is no "normal" timetable for grief; it is a personal journey.Let the emotions flow through you, and don't hold them in.


Many people feel that they shouldn't cry, get angry, or show any sort of emotion when someone dies. However, grieving is a natural and healthy part of dealing with death. If you must keep your emotions private, make time and space for yourself to be alone.
When you are alone, do whatever you need to do to release your emotions and stress. Yell, cry, write, ruminate; scream into the void from the top of a mountain; beat a punching bag with your fists until you can't feel anything else. Some people find it helpful to write their feelings down in a journal or a diary. This can be a great tool if you don't feel like sharing your feelings with someone else.;
, You may need time to grieve and process the situation without dealing with the complications of everyday life. If you need to take a couple of days off from work, speak with your boss and explain your situation. Tell your boss that you need a couple of days to recover from the loss, and most of the time he or she will understand.


If you are unable to take off work, make the most of your time after work. If you have kids, consider arranging for a babysitter to watch them. If your kids need to grieve, this will ensure that they are supervised, and if you need to grieve, this will give you time to be alone.
Taking some time off from work is healthy and perfectly normal in the wake of a death. It is not healthy, however, to quit your job, draw the blinds, and withdraw within yourself. You don't need to forget about the person who has died, but you cannot dwell on the death forever.
 The person you lost may be gone, but you still have your memories. Think of a happy or humorous memory that the two of you shared. Think about what you loved most about them, and why you loved that quality about them so much.


You can make a photo album about them and look at it whenever you miss them. It can bring up some unpleasant feelings but it can also help you remember those wonderful memories.
If this person was very special to you, consider telling your relatives, children, or friends about how this person positively impacted your life. You may even inspire someone else to be as kind, considerate, or passionate as the person you lost.
 You may feel better if you talk about it. Find someone who will listen to you without passing judgment. This person can be a family member, a close friend that you trust, or a licensed therapist. It can help to talk to someone who is not involved in the situation.


When you feel pain, it may help to get those feelings off your chest. Sometimes you just need an ear to listen to what you are saying. The listener doesn't need to do a lot of talking.
The person that you talk to must be someone you can trust that won't tell others what you said. It must be someone who will keep what you say in confidence. You have been through a traumatic experience, and you deserve your privacy. If you feel that there is no one in your life you can trust, go to a licensed therapist, counselor, or pastor.

