 Do everything you can to avoid them. ;
, If you can't go thirty seconds without stopping for breath start working out and getting some endurance training. You need to be able to last a good 3 minutes of solid fighting/grappling/wrestling.
 No one fights to get the other person to submit. You fight to hurt people. Do you want to get hurt or go home safely?

, Unless you're a cage fighter and you can fight on the ground, avoid it. We will touch on this later

, Keep your elbows in and your fists near eye level away from your face to block side attacks.
,,, Get close to your target. Don’t stand arm's width apart from target. That’s where the punch will hurt the most. Get close. Try this, for example: walk up to a wall, put your fist about 2 inches (5.1 cm) away and punch the wall. Not bad, didn’t kill you right? Now, step back and punch the wall as hard as you can with a full extension of your arm. You didn’t do it, did you? It would have hurt like hell.
 They come off with a little bit of force. The psychological effect of having an ear ripped off will stop most fights.
 If they can't see. . . well, you get the point.
 If you can't breathe, you can't fight.
 They may be harder to control and have shorter reach, but they are strong, hard for an opponent to grab, and they pack a lot of force.
 Don't pull on the hair because one, you aren't protecting your body, hence, them being able to punch you out, and two, they could push you down to the ground because with your arms up in the air and all the moving you aren't stable.
 If you can break an extremity at the joint, you can plan on a fight being over right then and there.
 A solid foot stomp on the top of your opponent’s foot will result in the immediate breaking of bones and you will almost certainly cause their foot to swell to the point of no return.
 If you can, grab a hand, take a hold of it, the flip it in a big circle and twist it 180 degrees. Once in that position, you can manipulate the arm and break it easily.
 Your collar bone has very little strength. About 7 pounds of pressure will snap a collar bone and the entire arm will drop like a load of potatoes.
 It's a common misconception that groin attacks are only effective on men. On both men and women, this will cause severe pain. If it doesn't take your opponent down, it surely will reduce their fighting efficiency. However, beware of your opponent groin attacking you back.
 A little tougher to break, but when they do, this really ends a fight.
 Try to grab a hold of an arm, when you have it, use your forearm or palm to throw a sort of inverted punch. Try to land your blow onto the weaker underside of the arm, where your veins and arteries are. If you use your palm, keep your fingers pointed up.
 A lot of people like to bite when they fight. Bad call. You can catch any number of diseases. If you should happen to get bit on your fingers, you can literally rip the bottom jaw off of an attacker with your own strength. Imagine your fingers are being bitten from the side, covering your smallest fingers. Manipulate your whole hand into the attacker's mouth and push your fingers down into the bedding of the tongue. That alone will warrant an attacker to let go. Don’t let them. Dig your fingers under their teeth in the small pocket your tongue hides in. Pull down and to the side. You will notice they forgot about fighting and are desperately trying to get your hand out of their mouth. Often times, they will focus both hands on pulling your one hand out. Use your free hand to grab a fist full of testicle or an ear. If you can give sharp jerks in a downward and outside motion, thrust away from their face. The bottom jaw might be able to handle three of those before it unhinges.
 Not the best place to attack, but it's a preference from behind. If you can get a hold of the attacker’s neck, grab on for dear life and don’t stop squeezing until they pass out. This can kill them if you punch them.
 A mild blow to the base of the back near the beltline will temporarily disable an attacker. A severe blow to the same spot will permanently incapacitate them from that point down on their body.
 If you can grab the nose, do it. Snap it to the side. Punch it straight into the brain. Don’t worry, you won't kill anyone. That’s an Old Wives' tale. Also, a sharp thrust of the palm in a downward motion will have the same effect.
 Act quick, you won't fight them off for long with only one hand.
 The beverage you use will have different effects on the eyes (i.e. if you spit hard liquor into the eyes, you will have more time than if you used ordinary water). If you use chewing tobacco, the same effect can be achieved by spitting tobacco juice into your opponent's eyes.
 Fight like your life depends on it. Be aware of your surroundings.
 staplers, rocks, bottles, aerosol deodorants or sprays). They may seem harmless, but all can cause severe injury if used properly.
 This gives the opponent the upper-hand to sucker-punch you. If the fight starts there, it finishes there.
,, This is a very effective technique, which can potentially cause a concussion. But be-careful as this can kill someone if done wrong.
, Make it count.
, If your opponent has a bleeding nose, you'll subsequently have time to throw punches.

