 Make sure your dog has adequate room inside the box to be comfortable. Measure your dog to determine the minimum height, width, and depth that your box needs to be. Give your dog enough room to lie down and shift position without the box taking up unnecessary space in your vehicle or living space.For height, have your dog sit on its rear legs. Its butt should be on the ground, while its head and nose should be as tall as possible, with its front legs fully extended. Measure from the floor to the highest point of its head or nose. Then add two to four inches for extra head space.
For depth and width, have your dog stand on all fours with its legs fully extended. Measure from the tip of their nose to their butt. Do not include the tail. Add two to four inches to your measurement so they have room to turn around inside the box.;
, Make sure your box will fit where you need it to before you start building. Measure the following:The opening to the vehicle (such as the trunk or side door) so the box can be easily transferred in and out.
The space inside the vehicle, with an eye out for uneven surfaces (such as a lower roof in some places, or less floor space between the vehicle’s rear tires).
The minimum height that the box needs to be versus your line of sight in the rearview mirror.
 If you can’t find your measuring tape at the moment, perform a keyword search online instead. Enter “dog box configurator.” Find a website that will provide the dimensions recommended for your dog’s particular breed. Select the breed and then the make and model of your car.Such websites may be retailers selling their own dog boxes. Instead of offering dimensions, they will match your dog to their own recommended product. However, a second keyword search with the company’s name, the product’s name, and “dimensions” should turn up the info that you need., Before you begin, go through your checklist of things you'll need, which are listed at the bottom of the article. Save yourself the time and trouble of having to search for them later or run to the store. Also make sure any children or pets are clear of your work area, since sharp tools and hardware will be involved. For yourself, wear protective gear such as safety glasses and work gloves.
 First, purchase one or more sheets of ½” plywood to match your measurements for the box’s four sides and top. Trace the outline for each piece on the plywood. Cut your pieces out with a jigsaw.Be sure to purchase a sheet of plywood large enough to leave you with extra material afterward to use as frames for the side vents.
 Choose where to place each. Trace the outline for each on their respective piece of plywood. Use a power drill to cut a pilot hole at any point along your outline. Use the pilot hole to start cutting along your outline with the jigsaw.When cutting, be sure to follow your outline in order to cut out one solid, unbroken piece of plywood. Save the cutouts of each door to use later.
The dimensions of your doors should be a few inches wider and taller than the girth of your dog’s body so they can pass in and out easily.
Later, you will be attaching 3-inch wide strapping along the corners and top, so make sure each door in vent is at least three inches from any side.
Placing your door three inches from the side-edge will require less materials later on, when you attach the hinges.
 Measure each vent. Unroll your galvanized fencing. For each vent, trace an outline on the fencing that is one inch wider on all sides than the vent itself.Use a side cutter or fencing tool to cut out each piece of fencing.Staple each piece around the side vents with heavy-duty hardware staples.


Be careful with the edges of the fencing once you cut them, since they will be sharp and could draw blood.
Use the extra plywood left over from your sheet to create frames wide enough to cover the fencing. Prevent your dog from cutting itself on the fencing.
 For each piece of siding, use your jigsaw to cut 1” x 3” pine strapping into four lengths of equal height to the box. Place each piece in one corner of your box, on the inside. Assemble the sides by screwing each piece of plywood to the strapping in the corners., For each corner to the box, cut two more pieces of strapping of equal height to the box, minus three inches. Line each one up along either side of the corner, with one end flush to the bottom of the box. Screw them into the original piece of strapping inside. Next, cut four more pieces of equal width to the box. Place each one along the top of the box and screw them into the interior strapping., For each door, cut four more pieces of strapping to create a frame for the piece of plywood that you cut out for that door. Using that piece as backing, screw the strapping to the plywood cutout. Then use your jigsaw to cut out the center of the framed plywood. Measure out another piece of fencing to staple to the back of the frame.Hold the door in place over the entryway when finished. Check from the inside to see if any sharp edges of fencing are accessible from the inside of the box. If so, create another frame out of plywood to attach to the back of the door in order to cover the edges.
 First, screw one side of your hinges to the door’s strapping. If you cut your doorway so that one side lines up with the strapping on the outside of your box, simply screw the hinges’ other side to the reinforcement. If not, attach a new piece of strapping to the plywood, along the doorway’s side, and attach the hinges there. Screw another piece of strapping into place along the doorway’s other side. Use this to attach a hasp or latch in order to keep the door securely shut.
 Use 1” x 2” pressure-treated lumber to raise the box and keep the other wood out of reach of moisture to prevent mold, mildew, and rot.Cut four lengths to line the bottoms of the box’s four sides. Gently turn the box over with the bottom facing up and screw the pressure-treated wood into the strapping at the corners.
 First, judge where to place them based on the size of the box and your own lifting abilities. Determine whether the box is small enough for you to easily reach two handles on opposite sides and then lift without straining.If not, you will need a partner to carry it from one side.


Screw handles into place along the top, bottom, or both as you see fit.
Fasten two handles per carrier so they can use both hands to lift.
 Screw one pair into the strapping on either side of the front of the box, two inches up from the bottom.Attach another pair along the back. Install another two pairs into the bed of your vehicle, each within a few inches of where the box’s corresponding eyebolt will be once inside. Use these eyebolts to secure the box in position with straps or chains.


If your dog box doubles a doghouse, use the eyebolts to secure the box to the ground with tie-out chains.
 Cut another piece of pressure-treated wood to equal the box’s width. Lay your tarp out and place the cut wood along the center of the tarp, parallel with its shorter ends. Fold the tarp in half over the wood. Transfer it as is to the top of the box, with the wood lined up along the front of the box. Unfold the tarp and make sure that it covers the front and back of the box entirely, and at least five or six inches of each side. Then screw the pressure-treated wood into the strapping along the top of the box.After that, cut another piece of plywood to cover the top and screw that into place through the tarp and strapping along the top of the box.
The tarp will shield the doors, vents, and wood from rain, wind, and other elements.
 Once your box is assembled, lay a bed for your dog over the area where the box will sit.Lay down blankets, pillows, straw, or other soft material. Set the box's open bottom down over this area.


The open bottom will make cleaning up after your dog a cinch in case it gets car sick or makes any other mess.

