 Talking with other parents who can relate to what you are going through may also help you to survive the summer months. Try to connect with other parents at least once per week.For example, you might try calling up a friend who also has kids and ask if he or she would like to bring her kids over for a play date and have coffee with you. This will give your kids something fun to do and it will give you a chance to talk with an adult for a while.
You might also consider joining an online parenting forum to connect with other parents. Try looking for special interest forums, such as “surviving summer” or “parents with mental illness.”

, If you have a significant other who works during the day, then he or she can be a valuable source of support. Share the challenges and triumphs of your day with him or her at some point during your time together.You might develop an evening ritual with your spouse, such as drinking a cup of tea or a glass of wine together after the kids have gone to bed. During this time, you can ask your significant other how his or her day went and talk about your day as well.
 There may be days when you will struggle and feel overwhelmed by your situation. When this happens, make sure that you call someone for assistance, such as a supportive friend or relative. Having a friend or family member come over and help you or even just chat with you for a little while may make you feel better.For example, if you are having a hard time keeping your kids occupied and you feel overwhelmed by housework as well, then try calling a friend and ask if he or she can come and help you out for a little bit.
Try saying something like, “I am having a rough day. Do you have time to come over and watch the kids for a little bit while I get dinner ready?”

, If you are in treatment for your mental illness, then make sure that you continue to see your therapist and comply with other treatments, such as medication. If you are not in treatment, then you may want to seek a referral to a mental health professional from your doctor.A therapist can help you to learn healthy coping techniques to manage the stress of parenting.
 In the event that you need to go to an emergency room or you need to be admitted to a hospital, it is important to know who will take care of your kids. You can develop a crisis plan with your doctor or therapist.In the plan, include information about who will care for your kids while you are away. Make sure that you have asked this person if he or she is willing to care for your kids while you are away.
Try to make the plan when you are feeling calm.

