 If you find it complicated enough to worry about hair and make-up, go with dark clothes and wear a witch's cape over them. Note that Tonks’ style of dress is somewhat punk.If you have a large budget, you may want to check e-bay sites for Renaissance/Medieval attire and purchase a dressy, heavy cape for effect. For example, a black silk chiffon coat can have similar look to what Tonks wears.
If you don't want to spend too much, you could just pick a cape out from your local costume store’s supply of pre-made Halloween costumes.
If you're experienced in sewing, you might be able to make costume pieces to suit your taste.;
, Find a black or olive green military-styled jacket. Sew fabric of the same colour to the end of the jacket to create the jacket’s below-the-knee length.Either leave the fabric symmetrical or continue to gain inspiration from Tonks by giving the added fabric an asymmetric look.
Give the jacket exaggerated sleeves by attaching some black fabric to add onto the jacket sleeves and give it length. Sew two long cuffs that you have made out of black fabric to the ends of the jacket’s sleeves.
 Create layers with a gray hooded jacket and a burgundy hooded pullover. The pullover will be worn underneath the gray jacket. Pull both of the hoods outside of the long overcoat to recreate Tonks’ layered look.An alternative to the burgundy hooded pullover is a burgundy shirt. When you button up the overcoat, buttons will be left undone to leave the bottom of the shirt exposed.
 You can also use leggings or striped tights if you don’t feel like wearing jeans. Just make sure that the colour you choose is black and that you pay special attention to giving your bottoms a distressed look.Finish off the look by adding a pair of black combat boots. For a more Tonks look, leave the laces of your boots undone.
 Since Tonks is a member of the Order of the Phoenix, you could create an accessory that shows off this characteristic. Create something similar to a police badge that bears the Order of the Phoenix crest.


You could make it by photocopying the book cover to a smaller size, colouring it accordingly, and pasting it to a sturdy back of stiff cardboard.
Attach a safety pin to the back and decorate it with glitter or a gold-coloured marker. This is a very low-budget example for a pin-on badge.
You could also purchase some jewelry featuring a Phoenix symbol and wear that for a classier and more grown-up look. Ebay might be a helpful source to find this accessory.
 Tonks is characterized as being clumsy. Apply a stain or a scorch mark to your clothes to give it a touch of Tonks personality.

