 When you open the game after making your way through the tutorial, you will be presented with three daily quests. These quests will be refreshed every day up to the amount you completed the previous day. They will grant you various amounts of gold upon completion., You might receive a quest to play the Druid three times and a quest to win three matches. If you play the Druid while you are working on winning three matches, you'll get more done in fewer games.
 After you have completed the objectives of any quests that overlap, finish up any remaining Daily Quests. This method will ensure that you get as many quests done in the least amount of time., There are many achievements that you can acquire just through playing the game. For instance, every three times you win in Play mode you will be awarded with 10 gold. This is not a successive win requirement but can be achieved cumulatively, meaning you don't need to win three in a row to get the bonus.
 Some achievements you can earn are one-time bonuses. These achievements can give you anything from a special card back, mounts or in-game items for other Blizzard games, or Gold! The achievements can be associated with a recent expansion or with a real time event like the E3 conference, or even just a part of the core game.Some known achievements that earn gold are - Level every hero to level 10, collect all cards in the basic sets, collect every expert card, win 1000 games in Play mode, and defeat all the expert heroes in Practice mode.
 Check the news on Blizzard’s website to see if expansions or events come with new unlocks or special quests. Sometimes new ways to earn gold are revealed and the best way to know when this happens is through Blizzard’s website dedicated to Hearthstone. Another way to find out new events is through the game launcher., Even though the Arena costs money to enter, the rewards far outweigh the cost. You will have the opportunity to earn gold based on how many wins you get while playing. You will also have the ability to unlock new booster packs and legendary cards, and even gain cards from expansions you might not own. It is a great way to earn gold and expand your collection while you are at it.
 Whether you want to play more rounds in the arena or buy new booster packs, spending your gold is a great way to get more gold. Once you have spent your gold on new packs you will be able to complete more achievements with ease.
 Odds are that as you do this you will get better and better at winning in the arena. The better you are at winning, the higher your loot value will be at the end of an Arena session. This will ultimately mean more gold from your wins.

