 Before you begin formalizing plans for your painting business, honestly assess your abilities to paint. Taking an objective view of your skills and experience can help you decide if starting a painting business is the right option for you.An excellent way to assess your skills is to compare your work to other painting businesses in your area. Is your work comparable or better? You can’t expect to be successful if you can’t compete with existing businesses.Do people often ask you who painted your home? If so, this might be a good sign that your skills are in demand, especially because word of mouth can be a powerful advertising tool.;
, Consider how having a painting business will fit into your lifestyle. Knowing whether or not the time, emotional, and physical demands of being a painter can work into your life is important if you want to run a successful business.


Can you meet the physical demands? Painting for money may mean you are standing for long hours and having to pick up heavy equipment.
Think about how having a painting business fits your personality. Client management is a significant part of the job and if you like working with and making people happy with your services, this could be an excellent choice for you.
You might consider your location. If your business is in an isolated or rural region, it may be difficult to reach potential clients—either physically or through advertising., Painters can earn on average about $35,000 per year. This amount can change depending on how often and where you work. Only proceed with your plans if the average pay meets your financial needs.The general average salary for painters works out to about $17.00 per hour, which is above the minimum wage.Remember that you will have to pay taxes and other fees for your business, including supplies and wages if you are going to hire other people to work with you.
 You’ll need to have a high quality and heavy-duty painting supplies that can withstand repeated use. You may need to invest significantly in new equipment, but this can help you garner better profits.


Remember that quality equipment is the core of your business and will allow you to make money.
 You should establish a legal entity to legitimize your business. Starting your business as a legal entity, including having a marketing strategy and billing structure, can help show potential investors and clients that you are a serious businessperson.


If you have any questions, consult the Small Business Administration, which can help smaller companies get started.Consult with local authorities to ensure you have all of the correct licenses, certificates, and any insurance you need to run your business. The Small Business Administration can also help if you have any questions.Establishing a proper business entity can also minimize your potential personal liability if problems with your business arise.Make sure to register your business with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or other tax authorities.
You may want to hire a local lawyer and accountant to help you navigate the legal and financial sides of your business, from registering with authorities and the IRS to budgeting.
 Draft and finalize short- and long term plans to guide your business. This is important to help develop your business and accommodate for any contingency such as an illness or a lawsuit.


The basic elements of a business plan should include: your company’s goals and objectives, your financing needs, marketing strategies, and how you will implement your business plan.You should begin the plan with an executive summary that clearly states to your readers what you want.Be as detailed in your plan as possible. List owner and any employees’ responsibilities. Create a working list of services and prices that you can tailor to demand. Finally, make sure to calculate any costs you may have to take on for supplies and payroll.
 You will likely be conducting much of your business in person, so consider leasing or buying a vehicle that can take you to meet clients and carry your supplies. This can help you appear more professional and help you more easily access clients.You will need sufficient space to carry supplies such as ladders, brushes, paints, or compressors. You may want to consider a large utility van or pickup truck.You’ll want to outfit the vehicle to effectively organize your supplies, which can help you appear more professional., You should have listed your various painting supplies in your business plan. Once you’ve established your company, purchase any additional supplies you may need to get started.


In addition to having different sized ladders, an assortment of brushes, paint trays, sprayers, and breathing masks, you may also consider getting industrial sized equipment if you are dealing with very large jobs.Ask store owners if they offer business discounts and whether they extend credit. Find out if they have tools and resources they are willing to give you if you use them, such as color swatches.
Open accounts with suppliers you would like to work with.
Purchase your equipment from your preferred suppliers.
 Find an experienced mentor who understands either small businesses or the painting business. He will help grow your business and guide you through difficult times or situations.


This person can offer invaluable advice on everything from pricing to dealing with difficult clients or continuing your education as a painter.
 Most painting businesses will offer different services such as painting houses, businesses, or cars. Some may even paint banners or placards for large events. The more diversified your services, the more likely you are to be successful.


Even if you offer several different services, consider specializing in a specific genre to help attract clients. For example, maybe you work very well older homes. You might want to consider restoring the pain on historic homes.
It’s important to not be too diversified. Offer several different services that you do well instead of dozens that you do marginally.
 Set up pricing structure for your services. Knowing how much you want to charge in advance can make you appear more professional when you meet with potential clients.


You may want to set base rates and tailor them according to how much work each individual job will cost.
Looking at what other companies charge will give you a point of reference.
Make sure your prices are commensurate with your experience and the location in which you’re offering painting. For example, painting jobs in places such as Wyoming may not cost as much as New York City.
An excellent way to gauge prices is by checking the prices of comparable painting services in your local area. You want to stay competitive with your prices while making sure you’re compensated fairly for your work. A mentor may be able to help you figure out fair prices for you and your clients.
One aspect to consider when assessing your prices is the speed at which and the detail with which you paint. If it takes you a longer time to paint because it requires intricate work, you’ll want to adjust your prices to help ensure you’re getting paid an amount commensurate to your skills and work.
 Once you know your pricing system, install an invoicing and payment structure. Consider the types of payment you will accept and how you will write receipts, which will help legitimize your business and make it easier to report income.


Make sure to have a separate bank account for your business than you do for personal finances.Likewise, have separate credit lines for your business than you do for yourself.Make sure every aspect of your pricing and billing is transparent to clients and vendors. Maintaining fair business practices is vital to your success.
 Consider hiring staff to assist your painting business. In the early stages, you may need to be the only person to help with painting jobs- or you may not yet have the finances to hire staff.


If you decide to hire employees, you’ll need to interview people and make sure they are professional and have some experience with painting and can help you grow your business.
Any employees may likely need licenses, certificates, and insurance. They may also need training in painting methods.
 This will be one of the many calling cards that you can show potential and actual clients. You can also use your portfolio to advertise on the web and social media.


Having a special or signature style that distinguishes you from other painting businesses will attract clients to your business.
Take pictures of any services you complete and consistently update them on your web presence.
Make sure to include a different types and styles of painting jobs to appeal to a wide variety of tastes and budgets clients may have.
 Ads are often the first impression potential clients have of you and you’ll want to consider different media to attract clients. Hooking your potential customers and keeping the message simple and concise can help attract a wide array clients.


If you decide to design your own ads and website, research local businesses advertising to guide your design. You want your brand to be simple, distinctive, and attractive to your clients and potential customers.
Design your ads to complement your brand. Use similar color and design schemes so that clients and potential customers associate these elements with you.
Small businesses rely heavily on word-of-mouth advertising. Build clientele through referrals and maintaining strong business relationships with your clients.
If you are able, paint your service vehicle with your company’s name and logo, which can plant a seed in potential clients’ minds to contact you.
Partner with other businesses to advertise your business. You can work out a system where other local businesses display your business cards in their office in exchange for referring them to your clients.
Being involved in community activities is a type of free marketing. Consider donating your services service or making a contribution to a charity. This can get your name out in the public you want to serve.
 Guarantee the quality of your services. If you believe in them enough to guarantee satisfaction, possible clients may be more likely try out your business and current clients may be more likely to keep coming back.


For example, you may want to guarantee that the color of paint won’t fade or that the paint won’t slip off of whatever surface you’ve painted.
 Painting can be a very trend-conscious business. Staying abreast of current trends and new painting methods or technologies can help your business succeed.


Read trade publications, attend homeowners conventions, and network with other painters to help you stay current in your skills and services.

