 Sensitive skin can become red, irritated, and itchy after using normal daily products. Basic cleansers can sometimes be too irritating for people with sensitive skin. Recognizing how your skin reacts to different products will help you to determine what products are safe to use on sensitive skin.


You may notice more sensitivity on some areas of the body than others. The face, dorsum of the hands, and finger webs are more prone to irritation from chemical substances than the palms, soles, or back, for example.;
, Different weather conditions, such as extreme temperatures or harsh winds, can cause problems with sensitive skin.Hot weather can cause heat rash, redness and/or tightness. Additionally, hot weather can lead to oily skin and acne, tempting you to use harsher cleansers. Sticking with gentler cleansers for sensitive skin may in fact improve your skin more so than using harsher soaps that cause further irritation and redness.
Cold weather and harsh winds can cause dryness and irritation. Dry skin can cause feelings of tightness and itchiness and lotions may provide some relief. Be sure to invest in natural fragrance-free lotions to prevent any adverse reactions, while still moisturizing your skin.
 Sensitive skin can be quite dry and can become irritated by harsh soaps. If the products contain a fragrance, this can further contribute towards irritation. If you've noticed that the fancy smelling soaps leave your skin feeling funny, your skin is probably too sensitive for them, and investing in some gentle, fragrance-free soaps and washes may prove useful.
 Sensitive skin usually does not react well to shaving or certain shaving products. Often it will turn blotchy, (large red marks), feel itchy or come up in a rash. This is a result of breaking the barrier your skin provides between the underlying layers of skin and the outside world.


Shaving can cause small breaks in your skin that allow chemicals to penetrate deeper, causing more problems to sensitive skin. If this happens then you should invest in a hair removal product that is designed for sensitive skin.
 Most people with sensitive skin have reactions to a wide variety of products that may extend beyond redness and dryness.


Some of these products will cause an immediate reaction, but some may only cause irritation after being exposed to sunlight.If your skin feels like it’s burning after only a few minutes in the sun, you may be reacting to your sunscreen and not actually getting sunburned that quickly.

