 You know your seat is at the right height if you can keep your hips stable on the bike instead of rocking them back and forth to reach the bottom of the pedal stroke. When your foot is at the lowest point while pedaling, you want your knee to be slightly bent, not locked out completely straight or curved.


Your knee should be bent roughly 25 degrees. This feels similar to standing upright in an athletic position-- just a slight bend is enough.If you do not have access to measuring tape, use this as your guideline for adjusting the seat height by hand: knee slightly bent, hips square while riding, and comfortable ability to pedal.;
, This is the distance from your crotch to the floor measured down the inside of your leg. To get an accurate inseam reading:


Hold the spine of a hardcover book under your crotch, mimicking the feeling of a seat.
Stand with your feet 6" apart.
Measure from the spine of the book to the floor. This is your inseam.Multiply your inseam by 1.09. The resulting number will be the distance in inches that should be measured between the top of your bike seat and the axle of your pedals. For example: an inseam of 29 inches (73.7 cm), multiplied by 1.09 equals 31.6 inches (80.3 cm). So the top of your seat and the axle point of your pedals should be 31.6 inches (80.3 cm) apart. (This measurement can also be calculated with centimeters)., All seat posts are are loosened and adjusted at the junction where the seat post meets the bike frame. A quick-release lever at the base of the seat post can be pried opened and adjusted by hand. If there is a small bracket with a screw in it, you have a bolted seat post: use an Allen key or adjustable wrench to loosen the bolt just enough to move the seat post.
 Gently slide the seat post up or down to reach your ideal measurement. It can help to nick the post at the right height, so you can find this adjustment again if the seat slips or someone borrows the bike.
 Either press the quick-release lever back down to its locked position, or re-tighten the bolts with your Allen key or adjustable wrench until there is no movement. You do not need to get it so tight that you can't undo it later. Basic hand tightness will be enough.
 Head out into the driveway and go for a slow test ride. Make sure you can easily reach the pedals and get onto the bike, and you knees are not locked. Try standing while you pedal to make sure you can comfortably get out of the saddle. Make sure that the seat is facing straight ahead or your riding position will be awkward and uncomfortable.









Place the ball of your foot on the pedal when you ride. There should now be a slight bend (25 degrees) in your knee when the pedal is at its lowest point. This is your optimal seat height.
If you have clip pedals or cages, make sure you use them on your test ride -- they will affect your ride.
Everyone has a different body type -- your inseam measurement should be used as a starting point. You should then adjust the bike to fit you comfortably., If you have knee pain, the biggest cause is usually your seat height. Depending on what the pain is, you likely have different problems. However, if the pain does not go away with seat adjustments you should see a doctor.









If the pain is on the back of your knee, the seat is too high.

If the pain is on the front of your knee, the seat is too low.Your hips should be sturdy, not rocking, while you pedal. If you slide your hips to each side with your pedal strokes, your seat is too high.

