 In the left side it shows Places which shows locations on your computer, Most Used which are the apps you open regularly, Recently Added which shows all your new apps and All apps to view all the apps installed on your device.;
, In the top right corner in the Start menu there is the Resize button which can make expand the menu full screen so you can easily see all your apps.
 In your app list you can press and hold or right click apps and select Pin to Start.
 You can drag apps around in the Start Menu and put them in folders by hovering them until a divider bar appears, then add a name to the folder.
 Click on Start and then enter your search term. This search button is the same as Cortana, though Cortana can also be activated by voice (it uses the same search box). Windows 10 searches the Internet and your PC at the same time.
 The onscreen power button has moved to the top right corner of the Start menu. (You can also right-click the Start button and select the correct option from the second to last option at the bottom of this context menu/list. This option will be a temporary fix if you haven't installed the November 2015 more major update to Windows 10(before this, if you used the Start menu's option, on the next boot, once logged in, the Start Menu/screen wouldn't become hidden and the system would crash.))

, The applications in the Store on Windows 10 brings a more uniform experience on your Windows devices. You can download from thousands of apps that will help you get more done, have fun, be productive and stay in touch.
 Open the Store from the Start Menu or taskbar and browse away. Find apps using the search bar or view the featured, top and rising categories. Make sure you have an active Microsoft account logged in and that your computer has the current date set.
 Find your app in the App list or under recent in the Start menu. Once you have got your app it will automatically update for free.
 Drag your app to the sides or corners of the screen to have multiple apps open at the same time, then use Task view to access your open apps.
 To change the settings in app select the menu button in the top left corner. You can also search, share and print from most of it's apps.
 Windows 10 allows you to group your apps on different desktops. All you need to do is open Task view, then Add a desktop.
 To navigate Windows 10 faster, Microsoft has introduced new gestures which involve swiping in from an edge.
 Swipe in from the right to view the action center(no longer does this open the charms bar), swipe in from the left to view task view(no longer does this open your apps list), swipe in from the top to view title bars and swipe in from the bottom to view the task bar.
 Swipe three fingers up to open task view, swipe three fingers down to expose the desktop and swipe three fingers to a side to switch between apps.
 Press Ctrl + Windows key + D to add a desktop, press Shift + Windows key + left or right arrow to switch between desktops and press Windows key + A to view the action center.
 You can drag apps around in the Start Menu and snap apps side by side to multitask.
 Edge is the latest Internet browser which provides better integration with Cortana, OneDrive and your other Microsoft services. You can now find stuff faster, have all your stuff in the Hub, draw on the web (for making notations which can be used in the new, integrated OneNote app/tool), and add websites to your Reading list.
 All your photos are stored in your Photos app. They will sync beautifully with OneDrive and make your photos look their best by fixing red eye, color, lighting, crooked photos and more.
 Your computer now has all your Xbox stuff in one place. You can find your Xbox friends, game history, achievements, activity and messages.
 With the new Maps app you can explore in 3D, view street level, download maps, print directions, view the traffic and find new places.
 The new Store app brings better performance to your computer and more uniform architecture across your devices. There are thousands of apps that can help you stay entertained and increase productivity.
 The settings tool can be found by accessing the Start menu's Settings button and selecting the right drop-downs from the menu that comes up. The new settings app has been completely changed with a new look and name. You can enhance your computer to suit you more and personalize it's appearance.
 Want to create a virtual notebook but don't have money to buy the expensive Office Suite of products? No problem with Windows 10. The OneNote tool is a rather light and flexible software that will help you note-take. And best of all, if you have notebooks set up in OneNote or are synchronizing notes from the OneDrive website, you'll still be able to obtain these notebooks too. (The only problem with this is, while it does have ways to add some formatting to notes, you loose some functionality of not having the full OneNote product (as tables, charts, and some functionality of the full product is lost.)

Be careful of this integrated product if you already have the full Office Suite of tools when you search for the program. The integrated one will be listed as just "OneNote" in the list. If it has a year/make to the name, this product is the full OneNote product (or to some who haven't purchased them yet, the ones with the year could be a trial version of the OneNote product).
 Located in the taskbar there is a search box. Enter your term and you will get results from the internet and local files.
 Select the Search my stuff option to search your music, videos, settings and documents on your computer and OneDrive.
 Log into your Microsoft account on your device so that you can access the cloud from File Explorer. Your files will automatically synchronize and keep up to date.
 Drag and drop your files in File Explorer onto your OneDrive folder. When saving files you can also select your OneDrive account so you can save it directly.
 If you are low on space or use a metered Internet connection you can select which folders to sync. To to this press and hold or right click your OneDrive icon and then select Choose Folders under the settings tab.
 When you open File Explorer you can use the quick access page to open and view the files you are working on or regularly use. Click on View, then Options to adjust your quick access settings.
 Microsoft Edge is the newest way to browse the web and is replacing Internet Explorer.


There is still a way to get Internet Explorer back, but it's quite hidden underneath all of Edge's new features - hidden behind the gears menu by selecting "Open in Internet Explorer".
 When you search you get results from the web, browsing history and your favorites on the spot.
 You can find your favorites, history, reading list and downloads in the Hub. To open the Hub click the icon in the top right corner.
 Select the Web note icon in the top right to have access to a pen, highlighter and add notes.
 You can now save websites to read them later. You can even change the font and adjust the mood. Remember that your Reading list can be accessed in the Hub.
 Microsoft has given system settings a makeover with new categories. As described earlier in this article, you can find the new settings app by going to Start and clicking Settings.
 Each app has settings you can change. Select the menu button in the top left corner and go to Settings.
 Go to Personalization in the Settings app and you can change your lock screen, background, sounds and more.
 The Action Center keeps track of all your notifications and lets you take action quickly. To open the Action Center, click the icon in the taskbar. This tends to replace Notification Center from Windows 7, 8 and 8.1.


Take action. Tap any notifications in the Action Center to get more information and take action without even having to open the open the app or you can remove the notification by hovering over the item and clicking the top right corner's "X" button/icon.
 At the bottom of the Action Center you can see the settings that you use frequently.
 If you have a touchscreen PC in the Action Center, you can select Tablet mode to switch to a more touch friendly interface.

