 You may notice your baby is very gassy after eating. While gassiness is a common gastrointestinal problem, if your baby is also experiencing diarrhea or vomiting, she may have allergic colitis.It's a good idea to keep a journal of how often your baby has experienced diarrhea, gas or vomiting. This can be helpful in making a diagnosis.;
, Check your baby's diapers for blood. Bloody stools are one of the most common signs of allergic colitis in babies between 2 and 6 weeks old. There may only be a little blood or spotting, but bloody stools could lead to other health complications.Know that bloody stools could be a sign of, or lead to, other health problems.
If your baby is experiencing heavy bleeding, the cause may not be allergic colitis. The doctor will want to check your baby for tears in the perianal area or other issues.
 While crying and fussing are normal, recognize when your baby seems irritable. If you think your baby is constantly upset, extremely fussy, or can't be calmed, your baby may have allergic colitis.Your baby will probably also have trouble eating or will refuse to eat.
 In addition to gastrointestinal problems or bloody stools, your baby might develop common allergic reactions. Look for a skin rash (eczema) or nasal congestion.Your baby may have more of these allergic symptoms if their allergic colitis is severe as opposed to a mild case.
 Allergic colitis can appear in newborn babies and infants through age one. Most babies that develop allergic colitis start showing mild symptoms by the time they're two months old, but they can appear as late as six months old.You may realize that your baby's symptoms worsen over time.
 If you or the baby's other parent has an allergic disease, your baby has a 30% risk of developing allergic disease as well. If both of you have an allergic disease, your baby has a 60% risk. This means that a baby may be at increased risk of allergic colitis if one or both parents has a medical history of allergic disease.About 1% to 2% of all babies have allergic colitis. Other risk factors for colitis include family history of asthma or environmental allergies.

