 Like any business letter, you include the date at the top in the left-hand corner. The form really doesn't matter, but if you want to be more formal, include the full name of the month, the date, and then the year., Next, add a line break and your name and address. Underneath that, add the address of the company. If it's a large company, send it to their billing center, which you can find on the company's website. If it's a small company, you can send it to the owner or the business manager., If you are sending it to a small business, address the manager or owner by name if possible, with "Dear Mrs. Isabel Withers:" Use a colon at the end of the salutation. If you don't have a name, "Dear Sir or Madam:" is fine., Tell the company exactly why you are writing the letter, including the date and the amount of the dispute. Also explain why you think it is wrong.For instance, you could say, "I'm writing to dispute an amount charged on my credit card by your store. On January 27, 2015, your store charged my credit card twice for $122.14. I did make ONE purchase of $122.14, but my credit card was run twice. I request that you remove the second charge."

, For instance, if you talked to someone over the phone, include that information with the name of the person and the date, if possible. If you've talked to your credit card company already, include that in the letter as well., To support your cause, you should include evidence. For instance, you could include a copy of your credit card statement (with secure information marked out), as well as a copy of the receipt for the day in question if you have it.Of course, when you say you are including something, make sure you are including it.


For instance, in the second paragraph, you could say "I am including a copy of my credit card statement that shows both charges, as well as a copy of the receipt from that day. These documents support my claim."

, Do not leave the business confused about what you want. Make sure you are absolutely clear.As an example, you could end by saying, "I would appreciate it if you would look into this error and then remove the charge from my credit card."

, Under the letter, place the word "Sincerely," with a comma after it. Under that, leave a space (for you to sign your name) and then type your name below it., Print out the letter from your computer. Sign it between "Sincerely," and your printed name.
 Always keep a copy for yourself, so you have a record. You can keep a copy on your computer, but it's better to keep a copy of the one you sign and send., Certified mail is best because it guarantees that the company receives it. That way, you have evidence that someone there signed for it.