 Once you know your own measurements and you know how to find the measurements for a pair of pants, it's not hard to narrow down your selection of pants to the few pairs that fit you best. If possible, try to pick a pair whose measurements never differ by more than an inch (2.5 centimeters) from your own.
 Once you've made this mistake once, you'll never make it twice: always try on jeans before you pay for them. Even a pair of jeans that looks perfect on paper may not fit comfortably once you actually try them on. One reason for this is that different manufacturers use different standards for their sizes — some designers can even differ from the "actual" measurements by a matter of inches. In addition, some materials (especially elastics, etc.) feel more comfortable to wear tightly than others. For these reasons, you'll never want to buy a pair of jeans just because they seem like they'll probably fit you without making sure.


If you're shopping online, trying pants on before you buy them is unfortunately impossible. In this case, you may want to read customer feedback and reviews to get a sense for how the pants fit (e.g., whether they're unusually tight in the thighs, sit low on the waist, etc.) You may also want to consider buying from retailers with generous return policies for online sales so that, if worst comes to worst, you can get your money back and buy a different size.
 Unless they shrink in the wash, most pairs of jeans are at their tightest the first time you wear them. With the stresses from repeated wearing, most jeans loosen up slightly over time, becoming more comfortable to wear (Some people call this process "breaking in" a pair of jeans.) This may affect your purchase — if a pair of jeans feels just ever-so-slightly too tight when you try them on, you may be able to get away with wearing them in the long run.


Some tailors even recommend buying jeans that are 1/2 inch (about 1.25 centimeters) too small for you so that they will fit perfectly once they're broken in.Note, however, that this is somewhat dependent on the quality of the material.
Keep in mind also that different brands of jeans almost always fit and stretch slightly differently. One online fashion source ranks common jean brands as follows (from tightest to loosest):H&M, Calvin Klein, Alfani, Gap, Haggar, Dockers, Old Navy





, Not happy with the fit of your jeans? By enlisting the services of a professional tailoring service, you can make sure that your jeans fit just right. There are two ways to do this: by visiting a tailor's shop in person with your jeans or by using an online made-to-order jean seller (like for instance, madetoorderjeans.com).The former option is virtually guaranteed to get you the correct fit, while the latter is more convenient but is susceptible to your own measurement errors as well as the manufacturer's.


Jeans weren't traditionally the sort of garment that would usually be brought to the tailor, but you don't need to worry about bringing your jeans in for tailoring today — designer jeans can easily cost hundreds of dollars, so it's best to make sure they fit., Jean sizes — especially for women — are notoriously difficult to get just right. If you need help figuring out exactly which pair of jeans is best for you, try consulting a jean size chart (you can find a good one for women here and a good one for men here.)To use a size chart, find your measurements on the chart, then read across to the left to determine which size you need. For example, using the first chart suggested above, if we had about a 31 inch waist, a 43 inch hip, and a 25 inch thigh measurement, we'd be about right for a size 14 pair of jeans.

