 The clear shell can be peeled off with your fingers and the dark vein running through the center of the back can be removed with the tip of a sharp knife.If the head and legs are still attached, pull them off with your fingers.






Use your fingers to peel back the outer shell, starting from the head end and working toward the tail. The tail can be removed or kept on for decoration.






Cut down the center of the shrimp's back with a paring knife. Make a shallow cut that is just deep enough to reveal the vein.






Dig the vein out with the tip of your knife.





;
, Fill a large saucepan with 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of water and heat on the stove over high heat. Place a steamer rack inside of the saucepan as the water comes to a boil.

If desired, you could add lemon juice and salt to the water instead of adding it to the shrimp. Doing so will create a more subtle flavor, allowing more of the shrimp's natural taste to come through.






If you do not have a steamer rack or steamer basket, you could use a metal or wire mesh colander, instead.






The water level should be below the bottom of the steamer basket. Do not allow the water to come through the steamer basket. If this happens, you may end up boiling the shrimp instead of steaming it.
 Arrange the shrimp in a single layer on the steamer rack and sprinkle with the salt, pepper, and garlic powder, or any other seasonings you choose.

It is best to keep the shrimp in a single layer, but if you end up having multiple layers, the shrimp should still cook through. They may not cook quite as evenly, but the difference will not usually be very distinguishable.






Since there are gaps in the bottom of the steamer rack, you should not toss the shrimp after adding the seasonings, or else a large portion of the seasonings will be lost as you turn the shrimp over.






If you used salt in the water, you do not need to use salt on the shrimp now.
 The exact amount of time will vary depending on the size of your shrimp. Standard size shrimp will cook in about 3 minutes, covered, once steam starts building inside the pan.You need to place the saucepan lid on the pan as you cook the shrimp. This is the only way steam can build up, and the steam is necessary for cooking the shrimp.






Wait until after steam starts escaping from the lid on the pot before you start timing. This alone can take another few minutes.






Check the shrimp after the first 2 minutes to avoid overcooking it.






When done, shrimp will curl up into the shape of the letter C.






For jumbo or colossal shrimp, add another 2 to 3 minutes.
 If you plan to serve the shrimp cold, immediately remove them from the steamer rack using a slotted spoon and dunk them into a bowl of ice water.


Pour the bowl of ice water and chilled shrimp through a colander to remove the water before serving.
 If you plan on serving the shrimp hot, transfer them from the steamer rack using a slotted spoon and place them in a serving dish.


You should serve the shrimp immediately if you plan on serving them without chilling them. Do not refrigerate and reheat. If you do this, you may end up overcooking the shrimp, and the consistency will turn rubber-like.

