 Play simple games with your baby. For instance, attract your baby’s attention by saying, “Baby, baby, over here!” in a happy and boisterous way. When your baby is looking at you, place both hands on your head. Remove your hands from your head, then put them back on your head several times. By repeating the action, your baby will be encouraged to imitate you.Play peek-a-boo. Use your hands to cover your face, then reveal your face to the baby while saying “Peek-a-boo!” Smile after making your exclamation. Repeat several times so your baby will be inspired to try to imitate you.Touching objects or toys with your hand several times in succession will demonstrate to your baby how their limbs work. They will therefore be equipped to imitate you later by doing the same thing.There’s no telling how many times you’ll need to repeat a given action before your baby will imitate you. Some babies are not much interested in playing games with adults. Other babies find great joy in imitating the actions of adults and others in play.
If your baby does not catch on right away despite your encouragement, help baby imitate you by moving its hands to the right place on the toy, or moving its hands to its head. Always be gentle when moving your baby.
These play behaviors are best encouraged when your baby is 41 weeks old or older.
 Sit your baby in a high-chair where they are secure. Ensure your baby is looking at you. Take a baby spoon and dip it in a soft pudding or gelatin. Open your mouth wide in an exaggerated and unnatural way. Take a bite of the sweet gelatin or pudding. This model will help your baby copy eating behavior.To test whether or not your baby will actually imitate you after your encouragement, dip a baby spoon into a jar of baby food and bring the spoon close to your baby’s mouth. Your baby should copy your behavior.
Try to make friendly, positive facial expression while feeding your baby. If you are dour or grim whilst feeding your baby, it might get the impression that eating is not much fun, and be disinclined to continue imitating you.
 When your baby is 18 months old, it can engage in more complex behaviors like cleaning – if you provide encouragement. Provide your child with a small toy broom so it can imitate your behavior. While your child is watching you, take your own broom and sweep your wood, vinyl, or other smooth floor. Bend over and sweep the dust and crumbs you’ve collected into a dustpan. Dispose of them in the bin., At 7-8 months old, your baby will be able to copy more complex gestures like clapping. In order to encourage your child to imitate your clapping, clap for your baby. You could clap slow or fast.Whether you choose a fast or slow pace, your baby will probably not be able to copy you exactly.
You could also show your baby how to love a doll. Hold a doll with one hand and gently pat its head with the other. Do this several times to encourage your baby to do likewise. (You could choose to make a kind and affectionate remark to the doll, such as “I love you, little doll.”) Then, give the doll to your baby.
 At 18 months, you can begin encouraging your baby to imitate simple body language. As in all other forms of imitation encouragement, the trick is to show the behavior you want your baby to imitate, then repeat it several times.


For instance, you could encourage your child to shrug. When bidding farewell to day-care workers, caretakers, or relatives, place your hand near your head with the palm facing toward the person who is leaving, or who you are taking your leave of. Move the hand back and forth (from side to side) in order to wave goodbye. Encourage your baby to do the same. Say, “Wave goodbye, baby.”
You could also encourage your baby to shrug by demonstrating how to shrug. Lift your shoulders and hold them at the highest point possible for a brief moment, then relax them again.
You could encourage a more exaggerated shrug by lifting your arms out at your sides with your palms facing up at about shoulder level.
Repeat your shrug several times in succession to encourage your baby to try shrugging for itself.

