 It's a purple app that contains a white musical note inside a white circle.;
, It's In the lower-right part of the screen.


If prompted, enter your Apple ID and/or password.
 It's a tab at the top-center of the screen.
 Use the tabs at the top of the screen to do so:


Tap Music at the top of the screen and then tap All Songs in the upper-left to see all the purchased songs that are not on your iPad.
Tap Movies at the top of the screen to see all the purchased movies that are not on your iPad.
Tap TV Shows at the top of the screen and then tap All TV Episodes in the upper-left to see all the purchased TV episodes that are not on your iPad.
 Find the song(s) or video(s) you want to download and tap the cloud icon with the downward-pointing arrow that's next to it.


The media will begin downloading.
You can download multiple songs or videos at the same time.
 It's a blue app that contains a white "A" inside a white circle.
 It's In the bottom-center part of the screen.


If prompted, enter your Apple ID and/or password.
 It's at the top-center of the screen. A list of all the apps that you've purchased with your Apple ID, but are not currently on your iPad, will be displayed.


Apps are listed in the order that you purchased them, with the most recent at the top.
 Find an app you want to download and tap the cloud icon with the downward-pointing arrow that's next to it.


The app will begin downloading.
You can download multiple apps at the same time.
 It's a gray app that contains gears (⚙️) and is typically located on your home screen.
 It's next a to blue icon with the App Store logo. Your Apple ID will be displayed at the top of the screen.


If you're not already signed in, tap Sign In at the top of the screen, then enter your Apple ID and password, and tap Sign In.
If the wrong Apple ID is displayed, tap it, then tap Sign Out and sign in with the correct Apple ID.
 It's in the "AUTOMATIC DOWNLOADS" section and will turn green when enabled. Any music you purchase or download on other devices, using the same Apple ID, will now automatically download to your iPad.
 It's in the "AUTOMATIC DOWNLOADS" section and will turn green when enabled. Any apps you purchase or download on other devices, using the same Apple ID, will now automatically download to your iPad.

