 You will need a mailing address or email address, as well as the name of the person who is ultimately in charge of what will be published.


In the case of a website, you can check the website's Whois information to learn who registered the domain, who's hosting the website, and the identify of the owner's internet service provider.Simply enter the website address at https://whois.icann.org/en.
If you're dealing with a blog or website, you may be able to file a takedown notice as well. This option is only available to you if you are the copyright owner (or creator) of the photos, and if they've already been published by the website.Websites are required by law to employ an agent to deal with takedown requests and provide information on their website regarding how and where to submit a complaint. Look for a link that says "legal" or "copyright" at the top or bottom of the main webpage.
 If you're mailing a paper letter, format it using the business-letter template in your word processing application.


Although you can search online for cease and desist letters to use as guides, it's not necessary to have any particular language or for your writing to overly formal or legalistic.
Address your letter to a specific person, if you were able to find a name. Otherwise, "To Whom It May Concern" is an acceptable salutation for your letter. #Introduce yourself. Begin your letter by stating who you are and why you are writing.Be courteous and professional, and avoid making any personal statements or accusations. Simply provide your name and address and state that you are writing regarding the proposed publication of private photos.
If you're writing to a website and someone else has threatened to submit the photos to that website, keep in mind that the website owner may not have received your photos yet.
For example, if you recently broke up with your boyfriend and he is now threatening to submit your nude selfies to a "revenge porn" website, that may not have happened yet. You may need to go into a little more detail in your letter so the publisher understands why you are writing.
Identify clearly whether you are the creator of the photos, the subject in the photos, or both. Don't claim you are anything or anyone you aren't, and don't use threats or intimidation – such language may come back to haunt you later on.
 You must describe the photos with enough specificity that the publisher can tell which ones you're talking about.Include file numbers if you have them, but keep in mind that they may have been changed, so you also must describe the images in the photos.
If the photos were created using a phone or other digital camera, you can look at the "info" on the file to get specifics that identify the photo, including the date and time the photo was taken and the specifications of the equipment used. This data can further identify your photos.
List any unique or special details or characteristics within the photo.
If you've registered your copyright in the photos, tell the publisher that the photos are protected by registered copyright. Attach a copy of your copyright certificate if you have one.
 Copyrighted photos cannot be used without the consent of the copyright owner, and lack of consent is an important element of an invasion of privacy claim.Be clear and concise in this statement, and ground it in your identity as either the owner or subject of the photos.
For example, if you are the copyright owner, you could state "As copyright owner, I refuse to allow the publication of the photos subscribed under any circumstances or for any reason."
If you don't own a copyright in the photos, you may have to provide a little more information to assert your legal rights to refuse publication. For example, you might say "As the subject of these photos, I refuse to allow them to be published and will consider any publication an intentional invasion of my privacy."

, Providing a deadline enables you to take further steps to combat the publication if your letter is ignored.If you're planning on filing a lawsuit or pursuing other legal action, feel free to say so – but don't make the threat unless you've thoroughly researched that option and plan to follow through with it.
Sign your letter using your complete legal name, and provide contact information for the person to get back to you.
 If you're mailing a paper letter, consider using certified mail with returned receipt requested so you know when your letter is received.Make a copy of anything you mail after you've signed it but before you send it, so you have a copy for your records.
Set yourself a reminder for the deadline you provided in the letter so you can take further action if you don't hear back from the person by that date or if you find out your photos were published in the meantime.

