 If you can tell your partner is going to physically abuse you, call 911 immediately. Calling 911 can ensure that you will be able to stop the physical abuse. This will ensure your safety as you and your kids leave the house. The police might arrest your partner.
 Describe to the police what happened in detail and show where you were hurt. Have them take photos of the marks immediately or the next day when they show up, so the photos can be used in court.


Be sure to get the officers’ names, badge numbers. Ask for the case number so that you can get a copy of the report.
 Domestic violence hotlines have staff available to talk with you 24 hours a day. They can offer advice and help you locate resources in your area. These services are confidential and anonymous.


National Domestic Violence Hotline: 1-800-799-7233 | 1-800-787-3224 (TTY)
The National Domestic Violence Hotline also has a website (www.thehotline.com) where you can chat with someone online except for 2AM to 7AM central time. The staff will help you determine what your safest course of action is at this time. This website also has a list of 4,000 safehouses around the United States. They can help locate one for you and your children if need be.
 You may need a safe place to go if you want to get away. Make a list of all the places you can go. These might include:


Friends or family: Think of friends or family who are not familiar to your partner.
Safehouses: Safehouses are usually maintained by nonprofit organizations. They have a secret location and are usually accessible 24 hours a day, so if you have to sneak away while your partner is sleeping, you can. They can help you coordinate with government social services to get benefits to get you started. They can also help you with a court order of protection and with prosecution. Many offer counseling services.
 If you have experienced physical abuse, you should get a medical examination immediately. It’s important to get checked out because you could have a serious injury. If you are pregnant and were punched in your abdomen, you should seek medical attention immediately. If you were hit in the head, and you have dizziness, nausea, your vision is blurry, or you have a constant headache, you could have a serious head injury.


Nonprofit domestic violence organizations often work with hospitals. Ask for an advocate to be with you for support while in the hospital. This person can help you gain access into a shelter if need be.
Going to the hospital for your injuries is important to document the abuse. This will also be very helpful for prosecutors, because it provides evidence for their case.
 The National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence has a personalized safety plan form that you can print. Fill out this safety plan so that you know what you will do and where you will go.


The National Domestic Violence Hotline website also has safety plans that you can print out. They are available in English and Spanish.
 A personal protection order (PPO) is issued by your Circuit Court. It protects you from a person who is abusing, stalking or harassing you. It can also restrict a person from coming to your house or workplace.Be sure to carry a copy of your PPO with you at all times. This will help you if your abuser violates the PPO and you need to alert police right away.

