 This cleanse is less intensive than juice-only cleanses. You’ll simply be cutting certain things out of your diet and adding others for a certain amount of time. You need to consider the following when planning your dietary cleanse:


Your calorie needs.
You’ll likely be consuming more food per volume than normally, since many fresh vegetables have fewer calories than the foods you’ll be cutting out.
In order for the cleanse to work, you need to stay away from listed foods and consume primarily fruits and vegetables.;
, You’ll be cutting out unhealthy and processed foods that challenge your kidneys and bring in nutrients and chemicals that you want to get rid of. Many of the foods you’ll be cutting out increase levels of uric acid and as a result tax your kidneys. The foods you’ll be cutting out include:Animal protein
Processed food
Foods high in phosphorous or calcium, like dairy and nuts
Foods that are mainly made of carbohydrates

, You’ll be focusing on foods that will introduce nutrients and vitamins to your body that will increase the efficiency of your kidneys and help purge unwanted nutrients and chemicals. Foods you’ll be focusing on include:


Fresh vegetables
Fresh fruits
Organic fruits, vegetables, and other foods that are free from pesticides and other harmful additives

, You need to increase your water intake to the appropriate amount. Most people walk around in a state of limited dehydration. This taxes your kidney and liver, and makes you more sluggish and tired. Drinking the appropriate amount of water will increase kidney function and help flush out unwanted chemicals and nutrients.Increase water intake to eight 8-oz cups of water (2 liters).Water should be filtered or spring water.Drink throughout the day., Some people even choose to eat only fruit. That's because fruits are highly recommended during the whole process of detoxification thanks to their abundance of nutrients. Not only are they great for your system, they'll also fight that sluggish feeling you'll undoubtedly be combating. There are a wide variety of fruits and vegetables you’ll be able to use for your cleanse. Here's where to start:Apples have a lot of fiber and vitamin C which are known to be antioxidants and help in the fight of toxins in the blood.
Lemons are also one of the popular fruits that are used because they have the ability to increase citrate levels which decreases kidney stone formation.
That being said, just about any watery fruit is fair game (though coconut flesh, avocado, and rhubarb should be avoided). And, as always, the fresher, the better.
 Fresh vegetables will be a very important part of your dietary cleanse. Most vegetables contain decent amounts of fiber and have nutrients and vitamins that will aid your kidneys during your cleanse. You can choose most any vegetable, but remember that you’ll be consuming a lot more than you typically do.
 Herbs are also used to help in the cleansing of the kidneys and one very popular herb is parsley. Parsley in particular is good, as it is considered to be a diuretic — something that makes you pee more. The more you pee, the more toxins or waste products are removed from the body. In other words, the more effective your cleanse.


Parsley can be eaten raw or made into a juice or tea.
Infuse it into your water or tea for easy intake that you'll barely notice.
You can also look to cilantro and other herbs that might be available locally.
 Garlic may stimulate urine production and may aid in flushing out toxins from the kidneys. It contains allicin, which oxidizes heavy metals and makes them more soluble in water, meaning that it can help to flush out toxins. There are several ways you can increase your garlic intake:


Eat garlic raw.
Add garlic to your recipes when cooking.
Take garlic supplements.
 The polyphenolic compounds in onion may help to dissolve kidney stones. Its polyphenol content is higher compared to various other vegetables. Like garlic, there are several ways you can increase your onion intake.


Eat raw onions — try adding them to a salad.
Add onions to other food.
Take onion supplements.
 You’ll gain the most nutrients and vitamins from fruits and vegetables when they are eaten either raw or lightly cooked. Avoid cooking your fruits or vegetables long. Consider the following tips:


Eat fresh and raw when you can.
Avoid cooking your fruits or vegetables until they lose their color or change color.
Don’t add oils or salt.
Avoid the temptation to add butter or sauces to your food.
 Eating too much fatty and salty food will make the kidneys work harder. If there's a lot of waste in your blood, the kidneys have more work to do. The more you consume pure, healthy stuff, the easier of a time you'll be giving your kidneys.
 You should stick primarily to fresh fruits and vegetables, but if you need to there are healthy alternatives, rich in fats and carbohydrates that you can consume. Consider the following:


Nuts.
Oat bran.
Whole wheat products.

