 You can look beautiful enough without having to intimidate people or confirm to wearing short or tight clothes, as they say, "Modest is hottest." Try to step out of the stereotypical popular girl look, and make an attempt to not dress like your friends. Instead, find your own fashion statement. You can do this by finding clothes that you are comfortable with and help you to bring out the character within you. Remember that the clothes you wear give people an impression about who you are and the type of person that you want to be.;
, If it's naturally greasy, wash it every day or every other day. If it's dry, wash it every two or three days, and be sure to use conditioner. If it's normal, wash it every other day, with a small bit of conditioner. Brush your hair after your shower, when you wake up, and when you go to bed. If you use heat on your hair, don't do it too often, as it will damage your hair. Try doing something pretty with your hair everyday so it shows that you take care of yourself.
 Try to make it unique and just for you, but make it fit in a little. If someone copies your style, it may be annoying, but this just means they like you and see you as a role model. People follow the popular people's style, right?

, Makeup isn't to cover up your flaws, it's to outline your best features. If you love your smile, wear lip gloss or lipstick. If you have amazing eyes, wear mascara and eye shadow. Maybe wear some powder or foundation to get smooth skin. People will start to notice how beautiful you are.
 Be nice to everyone, even the mean girls, and people will notice you. If you're mean to people, they'll be mean to you. You can be popular and not be friends with the "populars". Make friends with everyone!

, Don't just try out for cheerleading or soccer, instead, try to supplement your activities with what interests you. This could be joining a chess club or a marching band.
 Good grades are the most important thing in school. Sure, being popular is fun, but without good grades, you'll fail in the future.

