 The starting position for cat pose is also called "tabletop pose." Get on all fours with your wrists directly below your shoulders and your knees directly below your hips. Lay down a yoga mat to lessen the stress on your knees and wrists.Your back should be flat and neutral. Extend your neck out as well, lowering your gaze a bit, so that you can draw a straight, flat line from your head to your tailbone.;
, To lessen the stress on your joints, spread your fingers wide and cup your palms slightly. Your middle finger should be facing forward, the rest of your fingers splayed. Press all five fingertips into the mat.








If you have problems with your wrists or have had a recent wrist injury, you may want to come down to your elbows. Keep your elbows directly below your shoulders and rest on your forearms instead of your hands.
 Your breath is a major part of yoga practice. While in tabletop position, take a moment to turn your mental focus to your breath. Inhale deeply through the nose, filling your lungs. Pause, then exhale slowly and deeply out your mouth., On an exhale, round your spine up towards the ceiling, keeping your tailbone tucked under. Round your shoulders back so that your shoulder blades fall in line alongside your spine.








This position gives the cat pose its name. With your back rounded on all fours, you should look somewhat like an angry cat.
 Lengthen your neck to complete cat pose, but don't try to force your chin to touch your chest. Imagine your spine is one long, even curve from your tailbone to your head.








Breathe deeply into the curve, gently contracting your glutes. Pull your abdominal muscles back and in towards your spine as you inhale. As you exhale, think of curving and lifting your spine towards the ceiling. Hold the stretch for 5 to 10 breath cycles.
 If you're only doing cat pose and not moving into another pose immediately, first lower and flatten your spine to return to tabletop position. Then lower your hips on an exhale to sit back on your heels.







