


Remove piles of dead leaves, grass clippings, piles of wood, boxes, tires, plywood, and empty containers from the yard.
It is especially essential that your remove debris from around the perimeter of your home's foundation in order to keep spiders out of your house. If you want to keep spiders away from your yard as much as possible, though, you should remove these items from your yard altogether.;
, If debris is not available, the next place spiders will look will be shrubs, tall grass, and tall weeds. Trimming your weeds and cutting your grass short will reduce the number of spiders in your yard by creating a less appealing habitat.


You do not need to get rid of your shrubs and bushes completely, but you should at least avoid planting them next to the foundation of your house to limit the number of spiders wandering inside.
 Boxes and bags of items stored in outdoor sheds and garages are another appealing spot for spiders. Reducing the number of items you store outdoors will also reduce the number of spiders you spot.


If you do plan to store something outside, put it into a sealed plastic container instead of a cardboard box. Sealed containers prevent most spiders from squeezing inside, so you will have fewer unpleasant surprises to deal with when you open the container later on.
Check boxes stored outdoors before you bring them into the house.
 When you see a spider web on the side of a building or somewhere in your yard, physically remove the web to discourage the spider that built it from returning.


In most instances, you will need to remove the web with a broom, mop, or garden hose.
If you are near enough to an electrical outlet, you can also use a vacuum to remove webs and egg sacs you spot outside.
 While outdoor lighting has nothing to do with spiders directly, outdoor lights will attract many insects, and the increased number of insects will also lead to a spike in your spider population.


Use your outdoor lights as little as possible.
Direct the lights away from your house to draw the insects and spiders further away from your foundation.
Switch to yellow bulbs. The softer light is less appealing to insects and may not draw as many as a bright white light does.