 Any fringe benefit provided to you (the employee) is taxable unless the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) specifically excludes it from taxation. The good news is that there are quite a few exclusions you can use. If a benefit is excluded, it will not be subject to federal income tax and will not be included on your W-2. A list of excluded benefits can be found on the Internal Revenue Service's (IRS) website and includes:


Health benefits;
Adoption assistance;
Educational assistance;
Stock options;
Retirement planning services; and
Many others., Some exclusions have limits, and if you receive a benefit in excess of that limit, you will be taxed on the excess. These special rules are laid out on the IRS's website. For example:


Achievement awards are excluded up to $1,600.
Dependent care assistance is excluded up to $5,000.
Meals are exempt only if they are furnished on the business's premises for your convenience.
Moving expenses are exempt only if you would be able to deduct them had you paid for them., If you cannot exclude a fringe benefit you receive, you will have to put a value on it. In most cases, you will use the FMV., In some cases, you may not be able to use the FMV. The most common example of this is with employer-provided vehicles. If you have an employer provided vehicle, you may have to calculate the value of the benefit in one of the following ways:


The cents-per-mile rule. Under this rule, you multiply the standard mileage rate by the total miles the employee drives the car for personal purposes.
The commuting rule. Under this rule, you multiply each one-way commute (from home to work and from work to home) by $1.50.
The lease value rule. Under this rule, you use a vehicle's annual lease value., Once you have determined what benefits are excluded and what has to be valued, you will then add all of your benefit values together that cannot be excluded. This is considered the total taxable amount of fringe benefits.
 When you do your federal income tax return, you will add your taxable fringe benefits to your regular wages; this total value is your taxable income and you can figure tax withholding based on it.