 Because they are so new, many people do not understand the major benefits and drawbacks of trampoline gyms. Make sure to consider that:


Jumping on trampolines offers a low impact way to practice traditional exercises.
Trampoline gyms make seemingly tedious exercise fun.
Because of their costs, trampoline gyms may not be as accessible as regular types of gym.
The many age groups present at a trampoline gym creates an atmosphere that may create distractions for hardcore fitness gurus.;
, As a fun way to exercise, a wide variety of people use trampoline gyms. Thus, trampoline gyms are a great way to transition people who are uninterested in exercise into an exercise routine. Some groups who may especially benefit from trampoline gyms include:


Children and teens.
College students.
Young professionals.
People with joint problems.
Elderly people who do not have bone problems. Elderly people suffering from osteoporosis should exercise caution when visiting trampoline gyms., Finding a trampoline gym might be difficult depending on your region. Thus, it may take you a little work to locate one that is convenient for you. To find a gym:


Search for one on the internet.
Use the Yellow Pages.
Ask friends or fitness experts you know.
Call local gyms to see if they have a section of their facilities dedicated to trampolines., Ultimately, trampoline time should be just one part of your over all work out. While it offers great cardio and limited weight training, it may not provide everything you need to meet your fitness goals. By using it as supplement to other types of training, you'll create an effective routine.


Schedule two visits a week to the trampoline gym. For instance, weight train at a regular gym on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, bounce at a trampoline gym on Tuesday and Thursday, and run or walk on Saturday and Sunday.
Reserve simple cardio and aerobic exercises for the trampoline gym. For instance, save any impact related activity, like jumping jacks, for the trampoline gym.
Think about reserving simple weight training exercises like pushups and sit-ups for the trampoline gym. This way you’ll be able to perform these exercises in a low-impact environment., The basic bounce is perhaps the centerpiece of a trampoline workout. While it is relatively simple, it also burns substantial calories and will help improve your cardio with little effort. To do a basic bounce:


Get on the trampoline (any size).
Position your feet about 6 inches (15 cm) apart.
Make sure your arms are bent and your elbows are at your sides.
Bend your knees slightly.
Jump lightly. You should move about 6 inches (15 cm) into the air.
Complete at least 30 repetitions., Trampoline leg lifts are similar to regular leg lifts but reduce the amount of stress and impact on your joints. They also enable you to stretch your muscles better. To do a trampoline leg lift:


Sit on the trampoline.
Lift your legs off the ground.
Tighten and contract your abs.
Hold your contractions for 20 seconds.
Release your contractions.
Repeat your lifts and contractions 3 times., The power bounce with lateral reach works out not just your lower body, but also helps work out and stretch your arms and shoulders. To complete a power bounce with lateral reach:


Sit on the trampoline.
Quickly stand up and bounce.
Reach one arm across your body. Alternate your arms every bounce.
Return to sitting.
Repeat the sit, stand, reach, and bounce 30 times., Just as pushups are an important part of a regular workout, they are also very important in a trampoline-based workout. Trampoline pushups are a great low-impact activity that will help you improve your upper body strength.


Use a 3 or 4 foot trampoline (.9 meters to 1.2 meters)
Position your feet on the ground.
Plank your body upward and position your hands on the trampoline.
Push up and come back down 10 times., One of the biggest dangers to individual safety at trampoline gyms are multiple jumpers on one surface. As a result, you need to make sure you never jump on a surface where someone is already jumping.


If someone begins jumping on your surface, you should stop immediately and exit the surface.
Inform anyone who wants to jump with you that it is a safety hazard., Jumping without properly inspecting a trampoline is one of the biggest safety failures you can make at a trampoline gym. Because of this, you should use extreme care and look at a trampoline before using it.


Make a quick visual inspection of your trampoline. Make sure there are no tears, rips, or other visible problems.
Make sure no other exercise equipment is under or directly next to the trampoline.
Make sure no one else is getting ready to jump on the same trampoline., While there are several universal rules that most all gyms will adhere to, you need to make sure to thoroughly read gym specific rules.


Take note of posted rules when entering the gym.
Ask gym workers for a printed copy of gym rules. Take a few minutes to go over it.
Be aware that there may be rules posted for each trampoline. For instance, large trampolines with high vertical jumping points may have rules posted at the jumping location.
 While bouncing might be a great option for many people, it presents risks to some groups. As a result, you should consult your doctor before making the trampoline park a substantial part of your training routine.


Elderly people should consult their physician before bouncing, as it may present risks to people with osteoporosis or other musculoskeletal problems.
Talk to your doctor before bouncing if you have any outstanding neck or back problems.
Pregnant women should avoid bouncing.
Discuss bouncing at your annual checkup. For instance, say "Doctor, I've been thinking about joining a trampoline gym for exercise. What do you think?"