 While you shouldn't make a habit out of working for free, sometimes doing a photo shoot for a charity event can help your career. Not only may you get additional networking connections at the event, but you'll also have extra work to add to your portfolio.Contact local charity organizations and see if they need anyone to help take photos for the next event.


Doing free work for a charity event is a good opportunity if you don't have much professional experience.
Doing free shoots for a magazine or newspaper during a charity event should get you a lot of exposure. Make sure they accredit you for the photo.
 Most of the work you'll get as a photography studio will come via personal referrals or word of mouth. For this reason, it's important that you network wherever you are. You may land an unexpected job because you put yourself out there and communicated with the right people. Don't burn bridges and be respectful to new people that you meet.


You can network at social gatherings, gallery openings, or artist meetups.If you do wedding photography, networking at bridal shows may also land you work.
 While most of your work will be viewed online, it's important as a professional photographer to have at least one print portfolio to show to potential clients or agencies that are looking to hire you. Take your high-resolution photos to a printshop and talk to them about options for your portfolio book.


Your portfolio book should be your best photos in the highest possible resolution for the book size.
Talk to the printer about the type of bindings available and how much it would cost for a custom engraving.
Print portfolios can cost anywhere from $100 to $1,000 dollars., Look for traditional directories that exist in print. While the vast majority of your work will likely be gained online, print ads will also leave an impression in people's heads and could result in more business. Look for local directories that specialize in photography and get your business listed there.If you shoot wedding photos, getting an ad in a bridal magazine may bring in new customers.
If you're a party photographer, getting your name credited in traditional media like newspapers or magazines can increase your exposure.
Consider placing ads in food magazines if you specialize in food photography.

