 Gloves are essential if you want to avoid cold hands or potential hypothermia. It is applied pressure that makes a snow stick together, so heat from bare hands will not make forming your snowball easier.


Gloves or mittens with some waterproof coating will be your best bet, as they often provide extra gripping, which shields your hands from the getting wet while forming and throwing your snowballs.;
, You can't throw a snowball without any snow. Make sure that the snow is the right consistency. Look for snow that is moist and dense enough to pack into a ball. If you can't pack the snow, you won't be able to throw it. Powder will not work, and icy snow doesn't pack well either.Snow is made of ice crystals, so you need to apply pressure to get some crystals to melt. The ice will re-freeze, causing the snow to stick together.Avoid finding a hard piece of ice to throw because even though it is already compact, throwing this type of "snow" is dangerous.
 Start by grabbing a clump of snow. The amount of snow you grab will determine the size of your snowball.Then, cup your hands around it and pack it into a tight lump that will be able to fly through the air without falling apart.
 Use your hands to round the snow into a spherical shape. Move your hands around the surface of the snow to smooth it. As long as the snow is in a rough ball shape, it will be able to soar through the air.
 It is important that you remain calm before you take aim so that you can focus on your target. Tune out any distractions and stay present in the moment., Aim with your dominant eye. The snowball is likely to land wherever your eyes are trained, so do not overlook this step. Practice aiming with each eye to discover which of your eyes is more dominant.
 Stand with your feet placed below your shoulders, and then widen your stance slightly. Keep your feet directed at your target, and bend your knees a bit. Practice your positioning until you feel comfortable. The more you practice throwing snowballs in this position, the more naturally it will come to you.
 It is best to throw it in the same way that you would a pitch a baseball. Place the snowball in your dominant hand. Grip it tightly, as you do not want the snow to fall apart before you throw. Pull your hand back, behind your head. At a high speed, move your hand forward and release the snowball when your arm is outstretched.Never take your eyes off of your target. This way, you will increase your chances of hitting your target accurately.
 Start throwing snowballs at a target, such as a tree. Once you are able to hit your target most of the time, start moving farther away from it to improve your accuracy and precision. This is a good opportunity to experiment with different kinds of snow, various packing methods, and several throwing techniques in order to master your skills.
 If you are engaging in a snowball fight, you will need to be ready with more than one snowball. Prepare a supply of snowballs beforehand, or learn how to make new snowballs quickly so that you can outdo your opponent.
 Invite your friends to partake in a snowball fight! Just be sure to set some ground rules, such as to avoid hitting one another in the face. It could be useful to come up with and agree upon a signal or safe word, in case the game ends up going too far and someone wants to stop playing.

