 Pay attention to which areas are most heavily hit with toilet paper. Take special notice of where the long lines of it start and end. This can prevent leftover toilet paper all over the roof and tall trees.


If there is a lot of toilet paper and you are unhappy with this, feel free to contact the police. If your house has cameras, they might even be able to catch the people who did it and have them clean up the mess.;
, If there is a lot of toilet paper, gather some friends or family members to help take it down. You will clean it much faster. Consider having people work on different zones. Maybe one person cleans up the tree while another works on the yard while someone else works on the roof.
 Your clean up will move faster if you collect the paper in a few bins as you go so that you don't have to pick it up multiple times. This will aid in the disposal of it. If you simply throw paper on the ground, you will need to clean it up again. Bins will help you to avoid this.


If you don’t have bins, bring out a few garbage bags and put the paper in them. Garbage bags are easy to move around and can hold a lot of paper. Consider placing a rock on top of the bag so that it doesn’t blow away.
 If toilet paper gets wet, it will stick to the surface and be nearly impossible to remove. If it has already gotten wet, wait until it dries. Try to avoid dealing with wet paper at all costs.Dew is another factor to consider. If your grass is wet, hold off on removal until it dries so that the paper doesn’t disintegrate when touching the ground.
 Start picking up the toilet paper that is highest up, like in treetops and on your roof. This way, if it falls, you will not waste time having to redo an area that you already cleaned.If you don't want to get your hands dirty, you can wear gardening gloves while you remove the paper.
 This is a safer way to get the toilet paper down than with a ladder. These will allow you to reach high places and pull down any paper that is stuck. Try to place the pole in between the paper and the tree branch, for example, and then pull on it. This should help take it down.To rake paper, simply reach up with your rake and scrape it down. Some of it should fall and some of it will likely be caught in your rake. Place any removed paper in a bin or garbage bag.
 If you can’t reach the high places, use a ladder and exercise safety when doing so. Be especially careful if your grass is at all slippery. Have someone hold the ladder in place while you are on it and make sure it is level and locked into place. You don't want to head down to the ER on the same day you were toilet papered.Make sure to use a ladder that is appropriate for the job. If you only need to reach a few feet higher, you don’t need a large extension ladder. Try a step ladder instead.
 This will help you when gathering the little shredded pieces of toilet paper. It takes time and patience to get all of those pieces, but a leaf blower can help you to move them more quickly into a pile.Save this for last. Wait until all the large pieces have been removed and then work on the small pieces that are left over. This will help you to avoid making a bigger mess.
 It is better to do this while removing paper so that you have less to clean up. Use bins or garbage bags and fill them while removing paper. Remember not to put it in a pile on the lawn or driveway because if the ground is wet, you'll have to scrape it off., Once your toilet paper is in your recycling bins, simply give to your recycling service with the rest of your recyclables. If you need to find a recycling center, you can do a quick search at recyclingcenters.org. The cardboard rolls can be recycled as well.Some recycling centers require you to sort your recyclables. Contact your local recycling facility to see if you need to separate your paper products from plastics or other materials.
 If you do not have recycling services, you can throw it out with your garbage. Simply place in garbage bags and dispose with the rest of your trash. However, recycling is recommended.
 Many people don’t realize that toilet paper can be composted. As long as it doesn’t contain ink, it shouldn’t have any adverse effects. Simply add the paper to your compost pile and mix in with the rest of your materials.Don’t add too much paper to your compost pile because it doesn’t contain nutrients that will help your fertilizer be rich. A few handfuls will suffice.

