 We are all different from one another, and it's important to love yourself for who you are. It's common to wish for things we don't have, but learning to love what you do have will help you live a much happier life. Just because you have small breasts doesn't mean you are less beautiful, they are just one of the things that make you you.For every girl with small boobs wishing she had a larger chest. there is a girl with large breasts wishing for a smaller chest. Focus on loving yourself as you naturally are.
Learn to love your appearance by looking in the mirror every day. Stare at yourself and look for the things about your body that you love. The more comfortable you get with your body, the more you'll start to love all of it.;
, Developing your talents, such as dancing, singing, sports, writing, etc. will help you focus on the positive things you have to offer. Being negative won't allow you to see how amazing you actually are.


Create a list of strong points and positive attributes (physical and non-physical) about yourself. Write down the things that you love about yourself. Sometimes it helps when you can visually see all of the amazing things about yourself written down.
Avoid negative self talk. Negative self-talk includes pointing out all of your flaws and ignoring your positive attributes. You need to be your own biggest fan, so don't talk down about yourself. Talking down about yourself will only add to your insecurities. Stay positive when talking about yourself.
Improve your body language. Communicating like you have confidence will actually increase your confidence – basically the "fake it till you make it" approach. Acting like you are self-confident will eventually turn into real confidence. Carrying yourself with confidence includes standing up straight, holding your head high, and smiling a lot.
 It can be easy to fall into the trap of judging yourself based on the media, celebrities, and overall societal standards – but don't! It's important to have your own perception of yourself, and not live your life based on the opinions of other people. Most of the time, society's standards aren't realistic, and can cause great harm to self-confidence and individuality. Even when you look at beautiful celebrities, they all have different body types. Some have huge boobs, but others have smaller chests or no curves at all. Always remember that there are many different types of beauty.
Look through different eras of history to see how beauty trends have changed. Expanding your notion of what beauty is may help you see the beauty within yourself. You'll even see that the 1920s were all about the smaller chested Flapper women!
Stay away from negative influences like the media or appearance-focused peers. The media often portrays unrealistic body and image standards, such as large breasts and a small waist. If you try to fit into these unrealistic standards, your self confidence will never grow. Your appearance focused peers are most likely struggling with self esteem issues themselves, so don't let their insecurities bring down your self confidence., Many women think that men are only attracted to women with large breasts – this is not true! Men are attracted to women for many different physical, mental, and emotional reasons. He might fall in love with your eyes, or he could fall for your hilarious jokes.


If a guy doesn't like you because of the size of your boobs, you don't want him anyways. Studies have proven that men who consider big boobs to be extremely important in a woman are typically misogynistic and shallow., Even though you don't have large breasts, you might have a bubble butt, a nice waist, or great legs. Whatever your favorite asset is, show it off! Stop focusing on what you don't have, and show a little love to what you do have. This will help to improve your confidence.If you have gorgeous legs, draw attention to them by wearing a short dress, high heels, a skirt, or some short shorts.
Draw the eye to your waist with a tight belt, a form fitting dress, or a crop top.
If your butt is your favorite body part, wear tight fitting dresses, pants, and skirts to show off your curves.
Once you get comfortable with your smaller breasts, embrace them! Be proud of your body and let your self confidence shine through.
 One of the hardships of having big breasts is finding bras that have enough support, are affordable, and look cute. Women with smaller breasts on the other hand don't have any problems finding pretty, cheap bras. Smaller breasted women can enjoy lacy bras with no support, comfy bras with no underwire, or strapless bras with no issues. And if you don't want to wear a bra at all, that's perfectly okay.Wear a push-up bra to create the illusion of bigger breasts. There are tons of push-up bras that can make your boobs look bigger, so invest in a good push up bra if you want to enhance your assets a bit.
Use silicon bra inserts to make your boobs appear larger. If you're really self-conscious about your small breasts, it's okay to wear silicon bra inserts to give them a bit more size.
 Women with larger breasts can't get away with going braless, but you can! Without pesky bras getting in the way, you'll be able to embrace your smaller top half with sexy and fun clothing.There are tons of clothes that actually look better without bras; backless tops and dresses, sleeveless garments, pieces with plunging cleavage, etc. – and you have the body to wear them all.
Going braless has more perks than you might think. You won’t have to deal with awkward invisible bra straps or boob-lifting tape when wearing an open back shirt or a strapless dress.
 Unfortunately, many women with large boobs experience back, shoulder, and neck pain. This is caused by the weight of their breasts, as well as the stress put on their bodies from bras, straps, etc. Having small breasts is actually a health advantage, as you'll be less likely to experience this type of pain.Whenever possible, avoid wearing a bra. Bra straps and underwires and cause physical pain, and because you have smaller breasts, wearing a bra isn't always necessary.
While women with large breasts sometimes consider breast reduction to relieve back pain, you don’t have to. Be proud of your small breasts., Having small breasts can actually keep you healthier for a multitude of reasons. Because there is less tissue to feel through, having smaller breasts makes examinations for diseases like breast cancer much easier. When you have smaller breasts, it's easier to feel lumps or abnormalities, giving you greater control over your health.


Having smaller breasts can improve the chances of detecting things such as breast cancer earlier. Since smaller breasts have less fatty tissue, it's easier for doctors to detect lumps the second they appear, rather than after they’ve grown.Smaller breasts also help women maintain better posture, as they don't weigh down your front side like larger breasts do., One of the best benefits of small breasts is that they won't droop or sag as you get older. Thanks to the pull of gravity, heavier breasts usually begin to droop as women get older – so be happy that you'll have life-long perky breasts!


While your large breasted friends will struggle with sagging boobs in their early 30s, you won’t face this problem until your 50s or 60s – if you even have to face it at all.
This benefit of perky boobs will also keep you looking younger as you age., Big boobs often get in the way while working out, specifically workouts that include a lot of cardio and movement. Exercises like jumping jacks, jumping rope, and running are much easier when you have a smaller chest.


Women with bigger breasts have to struggle to find extra supportive sports bras to make their workouts comfortable – you don't have to worry about that. So get your workout on!
Some women with larger breasts avoid working out because it actually causes their chest pain. Be grateful that you can workout with our your boobs hurting you., There are a few reasons why having smaller boobs will help you sleep better. First of all, you can sleep on your chest, or comfortably cuddle your significant other, without being in pain. Many women with large breasts wake up in pain throughout the night because of accidentally crushing their breasts.


Secondly, women with bigger breasts are sometimes encouraged to wear bras to bed at night to fight early breast sagging. Sleeping in a bra is uncomfortable and can stop a woman from getting good sleep.