 While weight training can benefit joggers seeking greater endurance as well, it is particularly beneficial to sprinters. Unlike jogging, sprinting requires short bursts of maximum effort from the muscles over your entire body.


Try to weight train a couple of times per week, perhaps on Tuesdays and Thursdays between sprint training sessions on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, for instance.
There is some truth to "no pain, no gain." You need to push yourself in order to build muscle; at the same time, though, don't risk injury by overexertion. Strive to build lean muscle, not to try out for the next "World's Strongest Man" competition.
Obviously you want to build up your leg muscles by way of squats, leg presses, and so on. However, you also want to strengthen your abdominal core and shoulders, as arm movement helps propel sprinters forward. Include exercises like sit-ups, leg lifts, and bench and shoulder presses to your workout., While jogging simply requires a treadmill, trail, or decent sidewalk, sprint training is more effective in more particular conditions.


A running track is the best option for sprint training, since it is flat, marked for distance, and more shock-absorbing for the runner. If a track is unavailable, seek a flat area at least 40 meters long.
A grass football or soccer field will be easier on your feet and shins especially, while pavement offers more even footing that might protect against ankle or knee sprains. Mix-and-match or find which works best for your body., As with distance running training, warm up by starting at a slow pace and steadily increasing to a fast run over several minutes.


Consider incorporating dynamic stretches after your warmup. Unlike traditional static stretches, dynamic stretches are done while in motion, such as while walking 20 meters or so. They include stretches like walking on the toes or lifting the knees as high as possible.
Dynamic stretching exercises come with names like “Frankensteins” and “Butt-Kickers,” so they obviously are meant to be intense. Done judiciously, for several minutes after warmup and before workout, they do seem to enhance sprinting performance.Do dynamic stretching carefully, as there is a greater risk of injury than with static stretching.
 Sprinting requires you to exert maximum energy, so you don’t want to waste any of it on flailing arms, improper steps, or increased wind resistance.Try running on the balls of your feet instead of your heels. Not everyone agrees that this technique is more natural or less likely to cause injury, but it does seem to be preferable for sprinting, since it reduces contact time between foot and ground (and thus friction).Don’t over-stride. It may feel like a longer stride gets you further ahead faster, but fewer steps means less propulsive power forward. The goal is to take shorter, quicker strides to maximize power and minimize resistance (ground friction and air resistance). Find a comfortable stride that doesn’t leave you lunging ahead or leaning forward over your feet.
Do try to lean slightly forward, however, as this will make your body more aerodynamic and less affected by wind resistance.
Use your arms as well, pumping each one forward and upward in concert with the same-side leg. Keep you elbows slightly bent and hands in a loosely-closed fist.
Make sure you keep breathing. People have a tendency to hold their breath when exerting themselves, which is not advisable when your body is starving for oxygen during a sprint. There are varying viewpoints on timing and frequency of breathing during a sprint, so the best advice is probably to find a breathing pattern that feels most natural for you., After warming up, don’t go straight into sprinting at full speed. Start at what feels like about 70% intensity, then go up to 80%, 90% and full intensity, so long as you do not feel discomfort that might indicate injury.


If you have a stopwatch, time out your sprints for 30 seconds. If you’re on a track with markers, go for 200 meters (half a lap). If you have neither, count out about 125 steps per sprint. You can increase these numbers as your training progresses.
Sprinting depletes the oxygen in your muscles, so it is important to rest between runs. Start out by trying to rest for 3 seconds per second of running (90 seconds after a 30 second sprint). You should rest until your breathing calms to the point where you could make conversation with a fellow runner. Take up to 4 minutes between sprints if necessary.Resting means walking, not sitting, however. Keep your muscles loose.
 Once you’ve established a solid routine of sprint training, you can begin to ramp up your ability to keep up a sprint over greater distances. As might be expected, the main methods are more sprinting time, less recovery time (if necessary), and more intensity.


Increase the time of your sprints from 30 seconds gradually up to 1 or even 2 minutes. Try adding 10-15 seconds per sprint per session, for instance. Gradually decrease the time between sprints to 90 seconds, if you typically take longer.Instead of walking to rest between sprints, try doing push-ups, sit-ups, or another strength-training exercise.Do more high-intensity sprinting exercises such as a shuttle run or pyramids. A shuttle run involves placing 7 markers at 5-meter intervals and sprinting to and from each in rapid succession.
A pyramid run involves placing 6 markers at 10-meter intervals (50 meters total), then sprinting to the first maker (10 m) and walking the rest (40 m), then running 20 m / walking 30 m, and so on until you run the full 50 meters back and forth. Rest for 90 seconds between sets of either shuttles or pyramids.Try hill sprinting. Find a hill that offers good footing and a manageable steepness, then follow the same procedures as level-ground sprinting. This will be more intense, however, so ramp up your intensity more slowly and allow a little more recovery time. Find steeper hills, go faster, and rest less as you progress.