 Anyone who's ever been inspired to down as many franks as possible by the Nathan's Hot Dog competition has come up against a quick and harsh reality: you can't eat that many hot dogs without preparation. The stomach is a muscle like any other. It needs training and recovery, otherwise you risk injury. If you want to increase your stomach's capacity, take it slow.


According to some studies, the average human stomach holds about 1.5 liters before becoming nauseated, but can hold between 3-5 liters if trained properly.
It is possible to rupture your stomach if you eat too much too quickly, but it's extremely uncommon and rare. You'll usually vomit before you risk a stomach tear or other physical problems., The healthiest way of training and expanding your stomach capacity is not with food, but with water. Competitive eaters are able to drink as much as a gallon of water at a time, in less than 20 minutes. This increases the stomach's capacity and carries relatively little health impact, compared with eating lots of food at once.


Start slow, increasing the number of glasses of water you drink in a day incrementally, then increasing the speed at which you consume the water you drink. It's usually recommended to drink as many as eight glasses of water in a day to begin with, so start there and gradually build up your capacity.
 Water serves a purpose during eating competitions, as well as during your training. While dunking a hot dog bun in water might not seem that appetizing, it helps to break down the food before you put it into your mouth, making it much easier to swallow and start digesting. The faster you get it down, the more you'll be able to eat, and water helps this process.


Don't drink too much of the water while you're eating. While it's ok to use some water to help lubricate the food, don't gulp it to quench your thirst, or you'll be taking up valuable real estate in your stomach.
 Two or three times a week, competitive eater Yasir Salem steams as many as eight pounds of broccoli and cauliflower for a training meal. These vegetables are bland, high in vitamins, and will move through your digestive tract quickly, making them ideal for stretching your stomach easily, combined with a large amount of water.For an added bonus, add a large amount of sauerkraut. Fermented cabbage has probiotic properties that will help keep your intestinal flora in balance, making it an ideal food for competitive eaters.
 Competitive eaters will regularly chew up to six pieces of gum at once, to strengthen jaw muscles and make sure their eating instrument is in good working order. As important as your stomach is to your ability to eat more food, it won't do any good if you can't chew that food quickly and efficiently.


Check out this wikiHow article for neck and jaw strengthening exercises you can incorporate into your routine.
 Ever notice how competitive eaters are generally lean and mean? That's because they're in shape. Contrary to what you might expect, the ability to eat a lot comes from a lot more than a big appetite. Hard training and good cardio are an essential part of being able to eat food quickly and competitively.


Read this wikiHow article for good tips about cardiovascular health.
Good breathing is necessary for competitive eaters, as well. Do breathing exercises to make sure you can breathe effectively while you're cramming that food in.
 Not all competitive eaters are alike. Hot dog champions need to train in completely different ways, for completely different amounts, than does a bacon-eating champion, a chili eating champion, or an oyster eating champion. Knowing the specifics of your food of choice will allow you to prepare more specifically.


Major League Eating is the US national organization that governs competitive eating. Check out their website to learn more about joining up and competing.It's very important to meet with a health professional, dietician, or biofeedback specialist to come up with a health and training regimen for the food you hope to consume to keep your body working for you, instead of against you.

