


Consider sonography schools that offer online courses, which enable students to attend lectures, complete assignment and take quizzes through online learning platforms. However, because hands-on experience is required for most sonography certificate and degree programs, students must complete clinical rotations in person at local medical clinics or hospitals.
Consider hybrid programs that combine online and classroom learning. Hybrid programs provide opportunities for student interaction with the convenience of online learning. Hybrid programs require students to participate in clinical rotations at local medical facilities.
Consider traditional classroom learning programs. While there are many schools offering online sonography degrees, the majority of accredited programs are classroom-based. The classroom-based programs feature lectures, small group discussions and lab work, in addition to clinical rotations at local medical clinics and hospitals.
 If you prefer an online learning program, the school's location may not be a factor in choosing a sonography school. However, if you prefer hybrid or classroom-based learning, the school's location may be a determining factor. Consider not only how far the school is from you, but also the travel time required to get to and from classes.
 Tour the school and observe the facilities. Inquire about the type of laboratory equipment used, specifically the type of ultrasound machines. Ask how old the equipment is and how often the school updates its imaging equipment. Students should look for schools that have the latest equipment and update their equipment regularly. Be sure to inquire about ultrasound training simulators, test mannequins and other equipment used for hands-on training.
 Costs vary between sonography schools, and can depend on factors like the degree level and whether the school is public or private. The tuition for a 1-year sonography school starts at about $4,000, while a bachelor's degree program is typically about $30,000.


Ask about scholarships, financial aid and grants. Some schools offer scholarships and/or financial aid to students, ranging from partial tuition to full tuition. In most cases, students must show financial need in order to qualify.
Inquire about additional costs. Some sonography school tuition costs include books and classroom materials, while others do not. Other schools may charge lab or equipment fees. Some schools require students to wear sonographer uniforms, which may not be included in the program tuition. Ask about all related fees before enrolling in a sonography program.

