 Have deep and meaningful conversations once in a while. Discuss what's going on in your lives right now — social life, school life, or family life — and learn about each others pasts and childhoods.


Celebrate accomplishments, encourage goals and ambitions, and explore each others values and beliefs. Share your deepest thoughts, needs, wishes, hopes, and dreams. Know each other inside and out.
Ask questions. Ask your partner about his/her life, their past, their goals. Few things are more attractive than being genuinely interested in someone's life, and nothing is more affirming.
Share even basic things. It's okay to broadcast some inner thoughts you're having, as long as you don't do it constantly. This can help your partner feel closer to you, more connected at the hip.
 Work on it. Work hard at keeping it positive, upbeat, healthy, and the very best it can be.


Have a conversation with your partner about what aspects of your relationship they believe could change for the better. Improve the things you both agree can be improved.
Challenge yourself to do at least one nice thing for your partner every single day. It could be a simple text, an errand, a smile, or a kiss.
 Nothing gets solved in screaming at someone else. It just raises the tension between you and more than likely will create more issues than it solves.


Things are best handled if each person gets a chance to talk. This means you listen to what your spouse has to say and respond with your feelings as they listen.
If you are being screamed at, calmly let the person know that screaming isn't helping and ask if they will also please listen to your perspective.
 A truly emotionally intimate relationship requires open and honest communication. Keeping secrets from your partner creates a barrier between you that limits your mutual emotional trust. Honesty can be scary, but if you want your relationship to thrive, then you both need to believe in it.


Never cheat or be disloyal. Whatever you do behind your partner's back, imagine them doing it to you. Treat others how you want to be treated.
Tell your partner when something is bothering you. Trust your partner to tell you when something is bothering them. Expect loving honesty from your partner, and expect them to want the same in return.
Be honest without being harsh. Don't bruise your partner's ego unless it needs bruising. Ease into criticism gently, without frustration, with a smile and a loving heart.
 If you don't agree on something exactly then there is probably another option. Look for different solutions that you can both see eye to eye on. There are many ways to do something but if we cooperate with each other it will end in the best result for the individuals involved and probably get things done faster.

