 If you and your child’s other parent are discussing a parenting conflict regarding when your child ought to be picked up from school, it does no good to start talking about a conflict you perceive regarding the vacation you know your child’s other parent is planning for your child. Instead, stick to the topic of when your child should be picked up from school.If you have multiple parenting issues to address with your child’s other parent, wait until you’ve solved one in a satisfactory way, then address another. This will prevent you from stockpiling complaints and potential sources of conflict.
Likewise, don’t allow your child’s other parent to rope you into a conversation about how late your child stays up if the topic at hand is when your child should be picked up from school. To avoid such a situation, say, “I believe that what you’re saying is a valid concern, but I’d like to focus on the topic at hand for now.”
Do not bring up past parenting conflicts, either. This will not allow the present conflict to move toward a resolution process. Instead, it will only dredge up feelings of hurt and loss from an earlier period.
 Solving parenting conflicts always requires some form of negotiation so that your expectations and needs as a parent and those of your child’s other parent are met. This will require both of you to put your heads together and find a compromise — a solution that is not ideal to either of you, yet acceptable for both of you. This might take time, or it might be relatively simple.For instance, imagine that you allow your child to ride their bike in driveway only, but your partner wants to allow your child to ride their bike around the block. You might be able to meet in the middle by allowing your child to ride down the block but remaining within eyesight of the house, thereby extending the range of your child’s bike-riding activities.
Alternately, either you or your partner can accede to the standards set by the other. For instance, when listening to your partner’s reasoning about why your child should be allowed to ride their bike around the block, you might come to see their logic. You might say, “Yes, I see your point and I agree that our child has outgrown my rule. We will change the rule and allow our child to ride their bike around the block.”

, When solving parenting conflicts, remember that both you and they want what is best for your child. You just have two different perspectives. Do not hold a grudge against your child’s other parent or bring the conflict up long after it was resolved.Remember, forgiveness doesn’t mean you forget about the parenting conflict or pretend it never happened.Instead, forgiveness after a parenting conflict means that you have chosen not to remain angry or frustrated by the fact that you and your child’s other parent did not see eye to eye on a particular issue.
Remember that both you and — hopefully — all other stakeholders (including your child’s other parent, the spouse of your child's other parent, and/or your own spouse if they are not your child's birth parent) learned something. For instance, perhaps you realized through the conflict that you and certain other stakeholders in the parenting conflict have different parenting style and you won’t always agree.
If you wish, you could tell your child’s other parent that you forgive them. For instance, you might say, “Since we’ve come to a reasonable solution regarding our parenting conflict, I forgive you for all that happened.” If you feel you deserve some of the blame for the conflict, you might add, “I hope you can forgive me, too.”

, If you and your child’s other parent differ significantly in the way you wish to raise your child, you will have conflicts. One way to solve (and avoid) conflicts in parenting is to share a common set of rules, expectations, and punishments.For instance, if you allow your child to eat many sweets before bed but your child’s other parent does not allow your child to eat sweets before bed, your child might get confused or even come to resent the other parent.
To prevent this, share your own perspective and expectations regarding your child’s behavior with your child’s other parent. Be honest about the sort of rules you think are best for your child. Work to convince your child’s other parent of the rightness of your own position using rational, persuasive arguments.
Of course, if your child’s other parent remains unmoved, you might have to accept that the two of you may simply not be able to have completely identical parenting rules and strategies, especially if you are divorced. Communicate openly and honestly with your child’s other parent and try to keep your rules as closely aligned as possible.
In order to achieve greater consistency in your parenting strategy, let your child’s other parent know of your rules and parenting strategies as you make them. This will help the two of you avoid future conflicts.
 Don’t make every difference between you and your child’s other parent a source of conflict. For instance, if you and your child’s other parent have two different bedtimes but they differ by only 10 minutes, the difference is not terribly significant. Your energy would be better focused on more important parental issues like the fact that your child’s other parent allows your child to watch TV for an unlimited amount of time and does not require your child to dedicate any time towards homework.Taking your child’s other parent to task for every imperfection or difference will not lay the foundation for a positive relationship or enhance your ability to solve parenting conflicts.

