 If you are experiencing any of the above symptoms, make an appointment to speak with your doctor. Your doctor may want to refer you to a neurologist or other specialist.At your appointment, be ready to explain:


Any symptoms. Keep in mind that symptoms will follow one of three patterns including progressive (symptoms get worse over time), recurrent (symptoms come and go in episodes), and monophasic (symptoms last for one to three years and don’t recur).When your symptoms began
Your medical history
Any other conditions you have
Any medications you are taking

, When your doctor evaluates you for CIDP, they will begin by performing a physical examination. They will track your weight, temperature, and blood pressure. They will test the strength of your muscles and tendons, as well as your balance., Next, your doctor will look for myelin damage in peripheral nerves. This can be done by way of an electromyography test (EMG) and/or nerve conductive study (NCS). These tests are non-invasive, but they can be uncomfortable. They involve using gentle electrical currents to test nerve function and response.These tests will be looking for nerve damage, or “demyelination.” This can be indicated by:


Reduction in nerve velocities
A conduction block in one or more nerves
The presence of abnormal temporal dispersion in one or more nerves
Prolonged distal latencies in two or more nerves

, In order to rule out other conditions—such as diabetes, infections, toxin exposure, nutritional deficiencies, inflammatory disease of blood vessels, and/or other autoimmune diseases--your doctor will run tests on both your blood and urine., Although these antibodies may not be present in all cases of CIDP, there is a branch of CIDP diseases characterized by anti-GM1, anti-GD1a, and anti-GQ1b. A lumbar puncture involves the insertion of a small needle into the back where cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is drawn. This fluid is then tested for the presence of these antibodies., In rare instances where the diagnosis is not clear, or where other causes of neuropathy cannot be excluded, your doctor may request a biopsy. This outpatient procedure involves a 4–5 centimeter (1.6–2.0 in) incision in the leg (with the aid of local anesthetic). Through the incision, a 1–2 centimeter (0.39–0.79 in) piece of the sural nerve is excised, and then studied. This procedure is done while you are under anesthesia.