 An unfortunate thing about bedwetting is the shame and embarrassment that this causes mature children.;
,


Remind your child to go to the bathroom immediately before they go to bed.
Limit late night fluid intake. Usually no fluid intake within 3 hours prior to bedtime. If your child goes to bed several hours earlier than you do, it is often helpful to wake them up for a bathroom visit before you go to bed.
Avoid giving them chocolate or drinks that contain caffeine as they can increase the the urine output.
Consider getting a device that sounds when the sheets start becoming wet. Bed-wetting alarms that will wake the bed-wetter the moment they start to urinate. It is advisable to protect the mattress with a rubber pad in case the alarm fails to wake them in time. Bed Wetting alarms are more successful than medical therapies.



Praise the child for staying dry. Never shame or punish them for wetting their bed. Consider getting a calendar and noting every dry night. The child is then rewarded for an agreed upon number of dry nights. If he has a relapse, you simply restart the count. This is always done in a matter of fact fashion. Your child is absolutely not doing this on purpose, and introducing shame and hurt into this situation certainly does not hasten the resolution process nor does it enhance the parent-child relationship.
Confide in the child the fact that you were also a bed wetter, if in fact you were. Explain that it might be hereditary, so that it will make him feel less guilty and less ashamed of himself.
 If you feel the problem is large enough and the person in question is over 5 years old, ask your doctor about apo-desmopressin. This is a drug that reduces the amount of urine produced. Find out all you can about this and its side effects. Desmopressin is a potent hormone that prevents the kidney from making urine. Enuresis typically recurs when Desmopressin is stopped. Desmopressin is primarily useful when your child must remain dry for a short period of time - class trip, camping trip, overnight stay with friends, etc.

