 Lift the lid off of the tank and set it aside on a flat, stable surface. You’ll now have access to the flushing mechanisms inside the tank. Take note of the water level inside the tank. If it seems excessively high or low, the issue may be a faulty flapper or fill valve.Be careful not to drop the lid or set it somewhere that it might fall. Toilet tank lids are made of ceramic and can break fairly easily.
The water in the tank should ordinarily rest an inch or two below the fill valve and overflow tube (the large open pipe near the center of the tank).;
, Locate the external water valve on the wall behind and beneath the toilet. Rotate the oblong knob clockwise as far as it will go, then flush the toilet. After it flushes, the tank will not refill itself. This will allow you to work inside the tank unobstructed.Keep turning the knob until you hear the water stop running.
You should not attempt to adjust or repair any of the mechanisms inside the toilet tank without first emptying it.
 Look over the flushing mechanisms to see what kind of condition they’re in. In particular, you’re looking for the toilet tank’s float, which will appear as a plastic ball attached to a long arm at the top of the fill valve. The height of the float determines how much water remains in the tank after it refills.Make sure the float is properly connected to the fill valve and fill valve and overflow tube are both above water level.
If you notice any obvious damage or defects, you might need to call a professional to have the part repaired.
 Directly on top of the fill valve you should see a single screw. Turn this screw clockwise one full rotation. This will elevate the float and permit more water to enter the tank before the fill valve closes, increasing the water level in the toilet bowl as a result.You should only make minor alterations to the height of the float. Doing too much at once could cause the toilet to flush inconsistently or create other new issues.
 Turn the water to the toilet back on and give the tank a minute or two to fill up. After you’ve flushed the toilet, observe the water level in the bowl. Ideally, the bowl should be about halfway full. If the water in the bowl still looks low, try adjusting the float again until yo get it right.Raise the float about half an inch at a time, then perform a test flush.
If there’s is still an inadequate amount of water in the bowl after adjusting the float, call a plumber.

