 If you find that a felt pad has fallen off the bottom of one of the legs to your chair, table, or other furniture, replace it with duct tape if you don’t have a pack of extra pads handy. Simply tear off a strip and start folding it up until it equals the size and thickness of the remaining pads so that your furniture remains level. Trim off any excess if needed and use that to secure your new pad to the bottom of the leg, or tear off a new piece and do the same., For each pane of glass, cut off two strips that are long enough to reach from one corner to its opposite. Stick them directly to the glass, forming an X. Reduce the risk of injury due to glass shattering during storms, tornadoes, or other weather events with high winds.This won’t prevent your windows from breaking. However, it will reduce the chance of the glass shattering into lots of small pieces. This minimizes the number of shards you have to watch out for in case your windows blow in.
 If you have electrical or extension cords crossing your floor, deck, or patio (or anything similar that people could easily trip over), pull your tape’s loose end out, center it over the cord, and secure the tape to the floor on either side of the cord. Then unroll the tape over the cord’s length, securing the tape to the floor as you go. This is an especially good idea for:Holidays like Halloween or Christmas, for which you might have lots of plug-in decorations both inside and out.
Parties, barbecues, or other gatherings, for which you may have special equipment and lots of guests.
 If heavy rains are coming and you need some waterproof shoes real quick, repurpose an old pair of sneakers. First, wrap duct tape around the base of your sneaker. Continue wrapping toward the top, covering roughly half of each previous layer to keep water from leaking in around the edges. Switch to attaching smaller strips across the cross ties, tongue, and rim as you near the top.Regarding the laces, it’s up to you: either tie them in a double knot and tape them up, or leave them untied and exposed so you can tie and untie them before and after use.

