 Before attempting to do a handstand, you should stretch your wrists. Your wrist undergo a lot of pressure during a handstand. If you do not warm up first, you could end up feeling sore afterwards.


Stand on your hands and knees, placing most of your weight on your knees. Hold your hands forward with your fingers touching the ground. Gently rock back and forth on your knees, alternating the weight you're placing on your fingers.Then, put your hands flat on the ground. Shift your body weight on your hands. Then, lift your palms up and down, raising your body with the motion. Do this about 10 times.After this, repeat the same basic motion but roll your palms back and forth as you lift. You want to shift weight between the different joints of your fingers. Do this 10 times, while rolling your palms., Your shoulders also carry a lot of weight during a handstand. You want to make sure you warm them up properly before attempting a handstand. Once again, get on all fours with your fingers spread slightly apart.


Going slowly, rotate both your elbows. Try to move your elbow as much as possible, moving it from the back of your body to the front. Keep your arms straight as you go.Move your hands so your fingers are pointing out to the side of your body. Push your body back and forth, shifting your weight from one hand to the other. Keep the heel of your hand on the ground. Make sure the heel holds most of your weight.Shift your fingers so they're facing your knees. Keep the heel of your hand on the ground. Shift your weight up and down, keeping your arms straight. Repeat about 15 times., Handstands can be intimidating because being upside down is uncomfortable. Before doing a handstand, try practicing with a headstand.


Sit in front of a sturdy wall. Place your hands on the ground, about shoulder width apart. Place your head on the ground in front of your hands, forming a triangle.Kick one leg forward and then the other, transferring your weight onto your hands, head, and shoulders. Hold for as long as you can, breathing as necessary. Allow your legs to lean onto the wall for support.