 Aries are usually thought of as a masculine sign, regardless of gender. So your woman in waiting is likely to have some masculine tendencies — directness, energy, a temper perhaps — even if her more feminine traits shine brighter in your eyes. The first step in getting an Aries to fall in love with you is to understand, accept, and finally cherish, these tendencies.


Accept her way of doing things, especially in the beginning. Aries are known as very domineering, which can be tough if you're that way too. If she doesn't get to decide what she wants to do because your ideas are different from hers, the chemistry between you too is likely to suffer. Go with the flow.
Let her be rowdy. Remember the tactful little lady that Audrey Hepburn always played in old movies? That is, most definitely, not your average Aries female. She may talk loud, swear, or act boisterously, but you have to be there, at her side, trying not to wilt under the pressure. A tough act, but a rewarding one.;
, Like Aries the Greek god, Aries females are fiercely competitive. This competition plays itself out in the workplace (where she's usually angling to get a promotion, or at least win the support and admiration of her peers) as well as in her day to day life. So how do you begin to attract an Aries female? Stoke her competitiveness! Try the following:


Play board-, card-, dice-, and sports games with her. Bring a set of cards when you go to a bar and challenge her to a game of Rummy; or bring eight dice along and challenge her to a game of Liar's Dice. Whatever you do, don't just let her win; she wants the satisfaction of knowing that she beat you when you were giving it your all.
 It's a must. Aries are extremely active signs, preferring the rough and tumble of physical adventure over the easy predictability of domesticity. In order to click with an Aries, you need to enjoy that side of yourself. Gone are the days of sitting in front of the TV on Fridays and Sundays; get ready to meet mother nature and sweat like a sow.


Women usually like a great walk on the beach, but Aries might rather go kite-surfing instead. Or how about an impromptu swimming challenge past the breakers and back?
Go on jogs and runs with her. Yoga and Pilates are rather tame, so try to pick something with a little more verve — something that really gets her heart pumping. Many Aries love rock-climbing.
Play and watch sports with her. Women are thought to be disinterested in sports, but usually not Aries. She might not like the passivity of watching sports, but she's sure to embrace the opportunity to play them. Invite her along when you play pickup basketball with your buddies, or take her on a date to a football game.
 Aries will often act before they think. That can sometimes lead to a little trouble, but Aries love the adventure of wriggling out of trouble, too. Don't be afraid to act on your impulsive side, or accept hers, when you're around her. Many Aries can't stand a partner who doesn't know how to fly by the seat of his pants from time to time.


Take her on an unplanned date. Try showing up unannounced and whisk her off to a sculpting class, followed by a bar. If she, on the slim chance, has other plans or isn't ready to jump down the rabbit hole, shrug it off and try again another time. Don't moan or take it as a slight against your character. This will make her upset.
 Aries find it hard to understand why other people are shy. They're extroverted, communicating their feelings easily and readily. If you're a shy one, don't put your shy side front and center during the first couple of dates. It's not that she can't love it; it's that she simply doesn't understand it. If you can show her in the beginning that your shyness doesn't define you, there's a chance that she can eventually learn to live with it, and love it.

