 Practice makes perfect with everything, including fighting. If you’re not willing to put in the time to practice, you’ll never get faster. The point of practicing is to do the movement so many times over that you can do it without thought and it becomes automatic.Become an autopilot fighter by having drills to really ground the movement into your mind., Dynamic stretches are different from static stretches. Static stretches are meant to pull and hold your muscle in place. Dynamic stretches move your muscles and warm them up by getting them working.When you think dynamic stretches, think about jump rope, squats, lunges and jumping jacks.For your arms, try hugging motions and arm rotation. If it feels like you are getting your body up and moving, it is likely a dynamic stretch.


Compare your muscles to rubberbands. When it’s cold or your movement is constricted, they are tightly wound. By warming them up, you’re allowing your body to prepare itself for some big time movement.Once you feel like your muscles are loosened, your warm up is done., Visualize the ideal outcome to the fight.Envision how you want to win and imagine each movement in each moment. Are you going to give a knock-out punch? Are you going to throw out 30 punches in a minute? Hype yourself up and get your adrenaline pumping.It’s important to build up your confidence. If you’re scared to get into a fight, analyze your fear. Yes, you may get injured. Yes, you may get punched in the nose. Remind yourself, you are going to win and it’s going to be the highlight of your week. While building yourself up, understand that you are good at other physical activity too., You wouldn’t show up to a job interview wearing slippers and pajamas so don’t practice fighting when you’re not prepared. Putting on your gym shorts and tightly lacing your running shoes will help you get in the mood. It also ensures proper movement when practicing.Make sure you don’t have a heavy meal or an empty stomach before practice, either. Have a healthy light snack beforehand to ensure you can be held over till you post-workout snack, without being lethargic from your cheeseburger and fries. Don’t forget to stay hydrated, either.

