 It can be anything. If the ballerina was murdered, you might need a few more items to show injuries.


For extra scare points, say that the ballerina was killed by a vampire (which would make her a vampire, adding to the scary effect).;
, Black will get the "dead" point across) with thin straps (spaghetti straps). These you can find at a Dance/Costume Boutique. You will also need a black tutu, the kind that ballerinas wear (as in the ones that stick straight out with lots of layering mesh, not the actual skirts that hang down). If you cannot find black, get the darkest gray you can find. You will also need black tights, but if you don't have them then you can use tan or pink. But if you do have Black then try to rip them up or cut holes in the tights.
 If you want to look the best, you will need to dye these black. You can also use fabric or spray paint to color them. If the paint fades a little in certain areas, or has scratches, do not repaint them. This damage will make them look old and worn.
 You can also sew on thinner black satin ribbons to your ballet shoes, and then tie them crossed around your ankle with a bow on the side also. (do not use black ribbons for your ballet shoes if they are not black. Try using ribbons the same color as the shoes.)

, Add bandages (not band-aids, but actual bandages) around the ankles and feet. You can die areas of the bandage red if you'd like.
 You can also play around with more black satin ribbons if you'd like. Add black lace.
 You can also use black palette face paint (not the liquid tube kind), dab a makeup sponge into the container and smudge your tights with it. Try to make it look as similar to dirt as possible, rather than paint.
 Make sure it is tight and will not fall out. You can use nets, pins, or whatever you need to keep it tight. Use a lot of bobby pins in your hair and pull it out of your face. You can also tie a black ribbon around your bun.
 You want to look pale, but not completely white. Make sure to blend onto your neck and chest, otherwise it will look odd to have just a pale face. Powder anywhere else you feel is needed.
 Use fake eyelashes if you want. Use plenty of eyeliner (thickly applied) around the eye line, then use a small eye shadow applicator (the kind with the small round sponge on the end) and blend outwards. You can use eye shadow also, preferred smokey black, charcoal, or dark gray, it can have shimmer if you want.

