 You may have an implied right to knock on someone’s front door, particularly where there isn’t a “no trespassing” or “no solicitation” sign posted.Accordingly, if someone tries to sue you for knocking on their door, you should see whether or not you were explicitly told not to come onto the property. If no signs were posted, then document this fact.


Take pictures of the person’s property from many different angles to show that no sign is visible. Make sure to take clear, color photographs. Also, take pictures during the same time of day when you entered the property.
If a sign is posted but obscured by foliage or branches, then take pictures of the obstruction as well.;
, You can establish implied consent based on custom.When people trespass over an extended period of time, then it may become customary to use someone’s property for some purpose. For example, the public might use a beach although it is private.Get witness statements from other people that they have regularly trespassed on the property. This may be difficult since people might hesitate to admit that they break the law.
Nevertheless, you could get people to sign an affidavit that they have observed other people routinely trespassing on the property.
 You should also try to get documentary evidence of other people using the person’s property. You should document the days and times that you take the pictures. Also, you could have someone else witness you taking the pictures.
 You could be given implied consent in a variety of ways. You should write down your memories of any interaction you had with the plaintiff which you interpreted as implied consent. For example:


The landowner sees you trespassing and never complains. As an example: you play basketball with your children and regularly have to retrieve the ball from your neighbor’s yard. If your neighbor sees you and talks to you—but never asks you to stop coming onto their property—then you might have implied consent.
The landowner implies consent through actions. A neighbor might routinely leave things on her porch for you to pick up. This act carries the implied consent that you will enter the property to get the goods.
The owner doesn’t object when you use their possession. If you pick up someone’s computer and start to surf the Internet, then a reasonable person would speak if they objected. Their silence could be interpreted as consent., If you have been served with a lawsuit, you will have a limited time to research the law and answer the complaint. In most states, you will have about 30 days to respond to a lawsuit. Therefore, you should start researching the law as soon as you get served with the complaint. When you read the complaint, look for citations to legal authorities. This is a great place to start. Read the law being referenced to get an idea of how to respond.


For example, in most civil trespass cases regarding real estate (i.e., trespass to land), the plaintiff will have to prove that you knowingly went onto the land of another without their consent.Now, based on your research, you know that one element the plaintiff will have to prove is a lack of consent. Therefore, you know you will be able to defend against the claim if you can prove the plaintiff supplied implied consent.
 Now that you understand the law you are being accused of violating, you will need to respond to the plaintiff's lawsuit within your 30 day window. When you answer a lawsuit, you will respond to the allegations the plaintiff is making against you. With the plaintiff's complaint in hand, you will respond to each individual sentence by admitting or denying the claims it makes.


Because you are going to make a case for implied consent, you will need to raise this issue in your answer. When you get to the plaintiff's claim that they did not provide consent, you will respond by denying that claim and asserting your defense. After your denial, you will want to state that you had implied consent and include the facts that lead you to believe this.
Once you have drafted your answer, you will file it with the court and serve a copy on the plaintiff. To serve the plaintiff with your response, have someone over the age of 18 that is not related to the case hand a copy to the plaintiff directly. If the plaintiff cannot be reached directly, have the server mail a copy to the plaintiff. The server will return a proof of service form you will file with the court., In a trespass case, the plaintiff will usually file a motion asking the court to grant an injunction, which would require you to cease going on to the plaintiff's land until the litigation is over. The court will review the motion and weigh your due process rights against the harm being done to the plaintiff.To successfully defend against a motion for an injunction, you will have to show the court that the plaintiff is not being seriously harmed by your actions and that your due process rights would be violated if the injunction was upheld.


If the injunction would not cause you any harm, you might consider not fighting the motion. For example, if you only went on to the plaintiff's land once and did not plan on doing it ever again, you can probably let the injunction go into effect.
 Early in the pretrial stages of the litigation, you and the plaintiff will take part in discovery, which will give you an opportunity to collect and exchange information. During discovery you will be able to interview witnesses, gather facts, find out what the other side is going to say, and see how good your case is. In order to achieve the goals of discovery, you will be able to use the following tools:Informal discovery, which involves gathering information on your own.
Depositions, which are in-person interviews with the plaintiff or other witnesses. These interviews are conducted under oath and the answers can be used in court. For example, you could call the plaintiff in for a deposition and ask them about facts surrounding your consent claim (e.g., have they let other individuals on the land in the past?).
Interrogatories, which are written questions the plaintiff or another witness must answer under oath. This is another great opportunity to ask the plaintiff questions about the facts surrounding your implied consent defense.
Requests for admissions, which are written requests to have the plaintiff admit or deny the existence of certain facts. For example, you might ask the plaintiff: "Is it true that you allowed Bob Smith on your land on five different occasions to pick apples?"

, When discovery is complete, you should file a motion for summary judgment, which asks the court to end the litigation and rule in your favor immediately. In order to succeed, you will have to show the judge there is no genuine issue of material fact and that you are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. You will show this by submitting affidavits and evidence to the judge.If you are making an implied consent defense, you would bring it up at this point. You would state that a lack of consent is required for the plaintiff to succeed in this case. Furthermore, if consent exists, whether it is implied or explicit, the plaintiff would not be able to win the case as a matter of law (i.e., the plaintiff cannot prove all the elements of the tort). You would then provide affidavits and evidence showing the court that implied consent exists in this case and that the facts are indisputable. You might include deposition transcripts, witness affidavits, and interrogatory answers.
If you succeed, the case will end and judgment will be entered in your favor.
 If you fail to end the litigation with your motion for summary judgment, you may want to consider trying to settle your case. During informal settlement negotiations, you and the plaintiff will sit down and discuss your claims and whether common ground can be found. In addition to informal discussions, you might also utilize:


Mediation, which involves having a neutral third party sit down with you and the plaintiff to discuss your case. The third party will not take sides and will not offer any opinions. The third party is only there to help facilitate discussions.
Arbitration, which involves having a third party act like a judge and make decisions about your case. You and the plaintiff will both present your case to the arbitrator, who will review the evidence submitted and draft an opinion. The opinion will let you know who the arbitrator thinks has the stronger case and who should win.
 Right before trial, you and the plaintiff will meet with the judge to discuss what will be presented at trial and how the trial will proceed. This meeting is sometimes called an "issues conference."Make sure you bring everything to the meeting and lay out all your plays on the table. Only issues discussed in this conference will be admitted at trial.
 You are an important source of evidence at any trial. In a trespass lawsuit, you can use your testimony to highlight facts which show implied consent. For example, you can testify as to what the landowner did or said that you interpreted as consent. When you testify, remember the following tips for being a credible witness:Listen closely to the question and answer only that question. If you don’t understand the question, ask for clarification.
Think before answering. Although you will feel nervous testifying, you should try not to rush. Instead, pause and consider your answer.
Speak clearly. Keep your voice up and answer in complete words, not gestures or sounds like “uh huh.”
Don’t guess. Also be careful providing estimates.
Always tell the truth. It is your best defense.
 Any person who has helpful evidence can also testify on your behalf. In order to make sure that the witness shows up on the day of the trial, you should serve the witness with a subpoena. A subpoena is a legal command to appear on a given date at the courthouse and offer testimony.You can get subpoenas from the court clerk.


Make sure that your witnesses are credible. Credible witnesses tell a consistent story. Your witnesses should also not have a criminal history, since that can sometimes be brought up at trial.As you draw up your witness list, discreetly ask potential witnesses if they have ever committed a crime. Explain why you need to know.
 You can only introduce photographs into evidence if you have a witness acknowledge that the document is what it purports to be. This means that you have someone testify that they took the picture and also identify what the picture shows.


For example, suppose you have pictures of people on someone’s beach. You want to use this picture as proof that it is customary for the public to use the beach. You can’t just tell the judge, “I want to introduce this picture of people on the beach into evidence.” Instead, you need a witness to testify that they know what the picture shows and that it is a fair and accurate representation of the beach.You can have the person who took the picture be the witness who lays this foundation. You should lay this foundation in the following manner:First, show the witness the picture.
Then ask, “Do you know what that is?” The witness should say something like, “Yes, it’s the beach in front of Mrs. Smith’s property.”
Then ask, “How do you know that?” The witness can then testify that he took the picture. If the witness didn’t take the picture, then he can testify that he has seen the beach in person.
If the witness took the picture, then follow up by asking the date and time the picture was taken.
Finally, ask if the photograph truly and accurately represents the scene as it appeared on the date the picture was taken. You have now laid a foundation and can ask the judge to introduce the photo into evidence.
 You can also prove implied consent by getting the plaintiff to admit on the witness stand that he or she gave you implied consent. Of course, the plaintiff will probably resist doing so. Nevertheless, you should try to get the plaintiff to admit to as much as you can.


For example, the plaintiff might insist that they always complain when people trespass. However, you can get the plaintiff to admit that they didn’t complain when you trespassed.
 Ultimately, the judge or jury will have to decide whether implied consent existed. You can try to convince them that it did exist during your closing argument at trial. Gather all of your evidence and explain how this evidence proves that implied consent was given.


Tell the jury what the evidence means. Hold up the picture to the jury and say, “Do you remember this picture I introduced? It shows people tanning and playing Frisbee on the beach in front of Mrs. Smith’s property. You also heard from three witnesses who testified that people used the beach continuously for as long as they could remember. What you see in this picture was a common occurrence.”
Remember that you can only mention evidence that was properly admitted at trial.If you were unable to get a photograph introduced into evidence, then don’t mention it during closing argument.
 Criminal trespass is most commonly a low level misdemeanor, which means that after your arrest you will usually be booked and released. When you are booked, you will receive a piece of paper that tells you when your first court date is and that you must be present. This first court date is your arraignment. If you fail to show up, the judge might issue a warrant for your arrest. On the day of your arraignment, show up to court early and be prepared. Your arraignment will usually involve the following:


The charges against you will be read aloud. In your case, the charge will be for criminal trespass.
You will offer a plea of "guilty", "not guilty", or "no contest." If you are going to raise a defense of implied consent, you will want to plead "not guilty."
If you could receive jail time for the criminal trespass, you will be appointed a lawyer if you cannot afford one. Most criminal trespass statutes do not include jail time as a penalty unless there are aggravating circumstances (e.g., you had a gun, you caused a lot of damage). Even if jail time is an option, you will not have the right to an attorney if the prosecutor is not seeking jail time.
A date will be set for your next appearance., Before trial you will enter a period of discovery in which you can ask the prosecution for the evidence they have against you. Because criminal trespass is such a minor charge, it is not likely that you will be in jail. Therefore, you should be able to conduct discovery freely without having to use a third party or attorney. However, if you can afford an attorney, you should hire one to help.


When you request evidence from the prosecution, you will want to ask for police reports and witness statements. In addition, you should ask for any other information you think would be relevant and helpful., During these early pretrial stages, you should be out investigating your case and building your implied consent defense. Generally, implied consent exists when conduct or words have been used that imply that an owner or occupant of land has consented to you being on the land.To prove this defense, you will need witnesses to take the stand in your defense and convince the court that implied consent existed. In addition, go to the scene and take pictures, and notes. Be sure you are not trespassing when you complete this step. Use the evidence you collected prior to this point and any other evidence you can find going forward.
 In order to be admissible, evidence has to conform to the local rules called rules of evidence. The rules dictate what type of evidence can be admitted, how it can be admitted, and what it can be admitted for. Prior to trial, you can submit motions to the court asking it to throw out pieces of the prosecution's evidence before trial ever starts. In your motion you will have to prove that the prosecution's evidence does not conform to the rules or that it was obtained or handled improperly.
 If trial is coming and you do not feel particularly confident in your case, you may attempt to reach a plea deal before trial begins. A plea deal is like a settlement and involves you agreeing to plead guilty to a lesser crime and in exchange your punishment will be reduced and you will not have to go to trial. However, you should never agree to a plea deal if you feel like your implied consent defense is going to succeed. If you enter into a plea deal, you will never be able to resent your defense to the court and you will be found guilty of a crime.
 At trial, the prosecution will present their case against you by calling witnesses to the stand and introducing evidence through them. You will have an opportunity to cross-examine every witness and try to poke holes in their testimony. When the prosecution rests, you will have an opportunity to present your case. This will be your opportunity to call witnesses and introduce evidence that will convince the court that implied consent existed.


At the end of the trial, you will either be found guilty or not guilty of criminal trespass. If you are found guilty, you may have to pay a fine. If you are found not guilty, you will not have to pay anything.

