 You'll need:


White paint
Wet light pink paint (not paint cakes) or light pink paint crayons
Wet dark pink paint (not paint cakes) or dark pink paint crayons
Makeup sponges or large, soft poofy brushes that will give you a similar texture
Wet black paint (not paint cakes) or black paint crayons
Thin brushes
Bunny ears (optional);
, When you're painting someone's face, their hair can get in the way. Tying it back also helps stop paint getting stuck in it.


If they have a fringe, keep it back with bobby pins or hair clips.
 If they're greasy and dirty, the paint won't go on properly and the dirt will mix with it, changing the colour.


You can wash their face with soap and water, or your can use a towel soaked in warm water, as long as it gets the dirt off and their face isn't left greasy.
Make sure you dry their face off completely before painting it, otherwise the water will mix with the paint.
 Get your subject to close their eyes and paint white patches over their eyelids and around their eyes.


It's best to use wet paint, not paint cakes, so it looks smooth and blended.
Use a makeup sponge or a large, soft, puffy makeup brush to get a smooth texture.
Be careful not to get paint into their eyes.



For the nose patch, use the same kind of paint you used in the last step.
A makeup pad or puffy brush like the one you used in the last step works best for the nose patch.
For the teeth, use a smaller brush or a paint stick. You can also use a watercolour pencil dipped in water, but it won't give you as smooth a texture and it may not be suitable to use on their face.



Use a thin brush or a paint stick. Once again, you can use a wet watercolour pencil, but remember that it might not give you a good texture, and it may not be safe to use on your subject's face.



Use a thin brush, a paint stick or a watercolour pencil dipped in water.
You can try making the black outlines jagged so it looks like fur.
 This step is optional, but it will make it a lot more obvious that they are a rabbit.

If you want a quick, cheap and easy rabbit costume, dress your subject in white, give them rabbit ears and stick some cotton wool to their bottom to make a fluffy tail.

