 Sexual harassment can have a profound effect on not only your faith and trust, but on your physical and emotional health as well.While it is important to tell someone you trust in your personal life, it may also be necessary to seek professional help as well. Sexual harassment is a complicated and damaging assault on your mental health and emotional well-being. If you are struggling with how the situation was handled or need help moving on, seek professional help. Professional help may include addressing the following:


Feelings of shame, guilt, or anger.
Emotional difficulties such as depression and anxiety.
Lifestyle changes or disturbances such as trouble sleeping or changes to your appetite.
Struggles with the violation of your trust and your feelings of safety.
 If you are unable to access individual therapy with a psychologist or a counselor, consider attending group therapy with others who have experienced similar situations.Group therapy can be similar to support groups, but can also be more focused on learning therapeutic skills and techniques to help you move on.Additionally, group therapy is usually lead by a counselor or trained clinician. Locate group therapy services by trying the following:


Contact local mental health professional to ask if they have group therapy services available.
If you attend college, your college counseling center may have group therapy services for you to attend.
Call your insurance company to find approved services in your area.
 If you are struggling with verbalizing how you feel, or communicating your emotions about the situation, then expressive therapy practices may help.You can engage in creative arts therapy or expressive therapy with a mental health professional or on your own. The practice simply involves using a creative outlet that you enjoy to process through and communicate your thoughts and emotions about the harassment.


Paint or draw how you are feeling. If you are having trouble getting started, try painting a particular emotion you are experiencing. If you are angry, what would your anger look like? What would it say?
If you are musically inclined play music or write a song about how you are feeling.
Write a poem or a story about your journey through this situation.
Create a dance or movement to a song showing all the emotions you have felt.

