 Ideally, do this outside because the process may produce a lot of smoke. If you must season indoors, be sure to take precautions such as turning on the oven fan and opening windows.;
, You need to get the Dutch oven to a point that it has no baked-on food particles, and the surface is free of encrustations. A Dutch oven used on a fire may have a lot of soot, so take care with your hands, surfaces, and clothing.


If you need to use soap, use just a little, mild dish soap, and rinse well. (If you do not, the taste of soap may stay in the cast iron seasoning and take a long time to get out...yuck!)
Steel wool will work well, but may cause some areas to discolor.
Only use power-abrasives such as polishing power tools for Dutch ovens in extremely bad shape.
 Again, if it has been used on a fire, it is likely to be sooty. Turn it over so all water possible evaporates before seasoning.
 Seasoning a Dutch oven will likely cause oil to drip, and this will protect your oven. Be sure the sheet is larger than the base of your Dutch Oven.


Place the cookie sheet on the lowest shelf in the oven.
 There is a lot of debate over the best oil to season cast iron. Whatever you choose, make sure it is not rancid or the taste will stay in your cast iron a long time. The top seasoning oils are:


Vegetable oil
Lard
Vegetable shortening
Olive oil
Do not use butter--it will burn rather than season.
 With a rag or paper towel, generously lube up your cast iron with food-grade safe oil, inside and out. You do not need to do the handle.
 Use a paper towel or rag to spread the oil.
 Turn heat onto 350F/(176.67 C). Place the Dutch oven upside down. You want the oil to fall out of the pot, which will create an even coating on the surface rather than collecting at the bottom of the pot

, Although this is generally a safe kitchen activity, monitor for smoking or other issues.
 Let the Dutch oven sit for 15 to 25 minutes at least. When seasoning a Dutch oven, you want to give the oil a chance to set. Handle the Dutch oven with mitts or other hand coverings, as it will be hot.You can also wait until the oven cools down to room temperature, if you wish. There is no rush here.
 This will also bring out the dark shine of a freshly seasoned Dutch oven. This is how the interior should look when the cast iron Dutch oven is primed for cooking. The exterior does not really matter--it can get dull and not affect cooking.

