 Every time you use the word gay to refer to someone or something that you don't like or think is stupid, wrong or bad in any way, take a mental note. Examine why you want to use it. What situations are you in when this usually happens?


Keep track of the times that you say it, think it, or almost use the word. You can even write it down.
If you find yourself using it when you are around certain people or discussing certain topics, you may want to limit your time in those scenarios until you get things under control. You could also be more careful in those situations because you know they trigger your use of the word.;
, When "gay" is used inappropriately, it is typically to describe something that is negative, silly, or dumb. If you do not talk about these things, you will be less likely to call something "gay." Spend more time talking about good and positive things and experiences.If you find yourself in the middle of one of these conversations, try to think of something positive to say or change the subject.
It will take time to change the way you speak and the type of conversations you find yourself in.
 When using replacements, remember that they apply not only to spoken language, but also to writing and thinking. If you constantly challenge yourself to use alternatives, you will eventually become used to using these alternatives. The alternative words and phrases will eventually become part of your vocabulary.


Instead of using "gay" try using "inappropriate," "weird," "strange," "wrong," out of place," out of line," or "out of order."Expand your vocabulary to have more words to pull from. Having a wider knowledge of words that you have at your disposal is amazingly useful.
Buy yourself a thesaurus, a word-a-day calendar, or add a word-a-day widget to your browser's homepage.
 You may have a slip up when you are trying to stop using the word "gay." If you do make the mistake, apologize immediately. When you apologize immediately, it shows that you are trying to change, and you are taking responsibility.You might say, "I'm sorry. I chose the wrong word. I meant to say ____."
You can also say, "I'm trying to stop saying that word. It slipped out. I'm sorry if I offended anyone. Please forgive me."

, It can be difficult to stop doing something when everyone around you is doing the same thing. Even though you are trying to stop, constantly hearing the word used casually can keep it in the back of your mind. This does not have to be done in a rude or confrontational manner. Try some of the following phrases when it happens."Do you know what "gay" means?
"You are probably not trying to be hurtful, but using the word "gay" to describe something that is bad or stupid is hurtful. Do you know why this is hurtful?"
"Using the word "gay" as a put down is not okay. That is a hurtful word and affects the people around you"
"Could you not use that word around me? I don't think it's cool, and I'm trying to stop saying it."

