 Respect is another stat that can be raised in GTA San Andreas, but unlike most of the stats listed above, it's next to impossible to raise it significantly from the beginning of the game. The higher your respect level, the more members of CJ's Grove Street Families gang you can recruit to help you with missions. Having a posse alongside you can make many missions significantly easier than they would be otherwise, so it pays to build a lot of respect.


Respect is gained in the normal course of the game by completing certain missions. You can also increase respect passively by making sure CJ wears green, the color of his gang, whenever he's inside Grove Street Families territory.
Conquering another gang's territory and annexing it (by starting and winning a gang war, which essentially involves shooting a whole bunch of gang members) will raise CJ's respect by a whole bunch (about 30%). Tagging over another gang's graffiti grants a small increase.
Killing drug dealers, police officers, and members of rival gangs grants slight increases to respect. Killing your own gang members, or letting them die, reduces respect.
 Fairly early on in the game, it's possible to start making a decent amount of money if you put your mind to it. Missions provide a good amount, of course; citizens can also be killed for their cash. Eventually, CJ can purchase businesses to provide him with regular income, but until that point, saving your money whenever you can afford to will grant you significant advantages later.


Drug dealers not only grant you respect when killed; they're also a great source of money. They tend to be short-tempered and well-armed, but if you snag a heavy vehicle like a semi truck and flatten them, they won't have much of a chance to fight back. You can also use sniper bullets to waste them from a distance.
Getting busted or wasted will cost you money. If you save regularly, you can just reload the game instead and avoid the fees, although they aren't really that high. Another hidden cost of getting wasted or busted is the loss of all your weapons. If you've managed to collect a nice little arsenal, consider reloading to save yourself the cost and trouble of finding or buying your guns again.
If you really want to game the system, save the game, then bet everything you have at an Inside Track betting shop. If you lose, reload and try again until you win. Each time you win, you'll multiply your money by a significant factor, and soon end up with more than you even knew you wanted.

This type of trick is commonly known as “save scumming.” It's effective, but many people consider it to be not in the spirit of the game, since it provides near-instant gratification with no immersion in the game world required. Set aside an extra save before you take advantage of it, just in case you find that the rest of the game's money missions become dull and lackluster afterward.
 There are a few basic types of side mission you can activate by appropriating specific vehicles. Paramedic missions activate from an ambulance, vigilante missions activate from a police or military vehicle, and taxi missions activate from a taxicab. There are a set number of missions available for each type of vehicle; complete them all and you'll be granted some very useful ability bonuses.


Completing the level 12 Firefighter missions makes CJ fireproof.
Completing the level 12 Paramedic missions gives CJ the maximum possible health.
Completing the level 12 Vigilante missions increases CJ's maximum body armor rating to 150%.
Completing the level 12 Taxi missions allows all taxis to make unlimited jumps and nitrous boosts.
 Like most GTA games, San Andreas is chock-full of hidden items, scattered all across the state. If you manage to find all of a certain type of item, you'll be rewarded with multiple weapon spawn points, as well as money in some cases.


Tags are graffiti tag spots that CJ can mark with the Grove Street Families tag. Tag all 100 tag spots to unlock several weapon spawns at his house on Grove Street.
Horseshoes are just what they sound like. Collect all 50 of them to give CJ a much higher chance of winning when gambling, and spawn some powerful weapons at the Four Dragons Casino.
Snapshots are photo opportunities scattered around the city of San Fierro and nowhere else. Snap all 50 of them to earn a bit over $100,000 and some new weapon drops at the Doherty Garage.
 As long as you have garage space (more space can be acquired by purchasing additional properties), you can store vehicles for later use. At times, especially useful and/or hard-to-find vehicles will be available to snag and store. Having these special vehicles can make difficult later missions significantly easier.


Look for armored vehicles. The most obvious of these is the Rhino armored tank, which can be carjacked from Area 69 and stored in a garage for later use. Getting the Rhino home isn't exactly easy, but if you can manage it, once it's in your garage you can keep it.
“Mission jack” super vehicles. There are many amazingly durable vehicles you can only use during missions. By failing these missions (usually by killing the mission boss or destroying the wrong vehicle), you'll be left with a locked version of the super car. You can push or drag the dead car into a garage to restore its functionality.
Grab a Monster. The appropriately named monster truck of GTA San Andreas has ludicrously high clearance, and can simply drive over the top of most other cars, making it useful in some races and chase missions. Its excellent suspension and high clearance also make it ideal for off-road endeavors. You can sometimes find one at a spawn point in the trailer park near the Flint Intersection in Flint County.
Save a tow truck. Having a tow truck on hand will allow you to mission jack many special vehicles by dragging the car back to a garage after you fail the mission. It's also useful for returning destroyed vehicles you'd previously stored back to their garage spaces, restoring them once again.
 There are many missions you have to approach one way only, but there are many you can be creative with, as well. Don't hesitate to take a helicopter to a shootout mission and land on a nearby roof to snipe enemies, or defeat a barricade by accelerating a heavy car to ramming speed and then jumping out of it as it hurtles forward, snagging a smaller and faster car to follow through once the blockade has been destroyed.


If you can't make things work one way, keep retrying the mission from different angles, and with different weapons and vehicles. Never give up, and you'll eventually find a way to pass the mission.

