 As stated, an allergy test can help identify the allergen but this might not be necessary. Review your activity leading up to the reaction and see if anything obvious stands out. Poison ivy and oak, for example, are common irritants, and if you've been camping or hiking recently they may to blame. If you used any new skin products, hair products, nail products, or lotions there's a good chance these caused the reaction.


Ask your doctor for a list of products that commonly contain the substance that you should avoid.
 Most of us are too busy in our day-to-day lives to examine every ingredient on the mass of cleaning supplies and personal care products in our homes. Many chemicals used in common household items serve as skin irritants. Take stock of what's in your kitchen and bathroom cupboards, paying close attention to products that frequently cause allergic reactions. If one product stands out as particularly chemical-heavy, it might be best to toss it and opt for a more natural version. These products include:


Soaps, especially dish soaps
Household cleaners, like window cleaner and bathroom cleaners
Fabric dryer sheets and laundry detergents
Clothing, especially rough fabrics like wool
Latex
Fragrances, like perfumes and skin sprays
Facial creams
Nickel, which can be found in jewelry, watchbands, and zippers
Sunscreen

, Depending on your work situation, it might not be possible to avoid or even identify all potential irritants. Therefore, to avoid another allergic reaction, using skin moisturizers and protective barriers can help.


Use moisturizers, such as all natural lotions that include ingredients such as glycerin, hyaluronic acid, and propylene glycol. Such components are known to produce longer lasting moisturizers. Ideally, a good moisturizer can help skin stay strong and healthy, which helps fight off allergic reactions.Petroleum jelly, found in most supermarkets, can provide a protective layer over skin, lessening the exposure to irritants. It's also a good idea to put petroleum jelly over cracked, dry skin overnight to help it heal. Any open wounds or sores can increase the likelihood of skin being affected by an allergen.
Wearing a pair of thick rubber gloves when working with chemicals or cleaners can lessen the likelihood of direct skin contact and, therefore, an allergic reaction. Rubber gloves are a good investment for any household, and be sure to slip a pair on when cleaning your kitchen or bathroom.
If you do come into contact with a known or suspected allergen, time is important. The quicker you get the substance out of your system, the better. Thoroughly wash the exposed area with soap and warm water directly after exposure.

