 Before deciding on your character's sexuality, identity, and relationship status, you'll need to decide on the basics of your character. What's their name and how old are they? What is their appearance? What's their role in the story? Keep in mind that your character defines their sexual orientation—the sexual orientation doesn't define them.


Your character should have a personality that is just as nuanced as the personalities of the straight and cis characters.;
, What are their lives like? What are their struggles, their goals, the things they are grateful for? Which characters do they say are done well, and why? Which stereotypes do they hate? What advice do they have for you? If you take time to listen to the community, you will understand them better.


Try sending out a message asking for advice on social media. You may get some great tips!

, What lesson do they learn? What is their major flaw, and how do they overcome it (if at all)? If they are the main character, facing this problem head on will mark the climax of the story. This may or may not be related to their gender identity. For example:


Lane suffered bullying in childhood, and their dad died in a traumatic car accident. They are afraid to open up to anyone. With the help of their boyfriend, they begin sharing more. The climax is when they finally agree to sing karaoke at a party, only to forget the lyrics. Lane learns that failure is okay, and people can be more forgiving than they know.
Dijon lives life according to social norms, working hard and studying medicine like his mom wants. He slowly learns to listen to his own desires, and accepting himself as asexual is part of this. The climax is when he announces to his mother that he is going to the state university to study engineering, not med school, because this is what he wants.
Bayta is trans and bisexual, but this isn't very important to the story. Her character arc is about accepting herself as Autistic and learning to ask for help.
 What are they good at? What positive contributions will they make to the plot? How do they help others? Give your character some real strong points, and readers will be reminded that LGBT+ people are talented and worth having around.
 Everyone is unique, and different people will have different experiences. Tailor your character's past and present to the demands of their story and their personality. There are thousands of ways to be bisexual or transgender or gay, and none of them are bad or wrong.

