 Wrap some ice cubes in a small towel or run a washcloth under cold water and squeeze it until it is damp but not dripping wet. Apply to the razor-burned area for five to ten minutes several times per day until the razor burn has subsided., Mix two tablespoons of ground oatmeal with one tablespoon of honey. Apply the mixture to razor-burned skin and keep it there for thirty minutes.


If you find the honey-oatmeal mix is too thick and difficult to apply in a smooth, even layer, you could add one teaspoon of water to it.
Applying the mixture just after shaving could maximize its efficacy.
 Honey has many natural antibacterial agents and moisturizing properties. Using a small spoon or spatula, cover the razor burn with a thin layer of honey. Let the honey sit for about five minutes. Wash the area off under cold water and dry your skin with a small rag or towel.


Next, splash a small amount of apple cider vinegar over the affected area. For a more even application, you could fill a small spray bottle with apple cider vinegar and squirt the affected area once or twice. After applying the vinegar, allow it to air-dry. The anti-inflammatory qualities of apple cider vinegar will cool the skin and relieve your razor burn.
 They are typically sold in small boxes of ten to twenty. Any brand will do, but make sure to obtain only black tea. Dip the tea bag in water to moisten it. Rub it gently over the razor burn. The tannic acid in the black tea can reduce redness and inflammation caused by razor burn.Repeat two to three times each day, or as needed.
Do not rub the bag too vigorously over the razor-burned area, as the tea bag is very thin and easily torn.
 Add one tablespoon of baking soda to one cup of water. Stir until you get a smooth paste. If your solution remains liquidy, add more baking soda. Dip a cotton ball in the solution and spread it across the razor burn. Allow it to sit for about five minutes. Remove the cotton ball and wash the area off with cold water. Repeat two to three times each day, or as needed., Cut an aloe vera leaf along its edge to squeeze out the gel within. If you have trouble squeezing the gel out, use the knife or your fingers to scrape it out from within the leaf. Rub the gel on your razor burn in a circular motion with the tips of your fingers. Continue massaging it into your skin for about two minutes. Let it sit on your skin until its soothing properties subside. Then, rinse the affected skin with cold water. Repeat this application two to four times each day, or as needed.


If you don’t have an aloe vera plant or can’t easily obtain aloe vera leaves, you can use the same technique with store-bought aloe vera gel.
 Together, they can help you get rid of your razor burn quickly. Blend half a cucumber with one to two tablespoons of plain yogurt in a blender or food processor. Scoop some of this cucumber-yogurt mix out and apply to the razor-burned area in a thin layer with a spoon or spatula. After twenty minutes, wash the mixture off with lukewarm water.


If you’re applying the mix to a larger area of razor burn, you should add two tablespoons of yogurt rather than one, and use a whole cucumber, rather than just a half.
If you don’t have any yogurt on hand, raw cucumber slices can also be applied directly to the razor burn for fast, soothing relief. Cut some thin cucumber slices and place them in the fridge for about thirty minutes. Apply them for twenty minutes., Witch hazel contains many astringents that help heal and sooth your razor burn. Dip a cotton ball in a small volume of witch hazel and rub it on the razor-burned area. You could also choose to fill a spray bottle with witch hazel and spray two or three squirts of it on the razor burn. Whatever method you choose, apply the witch hazel two or three times per day, or as needed.

