 It really helps and you can have colours representing different things eg. you can colour play time red and work time blue. If you have too much of one colour, cancel down on that topic. If you add more to the other topic, you'll find you'll be too busy!;
, At the end of the day, all they want to do is give you the best education possible and make your life as luxurious as possible. If you get angry (this can be hormones as well) count to ten and take deep, long, breaths. Try to think of it from your parents point of view. You can always write a diary too, but make sure you have a secure lock, you disguise it in some way and you hide the keys!

, Let's say if you get 90% or higher in any test etc. that you do, you get a horse-riding lesson, or something that you are interested in. It can be sporty or it can just be meeting up with your friends. Make sure you ok this with your parents first though!

, Do bit by bit every day until you find that you have finished it all! It really helps and DO NOT leave it until the last minute. If you do find yourself in this situation, do as much as you possibly can and get your mum or dad to write a polite note explaining that you were busy and that you have tried your best. The worst your tutor can do is tell you off and it's not the end of the world! Just make sure you don't do it again!

, Stick to it! I have to do 2 and a half hours but I get a break of 10-15 minutes every half an hour. Don't turn the TV on at this time! Instead, have a snack, play a musical instrument, call your friend, go for a walk, play outside, play on the Wii, dance around, sing, do whatever you can cram into these precious minutes. Don't laze about and get your blood pumping really good! When you start on your work again, you'll find you feel refreshed!

, If you don't pass you 11+ or any other exam, it's not the end of the world! You have to pick yourself up and carry on with life.
 If you are a girl, you can go to the salon, get a friend or family member to pamper you or just have a beautiful hot bath! If you are a guy, have a hot bath, watch a bit of telly or just lie down. It pays off!

, Wake up early and refreshed and start early on that work. If you do it before your parents wake up or whatever, you'll have the rest of the day to yourself.
 Don't do it on a day where you have loads of other things on, but on one of your 'relaxing days'. If you just leave it, you'll get behind! remember, the sooner you get it done, the better!

