 The best thing that you can do to help yourself survive a period of unemployment is to apply for as many jobs as you can. Set aside some time every day to browse help wanted ads and apply for jobs.


Drop off resumes in person. Call people or e-mail them to ask if they are hiring even if they don't have a help wanted sign.
Use online job sites, like monster.com and indeed.com. Not only can you search for jobs and apply online, but you can also post resumes so potential employers can browse your resume.
 One great way to fill your time while you look for a job is to take a class that may provide you with some new skills. Filling your extra time with something productive like taking a class will show potential employers that you are motivated to learn and work. Some of these classes are free or offered at low costs.Check out the Department of Labor's One-Stop Career Centers. Many of these centers offer free classes in topics like computers and basic academic skills. They also help with career counselling and can provide information on available jobs.
Microsoft's Elevate America works with U.S. veterans and with nonprofit organizations in communities to help people receive training for employment. The program offers no-cost and low-cost online training programs to help people develop technology skills. They also have a state voucher program to help people get vouchers for training and certification.Monster.com offers free eLearning courses that can help teach you vital skills and build your resume.
 Another way to get on-the-job training, and perhaps an in for a new job, is through an apprenticeship. The Department of Labor's website has a compiled list of hundreds of apprenticeship programs. Most of the apprenticeship programs are paid, although many at a lower salary to begin with. But with the benefits of on-the-job training, it is a worthwhile opportunity., You might consider starting a business of your own if you have any skills that you could put to use to earn some money while you seek full-time employment. Consider your skill set to determine what you can do to earn some money while you seek employment. , If you don’t have much work experience or you would like to gain some new skills, volunteering is a great way to make yourself more appealing to potential employers.Consider volunteering at a local hospital, animal shelter or other nonprofit organization while you look for a job.
Doing volunteer work will look great on your resume, and it will also be a rewarding experience for you.
 One of the reasons why you have not been able to find a job might have something to do with your resume. Spend some time revising and reorganizing your resume. Try to look at it from the perspective of potential employers and highlight the things that they might be seeking in a new employee.Look online for resume how-to guides, templates, and samples. There are many websites that help you build an effective resume for any career. You may even be able to find forums where people will look over your resume and give you feedback.
Proofread your resume for grammar, spelling, and usage errors. Employees will throw out a resume if it has too many glaring errors. Make sure it is polished and perfect before sending it out.
Check the formatting of the resume. Make sure it looks professional. Use templates online if you are unsure. Make sure you have the proper fonts, font sizes, and spacing.
 Before you go to job interviews or to drop off resumes, make sure your appearance is neat and professional. This doesn't mean you have to go out and spend hundreds of dollars on a suit. Make sure you dress in business casual. For men, wear nice slacks and either a collared shirt or a jacket and tie. For women, wear a skirt and blouse or a dress. Don't wear jeans, sneakers, or flip-flops.


Make sure your hair is clean and combed, shower before you go, and make sure your clothes are clean.
Iron your clothes before you go. Wrinkled clothes give a bad impression.
If you can't afford to buy nice clothes, try yard sales or thrift stores. You can find many nice business casual outfits at either place for low costs. Or borrow something from a friend or family member.
 Many people who are unemployed get depressed because they have no job. This causes them to lose their motivation and not want to leave the house and apply for jobs. Instead of sitting around and feeling sorry for yourself, get out of the house or take up a new hobby.


Go for a walk. Staying active and healthy during this time is very important.
Don't ignore your friends, family, and community. Remember, getting out helps you make connections and find new opportunities.
 Being unemployed can lead to depression, which may make it harder to survive this difficult period.When you feel discouraged, make sure that you reach out to someone and talk about what you are going through.
Confiding in a friend or relative about your struggles will make it easier for you to survive this difficult time.

