 You should have some form of valid government-issued ID for the application. Younger applicants might also need a birth certificate to verify their age. Those who have been married before should bring their divorce decree, though it is not required.


In Massachusetts the application is sometimes referred to formally as a "Marriage Intention." This is not the license, but rather the application to receive the license.;
, If either you or your fiancé are under the age of 18, the minor must obtain an order from either a probate or district court where the minor lives. You will need to fill out an application and bring it with you to court. The minor will also need to be escorted to the City Clerk by a parent to apply for a license.
 You must wait at least one day after your divorce is finalized to complete your Marriage Intention. However, in Massachusetts it takes 90 days for a divorce to become final. If you enter the application before the divorce is finalized you will need to apply again. You will also be required to pay the fee a second time., To apply you will need your full name, Social Security number, address, date of birth, place of birth, and occupation. You will also need to provide information about parents, including their current and maiden names, and whether they were married at the time of your birth.Some people, either because they are recent immigrants or perhaps conscientious objectors, might not have a Social Security number. This will not prevent you from filling your Marriage Intention, but you will be asked to explain why you do not have a Social Security number on the application.
 With some exceptions, both you and your fiancée must appear in person in order to fill out the marriage license forms and take an oath. You will want to bring with you the documents and information you have gathered for the application. If you plan to change your name, you should also be prepared to tell the city clerk what you would like your new name to be.If either you or your fiancé are in the military or incarcerated, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts can give a special dispensation so that only one of you will be required to visit the clerk in person.
 Each clerk's office charges a different fee for the marriage license. Some clerk's offices may also require you to pay the fee in cash. You should call ahead of time to ascertain what the fee and payment method is. When in doubt, bring at least $50 in cash.


In Boston the fee will be $50. In Cambridge it will be $35. In Worcester, the City Clerk charges $40.For smaller towns, the fee is typically between $20 and $25.
 There is a 3-day waiting period before your marriage license will be available to you. The day you take the oath counts as the first day in the waiting period.


If you cannot wait for 3 days, you and your fiancé can apply in a probate or district court for a waiting period waiver. A letter from a clergyperson or physician testifying that extreme circumstances require that you wed immediately can also be used to obtain a waiver.You will be given a white card when you apply for your license. It will list both the dates that you can pick up the license and the date on which it will expire. A third party can pick up the license only if they have this card., The 60-day countdown begins the day after your visit to the city or town clerk. If you do not get married in 60 days, the license becomes invalid and you must reapply and pay the fee again. With a Massachusetts license you can marry anywhere in the state. You will need to hand the license over to the officiant at the wedding, who will sign it and return it to make the marriage official.


In Massachusetts a wedding can be performed by a resident clergy member. A clergy member from outside of the state can apply to solemnize a marriage with the Secretary of the Commonwealth. You can even have a friend or family member apply for a one day marriage designation, so that they can perform the ceremony.