 However, doing this may make you feel worse and it won’t change anything. You can go over the details endlessly, but you can’t go back in time and change the things that you said or did.


Instead of focusing on what you did or what he did, try to remind yourself that this is no one’s fault. Some people are just not compatible, and that is okay. It is important to find someone with whom you can communicate effectively and who can meet your needs as well as you meet his.
 Rather than throwing yourself right back into another relationship, take some time to be on your own. Until you feel like you’ve completely gotten over this guy, try not to move onto another one. If you move into another relationship before you’re totally ready, you run the risk of your unresolved feelings interfering with a new relationship.


Instead of going out on dates in the meantime, go out with your friends instead. Do things in groups and enjoy your time as a single person.
 Just because you aren’t getting into another relationship right away doesn’t mean you can’t go on a date or two just for fun. Flirting with new people is fun and will help distract you from thinking about the guy you’re trying to get over. Keep things light and simple, and have fun with it.Flirting can also help you boost your self-confidence a bit if you’re feeling a little low after the loss of a relationship. Making yourself feel good is a good way to help yourself move forward.
 There were plenty of good things about your life before he came along, and those things are still there. Think about all the good things you still have going on, and look ahead to the good things you have in your future, regardless of his presence in your life. Sometimes it can even be helpful to make an actual list of all the good things in your life, as a tangible reminder.If you do write a list, keep it somewhere you can see it often, like on the fridge or in the dash of your car. That way, it will always be visible in case you need to be reminded of all the good in your life.
 If you are having trouble moving on, it’s always an option to seek the help of a professional. Speaking to a therapist or counselor can be helpful, and they might have some new ideas or suggestions to help you move forward. Do an online search to find a provider in your area. There may even be counselors nearby that specialize in relationships and can offer some special insight.If you are a college student, your school may offer counseling services for free, or for a small fee. Check with your student services office.

