 It's expensive to both live and vacation in Hawaii, so plan accordingly. Keep in mind that hosting events in Hawaii are generally more expensive than hosting them on the mainland. Set up a budget so you know you will have enough money saved for a Hawaiian wedding.;
, Each island has something different to offer:


Oahu is where the capital, Honolulu is, and is the busiest of the islands, as most people who live in Hawaii live there. Consider this island if you have a lot of people coming to the wedding because it is easiest to travel to.
Hawaii is called "The Big Island." It is home to the Hawaii Volcanoes National Park, so if you want your guests to be able to see an active volcano, The Big Island is ideal.
Maui is known as the most romantic Hawaiian island, so it would be suitable for a romantic Hawaiian wedding.
Kauai is known as "The Garden Isle" because of the lush vegetation. Consider this island if you relish a slow, laid-back atmosphere.
Lanai is called "The Pineapple Island" and is home to the most luxurious accommodations.
Molokai is known as "The Friendly Island" and does not house as many golf courses or hotels as the other islands. If you want the true Hawaiian experience, Molokai is a good choice.
 If you don't live in Hawaii but are planning a Hawaiian wedding, hiring a wedding planner who lives in Hawaii will lessen your workload. Your wedding planner will know of good venues, photographers, and caterers in the area.
 Traditionally, if you're going to have a Hawaiian wedding, you should get married on the beach. However, if you would rather have a church or synagogue wedding, explore different places of worship in the area and then find a reception venue nearby.
 Hire a band or DJ from Hawaii to play Hawaiian music and the popular Top 40 music.
 Serve traditional Hawaiian food and drink for an authentic Hawaiian wedding. Serve fruit that is native to the area, like pineapple, mango, and kiwi. Take advantage of all the delicious seafood and serve shrimp, sashimi, crab, and moi poke. You can also choose to have a traditional pig roast at your reception. Serve everything with some punch--alcoholic or non-alcoholic--and add some of the native fruit to the punch bowl.
 You can have a traditional wedding cake with Hawaiian designs and even have sliced fruit on the outside of the cake, placed on top of the frosting.
 Decide if you will just be inviting family or you will invite some close friends, as well. Maybe you want to open it up to all of your friends and family, in case they need an excuse to take a vacation. Either way, make sure you give your guests plenty of notice so they can save for travel and accommodations. If anyone can't or won't attend, don't be disappointed.
 Hawaii is a summer place, so wear white lightweight wedding clothes with leis for on your head and around your neck. Choose white comfortable wedding shoes for dancing.

