 This type of ceiling fan is obviously flush mounted, meaning that the motor of the fan sits right up at the ceiling. These ceiling fans require a bit more disassembly to remove, as the fan itself needs to be taken apart to get to the attachment bracket. However, they are good fans to have in rooms with low ceilings, as they do not hang down as far as ball-in-socket type ceiling fans.
 An easy way to make sure you have turned off the power is by keeping the fan on when you go to switch the breaker. If you have successfully turned off the right breaker, the fan should be coming to a stop when you return. , The light kit is simply the portion of the fan that is the light. On most ceiling fans with lights, the light kit is a separate section of the fan that can be removed separately. On many styles of ceiling fans the lightbulbs are simply accessible by climbing up a ladder and unscrewing them but some models require you to take off a cover that encloses the bulb.


Be gentle when removing the lightbulbs. If they happen to break, you should be cautious when removing a broken lightbulb from the socket.
 While some models will allow you to take the fan body off the ceiling without removing the light kit, most flush mounted ceiling fans require that it is removed, so that you can get to the screws that attach the whole fan to the ceiling. This step will require unscrewing the screws that hold the light kit to the fan body. Inside, you will most likely have to disconnect the wires that connect the light kit to the fan. These should simply be connected with wire nuts, which you turn counterclockwise to unscrew.


It is a really good idea to retest that you have no power coming to the fan once you have opened up the light kit. This is most easily done with a non-contact voltage tester, which tests for magnetic fields around wires quickly and easily.
 Ceiling fan blades are connected to the body of the fan with metal brackets that screw into the fan body, basically the housing for the fan's motor, and into the fan paddles themselves. It's easiest to keep the fan blade brackets and the fan blades attached and just unscrew the screws that attach the brackets to the fan body. This way, you aren't removing twice as many screws while up on your ladder.


If you plan on re-using the fan, be sure to keep all the parts. Placing all the parts in a marked bag or envelope is a good idea.
 Be sure to have a good grip on the fan body while doing this. On most modern ceiling fan models the body is attached to the bracket with a screw on one side and a hinge on the other side. This makes it so that when you unscrew the screw, the body of the fan can hang off the hinge while you disconnect the wiring. Once the screw is unscrewed, simply allow the body of the fan to hang from the hinge on one side. Otherwise you would have to hold the whole fan in one hand and disconnect the wires with the other.
 You may need to pull all the wires out a bit to access the wire nuts but once you have them in hand, turn them counterclockwise and they should unscrew.


Once you have detached the fan wires from the wires coming from the ceiling, be sure to put the wire nuts back onto the wires coming from the ceiling. This way, if you need to turn the power back on before you install a new fixture, your wires will be safely capped off.
 It should simply have a piece that slips out of the bracket.


Often, there will be a safety chain coming from the fan attached to a joist in the ceiling. If so, unhook the safety chain to free the fan.
 It should be attached with two screws the electrical box in the ceiling. It is a good idea to put the screws back in the electrical box once the bracket is removed so that they are there for the next fixture you want to attach.


Even if you are going to put up a new ceiling fan, you should still remove the mounting bracket. Every ceiling fan comes with its own mounting bracket that is made specifically for that model.

