 If the information or quote you are referencing in an academic paper or book comes from a source, you will need to give your reader the necessary information to look up the information in that source. This is done for a variety of reasons:To avoid plagiarism. You must correctly attribute ideas and quotations to avoid plagiarism, which is using someone else's ideas or material without acknowledgement (intentionally or unintentionally). If you are a student, plagiarism may result in disciplinary action. If you are an academic or professional, plagiarism will result in, at best, the rejection of your manuscript, and at worst disciplinary action.People have even their degrees revoked when plagiarism was discovered.To allow the reader to check your work. Proper citations allow readers to look up the quotes and ideas you used in context, to see if they agree with your interpretation.To allow interested readers to dig deeper. Endnotes allow readers interested in your topic to easily locate the sources that informed it so that they can read them as well.
To show that you have considered a variety of sources. Endnotes allow you to show the reader that you have considered all of the major arguments regarding your given topic, or if you have not, allows them to easily see which authors you have failed to consider.;
, Because you will need to correctly cite your sources, it is important to keep track of all the pertinent information when taking notes. This includes:Page number
Author name, as well as the name of any editors or translators
Book name, place of publishing, name of publisher, and year of publishing if a book
Article name, periodical name, volume and series number, and date of publication

, Other systems cite sources parenthetically within the text or in footnotes at the bottom of the page. Endnotes, on the other hand, are all collected in a separate section labeled “Notes” at the end of your paper. There are advantage and disadvantages to this:


Pushing citations to the end of a paper or work helps to create clean, uncluttered pages. This is why endnotes are often preferred in books.
Having all the citations in one place allows the reader to digest them as a whole.
On the other hand, not having citations on the page means the reader will have to flip to the back of your manuscript each time they want to look something up, which can be frustrating.
Endnotes can give the impression that you are trying to hide your citations.
 You should insert a superscript number in your text immediately after you reference someone else’s work. The same number will appear in the endnote section at the end of your manuscript, allowing your reader to look up the citation.Note numbers should follow punctuation. Never put a note number before a period, comma, or quotation mark.
Note numbers should be consecutive throughout an entire paper.
In a book, note numbers may restart with each chapter, in which case the endnotes should be divided by chapter.
Put the superscript number at the end of the clause or sentence in which you reference someone else's materials.For example: "According to Hoskins and Garrett, IQ tests are often problematic,1 but I argue that it is still possible to implement them usefully in school settings."

, Your endnotes should start on their own page, with “Notes” centered at the top. Each citation should start with a superscript number that matches the note number in the text where the material was cited.


Indent the first line of each endnote half an inch (or 5 spaces) from the left margin. Additional lines within a single endnote should be flush with the left hand margin.
Use the appropriate citation form per your style guide.
 While you can insert a superscript number yourself and then scroll to your endnotes page to write the note, it is much easier to use the Endnote Function in your word processor. In programs like Microsoft Word, you simply have to click Insert > Insert Endnote (or References > Insert Endnote, depending on your version).A number note will automatically be inserted into the text wherever your cursor is and you will be taken to the same note number on the endnotes page, where you can enter the citation information.

