 The weather can sometimes change quickly and unpredictably. Because a sudden drop in temperature or unexpected frost can kill your tropical plants, you should keep a careful eye on the weather during the transition from summer to winter.


A good rule of thumb is to begin preparing to bring plants indoors when the temperature reaches around 50 to 60째F (10 to 15.6째C).
To prevent unexpected plant death, you may want to research the tropical plants you wish to save. This way you'll be certain of the lower range of their temperature resistance.;
, Most tropical plants need high heat, bright light, and high humidity to continue growing and stay alive. A bright, sunny, well heated room or a garden window can be an ideal place for this purpose.


Putting your plant in this kind of location will trick it into thinking it's still in its growing season. This will keep the plant alive and active during the winter months.
The ideal light and humidity for many tropical plants may be more than your home can provide. In many cases, decreased growth indoors is common.
Many tropical plants grow to quite large sizes. In this situation, you may not have room in your home to store your plants., Water the plant well one to two days before transplanting. Use a shovel and dig a wide circle around the tropical plants you are going to put in pots. After that, carefully dig toward and then underneath the roots of the plant until the roots come free with enough dirt attached to keep all roots covered. Put the plant in a pot and add a suitable nutrient rich filler, like compost, to complete the transplanting.


For best results, you should transplant most plants in the evening, while nighttime temperatures are still in the 50째F (10째C) range.
Generally, you should lightly water your plants after transplanting. This helps reduce the negative effects of this activity.
You should inspect your plants well for insects before bringing them inside. Failing to do can result in your house becoming infested with bugs.
You can always shave excess dirt off a root ball with your shovel, but it will be impossible to reattach a severed root. Err on the side of caution when digging., Depending on where you'll be keeping your plants, you may want to lay down towels or a drop cloth in the storage location first. Dirt can stick to the bottom of pots or spill from them, creating a mess. A drop cloth will help prevent this while you arrange your plants.


You can remove your drop cloth once you are certain your plants are clean and the dirt properly contained.
You may want to leave a drop cloth, a mat, or a similar kind of holder beneath your pots. In some cases, excess water may leak out of the pot and dirty your home.
 Your plants will still need water, light, and other nutrients, like fertilizer, while overwintering. The frequency of watering and feeding, however, will depend on the kind of tropical plant. Generally, you should:


Keep the soil of your plants moist, but not wet. Over watering can lead to harmful conditions, like root rot.Care for your plants according to a consistent schedule. Failing to do so can "shock" the plant, resulting in brittle, unhealthy, or dead foliage.
Keep your plant in the same location. Moving your plant frequently throughout your house is harmful to its health.Prune off dead or unhealthy parts of the plant. Removing the struggling parts of a plant will encourage healthy growth elsewhere., When the weather is warm enough for your tropical plants, take them outdoors where you wish to plant them. After that, take your shovel and dig a hole deep and wide enough to fit the root ball entirely, then:


Water the plant until the soil is saturated. Then, use your fingers to gently slide the potted plant from its pot and carefully disentangle the root ball.
Add a little plant food to the bottom of your hole to help promote growth following transplanting. Insert the root ball into the hole.
Fill all empty spaces with dirt and cover the top of the root ball, which should be about level with or slightly below ground level. Your overwintered plant is now transplanted back outdoors.