 Glop a small amount of turquoise-blue (cyan) paint on one side of your palette, and squeeze a bit of green paint on the other side. Alternately, squeeze the blue and green paint directly into the same glob.


If you don't already have green paint, you'll need to make it. Mix equal increments of blue and yellow to create green.
If you don't have a dedicated painting palette, feel free to mix your paints on any clean, dry surface. Try mixing paint on a plate, a sheet of paper, a strip of cardboard, or a piece of tile. Make sure that you aren't painting over something important.
 Turquoise contains more blue pigment than green, so try using twice as much blue paint as green paint. Feel free to experiment with different ratios, but use 2:1 as a basic reference.


Slightly more green paint—say, a 2:1.5 ratio of blue to green—will give you a deep sea-green turquoise. Slightly less green paint (than the 2:1 ratio) will mix a subtle turquoise that is nearly true-blue.
Consider adding a dash of yellow paint for a brighter shade. Try a 1:5 or 1:6 ratio of yellow to blue. Mix the yellow in with the blue and the green.
Add a bit of white paint if the shade is too bright. White will pale and subdue the turquoise hue so that it isn't so visceral.
 To start, glob one paintbrush-scoop of green onto your palette, then mix that glob with two scoops of blue. Continue to mix the paints together until the paint is evenly distributed throughout your color sample. As you mix, the blue should blend with the green until the glob takes on a distinctly turquoise hue.


Make sure that you use as much paint as you need – or even slightly more. If you try to add more blue and green midway through the painting process, you may confound the ratio and wind up with an uneven shade of turquoise.
 Once the vortex of turquoise paint is uniformly mixed, look it over to make sure that you're happy with the color. Try painting the sample onto a piece of scrap material – paint often changes its qualities somewhat when it's spread. If you aren't satisfied, continue to add small, intentional increments of blue, green, yellow, or white paint until you have exactly the shade of turquoise that you need.
 Once you've mixed your turquoise, you're ready to apply it. Make sure that the hue of turquoise is exactly what you want. Feel free to paint with the same brush that you used to make the turquoise, but consider cleaning the brush first for the sake of precision. If you need to replenish your turquoise supply, make sure to add blue and green in the exact same increments that you used at first.


If you mix in more blue/green paint midway through, but you can't get the ratio quite as it was: consider mixing a large amount of the new hue, then painting over all of the original turquoise to even things out.

