 Slide the nose of the ring-opening jewelry pliers into the closed ring. Position the tool so that its opening lines up with the bead or ball of the captive ring. Apply a slight amount of pressure until the captive ring is no longer moveable.Specialty pliers labeled for use with captive rings are your best option, followed by generic ring expanding pliers. If you have no other option, needle nose pliers will also work well enough.
Consider covering the pliers with cloth medical tape before using them with your captive ring. Doing so can prevent the tool from scratching jewelry. The tape also adds traction, making it easier to hold the pieces in place.
 Use the index finger and thumb of your free hand to grab the captive ring bead. Or, you can use a ball grabber tool to reach out to the captive bead. Placing a slight amount of pressure on the ring pliers will cause the ball to become loose. Make sure to grab it with your free hand before it falls.Be very careful with the amount of pressure that you apply with the pliers or you will risk altering the shape of your ring.
 Continuing to use your pliers, or switching to your hands if you prefer, slide one open end of the ring into the piercing. Continue gliding the ring through the piercing until the center of the ring rests inside.


If the gap is not wide enough for you to maneuver the ring into the piercing, you should use your pliers to expand the opening further. Expand the ring only as much as absolutely needed to avoid warping the shape. For heavier gauges, you should only expand the opening instead of twisting it.
The opening of the ring should be positioned directly across from the piercing. If you feel friction or discomfort when you insert the ring, support the skin around the piercing using your fingers.
 Using your hands or a ball grabber tool, line the bead up so that the dimples on either side are aligned with the open ends of the ring. Rest one side of the ring in one of these dimples. With heavier gauges, it is very difficult to snap the bead in place when the ring is nearly closed. As a result, you will need to hold the bead in place as you close the ring instead of waiting until the ring is closed before placing the bead inside.Depending on how much you expanded the opening, you may need to close it slightly with your pliers before setting the ball inside.
 Place your open pliers around the outside of the open ring. Squeeze the nose of the pliers closed, closing the ring around the bead in the process. Continue closing the ring until both open ends snap into the dimples of the bead or ball.


When the captive ring is properly put together, you should be able to spin the ball with a little resistance. If the ball spins too freely, you should close the ring a little further.

