 Look on the death certificate if you are unsure. Depending on where you live, you might be able to contact the office online through the state government's website. Many states now have the applicable instructions and forms accessible on their website. Some states give you a choice whether to you’re your amendment request through state or local government.Amending a death certificate is not yet a process you can complete on a website or online interface. You still have to mail amendment request forms most likely because you have to present the original copies of your supporting documentation. However, most states now have the information and resources you need on their webpage.
 You will need to fill out a form telling the state how the death certificate needs to be changed. Some states require you to complete an application for amendment form before you can amend the death certificate. Your state’s website should tell you what procedures you will need to follow. Look over the forms before you continue so you can ensure you have all the items and information you need in each stage of the process.


You have to provide documentation to support your claims. These have to be the original copies with all the authorization needed (such as signatures, seals, etc.). They have to be intact and legible.
For example, if you are amending the deceased's death certificate to indicate his veteran status, you will need to find their discharge certificate. Supporting documentation could also be their birth certificate, if a date or location is wrong on the death certificate.
You will also have to remit the requisite amendment fee., You may not be able to access all the forms online. Phone your office of vital statistics or records and ask where you can pick up other forms. If you have all the information you want to complete the amendment on-site, you can fill out the form and submit it in person. If not, take it home and make sure you have all the documents in order.
 Be sure to include any and all necessary applications, forms, supporting documentation, and fees. Once you have confirmation of receipt, you may need to wait a matter of days or weeks while they process the request. Take care to use the mailing method outlined by the office.