 Spray tanning is a form of sunless tanning where a fine mist that includes tanning ingredients is sprayed onto your body (the same ingredient in self tanning lotion). Spray tans are growing in popularity because they are safe, easy, and fairly long-lasting (typically 7 days). The biggest drawback of spray tanning is the cost - usually $25-$50. There are a few things you should do to prepare yourself before getting a spray tan.


Shave or wax before your appointment. This will help the tan to better soak into your skin.
Exfoliate your skin prior to your appointment. Getting rid of as much dead skin as possible will get you better results.
Don't apply lotion, deodorant, or makeup prior to your appointment. Clean skin will soak in the tan much better.
Wait 8 hours after your spray tan to shower or apply any lotion / moisturizer., Tanning beds use ultraviolet light to create UV radiation. This UV radiation creates a glow to tan the skin, just like UV light from the sun. Although tanning beds have become fairly popular, there are many health risks (including skin cancer) associated with them, and you must be careful if you choose to tan this way.If you decide to use a tanning bed, a time of 7-11 minutes is recommended. Even if you tan often, never go in a tanning bed for more than 20 minutes at a time. Tanning 1-2 times per week is the recommended amount.
Always wear tanning lotion and goggles to protect your skin and eyes from the potential harm of the UV rays.
Most cities have tanning salons, so go online to find the tanning salon closest to you. Prices will vary from salon to salon, but member packages are usually available to help you save money if you plan on tanning multiple times.
 It's easy to miss the sun in the dead of winter, which is one of the reasons many people choose to tan. If you decide to tan under UV rays and sun beds, it is imperative that you take care of your skin.


These methods of tanning come with a high risk of skin cancer and speed up your skin's aging process.
Always wear tanning lotion with an SPF when tanning, and moisturize your skin daily to keep it hydrated.