 Soap and water are all you need. Work up a good lather. Then, rub your hands together long enough to sing the “Happy Birthday” song. Make sure you get the backs of your hands, fingertips, and under your fingernails, if possible. Dry your hands thoroughly with a clean towel., If the wound hasn't stopped bleeding on its own, place a sterile bandage over it and apply direct pressure. Elevate it above the level of your heart. This will direct the blood flow away from the injury point.If you can't raise the wound, apply pressure to a pressure point on the wrist, bicep, at the top of the thigh, or behind the knee.If the bleeding doesn't stop after 10 minutes of pressure and elevation, seek medical assistance. Call emergency services if you can't get transportation to the emergency room., Rinse the wound with clean water. This can be either under a faucet or a container filled with water. Use a soapy washcloth to clean around the wound. Avoid getting soap in the wound, as it could cause irritation. Rinse the area with clean water and dry it with a clean towel or cloth.Alternatively, you could clean the wound with salt water and a piece of gauze. Dip the gauze in the salt water and gently blot the wound with it.If any dirt or debris is in the wound, try to remove it with a pair of sterilized tweezers. Seek medical help if any dirt is too deep for you to reach., This can be rubbing alcohol or hydrogen peroxide. Apply a couple of drops to a cotton ball. Gently blot the wound with the cotton ball, being careful not to get any stray cotton in the wound., This can be ointment like Neosporin. Apply a pea-sized dollop to a cotton swab. Cover the wound with the antibiotic., An adhesive bandage or a piece of gauze and medical tape will work. Keep the dressing dry. Change it at least daily, especially after bathing. This will allow the wound to heal and lower your risk of developing an infection., Go to your doctor or the emergency room if you have a deep cut or puncture wound. Tell them exactly how you were wounded. They'll take steps to better sterilize your wound. You'll likely get stitches if your wound is deep enough. Expect a tetanus shot for a puncture wound., When you change the dressing, make sure the wound is developing a scab and gradually shrinking. Look for redness, swelling, or drainage. If you see any of these signs or if the wound is not healing, seek medical help. You should also contact your doctor if you feel pain (beyond minor stinging) or warmth around the wound.