 Research your partner's style preferences to find out what kind of ring would make them happy. Have they always wanted a brilliant diamond, or would it be more dazzling to have the ring set with a colorful stone? Pay attention when your partner mentions what kind of styles they like, and take a look at some of their other jewelry for comparison. A wedding proposal is a momentous occasion, and they've probably been dreaming all their life about the day someone pops the question with the perfect ring.Having an engagement ring set with your partner's birthstone can be a moving alternative to the traditional diamond.Using your partner's other jewelry for reference can save you a lot of trouble weeding out options. For instance, if most of the rings and necklaces they own are silver, it's a safe bet that they are partial to silver over other decorative metals.
 In jeweler’s lingo, the “four Cs” refer to the Cut, Carat, Clarity and Color of diamonds and other precious gemstones. These are the most important qualities to look for when shopping for a ring set with a stone, and since you’ll be shelling out a lot of money for it, it can pay to know how to appraise what you’re shown. If you have a notion of what you’re after in terms of each “C,” you’ll also have a much easier time communicating your needs to the jewelry specialist.Cut deals with the shape and texture of a stone. These might come in their raw forms, or they can be cut with precise angles for greater symmetry and appeal.
Carat is a term that denotes a stone’s size. The higher the number of carats, the bigger the rock, and the more you can expect to pay for it.
Clarity is a desirable trait of gemstones that have a uniform, translucent appearance and are lacking any unwanted imperfections in shape.
Color refers to the natural hues of a stone, and is largely a matter of preference. Diamonds of the highest purity are most often clear or opalescent, but they can also be red, pink or blue, and some of these colors are exceedingly rare and valuable.
 Shopping for an engagement ring isn't just about picking the type, size and cut of a particular stone. Look at metals and setting types that you think would capture your partner's heart. Gold is the most traditional metal for engagement rings and wedding bands, but there are many others. Modern styles favor sleek, colorless metals, so silver or platinum might be your best bet. You'll also need to decide how the stone is to be set in the ring: it could have a single setting at the top, or be inlaid with multiple stones around the band. The choices are virtually endless.Expect to have to make a decision about a minimum of four areas: metal, band style, setting style and stone.
Confer with your jeweler about your spouse's preferences. They can help you pair different elements and narrow down your search.
 Unlike agreeing on a set of wedding rings, which should be a joint decision, the engagement ring is usually given as a surprise. Plan to present the ring to your significant other when they least expect it. Find a creative way of asking the big question or hiding the ring to thrill your partner when they find it on their own. Make sure you've done your homework and are confident with the ring you've chosen before surprising them to avoid disappointment.Surprises are fun, but be careful not to place the ring anywhere they you may lose or ruin it. It's advisable not to hide an engagement ring in food (this presents a choking hazard and may destroy the metal's finish), or have it out of the jewelry box somewhere that it may fall into a crevice or under a piece of furniture.