 This will make the braid smooth and neat. This will also cut down on tangling as you braid.









It will be difficult to pull your hair into sections for a braid if it is tangled.
Smoother hair is easier to braid and this will prevent a messy looking style.
Remember to avoid braiding wet hair or using too much product. If you are having trouble with your hair slipping out of the braid, you can apply a dry shampoo though.
 Use a hair pick or comb to pick up the section of hair at the crown of your head.


The French braid is more complicated than the traditional braid because the braid starts at the top of your head and gathers hair from the crown of your head.
This first section should extend from your temples to the top of your head.
You can also separate this section of hair by pulling your hair back along the side of your head from your temples to the back, using your thumbs.
Brush this section of hair back from your face to smooth it out.
 Split the hair into three sections, holding the hair high on your head.









Hold one section in one hand and two in the other, keeping them separated by your index finger.
It is often helpful to hold two sections in your left hand and one in your right hand.
Make sure your hold is firm on the three sections.
 Cross the right section over the center section to start.









Cross the left section over the section that is now in the center, as if you were doing a traditional braid.
This is the start of your braid. It should begin high on the crown of your head and look like a traditional braid.
Pull the sections tight to make sure the tension on the braid is even and that it is not too loose.
 You will do this by taking small sections of hair and adding them to the right section of your divided hair.









Pick up a small section of hair from the right side of your head.
Add it to the section of hair that you are holding in your right hand. Then cross this right section over the center section of hair.
Pull the section tight at the end of each cross over to ensure that the braid stays neatly defined with even tension.
 This will follow the same method you used on the right side.









Pick up a small section of hair from your left side of your head.
Add it to the hair that you are holding in your left hand.
Cross it over the center section of hair.
 Continue to pick up extra hair before crossing the sections into your braid.


This incorporates the hair not already in the braid, creating a cohesive braid.
Make sure you take even strands on each side of your head. This will ensure that your braid will be even and straight in the back.
The braid should follow the center of your head, from the crown of the head to the nape of the neck.
If you have longer hair, run your fingers down each the section of hair to ensure that tangling does not occur as you go.
 You will use a traditional braid once all the hair on the crown of your head is incorporated into the three sections you started with.









When you have no more hair to braid, tie the end with a hair tie.
If you have long hair, you will need to bring your braid over your shoulder to complete it.
Try variations of this braid. You can do pigtail french braids by splitting your hair into 2 sections with a hair pick and braiding them individually.
You can also braid from your part down the side of your head. This is called a french lace braid.
