 Although trick skiing is meant to be done with two skis, it can be difficult to learn if you've never water skied before. This is because the skis have no fins, which is more unusual than it sounds. Because of the lack of fins, you easily slip around, which makes things like three-sixties easier. If you can't water ski on skis with fins, you'll never be able to get up on trick skis.;
, Trick skiing requires knowing your point of balance, and being aware of how to balance. Since the skis have no fins, you'll be slipping around the wake. If you can't balance well, you'll slide backwards and flop right out of your skis!

, It's very difficult to keep your balance on trick skis, and starting with the bar will help. It steadies you so you can't slip side to side too much, and helps you get a feel for how you need to balance on the rope.
 Even if you've water skied before, skiing with no fins is a totally different experience. It will take a while to get used to the feeling of being on trick skis before you can advance to the next level.
 The rope is a different level because you are free to slide around, and can easily slip and fall backwards. Get up the same way you would with regular skis: have the rope in between your skis with the tips of them over water, and call out to the driver when you're ready. The boat should be going around ten miles (sixteen kilometres) per hour for a beginner. Once you're up, get the feel for your balance by sliding around a bit.
 This isn't as simple as it seems. Because the skis have no fins, it's difficult to get over a mound, such as the wake, without sliding off and falling. Bend your knees, and slowly approach the wake with cautious speed. Brace yourself as you go over the wake, and press out a little while you're out. Don't press too hard, or you'll fall. After a lot of practice, you'll be able to go very far outside of the wake comfortably.
 Now that you have the basics down, it's time to do some tricks. You can do things like one-eighties, three-sixties, and cool jumps! If you know of someone who can trick ski, ask them for some tips. Or you can hire an instructor for an hour. After you're experienced in tricks, you can even try making up your own!

, This is possibly the hardest feat to accomplish in water skiing. Before attempting this, you should be able to slalom ski easily. Get up how you would on a normal slalom ski, and balance while up. With a lot of practice, you could even do tricks with one trick ski!

