 Consult your owner’s manual to find out where the drip pan is located on your model. While usually behind the front kick panel, it’s located in the rear of some models. Others have a non-removable pan.


If you’ve lost your owner’s manual, search for the appliance’s model number online to download a digital copy.If the pan is in the back of your fridge, just pull the appliance away from the wall and look around the bottom of the fridge’s rear.;
, If you’re just emptying out the drip pan and giving it a quick clean, you can leave your food in the fridge. However, if you're giving your entire refrigerator a deep clean, you should store your food in a cooler and unplug the refrigerator.If you’re also cleaning out the rear coils or if your manual notes that your pan is in the fridge's rear, pull it away from the wall.
 You’ll need to wear gloves when you remove and clean the pan. Drip pans can get moldy and fill up with dirty water, and you won’t want to get either on your unprotected hands. Further, you’ll likely be using bleach or a strong household cleaner., The kick panel is the front grill at the bottom of the refrigerator. It snaps in and out of place and, on most models, the drip pan is located behind it. Take it off and set it aside., Once you’ve removed the front kick panel, grab a flashlight and look inside. You should be able to see the defrost drain line, which leads to the drip pan.Take the pan out carefully and slowly, as it might be full of water., If the drip pan is full of water, carefully bring it to a sink or tub. Pour the excess water down the drain.You can also vacuum out standing water using a wet/dry vacuum.
 Mix one part bleach with two parts warm water in a clean spray bottle. Spray down the pan and let it soak for a few minutes. Then scrub the pan with rag or sponge and rinse it well under running hot water., You can use other cleaners if your pan is colored and you’re concerned about color loss, or if you just don’t like to use bleach. Try mixing one part white vinegar with two parts warm water. You can also use your preferred all-purpose cleaner.If you don’t like the smell of vinegar, mix in a teaspoon of lemon juice.
 Use a clean towel or paper towels to pat the pan dry. Let it sit out for an hour or so to air dry. When it’s dry, reinstall it then replace the front kick panel., Check your owner’s manual to identify your drip pan’s location. If it’s non-removable, it’s likely in the rear of your appliance. Check the bottom rear underneath the coils.For help finding the pan, look for the drain tube, which runs vertically from the top of the appliance to the drip pan.
 See if you can access the drip pan with a shop or wet/dry vacuum’s hose attachment. If you can, use it to suck up any standing water.If you can’t fit the hose into the pan, you might need to get creative. Try duct taping a straw to the end of the hose to create a narrow suction tool that will fit into the pan.
 Once you’ve removed excess water, spray a disinfecting cleaner into the pan. Let it soak for a few minutes so it can cut through any grime.Depending on your preferences, you can use a bleach or vinegar solution or an all-purpose household cleaner.
 Grab a thin, clean paint roller. Scrub the inside of the pan with it and rinse it with hot water as needed. Keep scrubbing until you've soaked up all of the cleaning solution.If you can’t reach the entire pan with the roller, try extending the handle by duct taping an appropriately sized stick or pole. In a pinch, try taping it to the end of a broomstick.
You can also try using a thin, long-handled brush if you don’t have a paint roller that can access the pan.

