 Use zipper bags such as cosmetic or pencil pouches to store items in your console. For example, you can put your sunglasses into one bag, reusable shopping bags into one, change for toll booths or meters in one bag, and your wet wipes, hand sanitizer, and cough drops into another. What you store will depend on what you carry.Look for bags around your home, but if you don’t have any, you can find them at your local department store or online.
 Go through your glove compartment and organize your paperwork such as your vehicle registration into a folder or plastic sleeve. This way you can easily access it when you need it.Look in the office supply section for the right sized product to meet your needs.
 If you have extra cupholders, then they could be used to store items. To make it look neat, place items in cups. Cups work great for smaller items that you keep in your car, such as tissue, hand sanitizer, pens, or cords for your phone charger or audio hook-up. You can also store snacks in the cup holders.Try using a recycled cup that you’ve washed and repurposed.
 If you have a hatchback on your vehicle, you may want to use a collapsible shelf to organize the back of your car. This can make it easier to carry groceries, equipment, tools, and other items all in one trip without the items getting mixed up, damaged, or lost. Since the shelf is collapsible, you can easily break it down so that you’ll have the use of your entire trunk space if you need it., While it’s tempting to just use a plastic grocery store bag, many people who spend a lot of time in their vehicle create trash everyday. Whether it’s from a quick fast food breakfast on your commute or from your child’s post-practice snacks, you will have trash in your car most days. Plan to either carry multiple bags in your car so that you can take in the trash each day, or carry a reusable bag that you can empty and carry with you everyday.

You can try small trash liners, like those for bathroom trash cans.
You could also leave several plastic grocery bags in your console or glove compartment. For example, you could bring out seven bags each Monday morning, refilling weekly to meet your needs.
If you don’t want to use plastic bags, try a reusable bag that you can empty each day or at the end of the week, depending on the size of your bag and how much trash you create.
You can also try a plastic cereal container.Depending on size, store your bag in the floorboard or behind the passenger seat.
 If you’re still carrying CDs, consider switching to digital music so that you can declutter the extra cases and CDs. Alternatively, try carrying just a few CDs at a time. Make a habit of switching them on a designated day.