


In addition to your high school degree, consider completing a two-year or four-year hospitality management degree.This degree can give you an edge during hiring and will help you learn valuable management skills quickly. A degree program can also help you find quality internship placements and gain valuable experience with reputable employers.;
,


What size restaurant do you prefer? Managing a small restaurant can be a quite different experience from managing a restaurant that seats 300 people a night.
What style service are you looking for? Fine dining? Casual? Fast casual?
Do you have a preferred culinary style? For example, you might know that you’d love to manage a sushi restaurant or a fine-dining Italian restaurant.
 In becoming a restaurant manager, there is no substitute for seeing how a restaurant works by working in one.


Try to apply for jobs in restaurants that have similar qualities to the type of restaurant you’d like to manage.
Many managers start in front of house positions, as a waiter or waitress, but you can also start in a kitchen position, if you are really interested in learning the food side of the business.
No matter where you start, take an interest in the business. Ask questions to employees who have worked at the restaurant for a while. Take an interest in how other people work, and ask about positions other than your own. Be willing and eager to take on additional responsibilities.
If you are pursing a degree program, working in a restaurant while you study is a great way to make a living and also gain experience. If this is the case, let your managers know. Likely, they will want to give you extra responsibilities and teach you on the job.
Look for locally owned spots. Often, if you work at a locally owned restaurant, you’ll be able to meet the owner and managers. You’ll get a better feel for the decision-making process involved in the restaurant business.
 Depending on what state you live in, you will need to have a variety of certifications to handle food and work in restaurants.


You might need a food handlers card and complete a course in food safety and handling instructions.If you work at a restaurant that serves alcohol, many state require that you complete a course and get an alcohol server’s card.Before you begin applying for managerial positions, you should already have these certifications. Even though you can usually work for a few weeks before getting them, it’s a small edge that can put you ahead of other candidates.



Include all your jobs and internships in the food and beverage industry.
In your resume, include examples of your leadership qualities and any responsibilities you had at your previous jobs. Focus on emphasizing accomplishments rather than merely listing duties.
Make sure to have at least two good references to give out. It’s best if these are people who have seen you work in the restaurant industry and can speak to your leadership and organizational skills.
 If you start out working in a restaurant, and you like the atmosphere, you may be able to work your way up into a managerial positions.


Don’t be afraid to ask about possible opportunities. Make it known that you’re looking for a leadership position. Often, restaurants that value their employees will create positions for good people. This may not be the track for you, if you want to be a general manager of a restaurant, rather than one of a few managers.
If you do work for a larger corporate chain, inquire about opportunities in other cities or states and at new stores. Companies will be more likely to hire someone that shows initiative and has experience with their model of restaurant.
 For more options, be willing to relocate to accept a position.Look on job boards like Indeed or Craigslist for new positions and in the classified section of your newspaper. Widening your geographical search can open up more opportunities.
If you cold call restaurants, make sure you don’t go during busy service hours. Take a printed out copy of your resume.



In many cities, restaurant workers form tight-knit communities. Often, restaurant owners have more than one restaurant in a given area.
Display an interest in who’s involved in your local community. Ask who owns different restaurants, and remember names and faces.
Attend culinary events in your city, and introduce yourself to people. Show a genuine interest in their work.
Make it known that you are looking to manage a restaurant, but don’t be pushy when contacting your connections.



Maintain a positive attitude, and don’t allow your stress to show during the work day.
If one of your employees asks you a question, give a definitive answer with authority.
 As a manager, you will be the one to deal with any customer issues that arise. Even if a customer makes unreasonable demands, treat them with kindness and respect.


In correcting mistakes, be gracious. For example, if a take out order gets messed up, let the guest know they can have a free dessert the next time they come to the restaurant.
 Even if you are primarily working on the financial and personnel side of the restaurant, make sure you maintain a detailed knowledge of food and the dishes on the menu.


You need to be a resource both for front and back of house staff.
If a customer asks you about a dish, you need to be able to respond professionally with clear knowledge.
 As a manager, you have the ability to make decisions and change the way things are done at the restaurant.


Take time to visit other restaurants in your city and other places you travel. Make note of things you like about them.
Don’t be afraid to incorporate new ideas and ways of completing tasks in the routine at your restaurant.

