 People choose to stay silent for various reasons. Sometimes it is a public social experiment or a political protest. Other times it is meant as a private way to explore oneself through meditation.


Private days of silence are often conducted in a place of spiritual worship or a retreat. People go to such places to get away from their daily lives. It is meant to help you silently explore your inner self without disruption.Public days of silence are not meant to be completed in solitude. A person usually engages in their normal daily activities without speaking. This is often as a form of protest or a way to draw attention to something.If you are participating in a political cause, you may hand out a pamphlet that explains the cause.
If you are not speaking because you are upset with someone like a parent or friend, your silence may make them realize the magnitude of your discontent.

;
, Choose a day when you know you will be interacting with others. This will draw more attention to the fact that you are not speaking.


If your intention is to participate in a political cause like national Day of Silence, engaging in your normal school or work day is part of the project. Others may be interested or moved by your silence, drawing more attention to your cause.
If your silence is a social experiment, choosing an average day is best.It may be even more interesting to observe the differences between what normally goes on and what happens when you don’t speak.
 If you want to be by yourself during the day, find a location that is conducive to your needs. Since it is only one day, it might be easiest to stay at home. Alternatively, consider asking a local place of worship or a meditation retreat locale to host you for the day.
 Let people know about your choice to stay silent. You don’t need to tell everyone, but it will be easier to stay silent if you inform the people you talk to regularly. Tell your spouse, children, parents, co-workers, or teachers before you begin your day without talking.If you have important interactions with people like parents or teachers throughout your day, let them know when you plan to be silent so they know what’s going on with you.
You might say, “Mom, I’m participating in national Day of Silence tomorrow. Just so you know, I will not be speaking for the whole day. If you have something to discuss with me, we can do it today or the day after.”

, If your goal is to conduct a social experiment or engage in a political protest, it may be appropriate to ask a friend to participate with you. Afterward you’ll be able to reflect on the day together.Try saying, “Hey, George, do you want to do Day of Silence with me? It’s a day where students around the country don’t speak as a way to protest the silence that LGBTQ people face regularly. I think will be a good experience. You up for it?”
If your goal is strictly personal, it might be better to go ahead with your day on your own.

