 A scarf is a simple option to make your dress more modest. There are many varieties and colors of scarves to choose from. You should consider the weather and type of dress you are wearing before choosing a scarf. For warm weather, you can wear a lacy or sheer fabric. For cold weather, you can wear a wool or knit scarf. To get the most coverage out of your scarf, you should drape it over your shoulders and arms like a blanket, or tie it in the front or back.To tie the scarf, either tie the ends together in the front, or loop the ends under your armpits and tie them in the back.
Consider the color of your dress when choosing a scarf. A different shade of the color of the dress you are wearing, or a complementary color may go best with your dress. For example, blue is a complementary color of orange, and yellow is the complementary color of purple.
 Shawls are similar to scarves, but they are usually larger and rectangular. A shawl is a good choice for those who do not want to worry about tying a scarf. To wear a shawl, all you need to do is drape it around your back and shoulders and then make sure it is even on both sides. Shawls come in many different types of fabrics and colors, so it is possible to find one that fits well with the weather and your dress.For warm weather, you can wear a lacy or cotton shawl. For cold weather, choose a pashmina (wool) or faux-fur shawl.
You can wear a lacy shawl without sacrificing your modesty. Some lace comes in a thick enough material so that skin does not show through.
You can wear a shawl with a pattern if you are wearing a simple dress. If you don’t want to take attention away from your dress, choose a shawl in a muted or similar color to your dress.
 Add a brooch to the front of your shawl or scarf for added flair. Choose a shiny and/or sparkly brooch that complements any other jewelry you might be wearing. Most brooches need to be pinned, so make sure you are okay with putting a small hole into the material you choose., This is a good choice if you do not want to wear something over your dress, and you are not concerned about compromising the look of your dress. This is not a good choice, however, if you don’t like the style of shirts under dresses. You can choose to wear a cap, three-quarter, or long sleeve under your dress. The fabric should be thin. A thick fabric will show up under the torso part of your dress. The color should correspond with your dress or skin color.A cotton or polyester shirt will work best.
Wearing a shirt with your dress looks best if the shirt is not too visible. You can find a nude color, or a shirt that is a similar shade of your dress.
You can also wear a plain white t-shirt or a casual t-shirt with print of a cartoon character for a cheeky look.
 A shrug is a cardigan-like item of clothing that is either short or long-sleeved, and it usually ends above the waistline. This is a good idea for a simple and light garment to wear with your dress. It is not as bulky as a sweater, and it doesn’t hide your dress, depending on how you wear it. You can find shrugs in material like cotton, lace, and silk. To wear, simply put it on as if it were a jacket or sweater.You can wear a shrug open, partially buttoned, or buttoned up all the way.
You can also find shrugs with sequins and patterns.
 Wearing a jacket with your dress is a good choice if you are attending an event in a cooler climate or environment, but it could be difficult to wear if you there will be dancing or other physical activity. Try finding a jacket that is not too long and goes well with the silhouette of your dress. The best type of jacket to wear is a tailored crop jacket, or a blazer. These types of jackets can be kept on the entire time you wear your dress, and they add style to your dress, rather than taking style away.Some other types of jackets to choose from are shrunken blazers, short tuxedo jackets, boleros, and denim jackets. Keep in mind the material and style of your dress when choosing a jacket. A denim jacket looks great with a summery dress, but it does not usually work well with a formal dress.
 Put on your complete outfit. If you wear a shirt, it should be worn under the dress. Otherwise, put your shrug or jacket on over the dress. Move around in your outfit to make sure it’s comfortable. Keep in mind that the temperature in your home may be different than the location where you will wear your dress.

