 Different vaccines generally need to be given at different times in a chicken’s life. Most vaccines are given soon after the chicks have hatched. Always talk to a veterinarian before vaccinating if you have never vaccinated a chicken before.Listed below is a general guide for the most common vaccinations and when they should be given:


E.Coli: Given at one day-old.
Marek’s Disease: Given at a day-old to 3 weeks of age.
Infectious Bursal Disease (Gumboro disease): Given from 10 – 28 days old.
Infectious Bronchitis: Given at 16 – 20 weeks of age.
Newcastle Disease: Given at 16 – 20 weeks of age.
Adenovirus: Given at 16 – 20 weeks of age.
Salmonellosis: Given at day old to 16 weeks of age.
Coccidiosis: Given at day-old to 9 days.
Infectious Laryngotracheitis: From 4 weeks of age on.;
,


Most vaccine manufacturers recommend giving vaccinations to adult birds at least 4 weeks before the hen starts laying. This ensures that the recipient is no longer shedding virus and does not therefore pose a risk of indirect transmission via the egg to birds at a different location.
 Some vaccines need an annual booster shot to make sure that they are still effectively guarding against the virus they are designed to fight. Other vaccines only need to be given once and will provide lifelong protection.Vaccines that need an annual booster: Infectious Bronchitis, Newcastle Disease, Adenovirus (Egg Drop Syndrome), Salmonella.

Vaccines that do not need a booster: Marek’s Disease, Infectious Bursal Disease, Coccidiosis, Infectious Laryngotracheitis

, You do not want to vaccinate sick birds, as the virus might be too strong and may kill them. The best way to tell if you should vaccinate or not is to have a veterinarian inspect the chickens to make sure they are healthy.


At the same time, the veterinarian can talk to you about the best way to vaccinate your specific chickens.
 It is very important that you check to make sure you have the right vaccine, right dosage, and understand the best way to give the chicken that vaccine. Double check you have all of the correct information and write down all of the information, including:


Vaccine name.
Lot number.
Manufacturer.
Production date.
Expiration date.
Which chicken is receiving what vaccine.
 If the vaccine is supposed to be stored at a specific temperature or in a specific location, it is important to check that the storage has not been compromised in any way.


If you notice any cracks, or the temperature is not at the right level, you will have to cancel the vaccination and order another round of the vaccine through your veterinarian.
 The following sections in this article discuss different ways you can vaccinate your chicken. Each method can only be applied to specific kinds of vaccinations so you should always make sure you are doing the right kind of procedure. Once you have double checked that you know what you are doing, gather all of your materials so you can have them on hand when you are vaccinating the chickens.


Some vaccination methods require that you have one or two other people helping you so assemble a team if this is the case with your vaccination method.
 If you are planning on using a syringe and needle to get the chicken her vaccination, you should sterilize the spot where you plan to do it. To sterilize the skin soak a cotton wool ball in surgical spirit (such as rubbing alcohol), part the feathers over the injection site and swab the skin.

