 Though not technically applejack, apple and brandy pair well together, and infusing brandy with natural apple flavoring is a fun alternative to making homemade applejack. In order to infuse the brandy with natural apple flavoring, you will need to begin by peeling and chopping from fresh apples. Two cups worth is enough for this recipe., To give your infused spirit some extra spice and cider-flavored goodness, try adding three cinnamon sticks to the apples and water., To help release all of the natural flavors and to kill any germs that you don’t want to add to your infusion, you should heat the mixture for ten minutes on medium heat.The mixture should be covered during heating.
 Once you have heated the mixture, add the 2 1/2 cups of sugar. Stir in the sugar and continue stirring over heat until the sugar has dissolved in the mixture., After the sugar has fully dissolved in the mixture, remove it from the heat and allow it to cool. It doesn’t have to cool to room temperature, but it needs to cool enough that placing it in an airtight bottle won’t create any pressure problems as the liquid cools further.
 Once the mixture has cooled to warm but not scalding, add it to a large glass container.It’s very important to make sure that the container can be sealed airtight.
Add the entire mixture, not just the apples and liquid.
 Now that you have finished the process for prepping the mixture, you can combine the brandy with the apples and sugar., The final ingredient for this recipe is the three cups of dry white wine, which you should now add to the mixture., Once you have combined all of the ingredients and given them a good mixing, it is time to seal the container. Once sealed, you want to store the container in a cool dark place to get the most out of the infusion., Being patient is an important element in knowing how to make apple brandy. The infusion process takes time, and you should wait at least three weeks before opening the container.Every 3 days, shake the container to stir up any sediment and combine the ingredients., Once the three full weeks has past, it is time to open the container, but don’t drink your apple brandy just yet. Strain the mixture through a double layer of cheesecloth to remove any sediment., Though it was time to remove the infusion mixture from the liqueur, the apply brandy is not quite ready yet. Add the mixture to a glass bottle that you can seal., Again, patience is an important part of knowing how to make apple brandy. Like last time, you should store the bottle in a cool dark place. However, you do not need to worry about shaking the contents of the bottle after they have been strained., All of your time and patience has now paid off. Once the two-week window has past, you are free to open and enjoy your apple brandy by itself or mixed in a cocktail.

