 Turn the garment inside-out and fold the bottom of the material up, facing you. Pin the material and press the fold in place using an iron.


Figure out your desired hem length before you secure the fold. For this hem, the amount of material you want to remove from the bottom of the fabric will be the amount of material you need to fold up.
Quickly iron the fold in the material with a hot iron to help hold it in place. Doing so will minimize how much the fabric moves around as you work on the hem.
 Your hem tape should be placed around the entire perimeter of your hem. Pin in place using straight pins.


If the hem tape has a double-sided adhesive, place the tape underneath the opening of your folded fabric, in between the hemmed fabric and the back side of your main fabric. Double-sided hem tape should be hidden between both layers of cloth.
If the hem tape only has adhesive on one side, place it adhesive-side down around the opening of your folded material. Half the tape should be on the hemmed material, while the other half should extend onto the back side of the main fabric.
 Rinse a rag under lukewarm water and wring out the excess moisture. Place this rag over the area you plan on hemming.
 Place your hot iron directly onto the damp rag. Hold it there for several seconds, then remove the iron and the cloth.


Make sure that the area you press is part of the area you need to hem.
The purpose of this step is to help secure a portion of the hem tape to the material. Let the material cool slightly, then gently tug on the ironed area. The adhesive should prevent the material from coming up when you tug on it.
After this step, you can remove the pins holding the tape in place. Do so carefully to avoid disturbing the position of the tape over the hem.
 Use your hot iron to adhere the rest of the tape onto the hemmed material. Work slowly and carefully, holding the iron over each section of tape for several seconds before moving onto the next area.


Note that you should iron directly over the material for this step. Do not use the damp rag you used initially.
Work around the entire hem until you feel certain that the tape has melted.
 When the material is both dry and cool to the touch, give the hem a gentle tug around the entire perimeter. It should remain securely fixed in place.


Turn the material right-side out when done.
This step completes the process.

