 Cats do not respond well to physical punishment like spankings and verbal punishments like yelling. Instead of learning not to repeat the behavior, the cat will learn to fear you and perform the naughty acts when you aren’t around.Keep in mind that cats have a real need to explore and hunt. Understanding this will help you have patience with your pet.You can walk away when a cat starts to play in a violent way (like a play attack).
You can also use a popgun, air horn, or squeeze bottle with water. Water in their faces when they can’t see the source will teach them not to return to the crime.
 Also called “remote punishment” or “booby trapping,” placing things in a cat’s environment it doesn’t like keeps it from repeating a behavior.For example, any textured surface cats don’t like can be placed around the fish, such as sticky paper, aluminum foil, or a plastic carpet runner with the nubby side turned up.
You can also place smells offensive to cats near the fish bowl. Cats hate the smell of eucalyptus, citronella, and wintergreen.
 Cats naturally enjoy being up high where they can survey their environment, but that also means they like to get up on counters and tables—where fish usually live. You can train them to stay off of your surfaces, however, by doing the following: Taking everything off of tabletops and counters, so there’s nothing to investigate.
Providing high, safe places to climb up to, like scratching posts.
Placing treats at safe spots both on the floor and up on cat posts.
Removing food and things of interest from the area near the fish bowl.
 Giving your cat interesting things to do will keep it occupied so that it “forgets” about the fish, or at least gets its energy and curiosity satisfied elsewhere. Don’t forget to exercise your cat by playing with it on a regular basis.


A motorized mouse can keep a cat occupied because it loves the chase. Good “mousing” breeds include both the American and British Shorthair, and mixed breed cats adopted from shelters.A ping-pong paddle with a ball attached by rubber band will exercise a cat if you sit and fling the ball out over and over.
Cats love to chase the tiny circle of a flashlight when it is moved around on surfaces.
 If your cat seems more interested in the water than the fish itself, this might just be a fascination with water or the container the water is in. Placing a small glass bowl of water in front of the fish bowl might distract your cat from the real thing.


Investing in a cat fountain can also be a solution to the water fascination. Since cats are naturally drawn to moving water because it makes them think of clean water in the wild, a pet fountain can be just what you need to tempt your cat away from the fish bowl.