 First things first, clothes of course! To be like great Rose, you have to dress like him. He wore a lot of leather, as did most rockers from the '80s. He wore tight leather pants, usually with a big old belt over top, and when not wearing leather pants he wore good ol' tight jeans. Any kind of skinny jean would be just fine. He also wore suspenders frequently, any plain, wide suspenders will do. He also wore cowboy boots with his pants. Rose has a famous pair of sneakers. They are Converse really and they say "Axl" on the the tongue and heel. He is often seen wearing these in music videos and such. On some occasions, he would wear kilts like those we associate with Scotland. A major Axl icon is his bandana, which he wore in videos and in public very often. He wore it on his head, with his sunglasses perched on top or a color-coordinated, straight-brim baseball cap backwards over top, and it is a huge contribution to Roses style as for shirts, they ranged from simple baggy t-shirts, to tight tank-tops, to leather jackets on top. He also wore a Thin Lizzy shirt frequently. Really, leather is a big thing involving Axl's style, and one strange outfit like white skin-tight shorts or an American Flag patterned piece of clothing is very "Axl Rose himself";
, Axl wasn't one of those glam boys, like Bret Michaels or Jon Bon-Jov;, who wore tons of make-up or a whole can of hairspray per show (normally). Instead, Axl had long, straight natural hair. His hair color is naturally strawberry blonde meets red, but any color hair will be fine as long as it's long, straight, and hairspray free. The only time you might catch him with teased hair is during certain concerts, especially in the earlier days. But, for the most part, his hair was long and straight. At some points, Axl's hair was parted down the middle and was all one length, but later into his career, it was parted more on the side and he had bangs. Figuring out how to cut your hair to be like Axl's is a) very simple since it's long and straight and b) easy since there are tons of pictures you can search for, and get an idea of how his hair looked.
 One of Axl's most famous trademarks is known as "The Snake", because he moves his body in a snake-like fashion, as a snake does when it slithers. It is also simply called the "Axl Dance". To truly be like Axl, you must master or come pretty close to nailing the Axl dance. You can see his dance in most music videos, including "Welcome To The Jungle", "Sweet Child O' Mine", "Yesterdays" and many others. The dance features Axl moving his lower body from side to side, usually holding a the microphone stand. Try your hardest to nail the Axl Dance, and it will be your instant ticket to being like Axl Rose.
 Axl Rose is known for being a maniac, constantly leaving shows early, coming to shows late, and getting angry very easily. He also holds the record for "rockstar with most feuds concerning other musicians/celebrities". However, he was actually a very nice person and to be like Axl doesn't mean you have to treat everyone you meet like crap and let your band/friends down. As long as you don't let anyone mess with you and you always defend yourself, you will do just fine. Besides, Axl had a softer side, and we can see that with songs he wrote for his girlfriends. He has also stated how devastated he is that he never had children. Truly, Axl is probably a good person underneath it all. Just be yourself and don't let people get away with talking bad about you. This does not mean starting fights constantly; you want to be like Axl Rose, not be him!

, Axl Rose is a musician, so listening to Guns 'N' Roses is obviously something that seems like it would apply to "being like Axl", however, having the look is most important. If you are in a band or like Guns 'N' Roses (and I mean earlier GNR, you don't have to like GNR now, Axl's style now doesn't apply) it is definitely a plus. If not, and you just admire his badass persona and rock n roll style, it's all good if you don't listen to or like GNR, because Axl's style is unique to himself. And there you go!

