 The most basic foundation for coaching softball is understanding the rules of the game. If you have any questions about the rules, you can look them up online; the Amateur Softball Association (ASA) maintains the official set of rules used in the United States. You will also want to check with the local league office to determine if any rules are changed based on age group.;
, There are numerous books available on coaching youth softball, and these are your best resource for learning each aspect of coaching in depth. Some books provide a broad overview, while others offer drills and exercises to improve your team's performance. Set aside time to read at least 1 book on coaching from cover to cover, and keep it handy as a reference.
 Some softball leagues will require their coaches to be certified; an example of an organization that runs a certification program is the National Youth Sports Coaches Association (NYSCA). The certification will generally entail participating in a short clinic and passing an exam on coaching.
 If the practice times are not already defined, you will need to set times for them. Keep in mind when doing this that many players will have 2 working parents, and so practices should be scheduled to accommodate busy work schedules. Use emails to communicate the schedule to the parents. This will allow the parents to easily communicate about potential conflicts.
 At the first practice, or at a specific meet-and-greet event, take some time to get to know each player and their parents. Strive to make your coaching a personal rather than impersonal endeavor. The parents need to feel comfortable with you teaching their children, and the players will be more willing to work with you if you are personable and open.
 There are no hard-and-fast rules to help you determine which players should play which positions. General rules include playing your best fielders at third base and left field, and playing those with the most accurate throwing arm at pitcher. If you are having trouble assigning players to positions based on skill, ask them what positions they'd like to play. They may be more willing to put in effort at a position they really want to play.
 Drills are exercises designed to specifically improve a single aspect of your players' performance. Develop a regimen of softball drills using the book you purchased on coaching. Areas of interest include infield and outfield footwork, throwing and catching, base running, hitting, and bunting. Remember to start each practice with stretching and warm-ups.
 When something is not going well during a softball game, it can be tempting to address it immediately by yelling and getting the players' attention on the field. Avoid this, instead opting to give corrective suggestions between innings. This will keep your players relaxed, which often improves their playing as well as their attitude.
 There is no single perfect system for coaching softball; needs will change based on schedules, skill level, player attitudes, and other factors. Use game performances to diagnose weaknesses and strengths in your team. Address these areas during practices by creating new drills or emphasizing certain existing ones. Don't be afraid to implement drills that do not actually involve softball skills directly; team building and trust exercises can also be very useful.

