 Soporific means “sleep-inducing.” For example, some foods are high in the sleep-inducing amino acid tryptophan, like cheese, chicken, soy products, eggs, tofu, fish, milk, turkey, nuts, peanuts and peanut butter, pumpkin seeds, and sesame seeds. Choose foods that have these qualities, especially for dinner. To activate tryptophan more efficiently, favor foods that are high in complex carbohydrates but medium to low in protein. Carbs make tryptophan more available in the brain, whereas protein has the opposite effect. .
Plan “meals for sleep” that load up on complex carbs and tryptophan. Try pasta with Parmesan cheese, hummus with whole wheat pita bread, peanut butter on toast, sesame seeds sprinkled on salad with tuna chunks with whole wheat crackers on the side, or a baked potato with cottage cheese.
 Limit the amount of food that you eat in the late afternoon and early evening, as it can affect the quality of your sleep. Lighter meals are more likely to give you a restful night, for example, whereas high-fat meals and large servings prolong the work your digestive system needs to do, and all the gas production and rumblings may keep you awake. Some people find that highly-seasoned foods (e.g., hot peppers and garlic) interfere with sleep, especially heartburn-sufferers.Avoid them if you have heartburn troubles.
 Coffee and other caffeinated beverages can disrupt your sleep patterns. Coffee stays inside your system for up to eight hours after you drink it, so that cup you had in the afternoon could be keeping you up later at night. Try to go without caffeine in the later afternoon and early evening.Alcohol will also wreak havoc on your sleep patterns. When you drink, you tend to sleep more lightly and fall into fewer periods of deep sleep or restorative Rapid Eye Movement (REM) sleep. So even if you think a drink or two helps you fall asleep at night, you'll likely wake up tired and not feeling rested., Many people swear by drinking a cup of herbal tea or a glass of warm milk before bed, and there is research to support them. Dairy products like milk are rich in tryptophan and stimulate the brain to produce sleep chemicals like serotonin and melatonin.Chamomile tea has also long been touted as an insomnia buster. In fact, recent studies have demonstrated that chamomile can reduce symptoms of anxiety and is a mild sleep aid in animal test subjects.If you don't have chamomile tea, try other caffeine herbal teas like lemon, ginger, and raspberry ginger.
 Medication should be a last resort. The fact of the matter is that sleeping pills are not a magic bullet. Many are habit-forming, meaning that you can become addicted to them, and also do not give you deep and restorative sleep you need, with side effects like drowsiness, headache, memory problems, and behaviors like sleep-walking.Save sleeping pills as a last resort. If you become dependent on them, sleeping will become even more difficult than before.

