 You can also make your own square piece of paper by folding or cutting it.Turn the paper over so the decorative or colored side is down.
 Then, unfold it. Repeat this with the other corner. Then, unfold it.


You should have an X crease on the paper.
 Take the bottom of the paper and fold it so it covers ⅓ of the paper. Then, take the top of the paper and fold it so it covers a ⅓ of the paper. Then, unfold the paper.You should have three horizontal folds on the paper.
 Take the left side of the paper and fold it so it covers ⅓ of the paper. Then, take the right side of the paper and fold it so it covers a ⅓ of the paper. Unfold the paper.You should now have three vertical folds on the paper.
It should now look like the paper is divided into a three by three grid.
 Take the bottom left corner of the paper and fold it so it meets the bottom left corner of the top right square on the paper. Then, unfold the corner.


Take the top right corner of the paper and fold it so it meets the top right corner of the bottom right square on the paper. Then, unfold the corner.
You should now have four diagonal folds on the paper., Fold it ⅓ to the right. Use the crease you made earlier to make this fold.
 In the top left of the folded piece, make the mountain fold by folding the top left corner behind itself.Unfold the mountain fold. You should have a diagonal fold on the top left corner.
Make the valley fold by taking the top left corner and folding it over so it covers the first ⅔ of the folded section. Then, unfold it. You should have a triangular shaped fold on the folded section., Crease down the valley fold and push out the mountain fold.


Once the triangle shape on the paper opens, fold down the top of the paper so it lays down horizontally. It should now look like you have a triangle shape coming out of the side of the paper and a horizontal section., Take the bottom corner of the folded section and fold it over to make a valley fold. Then, unfold it.


Take far left section of the folded section between your fingers and pinch it so it folds. This will create a mountain fold. Unfold the fold.
 Crease down the valley fold and push out the mountain fold.


Keeping the paper open on these folds, fold over the right side of the paper.
The paper should now have a triangle on the top of the folded right side and a triangle coming from the side of the paper.
These triangles are going to be the points of your star.
 Take the top left corner of the folded right side and fold it over. Then, unfold it. This is the valley fold.


Take the bottom right section between your fingers and pinch it so it folds. Then, unfold it. This will create a mountain fold.
 This should also lift the triangle shape on the right fold up.Then, lift up the flap in the bottom middle of the paper. Fold it to the left. This should then raise the bottom half of the paper.
Use the creases you made earlier on the paper to fold up the bottom half of the paper. Lay the bottom of the paper flat. The bottom fold should now look like an upside down triangle with a flat top.
 You should now have a beautiful four pointed star.