 Grease a 9 x 11-inch loaf or cake pan. Alternatively, use a 10-inch round cake pan., To do this, use a fork or potato masher. If you prefer, place the bananas in a food processor. When the bananas are mashed to a creamy, smooth consistency, put the bowl to one side.


Add the lemon juice while mashing, to prevent browning.Make sure to use ripe bananas.
 Place the flour and baking soda into a mixing bowl. Add the salt. Stir with a whisk to combine. When the dry ingredients have been mixed well, set the bowl aside.
 Cream until light and fluffy.


The butter should be softened before beginning this step. Softened butter is easier to mix with other ingredients. To soften butter, remove the butter from the refrigerator 30-60 minutes before you begin.Creaming butter and sugar is a type of mixing method. Start with room temperature butter. Using a hand or stand mixer, beat the butter on low until it is creamy. Add the sugar, and mix on high until the butter and sugar is a whipped, grainy consistency. The color should be a very light yellow or ivory. Don't forget to scrape the sides of the bowl while mixing., Add the eggs one at a time into the butter and sugar mixture. Using a hand mixer, beat the eggs until completely mixed into the batter.


Add the vanilla extract after you have added the eggs. Stir into the mixture.
 Starting with the flour, pour a small amount into the mixture and beat in with a hand mixer. Then, add in a small amount of buttermilk, also beating it into the batter with a hand mixer. Continue this gradually, alternating between the flour and the buttermilk. Make sure to stir each time you add the ingredients.


When all the flour and buttermilk has been added, stir in the mashed bananas.
 Make sure the batter is distributed evenly throughout the pan. Place the pan in the preheated oven. Bake for 1 hour, 15 minutes.


Check the cake periodically while cooking. Use a toothpick, fork, or knife to check to see if the cake is done. If the toothpick comes out clean when inserted into the cake, the cake is done.
 Place straight into the freezer. Leave in the freezer for 45 minutes.


This step is important because it increases the moisture content of the cake.
Place the cake pan on top of something like a bread board lined with silicone sheet to avoid melting freezer plastic.
Frost with cream cheese frosting after removing from the freezer.
 Cut the cake and serve. If you are not serving immediately, keep refrigerated until you're ready to do so.

