 It isn't too hard to look the part. Just make sure you have T Shirts from punk bands, jeans and a beat up leather jacket.


Don't spend a lot of money on anything. Leather jackets can be pricy, buy a used one.
Have some s**t kicking boots. It is good to look tough. They should be black and not low rise.
Get a chain for your wallet.;
, Most classic punk is the 4 bar black flag's symbol (look their music up) on the forearm. If you have one, it is tough to say you are a poser. But start slow before you go all the way here.
 It doesn't need to be a mohawk. Starting with a mohawk is probably a bad idea anyway, since it is harder to pull off. You can do skinhead.


You can also do a fauxhawk or a devilock, like the Misfits.
You can get more ideas from this article.
, Remember, you are supposed to be angry and tough.
 Buttons with band names or punk slogans are good., Remember at all times, that you are angry. You don't like authority, cops, parents, bosses, whatever.


Do what the hell you want. Punk shows in the 80s were famous for anger. Remember, a 80's punk show is one where you can throw a beer bottle in the air and not care where it comes down.
Hang out with others like you. Nothing says punk like hanging out drinking a brew on a street corner with your fellow punks.
 In the 80s punks had the reputation of being a bit dumb or uneducated, mostly because they were young.


You, however, are more street smart and wiser about the ways of the world.
The 2000s are a less innocent time. So fight the stereotype of a dumb punk by reading up on your anarchist literature and quote Alan Watts at them until their heads spin. Haters gonna hate, but that doesn't mean you have to embrace the stereotype of the dumb punk.
 There is some chance you decide not to be a punk anymore, so you want to be able to go back., Listen to 80's punk especially the big four of hardcore punk: Dead Kennedys, Charged GBH, Bad Brains and Black Flag. There are plenty of others. Go with what you like. A lot of the music is good. Don't be afraid to mix in some more recent punk too.
 You probably don't want it. It is best to get money from family or friends.


A career in music is a good one.
If you are an intellectual, you might want to be a philosopher or economist or similar. But you need to extreme/anti authority views to fit the image.
You can also work in a creative kind of job, like design.
 SF, LA and New York are all good. Of course they are hard to pay for, but if you live in a warehouse it is cheaper. You can also live in Oakland, Brooklyn and so on.
 It is a great way to get more into the lifestyle and make more punk friends.

