 Wearing a shirt or sweater to hide your hickey may be the easiest way to protect your love bite from the world. Whether you're a male or female, here are a few things you can try:


A turtleneck sweater.
A turtleneck long-sleeved shirt.
A jacket or a sweater with a collar that covers your neck. Just make sure you normally wear this type of thing, or your friends will be more likely to notice your hickey because they will be laughing at your popped collar.
Don't wear a turtleneck in the middle of the summer. That will just draw more attention to your neck. Girls can still try wearing tank tops with a high collar while they're still trendy.
Wear a top that draws attention away from your neck. Try wearing a shirt that has a funny logo on it, stripes, or an unusual zipper. The busier your top, the less likely people will be to look at your neck.;
, The right accessory can also help hide your hickey if your shirt just isn't doing the trick. Here are some accessories to try:


A scarf is the most common accessory to use to hide your hickey. Just make sure you're wearing it during the right season and that if you're indoors, you don't look weird when you keep your scarf on. And you may want to avoid wearing a scarf if you never wear a scarf.
If you're really preppy, drape a sweater across your shoulders, but only do it if you've tried this look before.
If you're desperate, you can stick a bandage over the hickey and make up a story. If you're a guy, you can use a bug bite as an excuse, and if you're a girl, you can say you burned yourself with a curling iron. If you have a cat, you can say he scratched you. But remember that making up a story is more likely to draw attention to you.
If you're a girl or a long-haired man, then obviously covering your hickey with your hair is the way to go. Just make sure you check to see that your hair is in place.
Avoid wearing jewelry that draws attention to your neck. Ladies, instead of wearing a necklace or earrings, wear cool rings or bracelets. Men, put away your dog tags or chains, and wear a watch instead.

