 While you can begin a yeast culture using store-bought liquid brewer's yeast, the process of growing it is usually too difficult and time consuming if you are only starting with a commonly available strain. Typically, home brewers grow yeast cultures starting with yeast sediment from a particularly successful homebrew, a favorite brewpub, or another rare or expensive strain they wish to grow for repeated use.


Growing your own yeast cultures long-term can take a lot of time and effort. It is not required to brew beer at home, only to maintain certain favored yeast strains.
Note that the yeast sediment in a beer bottle may not be the same as the yeast used in primary (initial) fermentation, so your results may not be what you expect.
 Airborne contaminants can ruin the yeast cultures, as can bacteria. Avoid damp areas or places where food is prepared, such as kitchens and basements. Close windows to your yeast growing room, especially in warm weather.Always wash your hands with antibacterial soap before handling the yeast cultures.
 Wash a workbench or table as thoroughly as possible. Kill most remaining micro-organisms with a sanitizing product such as rubbing alcohol. Allow to dry.
 The easiest way to acquire the necessary equipment may be purchasing a brewer's kit, which may or may not come with starter yeast and instructions. If you are acquiring the equipment piece by piece, or checking whether the kit contains everything, see the Things You'll Need section for a full list. Try pharmacies, or look for laboratory equipment suppliers in the yellow pages or online.


Ordering laboratory supplies in the United States may be delayed or involve questioning by government agencies.Agar powder is available at many Asian grocery stores. If you cannot find any, use unflavored gelatin powder, but be aware that gelatin-base cultures needs to be kept in cooler locations to avoid melting., Steam heat-safe, glass containers and their lids in a pressure cooker for at least 10 minutes to kill sources of contamination. Petri dishes, or "plates," are often used but you may use any small, glass container. "Starter tubes" are sometimes included in brewer's kits for this purpose.


If you don't have a pressure cooker, immerse the containers in water and boil for 30 minutes. However, this is not nearly as effective at killing contaminants, which will likely result in a larger number of yeast cultures failing to grow or being ruined by mold.
If you have sterilized plastic bags to store the containers in, you may prepare the containers in advance.
 Because sterilization is so important for brewer's yeast cultures to prevent other micro-organisms from taking over, this step is recommended in addition to the above. Using a propane torch or other high-temperature, portable flame source (not an ordinary cigarette lighter), run the end of the flame across the lips of the container.
 If the tap water in your area is "hard," meaning it contains a high quantity of chalky, carbonate minerals, it may cause bacterial growth in your yeast culture. Use distilled water to be safe, or measure the pH of your water and use it only if the result is 5.3 or below., Heat the water in a pressure cooker if possible to avoid boiling over, or use a clean Pyrex flask or saucepan. Add in the dried malt extract and stir to dissolve. Bring to a boil for 15 minutes, taking care to turn down the heat if it is in danger of boiling over.


This is called a "starter wort."

, The starter wort already contains the nutrients brewer's yeast cultures need to thrive, but the agar powder will eventually thicken the mixture into a gelatinous base for the yeast to rest on. Note that the thickening will not occur during this step.


Use unflavored gelatin powder only if you cannot acquire agar powder, since cooked gelatin may melt in a warm room.
 Boil for an additional 15 minutes. Once again, keep a careful eye on it to stop it from boiling over.
 Allow the mixture to cool to 122ºF (50ºC) or below, or a bit cooler if using gelatin instead of agar. The mixture should thicken, but not solidify completely.
 Take your sterilized containers and fill each one with a little of the boiled mixture, called starter wort. Petri dishes should be filled approximately 1/4 of the way full; larger containers do not require a thicker layer.
 Put lids on the containers or cover with plastic wrap. Let them cool for about half an hour, and watch as the wort solidifies due to the agar powder. Once the containers can be tilted without the mixture running, they are ready.
 The inoculation loop, available from laboratory supply stores, is a tiny wire loop at the end of a wand, used for transferring micro-organisms such as yeast. Sterilize the loop end by heating it in a flame until the entire loop grows orange or red.Cool the loop to room temperature or slightly warmer by placing it in a shallow dish of isopropyl alcohol, or wiping it with a cotton ball soaked in alcohol.


If you do not cool the loop, the heat could kill the yeast.
Cooling it in water or air increases the chance of micro-organism contamination, which should be killed by the alcohol.
 Do not try to pick up a visible amount of yeast. All you need to do is barely draw the loop through the sediment gathered on the top of the liquid., Leaving the lid off for as short a time as possible, move the inoculation loop lightly over the surface of the starter wort in one of your containers. This transfers yeast onto the hopefully germ-free and nutrient-rich wort. To minimize the chance of contamination, immediately attach the lid again. Turn petri dishes upside down, or cap starter tubes to about 3/4 tightness.The process of adding a micro-organism to the plate is called "streaking" by microbiologists.
 Use the same process to add yeast to each container, but remember to heat the inoculation loop to sterilize it between each transfer, then cool it in alcohol. Yeast cultures grown at home have a relatively high chance of contamination, so using multiple, separately-grown cultures increases the odds that some of your cultures end up usable.
 Store the containers at 70–80ºF (21–26ºC), the ideal temperature range for active yeast growth. Discard any cultures that grow fuzz or balls of mold, or fail to grow any visible yeast after several days. Successful yeast cultures will produce a milky layer over the surface, and you may see individual yeast colonies forming trails of dots over the surface., Now that the successful cultures have been activated, wrap the containers completely in electrical tape or another light-blocking material, since light can destroy or damage yeast colonies. Store these in the fridge, ideally at 34–36ºF (1–2ºF) or slightly warmer, to slow their growth and prevent them running out of nutrients.When you wish to use one in a brew, remove it from the fridge in advance to bring it up to room temperature before adding (pitching) into the wort.

