 Under New Jersey state law, your Articles of Incorporation must list at least 1 director who is 18 years or older. The directors must also be residents of New Jersey and shareholders.;
, This name must not be the same or deceptively similar to any other for-profit or non-profit company in the state of New Jersey. The name must also include the words "Company," "Corporation," "Incorporated," or "Ltd."


You can check for duplicate names on the New Jersey Department of Treasury website, njportal.com/DOR/businessrecords.
 Download the form at state.nj.us/treasury/revenue/pdforms/pubrec.pdf. It must be typed or filled out on the computer.
 You may want to consult a lawyer to ensure you follow all necessary guidelines for incorporation. The following must be included on your Certificate of Incorporation form:


List your New Jersey business name and business type. Specify the formation date and duration.
List all managers according to your type of corporation. For example, Non-profit corporations must list their Board of Directors while a Limited Liability Corporation would need to list the General Partners.
List your incorporators, if you are forming a domestic corporation. At least 1 director must sign and date the certificate.
Specify if and how your corporation will issue stocks.
 Non-profit companies must only pay a $75 filing fee. You can pay by credit card, check or money order. You may be subject to further fees for faxing your certificate application or requesting certified copies.
 In this case, you would like to incorporate your business, pay a fee and register your new business. If you are faxing your application, you can do this in the form of a fax cover sheet.


Include how you would like to pay for the services in this request sheet and the address where the filing confirmation can be sent.
 This form will ask you to specify your business, your tax obligations and your Employer Identification Number (EIN). You can find the form online.


You can apply for an EIN with the Internal Revenue Service. This is necessary for tax purposes if you intend to employ anyone with your business.
 The Business Registration Application can be filled out and filed free of charge.
 You can also deliver it in person to "33 W. State Street, 5th Floor, Trenton, NJ 0864," or fax it to 609-984-685.

