 Make sure you are aware of the most important facts about CFS. Chronic fatigue is not very common. It is estimated to affect 836,000 to 2.5 million people in the United States.
Chronic fatigue is diagnosed four more times more often in women than men.
There is no test for chronic fatigue. It can be diagnosed through symptoms or signs that are happening at the same time.
There is no cure for chronic fatigue; however, symptoms can be treated and reduced.
Adults have a fair to poor prognosis for chronic fatigue. Children have a better to good prognosis. In both cases, treatment of the symptoms is important.
Having a healthy lifestyle is the best advice given by physicians to treat chronic fatigue.
In younger people, the most common group diagnosed is teenagers.
 It is very difficult for doctors to diagnose CFS since there is no test and the symptoms mirror a number of other diseases.


Know the difference between CFS and ME (myalgic encephalomyelitis). CFS is the preferred term for doctors, while ME is used by those suffering from the condition. For many, fatigue seems too everyday of a word to describe the syndrome. Realize there is no test for CFS. The doctor will not be able to provide a simple and easy test, so make sure to have patience.
Know the common symptoms as described above. If you have CFS, you will experience four of the eight symptoms close to the same time.
Talk to your doctor about getting tested for other potential causes of fatigue. Because CFS is relatively rare, it is more likely you are suffering from a different condition, including thyroid, anemia, sleep disorders, medication side effects, infections, nutritional deficiencies, fibromyalgia, autoimmune disorders, depression, and so on. Many of these are more treatable than CFS.
Realize that CFS goes through cycles of remission and relapse. You may feel better for a time and then feel much worse. There is no cure, but only the symptoms can be managed.
Your symptoms may vary. Some symptoms will be prominent than others. Additionally, some may change and become more or less of an issue through time.
There is a low rate of diagnosis for CFS. Only about 20% of people who have it have been diagnosed. Chronic fatigue syndrome is often not taken seriously by doctors or by friends and family. Make sure to be consistent and firm with your doctor regarding the severity of your symptoms.
 Make sure she can make an informed diagnostic decision about your chronic fatigue.


Have your medical history available and complete. Provide your doctor with any information from other doctors as well as your own recent observations.
Take any physical or mental exams the doctor suggests. These tests can help determine additional issues as well as fully explain any symptoms you may be experiencing.
Be prepared to give blood or fluid samples. Your doctor may want to test your blood to rule out any additional diseases.
 Your doctor may want to test you for sleep disorders outside of chronic fatigue. Even though these disorders can lead to fatigue, they are not symptoms of chronic fatigue.


Test for sleep apnea. Sleep apnea causes you to stop breathing temporarily during sleep. It can can cause you to be drowsy and elevate your blood pressure.
Test for restless legs syndrome. Restless leg syndrome causes you to desire to move your legs throughout the night. You can have difficulty maintaining a consistent night of sleep.
Test for insomnia. Insomnia is when you have difficulty falling or staying asleep. If you suffer from insomnia, it can also lead you to be fatigued since you are not sleeping regularly and consistently.
 You may be experiencing mental health issues, problems with medication, fibromyalgia, mono, lupus, or Lyme disease. Don’t go into the doctor determined to get a specific diagnosis of chronic fatigue syndrome. Depression is often affiliated with similar symptoms as chronic fatigue.
Different medications can have side effects that affect sleep, fatigue, memory, or muscle and joint pain. Make sure your doctor knows all of your medications.
Fibromyalgia is also linked to pain, difficulties with memory, and difficulties sleeping. Have your doctor look into this as well as chronic fatigue.
Mononucleosis can also cause you to be tired and fatigued for long periods of time; however, it eventually goes away, so it’s important for your doctor to rule it out.
Lupus is a chronic disease that affects your immune system. It can also cause many of the same symptoms as chronic fatigue.
Lyme disease is transmitted to humans through a tick bite. It is pretty serious, so make sure to check your body for rashes and bites.
 If you have chronic fatigue, you cannot cure it; however, you can address the symptoms in a variety of ways. People who suffer from chronic fatigue may also be depressed. Small doses of antidepressants can help with sleep and pain management. Sleeping pills may be useful if avoiding caffeine does not work. They will at least help you get a slightly better rest at night.
Physical therapy and moderate exercise may help you to improve your range of motion that has suffered due to chronic fatigue. Don’t overdo it. You don’t want to be even more fatigued and exhausted the next day.
Counseling may help you to gain a different perspective on your syndrome. Try to feel like you can gain control over your life despite experiencing chronic fatigue.
 Follow your doctor’s management plan while also trying lifestyle changes that can help alleviate your symptoms. Reduce stress. Try to reduce the number of stressors in your life. Taking it easier can help you to feel less tired all the time.
Examine your diet. You may not be getting enough nutrients from your food to function properly, leaving you feeling fatigued.

Improve your sleep habits. Don’t do anything too demanding before bedtime.
Pace yourself. Slow down your life. Don’t try to get everything done at once.
 Alternative medicine may help you to relax, which can help to alleviate some symptoms of chronic fatigue.


Acupuncture is often used for pain relief. It may be able to help with muscle soreness or joint pain.
Massage can be useful for soothing your sore muscles. Try massage that focuses on the problem areas that are sore most often.
Yoga can also help you to stretch your muscles and gain flexibility. Don’t try anything too strenuous since you don’t want to tire yourself out even more.
 Chronic fatigue is draining. Make sure you are staying in touch with your loved ones and getting outside help when you need it.


Talk to your loved ones about your chronic fatigue. They may be able to help you if your mobility is limited. Confide in them when chronic fatigue is really wearing on you.
Look into psychological counseling. Counseling can help you to learn how to deal with the psychological effects of chronic fatigue. Try to get an outside perspective.
Find a support group. A support group of fellow sufferers of chronic fatigue can help you to commiserate about your syndrome. You can help each other out during the roughest times.

