 There are many options for dance studio flooring, so check prices and surface characteristics to decide which one will be most reasonable for your budget and needs.


Hardwood floors of any type will work well for any type of dancing that is performed barefoot. However, if you are wearing hard shoes (tap shoes, for example), practicing on hardwood floors can result in permanent damage to the floor surface.
“Marley” style floors are the optimal surface for a dance studio. Made from a variety of materials from vinyl to fiberglass, they can cost anywhere from $20 per square foot to $70 per square foot, plus the cost of installation. These are suitable from all types of dance, from tap to modern to ballet.
If you can’t afford to install permanent flooring, you can purchase portable dance mats to cover your dancing space. If you don’t need to move around a great deal in your studio, you can purchase a single mat for around $150 dollars and have a 3’x6’ area on which to practice.If you need a larger space, you can purchase multiple mats and secure them with vinyl tape to ensure they stay flush against one another.
 Ideally, your studio will have floor-to-ceiling mirrors that span the entire length of one of your walls, but that’s simply not an option for many people.


Instead, look for inexpensive wall mirrors that are intended for bedroom use.
These mirrors, though narrow, are still tall enough to show you the length of your body.
Find a mirror model that allows for installation directly into the wall with screws. Purchase as many of them as you’ll need to give yourself a good view of yourself while you’re practicing.
Install them all across the length of your wall, making sure that they’re level with one another.
 The barre is the rail used by dancers to stabilize themselves while they’re practicing in the studio.It should come to about hip-level. There are two types of barres: ones that are installed directly into a wall, and ones that stand alone on supporting legs. If your studio is short on space, you might prefer the wall-mounted barre, as it leaves a little bit more floor space open for use.


The barre should be placed along the wall that holds your mirror, so you can observe your form while you practice at it.
 While dancing, it’s important that your body stay at a comfortable temperature to prevent both muscle injury from cold and dehydration and exhaustion from heat. A studio with windows can let in a natural breeze if you don’t have central heating and air conditioning. Otherwise, equip the space with fans, window units, or space heaters depending on your temperature needs.

