 Traditional mobiles consist of rods chained together to form multiple branches. Each rod has either an additional rod or an object hung from both its right and left ends. They rely on equilibrium to keep each rod roughly horizontal and the entire sculpture balanced.


When the two ends have equal weight, what is called a balance point is at the exact center of the rod. The balance point is where the tether attaches to that rod from above.
If two objects have different weights, the balance point will shift towards the heavier object.
Every subsequent branch hung from a parent rod factors into the total weight of that rod's ends.
So, if you find that your mobile is lopsided towards one end, try shifting the balance point towards that end. However, if the difference is too great, you will need to add additional weights to the lighter side or remove some from the heavier end., You will need drinking straws, paper clips roughly the same width as your straws, and whatever objects of your choice you would like to hang from your mobile. Paper shapes or letters will be easier to balance than heavier items.Don't pick objects that are too heavy to be supported by a straw.
 Arrange your straws and objects on a flat surface. Remember that, to keep the rods horizontal, the ends of each side must either be equal or able to achieve balance by shifting the point of attachment. If your objects are heavy or of unequal weight, you will need to be careful when it comes to placement. Start from what will be the bottom of your mobile and pair the objects accordingly. Then, go up to the next branch and either plan to hang an object or new branch equal in weight to your first from the other end. Keep going until you reach where you want your mobile to begin.If you don't plan on making too many branches, this step is less important.
 Slide the straw through the free loop of the paperclips where there isn't a second smaller loop right under it. Arrange the paperclips so that one hangs from each the right and left ends and one is somewhere in the middle., Do not attach these to the paperclips on the straws just yet. Using varied lengths to stagger your rods and objects will prevent your mobile from looking too crowded. Remember that longer chains will add weight to whichever end you hang them from.
 Hook the paperclip chains to the straw paperclips and to your objects. If your objects are paper, you can attach each by simply sliding them into the clip.For objects that have a loop of their own, such as a charm, hook them into the paperclip's wire. For other object types, you may need to unwind a paperclip and wrap the wire around the object for the end of the chain to hook on to. Attach a free chain to the middle paperclip of your top straw. This will be how you hang your mobile.
 Pick up your mobile by the top chain and hold it in front of you. Starting from the bottom, look for any areas of imbalance where the straw is not straight.


Try to correct this by sliding the middle paperclip to a new potential balance point.
If it cannot be balanced this way, either swap out the items for ones of a different weight or add additional branches to the lighter end.

