 You know how difficult moving is, and how scattered people can be at that time. Be a good landlord by helping your tenants out and providing the basics that they probably won't think about until it's too late.For example, when people are moving into a new place, the last thing they want to do is drop everything to go buy toilet paper because they didn't pack any, or can't remember which box it's in. Do them a favor and put a roll of fresh toilet paper in each bathroom, as well as paper towels and hand soap by each sink.
You also may want to include bottles of water or sports drinks in the refrigerator, or leave a few inexpensive snacks on the kitchen counter or in the pantry. Showing that you care about your tenants' well-being will start the relationship off on the right note, and encourage them to consider your interests and care for your property.
 If you have a tenant constantly calling to request small repairs that don't really affect the habitability of the rental unit, you may have the tendency to procrastinate. However, small problems can grow into larger ones.Generally, you should try to respond to all maintenance requests, no matter how minor, within 48 hours of the time the request was made. If it's an emergency request that renders the unit inhabitable, try to respond immediately and make arrangements for alternate accommodations for the tenant if the problem cannot be repaired right away.
Take every maintenance request seriously, even if it's something as minor as changing a light bulb. If a tenant calls and asks you to do something that normally is the tenant's responsibility, go out and do it anyway. Either before or after completing the task, you might want to say something like "I have no problem doing this for you this time, but in the future please keep in mind that this is your responsibility to take care of under the lease."

, Make sure you stay up to date on local ordinances and state or national laws that could potentially affect either your property or your relationship with your tenant. This doesn't necessarily mean you need to hire an attorney, but you do need to keep yourself informed.There typically are laws regarding habitability, which require you to maintain your property if you intend to rent it out. These requirements may include basic structural issues as well as electricity and running water.
In colder climates, there may be an ordinance requiring you to maintain heat for tenants on days and nights when it's particularly cold. This means you must keep the heat on even if the tenant has failed to pay their utility bill or is not paying their rent.
 Some tenants may overlook small issues that could develop into big problems. This may be because they don't notice the issue or because they think it's normal – but it also could be because they don't want to bug you.Checking in with your tenants on the state of the property will help them to understand that you're not going to consider them a nuisance if they tell you about minor repairs or problems.
Send an email or a letter, or make a phone call – but avoid dropping by unannounced to inspect the property. You are the owner, but your tenant is living there. Respect their privacy and don't be intrusive.
Keep in mind that even regular inspections can put your tenants on edge, because it sends the message that you don't trust them. If you plan to do inspections, do them only annually or semi-annually, and give your tenants plenty of notice when they will occur.
 Your tenants will be more conscientious about keeping the interior of their units in good condition if the exterior and other areas of the property are presentable and well-kept.It doesn't matter how nice the property is on the inside if on the outside it looks like a slum. If you neglect the part of the property that you're supposed to maintain, your tenants will be likely to neglect their units as well.
The general maintenance and upkeep of the property also may affect how your tenants leave the property when they move out. If you show through neglect for the exterior and common areas that you don't care about the property, your tenants won't see any point in cleaning when they leave.
 Penalties for property damage and other fees should be explicitly set forth in the lease agreement. Be a good landlord by following the letter of the lease agreement yourself and not granting exceptions or playing favorites with tenants.If you're renting several units, keep in mind that your tenants likely will talk to each other. If you make an exception for one tenant, be prepared to make the same exception for all of them.
When you consistently enforce the lease provisions, you send a message to your tenants that you cannot be manipulated or taken advantage of. Your tenants will respect you for that.

