 Ultimately, a controlling mother may try and run your life, but you are in ultimate control of things. Remembering this will help you take her "suggestions" in stride, and move out from under her control.


Every discussion doesn't have to turn into an argument -- you get to choose what gets blown up and out of proportion as well. If the advice or controlling doesn't really affect you, try to politely nod and move on with your life.
 Instead of feeling like you need to heed her every word, start viewing her controlling statements as just another piece of advice. Acknowledge her words, and let her know you'll think about them seriously.
 Show her that you are listening and you care about her opinion by thanking her when she has a good idea or helps you out. This will also make it easier to politely turn down a suggestion or break from her "established" rules, as you can show that you are objectively heeding her good advice and ignoring the bad.
 You need a spot to go when you want to be alone, and you should use this space when you feel an unwanted fight brewing or need some time to run your own life. Separation is key to maintaining healthy, happy relationships of any kind, so make sure you have boundaries you can stick by.


Setting boundaries is important when dealing with controlling mothers. If you want privacy in your room, ask for it and stand by your decision. Similarly, you mother should know the times you want to spend alone, such as with friends, and when not to visit.
 Talk to your mom from time to time. She may be controlling because she doesn't know what is going on in your life. Thus, she may overreact and try and control everything about you, hoping to become a major figure again as you're growing up. Talking to your mom openly and honestly about your plans, hopes, and goals is a great way to slowly break down the need to control you.
 Are there some things she controls and some she doesn't? Are there times of the day, like after work, where she seems stressed and hard to deal with? Remember, parent's have their own lives to deal with, and it is impossible to fully separate that work life from their home persona. So, notice what issues make her controlling, and the times of the day she is most demanding. Avoid these times, or find ways to make them easier for her and lower stress.
 Being a parent is hard, hard work. Moms are tasked with raising needy, clueless children into responsible, helpful adults, all while living their own lives as well. You mean the world to your mom, and her methods may seem controlling to you, but that is only because she wants the best life for her son or daughter. Recognizing that she comes from a place of love will make it easier to accept her for her controlling tendencies.

