
By Train: The nearest railway stations on the Simla-Kangra of narrow gauge line are at Jassur(Nurpur, Kangra, and Himachal Pradesh) and Paror railway stop near Nagrota(about 20 km south of Dharamsala). The nearest railhead of broad gauge is at Pathankot (about 85 km).
By Air:Gaggal Airport (which is also known as Kangra Airport) to Gaggal market and turn left for Dharamsala no need to go Kangra.;
,, Turn left side from the three way intersection in front of the Regional Mountaineering Centre and then you will reach Dharamkot and stand in front of the Water Tank and the Govt Primary school of Dharamkot. You will also find a cafeteria here. Or you can hire an Auto Rickshaw or taxi/cab for INR 70/- and INR 500/- respectively to get a drop up to Dharamkot Primary School.
 Or you can continue with hired taxi/cab/auto-rickshaw through a rough road up to Gallu Devi Temple. (It'll be costlier due to very poor road condition). Or If you are in Bhagsu Nag then you can follow a steep trek on the left of German Bakery which goes through shops and a temple and then Bhagsu Nag village and will finally end on the back side of Gallu Devi Temple. (This is a shortcut for Gallu Devi Temple, but a hard and stiff trek and will consume most of your energy, so try to avoid it).
 From Gallu Devi Temple you can see Kareri and Bahl Village on North-West direction and BhagsuNag in East. Here you will also find three Guest Houses, providing rooms for stay for INR 500/- per night.
 The track from Sh. Galu Devi temple gets a bit of tough, with steep curves and moderate trails.(Update* They have started horse and pony rides from Gallu Devi Temple to Triund), On your way to Triund you will come across two refreshment shops first one named Magic View Cafė at a height of 2,500 meter (8,202.1 ft) run and owned by Shri Joginder Sharma since 1984 and other adjoining Magic View Cafė is Best View Cafė run by Shri Hemraj since 1998. Continue your trek after a rest and you will reach Triund Hill with in 1 or 2 hours depending upon your stamina. Parveen Tea Stall is the last tea stall you will find at the base of Triund Hill

