 Make sure all children know that asking questions is okay and that no one will criticize or judge questions. It is especially important for shy or insecure children to know that there is no “wrong” question. Discourage feedback or edits to the questions. Remind children that it’s okay to ask questions they do not know the answers to.Other kids may say, “That’s a dumb question.” Redirect attention and assure the children that all questions are respected.
 Children are often rewarded for having the correct answer, and not for asking questions. Shift the focus to encourage questions. Give rewards for questions, even if the reward is just verbal praise. Children can learn that approaching topics through curiosity is rewarded, and rewards are not only for good test scores or high grades. This can encourage higher-level thinking and comprehension.For example, say, “I love that you’re asking questions. Let’s explore this further.” You can also say, “Wow, what a great question!”

, Children may struggle to come up with questions at first. That’s okay. Allow them time to think and come up with ideas.You can designate specific “Question Times” when children think of questions they may want to ask.


Don’t put a time limit on the process at first and let the children have time to think through their questions.
 Children often ask what adults consider inappropriate or embarrassing questions, especially in public, such as: “Why is that girl in a wheelchair?” or “Why does that man have a different color skin?” Don’t shame or shush your child for asking these types of questions.This can make the child feel ashamed, guilty, or embarrassed for asking a question. Instead, answer matter-of-factly without making the child feel bad about asking the question.


You can say, “Some people look different from you. Have you noticed that some people have glasses, some have curly hair, and some have different colored eyes? Every person is unique. Skin color is one way that people look different from you, but it doesn’t make people any different from you on the inside.”

, While you may think that giving examples may help a child build questions, they can set the child onto a specific path. You want her to come up with original questions without putting up limits. She may struggle to come up with questions, and that’s okay. If she urges you to give guidance, say, “Your questions can begin with what, when, or how.”You can also say, “I want to hear what you come up with. Your questions don’t have to follow any guidelines. Feel free to ask questions you think up.”

